02 May 2021||New Delhi,||12 more lives lost in Delhi oxygen crisis||Twelve patients, including a doctor, died at Batra Hospital in south Delhi on Saturday afternoon due to “oxygen shortage and the hospital not receiving oxygen on time”, Sudhanshu Bankata, executive director of the hospital, said. “We ran out of LMO (liquid medical oxygen) at 12:15 p.m. and we received LMO supply at 1:35 p.m. In between we had some oxygen cylinders, but they cannot support ventilators. Eight people died either due to shortage of oxygen or not receiving oxygen on time,” Dr. Bankata of Batra Hospital said. Six of the eight patients were admitted in the intensive care unit. “Four more people died later from complications due to lack of oxygen, taking the death toll to 12,” he stated. Dr. Bankata stated that not getting oxygen could lead to complications for the patients in the future also. “Once the patient destabilises, death can happen later also,” he added. The doctor who died was identified as R.K. Himthani, head of the department of gastroenterology at Batra Hospital. Dr. Bankata had said at 12:15 p.m. on Saturday that the oxygen situation was “extremely critical” and the hospital is not being able to “support ventilated patients”. Families shocked “We read on Twitter that there is an oxygen shortage and we phoned the hospital in the morning. They said his condition is not that good and asked us to come. We had two oxygen cylinders at home and we left for the hospital with it,” said Asha, whose husband Sanjay Seth, 57, died on Saturday afternoon. “We asked officials whether there is oxygen and they said there is oxygen. If they had said that there is no oxygen then we would have reached 10 minutes before,” another family member said. “What is the use in talking about it? Did the situation (of oxygen) improve in the last two weeks?” asked Amit, whose relative Prakash Dutt, 62, died on Saturday afternoon. Alarm bells on dwindling oxygen supply were also sounded from several other hospitals in the capital, even though Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha claimed on Twitter that oxygen had reached the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Saturday evening. The capital city has been reeling under a severe oxygen shortage for more than a week as several major hospitals took to social media to highlight their desperate condition. Patient attendants have been seen rushing oxygen cylinders to some of the smaller hospitals in an effort to save the lives of their relatives. “Let us pray that oxygen supplies to Delhi improve, and what is committed by Centre is actually delivered — in time,” Mr. Chadha said in a tweet on Saturday evening. He also claimed that an oxygen tanker had been sent to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. “Our cryogenic tanker carrying 2 metric tonne of LMO for GTB [Guru Tegh Bahadur] Hospital is about to reach the hospital premises. We will spare no effort to secure lives of Delhiites, despite deprivation of oxygen to the NCT of Delhi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-die-as-oxygen-crisis-worsens-in-delhi/article34461497.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Private hospitals begin COVID-19 vaccination for 18+||On Saturday, when vaccinations were opened to all above 18, the overall number of immunisations dipped to a weekly low of 1.3 million. While private hospital chains — such Max Super speciality Hospitals, Apollo Group and Fortis Hospitals — announced the roll-out of their paid vaccination programmes, none gave information on how many doses were administered. However the slots that were made available for vaccination by these hospitals filled up rapidly. While there were 45 million registrations on the CoWIN portal on Saturday, it was not clear how many of these were in the 18-44 age bracket. According to data scientist Pratap Vardhan, a check on the CoWIN portal revealed that there were around 48,000 slots for those in the 18-44 age group for the week ahead. These, however, were restricted to 15 States with a wide variation in availability across the States. As many as 21,276 slots were available in Chhattisgarh, but only one slot in Delhi as of 7 p.m. on Saturday. Apart from the private hospitals, some States, which have procured a tranche of Covishield and Covaxin doses, are offering them to anyone above 18, for free, at government centres. All vaccinations for those 45 and above continue with stocks available from the Central quota. Symbolic roll-out In other States which do not have supplies, token vaccination drives were launched. The BJP-ruled Karnataka, on Saturday, saw a “symbolic” inauguration of the phase III drive by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. State Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Friday asked people in this category not to turn up at vaccination centres and said that the roll-out would start only after vaccine stocks arrive. The symbolic roll-out took place in a few government centres only in Bengaluru. Several PHCs displayed “no stocks” boards by afternoon. There was no data available as to how many were administered vaccine on the first day. Meanwhile four branches of Apollo hospitals in the State — three in Bengaluru and one in Mysuru — have started the fourth phase vaccination. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated a drive for free vaccination of those above 18 at a government hospital in Lucknow. The drive is to cover the seven most-affected districts — Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Meerut, Prayagraj, Kanpur, Varanasi and Bareilly — in the first phase through 85 centres. Maharashtra vaccinated 11,492 individuals in the 18 to 45 age category on May 1 in 26 districts of the State at government centres till 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-hospitals-begin-covid-19-vaccination-for-18/article34461493.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru/Kalaburagi,||Under-45 vaccination: ‘Symbolic’ launch sees only 35 taking the shot in city||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday symbolically launched vaccination drive for 18-44 age group in Bengaluru, a day after Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar categorically said that drive would begin only after vaccine stocks arrive. By the end of day, only 35 people in this age group had taken the shot in BBMP limits. Speaking after the inaugural, Chief Minister said the State had one lakh doses and had received three lakh doses from the Centre. “We have four lakh doses and will start vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group till this stock lasts. By then we will get more stocks,” he said. He added that the ongoing drive for those aged 45 years and above will continue simultaneously. ‘Not enough doses’ Meanwhile, speaking in Kalaburagi, Mr. Sudhakar said the inauguration was only symbolic. “We are not able to cover all in the age group at present as we have not received enough vaccine doses. We have ordered two crore vaccine doses. We are presently assured to be provided with only three lakh doses a day. We have 6,000 vaccination centres in the State and we will have to have at least 6 lakh vaccine doses a day when we go for universal vaccination. Once we get a proper supply of doses, we will go for vaccination on a large scale,” Mr. Sudhakar said. Stocks taken back The day also saw vaccination doses running short even for age group above 45. H.M. Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said BBMP officials had taken back all the stocks on Friday itself. “As the government has told us that we have to procure the vaccines directly from now on, we have no clarity as to when the stocks will be available,” he said. Many PHCs in Bengaluru too had no stocks boards. Meanwhile, Apollo Hospitals in Bengaluru started the fourth phase vaccination at its Bannerghata branch on Saturday. A statement from the hospital said the drive will begin in all three branches in the city from Sunday. “As per the government guidelines, the vaccines will be administered to eligible individuals who have registered on the CoWIN app and have made an appointment for the vaccine jab at Apollo Hospitals,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/under-45-vaccination-symbolic-launch-sees-only-35-taking-the-shot-in-city/article34462072.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 positive parents struggle to take care of kids||South Bengaluru resident Esther Isaac and her husband tested positive for COVID-19 on April 14. Though they were both under home isolation, what made things very complicated was caring for their 18-month-old daughter. “We had read that babies can be carriers, so we did not want to risk sending her to anyone’s house. Moreover, since the pandemic, she is very uncomfortable with anyone new,” said Ms. Isaac. With no alternative left, they decided to keep her with them. “Initially it was very difficult. We started wearing masks all the time and following all procedures. Our daughter did not like us wearing masks and being kept away, and she became cranky and gave up on solids completely. She became more clingy and started breastfeeding more. Each time we had to touch the baby, we would wash our hands. All her items, including her spoon, was kept separately and we did not even wash her clothes along with ours. We could not cook, so friends used to send us food, which she would not eat,” she recalled. Apart from bringing huge lifestyle changes and immeasurable tragedies, the pandemic has also left parents of young children who end up contracting the disease hapless, especially those in nuclear families.  Desperate appeals A couple in north Bengaluru who had to be hospitalised had well-wishers sending out desperate appeals to find COVID-19 positive patients in home isolation willing to babysit their two and five year old. “Now everybody is so scared that people who don’t have the infection are unwilling to come and help. So they are looking for home-isolated patients,” said one of those people sharing the parents’ appeal.  Rakesh Prabhu’s brother first fell ill, but was told it was not COVID-19 by a neighbourhood doctor. Life went on as usual, until Rakesh’s six-year-old daughter fell ill. Even his parents fell ill, and developed fever. His father tested positive and Mr. Prabhu and his wife got themselves tested, after which it emerged they were positive. “We live in a single bedroom house, but there was a vacant house next door. The owner was kind enough to let us occupy it for a few days. We later moved back into our house and ensured our daughter was not in contact with us,” he said. Surpiya also shared the story of her neighbour. Both parents tested positive and each one was quarantined in different rooms. “Their seven-year-old son has been managing with food catered through some agencies. They are stuck inside and they give instructions to him to open and close the door, and spray sanitisers,” she said. Keeping children away It is not just COVID-19 positive parents who are finding it hard. S. Swathi’s family consists of her senior citizen parents, both over 75 years, her husband, and two children — 10 and 14 years. Her mother’s condition deteriorated this week and after driving from north to south Bengaluru, they finally found a hospital bed. “We had driven her and admitted her in the hospital, making us primary contacts. My father is still COVID-19 positive and at home. It is a struggle keeping the children away from us and their grandparents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-positive-parents-struggle-to-take-care-of-kids/article34461639.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Chennai’s largest triaging centre for COVID-19 opens||The Greater Chennai Corporation launched a triaging centre for COVID-19 patients at the Island Grounds on Saturday. This is the largest triaging centre in the city, screening at least 1,000 patients before they are sent to tertiary care hospitals, COVID care centres or home isolation. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said, “This facility will ease the pressure on the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and the Government Stanley Hospital. Mild, moderate and asymptomatic cases need not crowd hospitals. We are mulling over setting up one more centre.” Special coordinator M.A. Siddique said the triaging centre will start with 600 patients per day and increase to 1,000 in three days. “The number of active cases is more than 33,000 in Chennai. It is likely to increase to 60,000 during the peak. This centre will help us manage the peak,” he said. As Chennai is registering over 6,000 cases every day, patients are likely to be taken to private medical college hospitals on the city’s outskirts for treatment. Over 4,000 COVID-19 patients in the city are receiving treatment at tertiary care hospitals like the RGGGH, Stanley Government Medical College Hospital, the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, the government hospital at Omandurar estate and private hospitals. Over 30,000 residents who have tested positive for COVID-19 are in home isolation. Over 320 doctors are being deployed by the civic body to treat patients in home isolation. The Corporation is planning to collect a fine of Rs. 2,000 from patients who violate home quarantine norms. At least 1,000 additional oxygen beds would be readied at private medical college hospitals on the city’s outskirts for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennais-largest-triaging-centre-for-covid-19-opens/article34461544.ece
02 May 2021||Mumbai,||Shots available at govt. centres||As many as 11,492 people over the age of 18 got their first dose of anti-coronavirus vaccination in 26 of 36 districts of Maharashtra on Saturday, the first day after it was opened up for all adults. The shots were administered in government facilities only. According to the State Public Health Department, 132 vaccination sessions were arranged in 26 districts and 11,492 people were vaccinated till 6 p.m. on Saturday. Maharashtra has purchased three lakh Covishield doses from Serum Institute of India which have been distributed across the State. Pune recorded the highest number of vaccination with 1,316 while Mumbai vaccinated 1,004 citizens. Gadchiroli and Yavatmal in Vidarbha recorded the lowest numbers at 83 and 90 respectively. In Mumbai, mayor Kishori Pednekar and Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant inaugurated the vaccination program at the jumbo Covid care centre at the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). Alnaj Chalrani, 32, a divyang, became the first person in the 18-45 age group in Mumbai to get vaccinated. Besides BKC, vaccination centres were set up at Seven Hills Hospital, Andheri; Cooper Hospital, Vile Parle; Rajawadi in Ghatkopar, and Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central. They will be open on Sunday also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shots-available-at-govt-centres/article34462233.ece
02 May 2021||MANGALURU,||Three women booked for throwing waste into Netravathi||The police on Saturday booked three women and seized their car for throwing waste into the Netravathi from their car near Jeppinamogaru on National Highway 66. Cases under Section 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 (B) of Disaster Management Act,2005, for violating the lockdown and for indulging in acts of spreading infectious diseases were booked against Shailaja Nayak, Rachana Nayak, and Susheela who were in the car. They are from Kankanady. The Kankanady Town Police registered the case based on a complaint by Mangaluru City Corporation’s health officer. Viral on social media Earlier, a video of the women stopping their car on the middle of the Netravathi bridge and throwing the garbage into the river went viral on social media. The video showed the registration number of the car. A team lead by Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) Ranjith Kumar Bandaru traced the car and seized it. Section 51 (B) is invoked for violation of partial lockdown guidelines issued by the State government for which a person can be punished for a period that may extend to one year. Sections 269 and 270 of the IPC were invoked for negligent and malignant acts that are likely to spread infection of diseases. Under Section 269, a person can be sentenced for a term that may extend to six months, while for Section 270, the punishment will be imprisonment for a term that may extend to two years.  ‘Ritual in house’ The three women told police that there was a ritual in their house and putting ‘articles’ in the river was to complete the ritual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-women-booked-for-throwing-waste-into-netravathi/article34462206.ece
02 May 2021||KURNOOL,||Two COVID patients die in Kurnool hospital||Two COVID-19 patients from Pattikonda and Aspari in Kurnool district died at K.S. Care Multi Speciality Hospital here on Saturday. The relatives of the dead and other patients alleged that the deaths were owing to lack of oxygen supply, but a high-level committee constituted by the district administration headed by District Medical and Health Officer Rama Giddaiah submitted a report stating that there was no shortage of oxygen supply to the hospital and that it was not authorised to treat COVID patients. The committee recommended criminal cases to be filed against the hospital management and a thorough inquiry into the details of the treatment provided to the two patients. While the incident came to light just before noon, District Collector G. Veerapandian ordered shifting of all COVID patients to the GGH, Kurnool. Coordinator for the Oxygen supply Additional Director Drug Administration M. Chandrasekhar Rao said the hospital had sufficient quantity of oxygen on the premises. The kin of the dead told mediapersons that the hospital authorities had told them that it had run out of oxygen on Friday evening and that they had been asking all the oxygen-supported patients to be shifted to other hospitals, but they did not find a bed anywhere. The District Collector, Municipal Commissioner D.K. Balaji, Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli along with the DMHO inspected the hospital and said three patients had died, but their COVID-19 positive status was not confirmed. Appeal to people Mr. Veerapandian appealed to the people not to approach unauthorised hospitals, but dial 104 and come to the 28 authorised hospitals, including three government facilities at Kurnool, Nandyal, and Adoni. “There are 2,900 beds available, and only 1,625 of them are occupied as of Saturday afternoon. There are 900 oxygen-supported beds available in the remaining 1,275 vacant ones,” the Collector pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-covid-patients-die-in-kurnool-hospital/article34461485.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||With 61 deaths, toll crosses 8,000||The State has again hit a new peak in the daily tally with 19,412 new infections reported in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the same period, 61 patients succumbed to the disease. The cumulative tally jumped to 11,21,102 and the death toll crossed the 8,000-mark and reached 8,053.  The death rate came down to 0.72%. Testing During the past day, 98,214 samples were tested. It was the highest ever single-day test count and a majority of them Rt-PCR tests. The positivity rate was 19.77% and that of the 1.64 crore samples tested so far was 6.80%. As many as 11,579 patients recovered in the past day leaving 1,30,752 active cases and over 88,800 of them were under home isolation while 32,301 were being treated in hospitals. The total number of recoveries increased to 9,82,297 and the recovery rate dropped to 87.62%. New deaths Vizianagaram witnessed eight new deaths in the past day and was followed by Chittoor, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam which reported seven new deaths each. Anantapur reported six deaths, while Krishna, Kurnool and Prakasam reported five each. Nellore reported four and Kadapa, Guntur and Srikakulam reported two deaths each. West Godavari reported one new death. Ten districts reported more than a thousand new infections, including three that saw more than 2,000 new infections in the past day. They include Chittoor (2,768), East Godavari (2,679), Srikakulam (2,048), Guntur (1,750), Visakhapatnam (1,722), Anantapur (1,722), Kurnool (1,381), Prakasam (1,106), Nellore (1,091) and West Godavari (1,053). Among the districts that reported less than a thousand infections were Kadapa (792) Krishna (694) and Vizianagaram (606). Due to the rapid rise in infections, active cases were mounting in several districts. Six districts together have over 65% active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-61-deaths-toll-crosses-8000/article34461483.ece
02 May 2021||Ahmedabad,||18 killed in Gujarat COVID-19 hospital fire||At least 16 COVID-19 patients and two nurses were killed in a fire that engulfed the intensive care unit of a hospital in Bharuch, Gujarat, in the early hours of Saturday. Officials said the fire broke out around 1 a.m. in the ICU of the four-storey Welfare Hospital, where more than 50 COVID-19 patients were undergoing treatment. There were more than 27 patients in the ICU, including some on ventilators, they said. The police and the fire brigade officials rushed to the spot and brought the fire under control within an hour. Local people and hospital staff helped in the evacuation of patients. The police said the deaths were caused due to burns and asphyxiation. “More than 20 patients were rescued and were rushed to other private hospitals” a press release issued by the district police said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, officials said, adding that the deceased included 11 women and seven men. Expressing grief over the incident, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani announced an ex gratia of Rs. 4 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. He also appointed two senior bureaucrats — Additional Chief Secretary (labour and employment) Vipul Mittra and Commissioner (municipalities) Rajkumar Beniwal — to conduct an inquiry into the incident. The incident comes less than a week after five persons were killed in a fire at a private COVID-19 hospital in Surat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-killed-in-gujarat-covid-19-hospital-fire/article34461498.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to defer U.P. panchayat poll counting||The Supreme Court on Saturday refused to intervene in an appeal to defer the counting process in the Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections on May 2 after the State and the Election Commission gave assurances to follow COVID-19 protocol. Appearing before a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Hrishikesh Roy, in a special sitting, Additional Solicitor-General Aishwarya Bhati, for the State, said essential measures (protocol) for safety and security of everyone concerned at the counting centres, including the recent notifications on April 29 and April 30 on COVID -19, would be complied with. Ms. Bhati said strict curfew would be imposed in areas notified by the authorities, in particular, in and around the counting centres. It will continue till the declaration of results. “That will ensure that only the candidates and their authorised representatives would be able to visit/enter the counting centres and gathering of general public is avoided,” the order noted. “Besides, no victory rally will be permitted throughout the State after the results are announced or during the counting process is in progress. This assurance is placed on record,” the court said. The court also recorded the undertaking given by the State Election Commission that CCTV recording would be done at the counting centres and preserved. “The State Election Commission has also agreed to notify the names of persons who will be in-charge of the counting centres and who will be made accountable for any lapse regarding compliance of the guidelines and the assurances recorded herein, at the given centres.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-refuses-to-defer-up-panchayat-poll-counting/article34461494.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Record GST mop-up of Rs. 1.41 lakh cr. in April||Gross revenues from the Goods and Services Tax hit a record high of Rs. 1.41 lakh crore in April, suggesting that economic activity may not yet be as badly affected amid the ongoing second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, as last year. The GST collections surpassed the previous highest collections of Rs. 1.24 lakh crore in March by 14%, and mark the seventh month in a row since October last year that GST revenues have crossed Rs. 1 lakh crore. In April last year, as economic activities ground to a halt amid a national lockdown, the indirect collections had dipped to Rs. 32,172 crore. This April, revenues from domestic transactions, including services imports, grew 21% over March 2021. Tax experts expect some moderation in revenues in the coming months due to the gradual imposition of partial and full lockdowns across all the States. The government, on its part, said the steady increase in GST collections over recent months clearly indicated that a “sustained economic recovery” was under way. ‘Various measures’ “The all-time high GST collections seem to be the outcome of uptick in economic recovery, anti-evasion measures such as e-invoicing, data analytics-led investigations, and also year-end audit and financial closure of the companies as on March,” said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-gst-mop-up-of-rs-141-lakh-cr-in-april/article34461495.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal extends lockdown till May 10||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the ongoing lockdown in Delhi would be extended by one more week. Restrictions related to the lockdown will now be in place till May 10, instead of May 3. This is the second extension of the lockdown, which came into force on April 19 midnight to contain the sudden surge in COVID-19 cases and deaths. Mr. Kejriwal made the announcement on Twitter. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority, in its order on the extension of the lockdown, stated that a review of the pandemic situation showed that the numbers of positive cases, test positivity rate as well as bed occupancy (oxygen-supported or ICU beds) in the dedicated COVID-19 hospitals are very high. “Therefore, in order to contain the spread of the virus and break the transmission chain, the curfew needs to be extended for another week in the territory of NCT of Delhi (except for essential activities and services),” it read. Mr. Kejriwal had earlier said that the COVID-19 situation in the Capital was “very critical” with tens of thousands of daily cases putting the city’s health system under “great stress”. The city has been battling an acute shortage of beds and medical oxygen for the past few weeks. At the start of the lockdown last month, Mr. Kejriwal had appealed to migrant workers to repose their faith in the Delhi government during “this short lockdown”. He asked them not to leave the city and assured them that they would be taken care of despite the restrictions on daily activities. “We will utilise the period of the lockdown to ramp up medical infrastructure, beds, oxygen and medicine supplies,” he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-cm-extends-lockdown-till-may-10/article34461819.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi HC warns of contempt||The Delhi High Court on Saturday warned the Union government of contempt proceedings if it failed to supply the 490 metric tonnes of oxygen a day allocated to the national capital from Saturday. “We direct the Central government to ensure that NCT of Delhi receives its allocated supply of 490 MT positively today, by whatever means,” the HC order said. “Much water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough.”page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supply-oxygen-immediately/article34461482.ece
02 May 2021||ELURU,||Oxygen leaks from tanker at Eluru hospital, patients safe||Tension prevailed at Eluru District Government Headquarters Hospital after liquid oxygen gas leaked from the tanker on the hospital premises on Friday. The gas leak was arrested within 45 minutes, and alternative arrangements were made to provide give uninterrupted oxygen supply to the patients in the hospital, said the hospital authorities. “Liquid oxygen leaked from the safety valve of the tanker, which was arrested. About 290 COVID patients are undergoing treatment in the hospital when the incident occurred and all the patients are safe,” said an officer who monitored the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oxygen-leaks-from-tanker-at-eluru-hospital-patients-safe/article34461491.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday showdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sunday-showdown/article34461821.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Strict vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/strict-vigil/article34461638.ece
02 May 2021||Kalaburagi,||Three die in Kalaburagi||As many as three COVID-19 patients at the Khaja Banda Nawaz Hospital in Kalaburagi died on Saturday evening. It is learnt that the tragedy occurred when they were being shifted to another healthcare facility after the hospital allegedly ran out of oxygen. As the news reached the district administrative headquarters, Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna dispatched some oxygen cylinders to the hospital. She said that she had dispatched a team of Health Department officials to take stock of the situation. She said that the hospital authorities denied the allegation of oxygen shortage. "There was no shortage of oxygen. Had there been shortfall, the hospital authorities would have called us" she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-die-in-kalaburagi/article34461643.ece
02 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,||14 die in A.P. due to ‘snag’ in oxygen supply||At least 14 COVID-19 patients died at the Government General Hospital at Anantapur on Saturday due to a “snag” in the oxygen supply pipeline. Six of the victims were in the orthopaedic ward and four in the chest ward. The four others were among the 180 patients on oxygen support and in the intensive care unit. Unconfirmed reports, however, said the number of dead could be higher. Collector refutes Even as reports of deaths of patients in the hospital flooded social media and were reported by local television channels, Collector Gandham Chandrudu denied that 10 persons had died by 1 p.m. due to lack of oxygen. In a late night press conference he denied that there was a problem with the oxygen supply and said that all the deaths were due to complications of the COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-die-in-ap-due-to-snag-in-oxygen-supply/article34461484.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Grocery shops open till noon from today||In a bid to avoid rush in the markets during morning hours, the State government has permitted grocery shops and APMC markets to remain open from 6 a.m. till noon. Milk booths, HOPCOMS, and vegetable cart vendors can sell from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. from Sunday for the remainder of the lockdown. Earlier guidelines did not allow any of these, barring milk parlours, to be open beyond 10 a.m. Extending the timings would not only eliminate crowding, but also prevent selling of products at high prices, the guidelines said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grocery-shops-open-till-noon-from-today/article34462070.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||D-day arrives||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/d-day-arrives/article34461541.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Restrictions at harbours, fish auction centres||The State government has cancelled the exemption extended to harbours and fish auction centres to conduct business as usual till May 8. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the decision was taken in the wake of an increase in new cases in Kollam. He did not specify whether the ban was only for Kollam or applied to other coastal districts. The Chief Minister said women officers would enforce COVID-19 regulations at harbours. Last year, several coastal localities abutting fishing harbours had turned COVID-19 epicentres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-at-harbours-fish-auction-centres/article34461686.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Over 4 lakh active cases||From 2,62,162 active cases of COVID-19 on April 25, the number crossed four lakh and touched 4,05,068 in the State on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-4-lakh-active-cases/article34462069.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CEC moves SC against Madras HC’s comments||The Chief Election Commissioner of India has appealed to the Supreme Court against the oral comments attributed to the judges of the Madras High Court on the poll body and its officials, portraying them as responsible for the surge in the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cec-moves-sc-against-madras-hcs-comments/article34462123.ece
02 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Five die in Gurugram due to ‘oxygen shortage’||Five COVID-19 patients died at a private hospital in Gurugram on Saturday. The family members of the deceased alleged that the deaths were caused due to short supply of oxygen and negligence of the doctors. Calls to hospital authorities to seek their response on the matter went unanswered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-die-in-gurugram-due-to-oxygen-shortage/article34462124.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Active cases cross 4 lakh mark in Karnataka||The COVID-19 pandemic that is spinning out of control in the State as the active cases crossed four lakh and touched 4,05,068 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-cases-cross-4-lakh-mark-in-karnataka/article34461642.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CEC moves SC against Madras HC’s comments||The Chief Election Commissioner of India has appealed to the Supreme Court against the oral comments attributed to the judges of the Madras High Court on the poll body and its officials, portraying them as responsible for the surge in the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cec-moves-sc-against-madras-hcs-comments/article34461816.ece
02 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Five die in Gurugram due to ‘oxygen shortage’||Five COVID-19 patients died at a private hospital in Gurugram on Saturday. The family members of the deceased alleged that the deaths were caused due to short supply of oxygen and negligence of the doctors. Calls to hospital authorities to seek their response on the matter went unanswered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-die-in-gurugram-due-to-oxygen-shortage/article34461817.ece
02 May 2021||Mumbai,||63,282 new cases reported in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 63,282 fresh COVID-19 cases and 802 fatalities, taking the tally to 46,65,472 and the toll to 69,615, the State Health Department said. A total of 61,326 patients were discharged during the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 39,30,302. Of the 802 fatalities, 438 occurred in the last 48 hours, 178 in the last week, while the remaining 186 occurred in a prior period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/63282-new-cases-reported-in-maharashtra/article34462235.ece
02 May 2021||Mumbai,||Rural Maharashtra joins hands to fight COVID-19||From district collectors to primary teachers and from retired government servants to serving police officials, every section of society in the interiors of Maharashtra is making innovative efforts, some even going beyond the official duty mandate, to help COVID-19 patients. Speaking toThe Hindu, the different groups and individuals open up on how their efforts are helping those in need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rural-maharashtra-joins-hands-to-fight-covid-19/article34462236.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Nearly 20,000 test positive, 147 die in T.N.||Tamil Nadu saw a further surge in COVID-19 cases on Saturday with 19,588 persons testing positive, taking the tally to 11,86,344. In the last 24 hours, 147 persons died, taking the toll to 14,193.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-20000-test-positive-147-die-in-tn/article34461543.ece
02 May 2021||NAGERCOIL/Chennai,||11 fishermen rescued by Coast Guard return home||Eleven fishermen from Thaengaaipattinam in Kanyakumari district, who were rescued by the Coast Guard after they went missing in the high-seas on April 28, returned home safely on Saturday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-fishermen-rescued-by-coast-guard-return-home/article34461609.ece
02 May 2021||MADURAI,||Villagers flout COVID-19 norms, hold fishing fest||Flouting COVID-19 norms, a large number of villagers in and around Thiruvathavur near Madurai participated in the traditional fishing festival held late on Friday night. In neighbouring Sivaganga too, hundreds of residents assembled for the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/villagers-flout-covid-19-norms-hold-fishing-fest/article34461610.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Weathering India’s coronavirus storm||India is in the middle of a second wave of COVID-19 infections that is seeing nearly 4,00,000 new cases being added every day. Unlike the first wave that peaked in September, the ongoing one is characterised by high infectivity — a result that is attributed to the possibility of newer variants firmly establishing roots in India and a carte blanche for massive public gatherings, including the Kumbh Mela, election rallies and farmer protests — that has brought the health infrastructure in several metropolises to its knees. As India is in the middle of a crisis with attention almost entirely focused on putting out the fire, it will be a while before some serious soul searching begins on how those at the helm of the country’s COVID-19 management strategy failed to gauge the size and impact of the second wave. While analysts, in the future, may attribute faults to various actors such as the political leadership and state administrators, an organisation that is certain to come for reckoning is the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). As an apex council of government-funded medical research institutions that has expertise in a range of infectious-disease analyses and with experience that stretches back well over a century, it was natural that the ICMR has been playing a pivotal role in India’s defence against the coronavirus. One of its labs, the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) that traces its origin to 1952, sequenced the virus in February 2020, almost as soon as the genome sequence of the virus was made globally available by China. The first COVID-19 patient in India, a medical student who returned from Wuhan, was laboratory-confirmed by the NIV on January 30. Two more adults from Kerala were also confirmed positive within a few days. The lab developed the assays needed to detect the presence of the virus by targeting specific regions of its genome. Soon enough, the organisation was able to grow the virus in the lab, a necessary step to being able to develop a vaccine. This strain was eventually transferred to the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech from which Covaxin eventually came to be. Niche expertise Infectious diseases lie at the heart of the conception of an organisation such as the ICMR. It has, over the years, nurtured several laboratories and research organisations with niche expertise in several other aspects of disease spread. Given its history, it was expected that the NIV would play a prominent role in tackling the virus. The ICMR’s institutes have expertise in tuberculosis, leprosy, cholera and diarrhoeal diseases, viral diseases including AIDS, malaria, kala-azar, vector control, nutrition, food and drug toxicology, reproduction, immuno-haematology, oncology and medical statistics. One of these is epidemiology or the study of how infectious diseases spread in a society. Enter the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), an ICMR research body based in Chennai. Again in February 2020, epidemiologists of the NIE, along with other scientists of the ICMR and experts from the Imperial College in London, wrote in the Indian Journal of Medical Research , published by the ICMR itself, that a coronavirus (COVID-19) epidemic in India “was inevitable” and the most aggressive airport screening would have delayed India’s first 1,000 cases by at most 45 days. India’s health system should have focused early on finding transmission in the community and quarantining, instead of border control. This report became public a day after India had closed its airports to international passengers and a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a national lockdown. Though that report lacked detail on what the projected number of affected could be or what the probable mortality rate from being infected was likely to be, it said, in as measured a tone, that the virus was unlikely to treat India any different from other countries in the world. This was around the time that Europe's health systems had buckled under the weight of the coronavirus, and China — after being assailed — had imposed a stringent lockdown. In May last year, the organisation undertook another important endeavour. The NIE epidemiologists conducted what was perhaps among the largest such serology surveys in the world. These involve choosing groups of adults across a representative number of districts and testing blood samples for the presence of antibodies that generally form within two-three weeks of an infection. The serosurvey found that from its analysis of 69 districts across 21 States suggested that an estimated 7,00,000 may have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in these districts even in early May. This was when the official count was around 35,000. However, for all its expertise, resources, institutional memory and geographical spread — it has 26 national institutes and six regional research centres to investigate and recommend policy measures for a range of communicable and non-communicable diseases — its critics say the ICMR is an extremely bureaucratic organisation. Being almost entirely dependent on government funds, its scientists do not have the independence to share their knowledge and expertise without being overtly controlled by the government in power and this was on display through the pandemic. In the early days of the pandemic, the ICMR leadership, in spite of the evidence being proffered by its own scientists of the cataclysm that was emerging, sought to play down — and actively encouraged the impression — that India would not see the kind of devastation the pandemic had wreaked on many other countries of comparable size. While it exhorted the public to mask up and follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, it was rarely forthcoming or extremely tardy with results and analysis of investigations into the course of the pandemic. Data sharing Independent scientists recently petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get the ICMR to be more forthright with sharing data. As a government organisation, the ICMR has access to a trove of medical data, patient history, test results from surveys and much of these, if made available more widely, would have aided a better understanding in the trajectory of the coronavirus, these scientists say. Currently, the NIV, along with some other labs, is in the process of checking if Covaxin provides protection against newer strains of the virus. India has expertise in making vaccines but limited expertise in conducting large Phase 3 trials that can assess vaccine or drug efficacy. The ICMR was a partner of Bharat Biotech but so far, the organisation has not released a proper peer-reviewed journal describing the Phase 3 trials. This, after the company was given emergency use authorisation without such efficacy trials being complete and ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava was found to have been goading clinical trial investigators, last year, into readying a vaccine before Independence Day in August. Currently, India is in a pandemic nightmare without enough vaccines and the ICMR is largely silent on the evolution of the second wave. What portion of the blame it must shoulder will be known only in the years ahead.  In Focus  The Pune-based National Institute of Virology, an ICMR lab, sequenced the virus in February 2020, almost as soon as the genome sequence of the virus was made globally available by China  The ICMR has 26 national institutes and six regional research centres to investigate and suggest policy measures for communicable and non-communicable diseases  These institutes have expertise in TB, leprosy, cholera and diarrhoeal diseases, and viral diseases including AIDS   The ICMR has access to a trove of medical data, and much of these, if made available more widely, would have aided a better understanding of the virus, say scientists||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weathering-indias-coronavirus-storm/article34461456.ece
02 May 2021||Kolkata,||Counting to be taken up at 108 centres in West Bengal||Counting of the votes cast in the Assembly election will start at 8 a.m. on Saturday in 700 halls at 108 centres in West Bengal. The Election Commission of India has specified seven tables for smaller counting halls and up to 14 in bigger ones. Counting will be held for 292 of the 294 seats in the State to decide the fate of 2,116 candidates. Polling to the Shamsherganj and Jangipur seats in Murshidabad district has been postponed following the death of candidates. Elections to the 292 Assembly seats across 23 districts were held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. The ECI has made arrangements for three-tier security at each counting centre. The premises will be guarded by personnel of the West Bengal police and the Central armed police forces. Every counting agent has to produce a COVID-19 negative certificate before entering the counting centres. About 30% of the counting staff have been kept as reserve. EC officials said that considering the COVID-19 outbreak, more EVMs and counting centres had been allowed and the results may be delayed. Even hours before the counting begins, reports of sporadic violence have been received. Supporters of the Trinamool Congress and the BJP clashed at Katwa in Bardhaman. At Narendrapur in South 24 Parganas, two personnel of the bomb disposal squad sustained serious injuries while defusing crude bombs. The bombs were being carried in an ambulance and intercepted by local people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/counting-to-be-taken-up-at-108-centres-in-west-bengal/article34461410.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Help pours in from several countries||International solidarity and emergency medical supplies poured in on Saturday to help India fight the COVID-19 pandemic. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar received calls of support from his Norwegian and Spanish counterparts Ine Eriksen Soreide and Arancha Gonzalez. The U.S. is sending a National Airlines Boeing 747-400 cargo aircraft which is scheduled to land in Delhi around 11.30 p.m. on Saturday. It is carrying the biggest aid till date from the U.S. to India of around 100 tonnes including oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, medicines and other COVID-related medical products. There are six or seven flights which will be coming in the next few days via the National Airlines cargo flights, one airlines official said. World-class supplies French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said 28 tonnes of medical equipment will be flown by the French government on Sunday. The cargo will include “8 world-class oxygen plants that will make 8 Indian hospitals oxygen autonomous for 10+ years,” Mr. Lenain said in a social media message. Substantial cargo arrived from Thailand on Saturday with 30 oxygen concentrators, of which 15 were from the Thai government and 15 donated by the Indian community there. “Discussed the COVID-19 challenge and international cooperation with Thai Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Don Pramudwinai. Appreciated the supplies of cryogenic tanks and other oxygen-related equipment. Confident that we can continue to count on our partnership with Thailand,” Mr. Jaishankar said on social media. The IAF has deployed an IL-76 transport aircraft to carry three empty cryogenic oxygen containers from Singapore to Panagarh. The U.K. is also working on a combined plan with the IAF to airlift additional emergency supplies expected to be finalised shortly. The Navy has deployed seven ships Kolkata , Kochi , Talwar , Tabar , Trikand , Jalashwa and Airavat for shipment of liquid medical oxygen-filled cryogenic containers and associated medical equipment from various countries. INS Talwarheaded back  INS Kolkata and INS Talwar , mission deployed in Persian Gulf, were the first batch of ships that were immediately diverted for the task and entered port of Manama on Friday.  INS Talwar , with 40 MT of liquid medical oxygen, is headed back home, the Navy said in a statement.   INS Kolkata  has proceeded to Doha for medical supplies and will head to Kuwait for liquid oxygen tanks. Similarly, on the Eastern seaboard, INS Airavat has been diverted for the task, while INS Jalashwa was pulled out of maintenance, readied and sailed out to augment the effort, the Navy said. “ INS Airavat is scheduled to enter Singapore for embarking liquid oxygen tanks and INS Jalashwa is standing by in the region to embark medical stores at short notice,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/help-pours-in-from-several-countries/article34461423.ece
02 May 2021||Washington DC,||U.S. to restrict travel from India||In view of the very high numbers of COVID-19 cases and multiple strains of the virus in India, the United States will restrict travel of non-citizens from the country, starting on Tuesday, Eastern U.S. time. U.S. President Joe Biden issued a proclamation on Friday afternoon prohibiting the entry of non-citizens (the administration has done away with the term ‘alien’) who have been physically present in India for 14 days prior to their entry or attempted entry into the U.S. There is a long list of exemptions and the order will be reviewed every 30 days. H-1B and L visa holders and their dependants are not automatically exempt from the restrictions. The entry restrictions do not apply to lawful permanent residents (LPRs or green card holders); non-citizens married to Americans or green card holders; non-citizen parents or legal guardians of minors (under 21) who are U.S. citizens or green card holders; siblings of unmarried citizens or LPRs, provided they are both under 21 and unmarried and other categories of travellers. Those travelling on immigrant visas are also exempt from the restrictions, a State Department spokesperson confirmed to The Hindu . Others whose entry is not restricted include foreigners travelling at the invitation of the administration for the containment of the virus, those whose entry is in its national interest, diplomats of various categories, crew members and a few other categories. Journalists, certain exchange visitors and students are also potentially covered by the national interest exception, the State Department said in a media note issued on Friday. “Secretary Blinken decided today to apply the same set of National Interest Exceptions to India that he had previously applied to all other regional travel restrictions currently in effect as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic,” the note said. “Students seeking to commence studies in the fall, certain academics, journalists and individuals who provide critical infrastructure support in countries affected by a geographic COVID-19 restriction may qualify for a National Interest Exception. This includes qualified applicants who have been present in India, Brazil, China, Iran, or South Africa,” the statement said. Significantly, the order also states that the rights of individuals to claim asylum shall not be diminished by the order. “After reviewing the public health situation within the Republic of India, the CDC has concluded that proactive measures are required to protect the nation’s public health from travellers entering the United States from that jurisdiction,” Mr. Biden said in his proclamation. “All routine visa appointments at the U.S. Embassy New Delhi and the consulates in Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata are cancelled until May 15 and at the consulate in Mumbai until May 28” due to COVID-19 and unrelated to Friday’s proclamation, a State Department spokesperson said  .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-to-restrict-travel-from-india/article34461445.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Far from home||When Chloe Zhao on April 25 ascended the steps of a makeshift stage in Union Station — the railway station in Los Angeles serving as the temporary home of the Academy Awards — she became the first non-white woman to win Best Director, and only the second woman recipient of the award. Ms. Zhao recorded another first. In her acceptance speech, she quoted a well known classical Chinese poem, recalling her childhood in China. “When I was growing up in China, my dad and I would play this game where we would memorise classical Chinese poems and texts, and recite it together and try and finish each other’s sentences,” she said. “One I remember so dearly, ‘Ren Zhi Chu, Xing Ben Shan’, means, ‘people at birth are inherently good’. Those six characters had such a great impact on me and I still truly believe them today.” Both firsts would have ordinarily been headline-making in China and lapped up by a country that, not unlike India, is hungry to claim successes of her own, even from those who long left her shores. Yet Ms. Zhao’s Oscars success has been relatively muted. News of her prize has been played down, in some quarters even censored, underlining her troubled relationship with her country of birth. On Douban, a popular social media platform, videos of the award and speech were removed, the Washington Post reported, while the Twitter-equivalent Weibo was also censoring posts about her. “One blogger wrote in frustration,” the Post reported, “that the only Oscar-related content they could find was that of a singer named Oscar Wang who had been unexpectedly eliminated from a boy band contest.” Ms. Zhao’s film, meanwhile, ran into trouble with the regulators. Originally scheduled for an April release, Nomadland is yet to hit the theatres. And not only that, for the first time since 2003, China’s official television station CCTV did not even broadcast the Oscars. Ms. Zhao’s involvement was seen as one reason, the other being the nomination of a documentary on the Hong Kong protests. Born in Beijing, Ms. Zhao grew up in the Chinese capital until 14, and then moved to England and then the U.S. for school. After attending film school at NYU, her major breakthrough was her 2015 drama Songs My Brothers Taught Me about a Native American brother and sister and life on a reservation. Critical success The critical success of Nomadland last year, which was quickly seen as an Academy Awards-favourite, initially went down well with the Chinese media and Ms. Zhao was warmly acclaimed. That quickly soured when comments she made in a 2013 interview surfaced and spread like wildfire. Ms. Zhao had spoken about growing up in “a place where there are lies everywhere”. Widespread outrage quickly followed, and a director who was hailed by China’s film community — and remains celebrated among her fellow directors there — quickly faded from attention of the state media, underlining the decreasing tolerance in China for the slightest criticism. That anger has somewhat dissipated following her win. On one level, there is some irony in the controversy, as Chinese regulators have much to enjoy about Nomadland , which follows the story of Fern (played by Frances McDormand), and her journey across America in her trusted van as she finds both work and a sense of belonging in the wake of losing her job and her husband. Based on the 2017 non-fiction book by journalist Jessica Bruder, the film offers a searing look at America and those that have been left behind, themes that, one might have assumed, would be welcomed by Chinese authorities who are usually all-too-eager to shine the light on the flaws of the U.S. On another level, Ms. Zhao’s success is also a reminder of why she perhaps chose to make her home elsewhere in the first place. Nomadland is also a story of freedom, and of pursuing it at any cost. “The last free place in America,” we are told, “is a parking spot”. In the film, Fern resents being asked if she is “homeless”. “I’m houseless,” she retorts, “which is not the same thing”. A Chinese filmmaker offering an unsparing and critical look at Chinese society in today’s China, let alone a foreign-born one, would probably not have gotten very far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/far-from-home/article34461448.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The last Jew in Afghanistan||He withstood a communist revolution, the Soviet intervention, the mujahideen civil war, the Taliban takeover and the American invasion. When all of his friends and family left Afghanistan as the country fell from one crisis to another, he stayed. But now, with the U.S. troops withdrawing from Afghanistan and the fear of the Taliban’s second coming rising, Zabulon Simentov, Afghanistan’s one-man Jewish community, is preparing to leave the country for Israel. “After our important festivals [Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur in September], I will leave Afghanistan,” he told Radio Free Afghanistan recently. “If the Taliban return, they are going to push us out with a slap in the face.” Born in the 1950s in Herat when Afghanistan was ruled by King Mohammed Zahir Shah, Mr. Simentov’s story is that of persecution, exodus and patriotism. A carpet merchant who had served in the Afghan army, Mr. Simentov left the country briefly in the 1990s when the country was gripped by sectarian violence, but returned against all advice from friends and family. His wife, two daughters and sisters all live in Israel. In 2013, when he was asked by a journalist if he wanted to go to Israel, he said, “What do I want in Israel? This is my home. This is where I belong.” For nearly 16 years, he has been the only known Jew in Afghanistan. He lived alone in Kabul’s Flower Street, next to the city’s lone synagogue. He read Torah alone from the pulpit of the synagogue. And he made his own kosher meat. The tale of Jews in Afghanistan is one of the many tragedies of the country. Afghanistan’s links with Judaism go back in at least 1,500 years. One of the legends about the origins of the Pashtuns, the dominant ethnic group in the country, is that they were the offspring of a lost tribe of Israel. The country had some 40,000-strong Jewish community in the mid-20th century, mostly in Herat, Mr. Simentov’s home region. When Israel was created in 1948, many Jews left Afghanistan. The exodus continued in the 1980s, following the 1979 Soviet intervention. Most of the remaining Jewish families left the country during the mujahideen fighting. By the early 1990s, when the communist government of Mohammed Najibullah was battling for its survival, there were hardly 15 Jews left in Kabul. They would also leave during the civil war that followed the fall of Najibullah. Two-men community During the Taliban regime, two men made up the country’s Jewish community — Mr. Simentov and Isaac Levy. They lived in the synagogue compound in Kabul, but hardly got along. They accused each other of violating the tenets of Judaism. Levy said Mr. Simentov was trying to send him off to Israel so that he could take over the synagogue. Mr. Simentov said he was concerned about Levy’s health. Their infighting caused a headache even for the Taliban’s anti-minority regime. Levy died in 2005. And since then, Mr. Simentov and the synagogue have been the last vestiges of Judaism in Afghanistan. If he leaves for Israel later this year, the synagogue would likely be closed. He lost the synagogue’s most important possession, a 15th century Torah, when the Taliban were in power. He blamed the Taliban for the loss. The Taliban’s 1996-2001 rule was infamous for the persecution of religious minorities and women. Many of them, especially Hindus and Sikhs, fled to India. After the fall of the Taliban, Afghanistan adopted a Constitution that offered equal rights and protection to the minorities. But the situation on the ground remained grim, and with the rise of the Islamic State in Afghanistan that targets minorities and the prospect of the return of the Taliban, many started fleeing the country in recent months. “Peace talks are making people worried that if the Taliban come and if they behave the same as they used to during their regime then people will be worried,” Mr. Simentov said in 2019. His fears are coming true. The U.S. signed an agreement with the Taliban in February 2020 as part of which American troops were scheduled to leave Afghanistan by May 1. President Joe Biden delayed the pullout to September 11. And after September, many fear that the Taliban could make rapid advances on the battleground. Mr. Simentov is not staying back to see that. “I will watch on TV in Israel to find out what will happen in Afghanistan,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-last-jew-in-afghanistan/article34461459.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||First instalment of SDRF released||The Centre has released the first instalment of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to States, in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19 that has claimed thousands of lives since April. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), in a statement, said Rs. 8,873.6 crore had been released, an annual exercise usually done in June. “As a special dispensation, the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, at the recommendation of the Ministry of Home Affairs, has released in advance of the normal schedule the first instalment of the Central share of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for 2021-22 to all the States,” the MHA said. “Normally, the first instalment is released in June as per the recommendations of the Finance Commission. However, in relaxation of the normal procedure, not only has the release of SDRF been advanced, the amount has also been released without waiting for the utilisation certificate of the amount provided to the States in the last financial year. Up to 50% of the amount released, i.e., Rs. 4,436.8 crore can be used by the States for COVID-19 containment measures,” it said. The MHA said the funds may be used for meeting the cost of oxygen generation and storage plants in hospitals, ventilators, air purifiers, strengthening ambulance services, COVID-19 hospitals, COVID Care Centres, consumables, thermal scanners, personal protective equipment, testing laboratories, testing kits and containment zones, among others. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, one of the first COVID-19 hit States, were allocated Rs. 1,288 crore, Rs. 316.4 crore, Rs. 125.60 crore and Rs. 773.20 crore respectively. Since Delhi is a Union Territory, the fund is released by the MHA and is included in the Union Budget. The allocation to each State depends on its population and utilisation of such funds in the previous financial year. Immediate relief The SDRF is the primary fund available with State governments as part of their response to notified disasters to meet expenditure on providing immediate relief to victims. The Centre contributes 75% of the allocation for general category States and Union Territories and 90% for special category States (northeastern, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and J&K).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-instalment-of-sdrf-released/article34461415.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST on oxygen concentrators cut||Oxygen concentrators received as gifts or ordered online from overseas would attract Goods and Services Tax (GST), but the GST rate payable was reduced from 28% to 12% by the Finance Ministry late Saturday night. On Friday, the government had notified changes to the foreign trade policy to allow the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use through e-commerce portals, post or courier till July 31, 2021. Customs clearance will be granted for such imports by treating them on par with “gifts”, the government had said. So far, such an exemption was only allowed for life saving drugs and rakhi s. In response to queries on such imports for personal use as well as donations to healthcare facilities, the Delhi Customs Department had said that though Customs Duty is exempt on such imports, integrated GST on oxygen concentrator is payable. The IGST rate for commercial imports of oxygen concentrators is 12%, but 28% if imported for personal use, the generic rate on goods imported for personal use, except drugs and medicines. However, late Saturday, the Finance Ministry said the IGST rate will be lowered to 12% for oxygen concentrators imported for personal use till the end of June this year. “This would provide much-needed relief against the COVID fight,” EY India tax partner Abhishek Jain told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-on-oxygen-concentrators-cut/article34461429.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,||1.5 lakh doses of Sputnik V land in India||India moved a step closer to having a third vaccine in its immunisation drive against COVID-19 when the first consignment of Russia’s Sputnik V landed in Hyderabad on Saturday. “We are pleased to announce that the first consignment of 1,50,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine has landed in Hyderabad from Russia,” Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories CEO-API and Services Deepak Sapra said. It came on a day when India began a vaccination programme for those aged 18-44 years — till now those 45 years and above were covered — even as some States reported a shortage of vaccine. Sputnik V will join Covishield and the indigenous Covaxin that are being used in the country since January. Based on the human adenoviral vector platform, the Russian vaccine received emergency use authorisation in India last month. The efficacy of Sputnik V has been reported to be 91.6%. A statement from Dr. Reddy’s, which is the marketing partner of the Russian Direct Investment Fund for Sputnik-V in India, said the roll-out of the consignment would be subject to getting the necessary clearances, which will be processed over the next few days. “This initial quantity will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up our supply chain for the larger vaccination programme roll-out. Subsequent consignments will arrive in the next few weeks,” Mr. Sapra said. Some top-level executives of the company recently said the vaccine looked set to join the immunisation programme by May. But clarity on the price at which Sputnik V will be made available is yet to emerge.The two-dose vaccine sells at around $10 a shot in other markets globally. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) was among the first to announce the arrival of the Sputnik consignment. Retweeting its “Hyderabad Customs, @cgstcushyd facilitated expeditious clearance of Sputnik V Vaccine imported from Russia”, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said it was an appropriate timely response and need of the hour. External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said Sputnik V would add to India’s arsenal to fight the pandemic. “This third option will augment our vaccine capacity and accelerate our vaccination drive,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-lakh-doses-of-sputnik-v-land-in-india/article34461441.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CEC moves SC against Madras HC’s comments||The Chief Election Commissioner of India has appealed to the Supreme Court against the oral comments attributed to the judges of the Madras High Court on the poll body and its officials, portraying them as responsible for the surge in the COVID-19 pandemic. A special leave petition urged the top court to direct the police not to register cases for murder against Election Commission officials or take any coercive action on the basis of media reports on oral observations attributed to the High Court judges. The petition follows a bid by the Election Commission to obtain an order from the Madras High Court to gag the media from reporting oral observations made by judges during the hearing of elections-related cases. The High Court, however, refrained from passing any such order on April 30. In its petition in the apex court, the Commission said the oral comments would impact or lower the faith of the masses in the poll body and the democratic process. The Commission said the oral comments were disparaging and derogatory. The petition asked whether the Division Bench of the High Court was justified in observing that the Election Commission of India (ECI) was alone responsible for the surge in the pandemic and officers “should be put up for murder charges”.  ‘No evidence’ The ECI said the HC should have refrained from making such allegations without evidence. The petition asked whether it was justified in the least for an independent constitutional authority to make allegations against another which would effectively tarnish the image of the latter. The ECI said the oral observations have led to the filing of a criminal complaint against the officer(s) of the Election Commission of India. The petition said the Bench of the HC should have given the ECI an opportunity to place the entire factual position on record before making the allegations orally. It amounted to a violation of the principles of natural justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cec-moves-sc-against-madras-hcs-comments/article34461425.ece
02 May 2021||Patna,||Former RJD MP Shahabuddin dead||Mohammad Shahabuddin, former Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MP from Siwan in Bihar, who was serving a life sentence for murder in the Tihar Jail, died from COVID-19 in a private hospital in New Delhi on Saturday. He was known as a strongman and close to the party chief Lalu Prasad Yadav. Shahabuddin, 53, had approached the Delhi High Court seeking better medical attention. Following the court’s directions to the jail authorities, he was admitted to the hospital on April 20. His condition deteriorated two days ago and was put on ventilator support. “Information has been received from the Deen Dayal Upadhayaya Hospital in Delhi about death of Mohd. Shahabuddin. He was suffering from COVID-19 and was admitted in DDU on April 20,” Sandeep Goel, Director-General of the prison, said. Accused in over three dozen cases, Shahabuddin, a four-time RJD MP and two-time MLA, had been a name which spelt terror in Siwan for several years. He was infamously known as “Sultan of Siwan” and “Saheb”. In April 2005, during a police raid on his ancestral house at Pratapur village, illegal weapons such as AK-47s, hand grenades, laser-guided guns and night-vision goggles were seized. His name figured in the murder of former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president Chandrashekhar and local journalist Rajdeo Ranjan. He ran his fiefdom in Siwan with impunity from 1990 to 2005. A report by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties in 2001 said: “The patronage and de facto immunity from legal action offered to him by the RJD government gradually made him a law unto himself giving him an aura of invincibility. The police turned a blind eye to his criminal activities and allowed him to turn Siwan district into his fiefdom where his fiat ran. Shahabuddin’s reign of terror was so complete that nobody dared to depose against him in cases in which he was an accused.” Dangerous connections In 2003, the then Director-General of Police, D.P. Ojha, prepared a voluminous dossier on Shahabuddin with details of his alleged links not only with Kashmiri terror organisations but also with the Inter-Service Intelligence of Pakistan and fugitive don Dawood Ibrahim. However, when a National Democratic Alliance government headed by Nitish Kumar came to power in Bihar in 2005, speedy trials were conducted in most of the cases registered against him, and he was convicted in many of them and imprisoned. His conviction, later, led to his disqualification from contesting elections. In his absence, his wife Hina Sahab contested the Lok Sabha polls thrice from Siwan as the RJD candidate but was defeated. He is survived by two daughters and a son. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav and others across parties offered condolences. “Former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin’s untimely demise due to Covid-19 infection is sad news. May God give him a place in heaven, provide support to family and well-wishers. His demise is irreparable damage to the party,” Mr. Yadav tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-rjd-mp-shahabuddin-dead/article34461432.ece
02 May 2021||Melbourne,||Australia imposes travel ban on even its own citizens||Australian citizens could face a five-year jail term or hefty fines of up to 66,000 Australian dollars if they try to return home from India after Canberra made the journey temporarily illegal in an effort to curb the spread of the deadly viral infection in this country. The temporary ban begins on Monday and applies to any travellers who have visited India within 14 days of their intended arrival date in Australia. There are an estimated 9,000 Australians in India and over 600 of them are classified as vulnerable, according to The Sydney Morning Herald newspaper. The decision was announced by the Australian Health Ministry on Friday after a meeting of the National Cabinet. The move aims at keeping the coronavirus spread in check in Australia as India is facing a surge in cases. The decision was based on the proportion of overseas travellers in quarantine in Australia, who have contracted the infection in India, Health Minister Greg Hunt said. The move was due to an “unmanageable” number of arrivals from the country who have tested positive to COVID-19, he was quoted as saying by the state-run Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC). “Failure to comply with an emergency determination under the Biosecurity Act, 2015 may incur a civil penalty of 300 penalty units, five years’ imprisonment or both,” the Health Ministry said in a statement. Australia’s borders have been closed since March last year and, this week, the government clamped down even further, banning all flights. According to the ABC, it is for the first time that Australia has made it a criminal offence for its own citizens to enter the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/australia-imposes-travel-ban-on-even-its-own-citizens/article34461435.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi/Washington,||U.S. clears sale of six P-8I patrol aircraft to India||The U.S. State Department on Friday approved the proposed sale of six P-8I patrol aircraft and related equipment, a deal estimated to cost $2.42 billion. In November 2019, the Defence Acquisition Council, chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, approved the procurement of the long-range maritime surveillance aircraft manufactured by Boeing. The original proposal was for 10 more aircraft but was cut down to six due to budgetary constraints as well as because the Navy had adopted some fleet rationalisation measures and was considering long-endurance unmanned platforms. The possible sale comes through the Foreign Military Sale route and requires that the U.S. Congress be notified, a process that was completed on Friday. Lawmakers have a statutory 30 days to raise any objections. “The Government of India has requested to buy six (6) P-8I Patrol aircraft; eight (8) Multifunctional Information Distribution System-Joint Tactical Radio Systems 5 (MIDS-JTRS 5) (6 installed, 2 spares); forty-two (42) AN/AAR-54 Missile Warning Sensors (36 installed, 6 spares); and fourteen (14) LN-251 with Embedded Global Positioning Systems (GPS)/Inertial Navigations Systems (EGIs) (12 installed, 2 spares). Also included are CFM56-7 commercial engines; Tactical Open Mission Software (ITOMS) variant for P-8I; Electro-Optical (EO) and Infrared (IR) MX-20HD; AN/AAQ-2(V)l Acoustic System; ARES-1000 commercial variant Electronic Support Measures; AN/APR-39D Radar Warning Receiver; AN/ALE-47 Counter Measures Dispensing System; support equipment and spares; publications; repair and return; transportation; aircraft ferry; training; U.S. Government and contractor engineering, software, technical, and logistics support services; and other related elements of logistical and program support,” the State Department said in a statement on Friday. The Indian Navy is currently in the process of inducting the four P-8Is contracted under the offset clause in 2016. The Navy had procured eight P-8Is in a $2.2-billion deal in 2009 with the optional clause for four more. The aircraft are part of the 312A Naval Air Squadron based at Arakkonam in Tamil Nadu. With India having signed the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) foundational agreement with the U.S., the six aircraft will come fitted with encrypted systems, as reported by The Hindu earlier. These systems were replaced with commercial off-the-shelf systems in the earlier deals. The P-8I is based on the Boeing 737 commercial aircraft and India was its first international customer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-clears-sale-of-six-p-8i-patrol-aircraft-to-india/article34461417.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Modi govt. failed to tackle pandemic: Rahul||As India logged a world record of over four lakh coronavirus infections on Saturday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the entire world is shaken by what is happening here and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of “dropping the ball and throwing it to States” after prematurely taking credit for having “won against COVID-19” when the second wave was already under way. “Rely on yourself is the motto. No one will come to help you. Definitely, not the Prime Minister,” Mr. Gandhi said, while alleging that the COVID-19 situation has gone completely out of control for the Modi government, and wondered whether it was their way of making the States and the citizens truly ‘Aatmanirbhar’. He alleged that the government completely failed to understand or to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, despite repeated warnings including from scientists. Mr. Gandhi termed the story of vaccine pricing in the country as one of “discount sales” and a “complete eyewash” alleging that the vaccine makers first increased the prices and then reduced that while making a show of the entire exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-govt-failed-to-tackle-pandemic-rahul/article34461403.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Supply oxygen or face contempt: HC||The Delhi High Court on Saturday warned the Union government of contempt proceedings if it failed to supply the 490 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen a day allocated to the national capital from Saturday. “We direct the Central government to ensure that NCT of Delhi receives its allocated supply of 490 MT positively today, by whatever means,” the HC order said. “Much water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough.” “You [the Centre] made an allocation, you fulfil it. Do you mean we will shut our eyes to people dying in Delhi? Enough is enough now. Who is asking for a gram more of oxygen than is allocated,” the Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli asked. Allocation not fulfilled “Pertinently, the allocation to Delhi, which was earlier of 480 MT (since April 20, 2021), and now is of 490 MT has not been fulfilled even for a single day,” the Bench said. “In case this order is not implemented, the concerned officers of the Central Government, Mr. Piyush Goyal and Ms. Sunita Dawra, shall remain present during the hearing on May 3,” the court ordered. “Looking to the situation, we make it clear that we may even consider initiating contempt proceedings in case of non-compliance.” The court gave the direction after taking a serious view of a statement made by S. Bankata, executive director of Batra Hospital, that there was a delay in supply of oxygen due to which supply was interrupted for about an hour-and-a-half, which led to the loss of eight lives, including of a doctor of the hospital. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, informed the court at 3.05 p.m. that he had received an SOS message from Mr. Bidhuri, the officer tasked with the job of ensuring supply to hospitals in Delhi, that the city’s reserves had been exhausted. Mr. Mehra said there had been no supply or minimal supply from the plants of Linde and Air Liquide on Saturday. He expressed serious concern over how the capital would tide over the shortage on Saturday as a lot of hospitals and nursing homes had run out of medical oxygen or would do so in the next few hours. During the hearing, the High Court remarked that Delhi was not an industrial State and did not have cryogenic tankers of its own, which could have been requisitioned under the Disaster Management Act, as other States had done. “It falls upon the Central government to arrange the tankers as well, so that the allocation made to Delhi could be fulfilled, lest it remains only a paper allocation,” the HC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supply-oxygen-or-face-contempt-hc/article34461420.ece
02 May 2021||London,||SII plans to manufacture vaccines abroad||The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, is planning to start vaccine production in other countries, its chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla told British daily The Times . “There is going to be an announcement in the next few days,” he said, when asked about the possibility of Britain being one of the production bases outside India. In his first comments since he was provided with ‘Y’ category security by the Indian government earlier this week, Mr. Poonawalla told The Times in an interview about receiving aggressive calls from some of the most powerful people in India, demanding supplies of Covishield. That pressure is largely behind his decision to fly into London to be with his wife and children, the 40-year-old entrepreneur said. “I’m staying here (London) for an extended time because I don’t want to go back to that situation. Everything falls on my shoulders but I can’t do it alone,” Mr. Poonawalla told the newspaper.  On the charge of profiteering as the cost of Covishield was recently hiked, he termed it “totally incorrect”, and added that Covishield will still be “the most affordable vaccine on the planet” even at a higher price. “We have done the best we can without cutting corners or doing anything wrong or profiteering. I’ll wait for history to judge,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-plans-to-manufacture-vaccines-abroad/article34462067.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Evolve national policy on COVID-19: Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in a video message on Saturday, asked the Centre to evolve a national policy on COVID-19 through a political consensus, and said it was time the Union and the State governments “woke up” to their responsibilities. The party launched a medical advisory helpline and a link for COVID-19 recovered patients, including party workers, to register as plasma donors. While the former party chief Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to invite doctors and medical professionals to provide consultation and handle mental health issues through the helpline, the party created a link for recovered people to register themselves as plasma donors and create a data bank. The link to plasma donation will be shared on all social media platforms of the party, Indian Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas, who has been providing COVID relief to patients, said at a virtual press conference. “It is time for the Central and State governments to wake up and fulfil their duties. I urge the Central government to evolve a national policy to deal with the COVID crisis in the country and a strategy to bring about a political consensus over it,” Ms. Gandhi said in her video message. The Congress chief said that COVID-19 vaccines should be provided free of cost to all citizens, the government should invoke compulsory licensing to scale up vaccine production and cover the entire population in a short time. “First, think about the poor and provide them with Rs. 6,000 each to the bank accounts of all to stop their migration, till the end of the pandemic,” she said. Ms. Gandhi also called for increased testing and checking the black marketing of essential life-saving drugs besides providing oxygen, medicines and other equipment to hospitals on a war-footing. She said her party will stand with the Centre in the fight against the pandemic and appealed to all Indians to unite in these testing times. “Our country is facing the pandemic and lakhs of our citizens have been affected by coronavirus everyday. This crisis is the testing time for all of us and we have to hold each other’s hands, support each other and be their strength. The current times have shattered humanity, with many States facing shortage of beds, oxygen and life-saving medicines,” she said, urging everyone to stay in their homes. Launching the helpline, Mr. Gandhi tweeted, “India needs together and help our people. We have launched ‘Hello Doctor’ a medical advisory helpline. Please call +919983836838 for medical advice. Dear doctors and mental health professionals, we need your help. Please enroll on bit.ly/3xAilZB.” Separately, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram tweeted to demand the resignation of Health Minister Harsh Vardhan as many States including BJP-ruled ones could not roll out the vaccination programme for everyone above 18 years.  The Congress will stand with the Centre in the fight against the pandemic Sonia GandhiCongress president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/evolve-national-policy-on-covid-19-sonia/article34461427.ece
02 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Rival camps in Assam upbeat ahead of result||Both the Mitrajot and Mahajot alliances are exuding confidence about forming the next government in Assam ahead of the counting of votes in the Assam Assembly election on Sunday.  Mitrajot is a four-party alliance headed by the BJP that hopes to retain power and Mahajot comprising 10 parties is headed by the Congress. The exit polls have given an edge to the BJP and its regional allies Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) and Rabha Joutha Mancha. “Our assessment is that our alliance will win 83 of the 126 seats, our party bagging 70 of them,” BJP State president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said. He is contesting the Patacharkuchi seat in western Assam. His Congress counterpart and Rajya Sabha member Ripun Bora was equally confident. “Exit polls mean nothing. The people have voted for a change and our Mahajot will win at least 75 seats,” he said. Among the key constituents of the Mahajot are the minority-based All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), an estranged ally of the BJP. Police plan Meanwhile, Assam’s Director-General of Police said a road map has been prepared for handling the dual challenge of enforcing COVID protocols and ensuring a safe and peaceful counting on Sunday. “The COVID compliant road map was shared with all the district police heads,” he said. He appealed to the leaders and members of the political parties to adhere to the guidelines of the Election Commission of India regarding the ban on celebrations, victory march and other post-results activities. “Saving society and people from this cruel surge of COVID-19 ought to be our top priority,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rival-camps-in-assam-upbeat-ahead-of-result/article34461405.ece
02 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Strings attached: puppets offer safety lessons to fight COVID-19||The COVID-19 pandemic has provided an Assam-based trust the opportunity to focus on a near-forgotten form of string puppetry called Putola Nach. In collaboration with the UNICEF-Assam, the Anamika Ray Memorial Trust (ARMT) has produced three short videos using string puppetry for creating mass awareness of COVID-appropriate behaviour. A fourth video is on the issue of school dropouts. The video ‘COVID Shatru (Enemy)’ is based on a king, who preaches safety measures after the spread of the novel coronavirus threatens to devastate his realm. ‘COVID Bibhrat (confusion)’ is aimed at students for instilling COVID appropriate behaviour — washing hands regularly, wearing a mask, maintaining physical distance and adhering to other precautionary measures as prescribed in the standard operating procedures. While these two are in Assamese, ‘ Mama ro Mina ko COVID Katha ’ (COVID Tale of Mama and Mina) is in the Nepali language, made especially for the Sikkim government. “These videos are a part of a larger collaborative project with UNICEF done in November and December 2020. We used the dying folk art form of Putola Nach to campaign for its conservation besides creating awareness on the pandemic,” ARMT’s managing trustee Ankuran Dutta said. The videos of 4-8 minutes have been launched on various social media platforms to reach millions of viewers, he said. Interactive scripts “We have also prepared other multimedia interactive documents creating general awareness on COVID-19. But as time demands, we are focusing on the circulation of the three puppetry videos that encapsulate COVID appropriate behaviours in a simple, entertaining and attractive manner for people of all ages,” Dr. Dutta said. ARMT is named after his wife, a Gauhati University teacher who died from a gall bladder surgery gone wrong in New Delhi in 2015. The Medical Council of India had in October 2019 found two doctors guilty of medical negligence leading to her death. Dr. Dutta had campaigned against what he called “medical terrorism” prior to the verdict. Assam’s string puppetry had three distinct styles based on the area performed. These areas were Barpeta-Nalbari in western Assam, Kalaigaon in northern Assam and Majuli “island” in eastern Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/strings-attached-puppets-offer-safety-lessons-to-fight-covid-19/article34461437.ece
02 May 2021||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||When all sections of society come together to fight COVID-19||From District Collectors to primary teachers and from retired government servants to serving police officials, every section of society in the interiors of Maharashtra is making innovative efforts, some even going beyond the official duty mandate, to help COVID-19 patients. Speaking to The Hindu, the different groups and individuals open up on how their efforts are helping those in need. “I received a call last month from an acquaintance asking me if I could arrange an oxygen bed for her relative. It struck me that the proposed Covid care centre in my town was facing delays after the first wave of coronavirus receded. I decided to put in all my administrative experience to use and ensure that a centre was set up soon,” said Dattatray Kadu-Patil, living in Devlali-Pravara town in Ahmadnagar district after he retired from the State government. He petitioned Shiv Sena’s local MP and the Congress MLA for a centre. “I know how the administration works. I have spent my entire life in it,” he said. Mr. Kadu-Patil soon got consensus from the administration and political leadership for a 50-bed covid care centre at local marriage hall. Initially funded through donations, it now receives financial and medical aid from the government. Nandurbar’s district collector Dr. Rajendra Bharud’s innovative management to save oxygen has been widely publicised and and the State Public Health minister Rajesh Tope too has acknowlwdged it. “We allotted fixed number of patients to one nurse who is tasked with monitoring patients needing oxygen at regular intervals. It proved so efficient that we not only cut oxygen wastage but also treated patients better,” Dr. Bharud told The Hindu . In a tribal district like Nandurbar, where literacy rate is low and misconceptions regarding vaccine continue to thrive, Dr. Bharud has used teachers in primary schools effectively. “We asked them to meet and educate people and give them confidence by talking to them in their local language,” said Dr. Bharud, adding that being from tribal community himself and knowing the local language and customs helped him interact with locals. Teachers have become an essential part in the fight against the pandemic in rural parts. A group of educators from Akole tehsil, a tribal and backward region, came together to set up a 60-bed Covid hospital with oxygen facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/when-all-sections-of-society-come-together-to-fight-covid-19/article34462237.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||14 die in A.P. due to ‘snag’ in oxygen supply||“I alerted the GGH Superintendent K.S.S. Venkateswara Rao and Resident Medical Officer about the low pressure of Oxygen, but they were in the denial. They corrected themselves only after a series of deaths took place in the evening,” Mr. Venkataramireddy told The Hindu . Despite a rising number of deaths, it was only at 7 p.m. that Joint Collector Nishant Kumar and other district officials reached the hospital and tried to fix the oxygen pipeline from the 13kl LMO tank and vaporisers. Work to rectify the snag was still underway at around 9 p.m. as the collector also arrived at the hospital. The Joint Collector, however, told the media persons that all deaths were not due to snag in the oxygen supply. Authorities in the district have meanwhile, stopped sample collection to test for COVID-19 on Saturday as the VDRL laboratory at the Government Medical College here was unable to handle the volume of samples. The laboratory has a capacity of 6,000 samples, but everyday there were 8,000 to 10,000 samples coming from all over the district. Mr. Chandrudu said further samples would be collected only after the backlog in the laboratory was cleared. ‘No problem with oxygen supply’ The District Collector denied that there was any problem with the oxygen supply and that all the deaths were due to COVID complications. The district administration will institute an inquiry into the several messages sent out on the deaths, he said and alleged that some people were doing it deliberately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-die-in-ap-due-to-snag-in-oxygen-supply/article34461401.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Private hospitals begin vaccination for 18+||According to the State Public Health Department, a total of 132 vaccination sessions were arranged. Maharashtra has purchased three lakh doses of Covishield from Serum Institute, which have been distributed across the State. Pune recorded the highest number of vaccinations with 1,316 while Mumbai vaccinated 1,004 persons. Gadchiroli and Yavatmal in Vidarbha recorded the lowest number of vaccination with 83 and 90 respectively. Vaccination will take place in the remaining 10 districts on May 2. In Chennai, the Apollo Hospitals group began administering vaccines to individuals aged 18 to 44 years but didn’t disclose how many were administered on Saturday. The group had procured the vaccine directly from the manufacturers as per the government directive, a statement from the hospital said. The hospital has also proposed to organise special camps for corporates. According to the hospital officials the vaccines are priced as per the Central government guidelines. While Covidshield is priced Rs. 850 per dose, Covaxin is priced Rs. 1,250 per dose. Kerala has not started vaccinating people in the 18- 44 age group. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in his evening briefing that Phase III would be delayed. The State government was still exploring the possibility of direct purchase from manufacturers, but both SII and Bharat Biotech have prior commitments to the Centre. SII has reportedly conveyed that they cannot release stocks to the State soon. But Bharat Biotech may be able to give limited stocks in May, according to official sources. Vaccination for 18-44 age group people did not commence in Andhra Pradesh as the government decided to take it up only after ensuring all the persons under 45 years and above age group get vaccinated. The State has over 2.04 crore population in the age group of 18-44 and it needs 4.08 crore doses which is far from the current supply. Officials said the Centre has allocated over 13 lakh doses for May for purchase from manufacturers under the 'Other than GoI' channel. The government has decided to inoculate the remaining people under the 45+ category as and when vaccines are available. (With inputs from Bageshree S., Tharun Kumar, Alok Deshpande, Nandakumar T., Omar Rashid)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-hospitals-begin-vaccination-for-18/article34461404.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Record GST mop-up of Rs. 1.41 lakh crore in April||“However, with certain parts of the country facing lockdown due to the surge in COVID cases, the collections may experience a decline in the coming months,” he said. ‘Remarkable resilience’ “Despite the second wave of COVID-19 affecting several parts of the country, Indian businesses have once again shown remarkable resilience by not only complying with the return filing requirements but also paying their GST dues in a timely manner during the month,” the Finance Ministry said. “Closer monitoring against fake-billing, deep data analytics using data from multiple sources including GST, Income-tax and Customs IT systems and effective tax administration have also contributed to the steady increase in tax revenue,” the Ministry said. Of the Rs. 1,41,384 crore GST collected in April, Central GST (CGST) collections were Rs. 27,837 crore, State GST (SGST) Rs. 35,621 crore, Integrated GST (IGST) Rs. 68,481 crore and Cess collections of Rs. 9,445 crore. The IGST includes Rs. 29,599 crore collected on import of goods. The total revenue of Centre and the States, after regular and ad-hoc settlements in April’ 2021 is Rs. 57,022 crore for Central GST and Rs. 58,377 crore for the State GST, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/record-gst-mop-up-of-rs-141-lakh-crore-in-april/article34461411.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||SC refuses to defer U.P. panchayat poll counting||“The State Election Commission has also agreed to notify the names of persons who will be in-charge of the counting centres and who will be made accountable for any lapse regarding compliance of the guidelines and the assurances recorded herein, at the given centres.” These designated officials should be the nodal officer whom the candidates or anyone interested in giving suggestions for improvising the facilities could be in touch with. “Needless to observe that the norms specified for candidates and authorised representatives of the candidates to produce RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen Test report or COVID-19 vaccination completion report would also apply to officials deployed or entering at counting centres as in the case of the candidates and their authorised representatives,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-to-defer-up-panchayat-poll-counting/article34461412.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||18 killed in Gujarat COVID-19 hospital fire||“Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a hospital in Bharuch. Condolences to the bereaved families,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter. A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said Mr. Rupani was also contemplating setting up a judicial inquiry into the incident. Welfare Hospital, located on Jambusar Bypass Road, has been treating COVID-19 patients since the beginning of the pandemic last year. In a similar hospital accidents in the State in 2020, eight persons died in Ahmedabad and six in Rajkot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/18-killed-in-gujarat-covid-19-hospital-fire/article34461413.ece
02 May 2021||Chennai,||Over 3.92 lakh new cases, 3,673 deaths reported||India reported 3,34,395 new COVID-19 cases and 2,709 deaths as of 9.15 p.m. on Saturday. The country has so far reported a total of 1,94,91,735 cases and 2,14,490 deaths. Maharashtra reported 63,282 infections, accounting for nearly 19% of the new cases, followed by Karnataka (40,990) and Kerala (35,636). Maharashtra also recorded the most number of casualties (802) on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh followed with 303 new deaths, while Karnataka registered 271 new casualties. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab, Assam, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh. The data are sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily COVID-19 figures. As many as 19,45,299 samples were tested in the country on Friday (results of which were made available on Saturday), the highest number of tests conducted in a single day. For the second consecutive day, the number of daily tests conducted have crossed the 19-lakh mark. A total of 28.83 crore samples have been tested in the country since the beginning of the pandemic last year. Nearly 27.44 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered in the 24 hours ending at 7 a.m. on Saturday, which is 5.1 lakh higher than what was given in the previous 24 hours. It is also 2.1 lakh higher than what was recorded in the same period, a week ago. A total of 15.49 crore doses had been administered as of 7 a.m. on Saturday. The pace of COVID-19 vaccinations in India has reduced significantly in the last 15 days of April. By April 15, around 32.69 lakh doses were administered in the country daily on an average. However, as of April 30, only around 23.72 lakh doses were given in the country daily on an average. India leads the world in the average daily reported infections and recorded deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-334-lakh-new-cases-2709-deaths-reported/article34461439.ece
02 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Unprecedented case load in Punjab govt. hospital||Thirty-seven patients died in the past 24 hours at the COVID-19 isolation facility in Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital, according to official data released on Saturday. “Earlier this week, too, the same number of patients died in a span of 24 hours. We are seeing an unprecedented increase in patient load. The situation is twice as worrying in comparison to the last peak of COVID-19. During the last wave (mid August-September 2020), we peaked with severely patients (L3) at 90, but currently we have cumulative L3 patients at 210. We have more than twice the numbers of very severely and critically ill patients,” Surabhi Malik, nodal officer, Tertiary Care, Rajindra Hospital, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unprecedented-case-load-in-punjab-govt-hospital/article34461446.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||CBSE announces formula for Class 10 results||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Saturday announced a policy for tabulation of marks for the cancelled Class X board exams. According to that, 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment, and 80 marks will be calculated on basis of the students’ performance in exams throughout the year. “The weightage of maximum marks for schools which have conducted the exams through the year will be: periodic test/unit test (10 marks), half-yearly exam (30 marks) and pre-board exams (40 marks),” CBSE Examination Controller S. Bhardwaj said. The board said the results will be announced by June 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-class-10-board-exam-result-by-june-20/article34461408.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre gets 150 ventilators||As Delhi continued to gasp for oxygen and medical facilities, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) asked the Union Health Ministry to allot 150 ventilators purchased from the PM-CARES fund to a COVID-19 centre jointly run by the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Delhi government in South Delhi. Bhaskar Khulbe, adviser to Prime Minister wrote to to Mandeep Bhandari, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry that the machines fitted with GPS devices be provided on loan to Sardar Patel Covid Care Center (SPCCC) for six months and extend the period further if required. ITBP Director General S.S Deswal had earlier requested the PMO for 150 ventilators to address the needs of critical patients. “I also request you to organise immediate installation of these ventilators by the selected vendor(s). Simultaneously, please advise the SPCCC for the site preparation. Necessary training for use of these ventilators may also be organised by the selected vendor(s),” Mr. Khulbe wrote. On April 22, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) deputed the ITBP to restart one of the largest COVID care centres in south Delhi that was discontinued on February 23 due to dwindling number of cases. The facility restarted with 500-oxygen beds on April 26 caters to mild and moderate patients of COVID-19. The Delhi Government had sought medical officers and paramedical staff from MHA to man the SPCCC at Chhatarpur in South Delhi. ITBP had also said earlier this week that it was unable to admit more patients due to inadequate oxygen supply by Delhi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/itbp-care-facility-gets-150-ventilators/article34461433.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to advance its summer vacation||The Supreme Court on Saturday decided to advance its summer vacation considering the alarming surge in the COVID-19 pandemic. A circular issued said the court would close on May 10 instead of May 14. It would re-open on June 28. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana considered the suggestions from the various Bar bodies and directed the early closing of the court. “It is hereby circulated for information of all concerned that upon consideration of the suggestions from the Bar due to an alarming surge in COVID-19 infections... the Chief Justice of India has been pleased to direct that the summer vacation of the Supreme Court Calendar, 2021, be rescheduled to commence on Monday, May 10, 2021,” the circular said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-advance-its-summer-vacation/article34461406.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Sitar player Chaudhuri is no more||Renowned sitar player Debu Chaudhuri passed away on Saturday in Delhi. “My father, The Legend of Sitar, Pandit Debu Chaudhuri... is no more. He was admitted with COVID along with dementia complications and was put in ICU on ventilator around midnight today [May 1] after which he suffered a heart attack and could not be revived,” his son Prateek Chaudhuri said in a Facebook post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sitar-player-chaudhuri-is-no-more/article34461407.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||DRDO to set up 4 oxygen plants in Delhi||The first four of 380 medical oxygen plant being set up under PM CARES fund will be deployed in hospitals in New Delhi by next week, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Chairman Dr. Satheesh Reddy told Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at a review meeting on Saturday. The plant is based on technology developed for onboard oxygen generation on the Light Combat Aircraft Tejas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-to-set-up-4-oxygen-plants-in-delhi/article34461421.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Remdesivir allocation tweaked again||The government changed the allocation of Remdesivir vials to States for the second day in a row on Saturday, and said it would now arrange for 34.5 lakh doses in the period between April 21 and May 9. The government had earlier allocated 16 lakh vials of Remdesivir for the 10 days from April 21 to 30. On Friday, it raised the same to 18 lakh vials over the April 21 to May 2 period and told The Hindu that the 16 lakh vials target had not been met due to issues with placing orders and transportation. Under the new plan shared on Saturday, 70,000 vials will be reserved for central allocation (from 20,000 as per Friday’s allocation), leaving 33.8 lakh for the States and Union Territories. The plan has been firmed up by the Health and Family Welfare Ministry and the Department of Pharmaceuticals in the Chemicals and Fertilizer Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remdesivir-allocation-tweaked-again/article34461430.ece
02 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Man who aided patients faces action||The Jaunpur police on Saturday said they were taking legal action against a person who was allegedly helping provide free oxygen cylinders to patients unable to find beds at the district hospital. The district medical department accused the youth of violating COVID-19 safety norms and lodged a complaint with police. The man identified as Vicky was reportedly helping the patients by arranging oxygen cylinders for them outside the district hospital. The chief medical superintendent of the hospital in the complaint to the police said Vicky was providing oxygen to many people without a COVID-19 test, in an unsafe manner, without sanitisation and other medical precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-who-aided-patients-faces-action/article34461442.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||U.P. panchayat polls led to deaths: Cong.||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday alleged that over 700 teachers have died of COVID-19 because of holding panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh as cases were surging. She said it is “nothing less than a crime against humanity” and charged the State Election Commission (SEC) with “playing along”. The party in-charge of U.P. claimed that a pregnant woman was among the victims. The State government’s actions amounted to ‘terrorising’ the people and hiding the truth from them, she said. The polling for the four-phase elections ended on Thursday with a turnout of 75% in the final phase. “These elections have been conducted in almost 60,000 gram sabhas of U.P. without any thought of the catastrophic onslaught of the second wave. Meetings were conducted, campaigning continued and the spread of COVID-19 in U.P.’s villages is now unstoppable,” Ms. Vadra tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-panchayat-polls-led-to-deaths-cong/article34461443.ece
02 May 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra Cong. seeks cadre’s help||The Maharashtra Congress has appealed to its cadre to help poor families who lack financial resources for vaccination and deposit the amount that would be required for their inoculation in the Chief Minister’s Relief fund. “The Central government has refused to take responsibility of vaccination of those above 18 years and left States on their own. Maharashtra is capable of vaccinating its citizens, but at the same time it is our duty to help the government,” said State Congress president Nana Patole. The party has also directed its workers in rural areas to assist people in the process of registering for the vaccination, getting their doses and arranging for transport, where needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cong-seeks-cadres-help/article34462238.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vote count to begin at 8 a.m. today||Counting of votes for the 16th Assembly election in Tamil Nadu will begin at 8 a.m. on Sunday amid a stringent COVID-19 protocol and heavy security. Votes polled in the byelection to the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency will also be counted. The counting will take place at 75 centres. The postal ballots will be counted first before the votes polled in the EVMs are taken up. So far, 5, 64, 253 postal ballots have been received, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said. Postal ballots will be received till the counting begins. After the postal ballots are counted, the votes polled in the EVMs will be counted at 8.30 a.m. The State recorded a voter turnout of 72.78% in the April 6 polling, with 3,998 candidates in the fray. Nearly all exit polls have projected a victory for the DMK-led alliance. The party is aiming for a return to power after 10 years in the Opposition. The AIADMK hopes to retain office for the record third consecutive term. There will be a minimum of 14 tables in each counting hall, with a maximum of 43 rounds. Three constituencies — Pallavaram, Chengalpattu and Tambaram — will have more than 40 rounds. The number of tables will also be more than 14 in some of the larger constituencies, according to the data provided by the Election Commission. There will be a total of 3,372 tables and 6,213 rounds (in all 234 constituencies). More than 35,000 security personnel have been deployed across all counting centres. The Election Commission has directed the political parties to refrain from taking out victory rallies. The State will be under the total lockdown on Sunday. The Election Commission has said all candidates and their agents will be allowed into the counting hall if only they have undergone RT-PCR/RAT tests and reported negative or taken two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine. It has also deployed reserve counting observers to replace the counting observers falling ill. The counting halls will be disinfected once in two hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vote-count-to-begin-at-8-am-today/article34461573.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Close to 20,000 persons test positive in State; 147 die||Tamil Nadu saw a further surge in COVID-19 cases on Saturday with 19,588 persons testing positive, taking the tally to 11,86,344. In the last 24 hours, 147 persons died — 92 at government health facilities and 55 at private hospitals — taking the toll to 14,193. As many as 17,164 persons were discharged after treatment. This brought up the total to 10,54,746. Now, 1,17,405 persons are under treatment, either at home or at hospitals. Among the fresh cases were 30 passengers from other States — West Bengal (13); Bihar (6); Andhra Pradesh (6); Karnataka (3); and one each from Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. In Chennai district, 5,829 persons tested positive and 5,693 were discharged after treatment. The district recorded 47 deaths. At present, 31,475 persons are under treatment. According to the daily bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 3,39,797 persons have so far been infected and 3,03,531 persons have been discharged. Chengalpattu followed, with 1,445 fresh infections and the discharge of 1,345 persons. The district reported 11 deaths. In Tiruvallur, 779 persons tested positive and 834 were discharged. It registered 14 deaths. In Kancheepuram district, 332 persons tested positive and 473 were discharged. Six persons died of the infection. While 33 persons whose death was recorded had no co-morbid conditions, 114 others had pre-existing ailments. A 26-year-old man from Tiruvallur who was admitted on April 26 to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital tested positive the same day. He died on April 29 of respiratory failure caused by COVID-19 pneumonia. An 88-year-old woman from Chennai who tested positive on April 25 and suffering from severe hypertension and benign paroxysmal positional vertigo was admitted on April 26 to a private hospital in Chennai with complaints of fever, cough and myalgia for four days. She died of acute respiratory distress syndrome owing to COVID-19 pneumonia on April 29. New details The Health Department has started providing details of bed vacancy/occupancy in every district. Along with the active cases, bed capacity and utilisation at hospitals and at COVID-19 care centres have been included in the bulletin. However, the details pertained to the previous day. On Friday, 49% of the beds at private and government hospitals were vacant, whereas 67% of the beds at COVID-19 care centres at private and government facilities were vacant. 80,355 vaccinated The number of persons vaccinated in a day fell further on Saturday, with just 80,355 persons inoculated at 4,137 sessions in the State. The number of those getting the vaccine has been falling this week since April 26. At 3,660 sessions held on Saturday, including 3,097 to administer Covishield and 536 to offer Covaxin, 4,137 health workers; 7,265 frontline workers; 41,948 persons aged 45-59 with co-morbidities; and 27,005 senior citizens were vaccinated. So far, 59,34,485 persons have been immunised — 7,64,153 healthcare workers; 8,49,283 frontline workers; 22,58,405 beneficiaries aged 45-59; and 20,62,644 senior citizens.  In Chennai district, 5,829 persons tested positive and 5,693 were discharged after treatment. The district recorded 47 deaths||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/close-to-20000-persons-test-positive-in-state-147-die/article34461571.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hairdressers seek government help||With the closure of salons as part of the measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, hairdressers have requested the government to reopen their shops because they are facing losses. Alternatively, they have sought monetary aid. The Tamil Nadu government imposed new restrictions from April 26 to control the second wave of the contagion. Since the closure of salons and barber shops, many hairdressers have been offering home service. “I pay Rs. 800 a day for each employee of my shop and I have to continue paying even if the shop is closed. So I decided to offer home services... But people are afraid of availing themselves of the service,” says P. Anand, who owns a salon at Anna Nagar. Many hairdressers across the city say they take precautions while visiting a customer’s house. “We check our temperature and wear a face shield and mask. But many are not calling us because of the fear of infection,” says a Chromepet hairdresser. Though the big salons are closed, the roadside barbers are still open. The pandemic has snatched the earnings of Moorthy, 49. “I have been running this roadside open salon near the Koyambedu market for the past seven years. I used to earn Rs. 600-Rs. 700 a day, and my customers were mainly traders and lorry drivers. Now, my earnings have dropped to Rs. 200 a day. I hardly get to save any money,” he said. M. Munusamy, president, Tamil Nadu Hairdressers Union, says the organisation has submitted a petition to the government, demanding that the salons be reopened. “Most of us have to pay rents and wages. It is hard to make ends meet. The government should at least provide Rs. 15,000 a month in relief to the registered hairdressers,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hairdressers-seek-government-help/article34461635.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cremations spike in Chennai||At the Chennai Corporation Velangadu burial ground, which was in the news for the burial of neurosurgeon Simon Hercules who died of COVID-19 a year ago, the number of bodies being cremated every day has risen steadily over the month. Sources say the trend is similar in the other major cremation/burial grounds in the city. On Saturday, at least 16 bodies were cremated at the Velangadu crematorium, including those of four residents with COVID-19, by 8 p.m. Before the start of the second wave of the contagion in Chennai, the burial ground would register an average of seven cremations a day. On Saturday, residents could be seen waiting even after 8 p.m. to complete the cremation of their near and dear. Velangadu, which used to operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. with two bio-gas cremation furnaces, is now operating from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Some public health officials have proposed to operate a crematorium at any time every day. Ayanavaram resident M. Selvan, whose 62-year-old father died at home because of a cardiopulmonary arrest on Saturday, said a doctor visited his home on Friday after his father’s condition deteriorated. He had not tested positive for COVID-19. It was learnt from relatives and records that at the Velangadu burial ground, at least two persons who were in home quarantine were cremated on Saturday. The rise was quite dramatic, in a sense. After April 19, the number of cremations doubled to more than 14 a day, touching 18 on some days. After 6 p.m. on Saturday, the bodies of two COVID-19 patients were cremated, an unusual practice but it was done in order to help all those who had gathered. The crematorium at Kasimedu has registered an increase in the number of cremations from five to 16 every day in the past two weeks. Members of the Balakrishnapuram Welfare Association complain that the ash from the chimney of the burial ground has been entering the houses nearby in Ward 163 of Adambakkam for the past few days as bodies are cremated all through the day. “Residents have requested officials to take action. Furthermore, the authorities have not completed the literoof sheet covering on the compound wall at the south-west end of the crematorium. The work has been pending for more than a year,” says a resident. Concerned at the health of those who are in home quarantine, the Chennai Corporation has directed 320 doctors to visit homes to check the health of residents who are supposed to isolate themselves at home. Over 25,000 Chennai residents are in home quarantine after testing positive for COVID-19, officials say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cremations-spike-in-chennai/article34461580.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seeking order amid chaos||Signs saying “double masking mandatory” welcome the visitors at the non air-conditioned hall on the seventh floor of the office of the National Health Mission (NHM) here. Amid the whirring of pedestal fans and air-coolers placed in corners, a team of about 50 people work in shifts round the clock in an attempt to match demand with supply — COVID-19 patients in urgent need of oxygen or hospitalisation. This is the Unified Command Centre (UCC), the new nerve centre for COVID-19 management in Tamil Nadu that became functional on Friday, mainly to handle bed capacity at hospitals. What happens inside the centre may look chaotic with some looking at the giant displays, many on phones and running around to communicate with one another. However, this is the ordered chaos inside the centre that intends to help control the chaos outside with many people frantically searching for hospitals, particularly in Chennai. SOS lines On Friday, the government announced that patients in need of oxygen and intensive care can call 104 helpline or post on the Twitter handle @104_GoTN. Among those in UCC are people hand-picked from different teams, including many doctors. S. Uma, a doctor by qualification and Additional Collector of Ranipet, has been deputed as the nodal person. As the number of cases continue to rise, Darez Ahamed, Executive Director of Guidance Bureau and former NHM Mission Director, who has been deputed to handle the bed capacity, says UCC is an attempt to prevent the situation prevailing in places such as Delhi from happening in Tamil Nadu. “If we imagine 104 and Twitter as our eyes and ears to know the demand and hospitals as our personnel to treat, what is perhaps needed is a brain to coordinate. That is what we want UCC to do,” says Dr. Ahamed, who was instrumental in setting up the centre. How it works Requests received by the 104 helpline team, situated elsewhere, and the Twitter handle, which is monitored at UCC, are fed into the centralised system where they are categorised based on severity and other parameters. Requests for beds from all other channels like the helpline run by the Greater Chennai Corporation also flow into this system. The real time data on the pending requests are put up on a giant display. A separate team monitors the live locations of all ambulances on another screen. Those from UCC, mainly doctors, call the patient’s attenders to assess the situation. Once they ascertain the patient’s needs, they begin the hunt for a hospital bed. A team from the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, sitting at UCC, liaisons with the hospitals. Those handling insurance at individual hospitals are the nodal persons for updating UCC about bed availability and fulfilling the requests for beds. WhatsApp groups have been formed to handle these communications internally. As of Saturday, UCC was tracking nearly 500 hospitals across Tamil Nadu, with almost 164 of them in Chennai. With the government asking all private hospitals to allocate 50% of their beds to COVID-19 patients, these numbers will go up soon. Since its launch, requests have started flooding UCC. G.S. Adhityan, a doctor from NHM, who is part of UCC, says emergency cases are accorded the priority. “We get requests for medicines or beds for those who may not really need a bed. UCC is not catering to such requests at the moment as other channels are available,” he says. With cases rising sharply, UCC, despite the resources and power at its disposal, is finding it difficult to get beds in Chennai. However, a majority of requests are fulfilled. The situation in the rest of the State is normal now, officials say. Capacity planning Dr. Ahamed says capacity planning for the surge has been happening in parallel in anticipation of a sharp increase in active cases in the coming days. A separate team has begun visits to many private hospitals to assess their capacity and see if they can be increased. He says that apart from increasing capacity, effective triaging is the need of the hour to handle the demand for beds.  If we imagine 104 and Twitter as our eyes and ears, then what was needed was a brain to coordinate Darez Ahamed Executive Director of Guidance Bureau and former NHM Mission Director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeking-order-amid-chaos/article34462093.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transpersons raise funds for the needy||The pandemic has left many members of the third gender community, Narikurava and other tribal communities without income, and many of them are struggling for food. To help such people in Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts, two transgender persons — a nurse and a graduate — have started a crowd-funding initiative. M. Nila is the founder and director of Pharm Foundation that works towards education, employment and healthcare of the needy. A B. Pharm graduate, she has been serving the people in the city and its suburbs since last year. She has raised Rs. 11 lakh through her crowd-funding initiative. “I started a campaign on Milaap.org a week ago and raised over Rs. 11 lakh. This will be used to provide groceries worth Rs. 1,000 each to 1,000 transgender persons in Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts. Volunteers from our community will distribute the rations. I will soon start another campaign for procuring oxygen cylinders,” Ms. Nila says. Rakshika Raj, a nurse, has started a campaign to raise funds for transgender persons, Narikurava and other tribal communities. “I will be supporting 800 families by providing groceries. I plan to raise Rs. 8 lakh,” she says. Both are focusing on Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts because they feel that help is not reaching the transgender persons in villages. “In the city, there are many who give relief. So I wanted to focus on the districts,” adds Ms. Rakshika. Alphonse Mary, 53, a beneficiary, says the groceries provided by Ms. Nila last year were very helpful. “She provided saris to the elderly and widows at Perumbakkam too.” Ms. Nila has also embarked upon a COVID-19 awareness campaign. “I have started educating people in the Perumbakkam TNSCB tenements on the importance of vaccination, and I am busting the myths surrounding it.”  Volunteers from our community will distribute dry rations. I will be starting another campaign for oxygen cylinders Nila Founder and director, Pharm Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transpersons-raise-funds-for-the-needy/article34462104.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three persons caught transporting gutkha products||Three persons, who were carrying banned gutkha products on a goods carrier in the guise of selling tomatoes to the outlets on East Coast Road (ECR) and Rajiv Gandhi Salai, were arrested in the Semmenchery police station limits. Following a tip-off, the police intercepted a goods carrier on Friday night. On inspection, they found the carrier laden with tomatoes, and the occupants claimed that they were supplying tomatoes to the outlets on ECR and surrounding areas. But the police searched and found 600 kg of gutka products. The names of the arrested were given as Sivalingam, 47, Palani, 37, and Anbarasu, 31. The contraband which was brought to the city from a godown at Thalambur was also confiscated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-persons-caught-transporting-gutkha-products/article34462094.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown and curbs on victory celebrations dampen flower sales||Total lockdown on Sunday and restrictions over celebrations during State Assembly election results have dampened the sale of garlands and flowers at the Koyambedu wholesale market. On Saturday, most flower shops made only half of their normal daily sales and shops were deserted by afternoon. The market is usually abuzz with activity around election result days as traders would be busy delivering orders for garlands and floral crowns as cadre would prepare for victory celebrations. However, this time, restrictions due to COVID-19 pandemic have brought down orders at the market. This added to the woes of the flower sellers as they were already hit by dip in daily sales. M. Selvakumar, a flower merchant, said nearly 20 orders were cancelled due to the lockdown on Sunday. Each garland would have been sold for Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 10,000 according to its size. “I would have earned up to Rs. 1 lakh through these orders in a single day. But I am struggling with daily sales as there are not enough buyers,” he said. The daily earnings of many other traders have dropped as there were no major functions being held in the city. A. Manohar, a flower wholesaler, said the market received about 30 tonnes of flowers daily. “Each trader would have earned between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 2 lakh during such occasions like election results day. But, this time, the daily sales have dropped by 50% as people refrained from visiting the market. We expect sales to improve by 10% on Monday,” he added. The drop in demand had led to decrease in the prices of flowers. S. Mookaiya, president, Chennai Koyambedu Wholesale Flowers Merchants Association, said only half of the flower shops made enough sales. As the season had started for jasmine, its cost had dropped to Rs. 70 a kg. “Temples are closed, and functions are being postponed. So, the demand has dipped. We expect sales to improve after May 20,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-and-curbs-on-victory-celebrations-dampen-flower-sales/article34461583.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors seek refund of fee paid to Medical Council||The Service Doctors and Postgraduates’ Association has written to the Tamil Nadu Medical Council seeking refund of registration fee paid to the Council last year. In a letter to the Council, SDPGA president P. Saminathan said several doctors had made double payment for registration. The Council was yet to refund the money paid by such candidates. “Nearly 90 doctors, who applied for registration in TNMC in the past one year, have paid double the fees due to the cumbersome online payment of fees and have applied for refund of the excess fees,” Dr. Saminathan wrote. He appealed to the Council to return the amount paid in excess at the earliest. A TNMC source said in the past year, 60,000 online applications were received. On Friday, they had received 1,500 applications. Some did not wait to check if the money had been debited from their account. This resulted in money being debited twice. “We are extending the time for application. Every 10 days there are people who will hurry and not wait for SMS from bank. Besides, we are yet to go through the applications. It will take time to process the applications. We are in the process of verifying each application. The applicant is called in person for verification,” an official said. The candidates who had made double payment would get their refund eventually, he said.  Some did not wait to check if the money had been debited from their account. This resulted in money being debited twice P. Saminathan President Service Doctors and Postgraduates’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-for-refund-of-fee-paid-to-medical-council/article34461584.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hairdressers seek government help||With the closure of salons as part of the measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, hairdressers have requested the government to reopen their shops because they are facing losses. Alternatively, they have sought monetary aid. The Tamil Nadu government imposed new restrictions from April 26 to control the second wave of the contagion. Since the closure of salons and barber shops, many hairdressers have been offering home service. “I pay Rs. 800 a day for each employee of my shop and I have to continue paying even if the shop is closed. So I decided to offer home services... But people are afraid of availing themselves of the service,” says P. Anand, who owns a salon at Anna Nagar. Many hairdressers across the city say they take precautions while visiting a customer’s house. “We check our temperature and wear a face shield and mask. But many are not calling us because of the fear of infection,” says a Chromepet hairdresser. Though the big salons are closed, the roadside barbers are still open. The pandemic has snatched the earnings of Moorthy, 49. “I have been running this roadside open salon near the Koyambedu market for the past seven years. I used to earn Rs. 600-Rs. 700 a day, and my customers were mainly traders and lorry drivers. Now, my earnings have dropped to Rs. 200 a day. I hardly get to save any money,” he said. M. Munusamy, president, Tamil Nadu Hairdressers Union, says the organisation has submitted a petition to the government, demanding that the salons be reopened. “Most of us have to pay rents and wages. It is hard to make ends meet. The government should at least provide Rs. 15,000 a month in relief to the registered hairdressers,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hairdressers-seek-government-help/article34462091.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman, brother arrested on suspicion of killing her husband||A 34-year-old woman and her brother were arrested in connection with the murder of her husband in the Mangadu police station limits. The police said Baskar, 37, from West Mada Street at Kovur, worked as a lorry driver and owned immovable property. He and his wife Usha had frequent quarrels after his income dwindled due to the COVID-19 lockdown. On Thursday, Baskar’s mother Mohanambal and siblings lodged a complaint with the Mangadu police that he had gone missing. On Saturday morning, the police found Baskar’s body in a stone quarry at Sikkarayapuram. The body was sent to the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. The body was cut into parts. The police found blood stains inside his house and combed through CCTV footage which showed Usha and her brother Bakkiyaraj dragging a sack out of the house. The police suspect that Baskar might have been murdered for property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-brother-arrested-on-suspicion-of-killing-her-husband/article34462095.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Second level of Velachery flyover to be ready soon||One level of the double decker flyover at the Vijayanagar junction in Velachery being constructed at a cost of Rs. 108 crore is nearing completion. The structure in the second level at a height of 15 metres that will allow traffic from Taramani to the Velachery bypass has been constructed and the final bituminous tar layer is being laid in portions. Sources in the Highways Department said that the second-level flyover is 1,200 m long and will allow one-way traffic like the other level, which is coming up at a height 5.5 m. “The first level flyover of 640 m length will take three more months to complete as there are still five more spans, including two over junctions to be completed. The works would be carried out simultaneously,” said an official source. Once completed, the flyover would decongest the busy Vijayanagar junction. At least one lakh vehicles take the Velachery-Tambaram road daily. Kumararaja, president, Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association, urged the government to install signals at three locations so that pedestrian movement could be smooth once the flyovers were thrown open to traffic. “Hundreds of pedestrians take the roads leading out of the junction. We need signals at Baby Nagar and Tansi Nagar,” he said. Project manager dies Meanwhile, on Saturday, workers at the construction site mourned the loss of the project manager, who died to COVID-19. Around 10 persons working at the site including engineers have tested positive and admitted to hospital, said sources. This had led to a section of workers leaving the site, another source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-level-of-velachery-flyover-to-be-ready-soon/article34462101.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gas delivery boys asked to place refills at doorstep||As COVID-19 numbers soar, gas delivery boys have begun depositing liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder refills at the doorstep of customers. Officials at Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) said that they had asked their distributors to restart this practice, which had been introduced last year during the lockdown. “Unless the customer expressly asks that the cylinder be kept inside the house, the delivery personnel have to make the pre-delivery checks, including weighing, checking pin and O-ring, outside the premises,” said an official of IOCL. The company is also encouraging non-cash forms of payment, which now stands at 35% of all their transactions and has climbed from being 16% sometime last year. “The delivery boys have QR codes behind their ID cards, which can be used by customers to make the payment during the delivery. They can pay online while making the booking,” said another official. Virugambakkam resident Chandrasekar said the delivery boy had been placing the cylinder inside the house. “I should perhaps ask him to leave it outside the next time he comes,” he said. Chitlapakkam resident Vishwanathan said that in most cases, the delivery was being done at the doorstep and in some cases inside the houses with the boys checking the cylinder by connecting it to the gas stove and lighting it. An official at Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. said they were continuing last year’s practice when it came to deliveries. “We are ensuring mask compliance. Distributors are giving boiled eggs, kabasura kudineer and even zinc and iron tablets to the delivery boys,” he said. A distributor, however, said that they were unable to provide vaccination to the delivery personnel despite being frontline warriors. “Each man visits at least 30 homes daily. We are worried about the safety of both our staff and the customers. So far, the oil companies and the government have not taken any steps to ensure these men are vaccinated, which is very unfortunate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gas-delivery-boys-asked-to-place-refills-at-doorsteps-of-customers/article34461588.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airfares to major cities soar amid case spike||As the number of COVID-19 cases across the country touches a new high every day, air travel has reduced over the past fortnight and airfares too have gone up. For instance, the fare for flights to Bengaluru was Rs. 1,700- Rs. 2,000 a few months ago but now it had risen to Rs. 2,700 to Rs. 3,000. Similarly, the fares to Delhi, which were in the range of Rs. 4,000-Rs. 4,500, had now touched Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 6,200. While for Hyderabad, the fares had gone up from Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 3,300 now. Sources in the airport said the number of people travelling had reduced in the past two weeks. “The airfare increase is natural considering what we see, with restrictions and lockdown. We don’t think it will go up steeply in the coming weeks too. It may go a little lower or higher,” a source said. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the number of passengers had come down from 20,000-21,000 to 10,000-12,000 range in the past two weeks. “In many cities, people are expected to carry a negative certificate and many do not want to travel because of this. Also, now people are getting more cautious and don’t want to expose themselves too much,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airfares-to-major-cities-soar-amid-case-spike/article34461567.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Adhere to COVID-19 norms regardless of results, Kamal tells cadre||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday appealed to party cadres to follow social distancing and other appropriate COVID-19 protocols regardless of Sunday’s election results. In a statement, he urged cadres not to celebrate if the results are favourable and not feel dejected if the results do not go the party’s way. “You need not crowd outside the counting centre. It is enough if authorized party agents are present. The health of your family is more important than election results,” he told partymen. Mr. Haasan added that the Assembly elections results are not the end of the journey. “The election was a new experience. It is a new beginning. We do not have to celebrate if the results go our way, and need not feel dejected if it goes the other way. Continue your service to the people,” Mr. Haasan said. Patient hearing Party sources said the actor-turned-politician had been speaking to candidates via Zoom to understand their experiences during the elections. A party office-bearer said Mr. Haasan gave a patient hearing to the candidates and they were given space to criticise the manner in which the party structure functioned during the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adhere-to-covid-19-norms-regardless-of-results-kamal-tells-cadre/article34461575.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two policemen suspended for taking cash from boy||Two police personnel attached to the CMBT station were placed under suspension for allegedly taking cash from a schoolboy on Thursday. The police said the 17-year-old boy, a Class 11 student, arrived at the CMBT after picking a quarrel with his parents, taking Rs. 63,000 in cash from his father. The policemen, who were patrolling the area, intercepted the boy and questioned him. When they frisked him, they found the cash. They snatched the money from him. The boy informed his parents. They came to Chennai and rescued him. Based on his complaint, the police held an inquiry. The Joint Commissioner of Police, West, placed the duo under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-policemen-suspended-for-taking-cash-from-boy/article34462096.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for illegal sale of Remdesivir||A 26-year-old doctor of a private clinic and a pharmacist were caught by personnel from the Pallikaranai police station while they were selling the drug Remdesivir illegally. On the instructions of City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, personnel of all police districts have intensified vigil on the illegal sale of life-saving drugs in the black market. On Friday, the police arrested eight persons, including a young doctor and others, in Tambaram, Vepery and ICF. Remdesivir vials were seized from them. Continuing the crackdown, personnel from the Pallikaranai police station and officials of Civil Supplies CID police, Kancheepuram unit, mounted a surveillance on Friday and caught two persons who were selling the vials for high prices near a Makkal Marunthagam in Medavakkam bus stand. They were arrested on Saturday and the vials were seized from them. The arrested were identified as K. Deepan, 28, a doctor in Vengaivasal, and B. Narendran alias Naresh, 23, a pharmacist and native of Vellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-sale-of-remdesivir/article34461564.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite curbs, Tasmac rakes in revenue||Despite lockdown restrictions, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) has sold liquor worth Rs. 292.09 crore on the last day of April. According to estimates provided by Tasmac sources, on April 30 the Chennai zone saw sales of Rs. 63.44 crore while Madurai and Coimbatore zones clocked sales worth Rs. 59.63 crore and Rs. 56.37 crore respectively. The Trichi and Salem zones saw transactions to the tune of Rs. 56.72 crore and Rs. 55.93 crore. Sources said the sales were high due to a long weekend, and this had nothing to do with the election results which was slated to be announced on May 2. On April 24, ahead the Sunday lockdown, the cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government managed to sell liquor worth Rs. 252.48 crore. The Chennai zone, which includes Chengalpattu and neighbouring districts, recorded Rs. 58.37 crore on it sales book. On the same day, Tiruchi zone had punched in Rs. 48.57 crore in and Salem witnessed sales of Rs. 47.79 crore. The Madurai and Coimbatore belt saw Rs. 49.43 crore and Rs. 48.32 crore in sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/despite-curbs-tasmac-rakes-in-revenue/article34461574.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No victory rallies, says ruling party||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami have appealed to the party workers to follow the guidelines issued by the Election Commission during the counting of votes on Sunday. In a letter, they have asked the workers not to burst crackers or take out victory rallies and instead follow the guidelines issued by the Election Commission and the Madras High Court. Everyone taking precautions during the pandemic itself would be the most important service to society, they have said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-victory-rallies-says-ruling-party/article34461578.ece
02 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||All set for counting of votes for 10 Assembly segments in Coimbatore||All arrangements are in place for counting of votes on Sunday for the 10 Assembly constituencies in Coimbatore where the polls were held on April 6, adhering to strict COVID-19 protocols and tight security. The counting process will begin at 8 a.m. The nomination to the 10 Assembly constituencies began on March 12 and ended on March 19. At the end of the period given for withdrawal of nomination, there were 10 contestants in the fray in Mettupalayam, 15 in Sulur, 12 in Kavundampalayam, 20 in Coimbatore North, 10 in Thondamuthur, 21 each in Coimbatore South and Singanallur, 14 in Kinathukadavu, eight in Pollachi, and six in Valparai. On the polling day on April 6, the district saw a by and large peaceful voting barring a few incidents including the clash between AIADMK and DMK cadre near Selvapuram. Coimbatore North Assembly constituency saw the lowest polling percentage at 59.08 and Pollachi the highest at 77.28. Given the increase in number of polling booths due to the precautions followed to ensure a safe voting environment for voters due to COVID-19 pandemic and the reduction in number of counting tables from 16 to 14, Sunday’s counting would take time and the time taken to declare the winner would be sometime on Sunday late evening, sources in the district administration said. For the counting, the administration, in keeping with the Election Commission of India guidelines, had asked counting agents of all contestants to undergo COVID-19 test and produce negative reports. The sources said the administration had asked contestants to furnish at least 20% more persons than the required counting agents as replacements if the agents turned COVID-19 positive. Sources in the administration said as of Saturday evening, 169 of the 4,000-odd counting agents, police personnel, government officials and journalists had tested positive. They would be denied entry to counting centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-for-10-assembly-segments-in-coimbatore/article34462117.ece
02 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three-tier security at Govt. College of Technology||The police have tightened security in the city in view of the counting of votes on Sunday and the total lockdown. The counting centre at the Government College of Technology (GCT) remained under three-tier security, which was in place from April 6. More than 300 personnel from the local police, Tamil Nadu Special Police, Armed Reserve and Central armed paramilitary forces made the security cover at the counting centre. Police Commissioner S. Davidson Devasirvatham visited the counting centre and reviewed the security arrangements. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Stalin said that entry to the counting centre will be strictly based on Election Commission of India (ECI) norms. Other directions of the ECI including the the ban of victory procession will also be adhered to, he said. According to the official, counting tables for each constituency will be covered by a set of 26 surveillance cameras. The counting tables of Kavundampalayam constituency, which has the highest number of voters, will be covered by 32 cameras. Mr. Stalin said that 1,600 police personnel will be on duty across the city on counting day which couples with the Sunday lockdown. Vehicles plying for emergency and exempted services including vehicles of the police, medical professionals involved in COVID-19 management, election officials, candidates, agents and media persons will be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-tier-security-at-govt-college-of-technology/article34462122.ece
02 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Meat, fish and chicken shops closed||Meat, fish and chicken shops remained shut in the city on Saturday following the State government’s revised COVID-19 restriction. The government had earlier said that all such shops should remain shut on Sundays as it announced complete lockdown. On Saturday after the announcement, there was heavy rush at chicken, fish and meat stalls. To prevent overcrowding, the State government said the shops would remain shut on Saturdays as well. In keeping with the order, the Coimbatore Corporation ensured that all meat, chicken and fish stalls remained shut. The wholesale and retail fish markets in Ukkadam were shut and so were all chicken and meat shops, said Corporation sources. The Corporation officials also they also ensured that large format shops spread over 3,000 sq.ft. were shut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meat-fish-and-chicken-shops-closed/article34462119.ece
02 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive continues for people above 45 years with limited stock||Vaccination centres in the district administered COVID-19 vaccines to people aged above 45 on Saturday as the government could not roll out the drive for the 18-44 age group, due to shortage of vaccines, as planned earlier. The Health Department late on Friday said that a total of 8,500 doses of Covishield vaccine were allotted to vaccination centres at two government medical college hospitals, 12 block primary health centres and 13 government hospitals. A total of 4,000 doses were allotted to the five zones of Coimbatore Corporation. These doses were used on Saturday. Sources in the Health Department said that people aged above 45, who had come to take their second shot of the vaccine, were given preference at government-run vaccination centres on Saturday. A few private hospitals contacted by The Hindu said that they did not get vaccines from the Health Department on Saturday. The vaccination centre at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Saturday conducted a vaccination camp at the Government Arts College. An official from CMCH said that a total of 1,120 persons were vaccinated at the camp. Covishield doses were given to 900 persons – some who took their first dose and others who had their second dose. A total of 220 persons took their second shot of Covaxin at the camp. Frontline workers, including nurses and police personnel got inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-continues-for-people-above-45-years-with-limited-stock/article34462113.ece
02 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Chamber seeks relaxation in digital money transfer norms||The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has appealed to Union Finance Minister to permit more than Rs. 2 lakh a day digital payment as COVID-affected people need to make payments to hospitals. Chamber president C. Balasubramanian said the Finance Act 2017 inserted Section 269ST prescribing that no person shall receive an amount of Rs. 2 lakh or more from a person in a day, in respect of a single transaction otherwise than by an account payee cheque or draft or other electronic mode. This came into effect on April 1, 2017. In this pandemic, hospitals insist on advance payments through electronic mode from the Covid patients. Several families of Covid-affected patients get financial support from friends and relatives and they transfer money through the digital mode. Hence, the Government should come out with a notification immediately to address this difficult situation and relax the compliance with Section 269ST. Also, the opportunity for MSMEs and traders to earn is minimal and uncertain with the pandemic. Therefore, the due dates for advance tax should be re-scheduled to one instalment falling in March 2022 alone. This could make the cash flow available with the MSMEs and traders to recoup the loss in the second half of the financial year. The government can extend incentives such as one-time reduction in rates for those who pay in the existing normal instalments. Mr. Balasubramanian said the rates of TDS be reduced by 25% of the prescribed rates and the GST rates should also be reduced by 25 % for all commodities across all rates for a limited period. A special one-time Covid deduction upto Rs. 50,000 may be given to individual/HUF tax payer only for the assessment year 2022-23 and senior citizens can be given additional deductions for dependants. The government should look at special tax incentive scheme for MSMEs who do not avail any special benefits and comply with all tax and other obligations promptly. The banking sector and financial institutions should provide relief to MSMEs and small businesses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relax-norms-for-digital-fund-transfer/article34462102.ece
02 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||450 beds at hotels converted into COVID Care Centres||As many as 450 beds have been set aside at hotels that would serve as COVID Care Centres. A release from the district administration said the Collector had approved of the Centres where private hospitals would provide medical assistance. The release said 41 beds had been set aside in Subashree Hotel, where CSR Nursing Home would provide medical care. Likewise, there would 50 beds in WelcomHotel with medical assistance from GKNM Hospital, 60 beds in Mahesh Gateway Hotel with medical assistance from Venkateshwara Hospital, 30 beds in ESS Grand Hotel with medical assistance from SPT Hospital, 30 beds in Annamalai Hotel with medical assistance from Sowmiya Hospital, 110 beds in Sakthi Hotel, Pollachi, with medical assistance from MRS and T.D. Nair Hospital, 40 beds in Aloft Hotel with medical assistance from Atlas Pain Care, 54 beds in Kiscol Hotel with medical assistance from Sathya Medical Centre and 35 beds in Kovai COVID Care with medical assistance from SG Gastro Care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/450-beds-at-hotels-converted-into-covid-care-centres/article34462120.ece
02 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pedestrian killed in accident||A pedestrian was killed after he was hit by a two-wheeler on Sirumugai-Annur road late on Friday. The police identified the deceased as P. Chinnakannan (60), a resident of Bellepalayam near Sirumugai. Chinnakannan suffered a head injury after being hit by the two-wheeler ridden by G. Rajendran (51) of Bellepalayam. He succumbed to the injury while being rushed to the Government Hospital, Annur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pedestrian-killed-in-accident/article34462115.ece
02 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment launched||Siloam Thomas Eye Hospital here recently launched a new equipment Optopol Revo FC Optical Coherence Tomography, that can detect conditions that impair eyesight at an early stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-launched/article34462116.ece
02 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||People of Talavadi allowed to use Talamalai Road without entry fee||Following representations from politicians, farmers and the public, the Forest Department has started allowing the people of Talavadi to use the 23 km Dhimbam - Talamalai forest road without paying the vehicle entry fee from Saturday. Though Talavadi is located in Tamil Nadu, vehicles need to traverse 15 km through roads in Karnataka, including the Dindigul – Mysuru National Highway 948, to reach Talavadi. Since the lockdown came into effect in Karnataka, the check-post at Punajanur in Karnataka was closed and vehicles were not allowed to proceed towards Talavadi. Talamalai Road that passes through Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) is allowed only for people of six hamlets located inside the STR from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. every day. Since the Punajanur check-post was closed, buses and vegetable-laden vehicles were allowed to pass through Talamalai Road to reach Talavadi after paying the fee at the forest check-post at Dhimbam that comes under Talamalai Forest Range of Sathyamangalam Division. Since farmers have to bear the additional cost, they demanded exemption from the fees. On Friday, P.L. Sundaram, former Bhavanisagar MLA, farmers and the public, came to the check-post and asked Talamalai Forest Range Officer Suresh to allow vehicles to Talavadi without collecting the fee. The issue was taken up with Kiruba Shankar, District Forest Officer, Sathyamangalam Division, who held discussions with higher officials. It was decided to allow vehicles to Talavadi without collecting the fee until the lockdown is relaxed in Karnataka. Hence, from Saturday, fees were not collected from vehicles proceeding towards Talavadi. Forest officials said only local people would be allowed to use Talamalai Road and visitors would not be allowed to use the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-of-talavadi-allowed-to-use-talamalai-road-without-entry-fee/article34461632.ece
02 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||All set for counting in Erode||Over 700 police personnel and paramilitary personnel were deployed at the two counting centres where counting of votes for the eight Assembly constituencies will commence at 8 a.m. on Sunday. Three-tier security is in place at the Institute of Road and Transport Technology at Chithode and at Gobi Arts and Science College at Gobichettipalayam where 408 staff would be involved in counting of votes in the presence of candidates, their agents and officials. While 550 policemen were posted at IRTT where votes polled in the constituencies of Erode (East), Erode (West), Perundurai, Modakkurichi, Anthiyur and Bhavani would be counted, 150 personnel were posted at Gobi Arts and Science College where votes polled in the constituencies of Gobichettipalayam and Bhavanisagar would be counted. Apart from this, personnel were posted across the district to prevent untoward incidents arising out of the declaration of results on Sunday. Candidates and agents with either COVID-19 negative result or both doses of vaccine report will only be allowed to enter the counting centres.  Security Since total lockdown will be in place on Sunday, cadres or people will not be allowed to gather outside the centres or in public places as the police made elaborate security arrangements. Conservancy workers had sprayed disinfectants in the counting halls and at the centres as officials said politicians and agents would be asked to ensure personal distancing during the counting besides wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-set-for-counting-in-erode/article34461614.ece
02 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable markets crowded ahead of Sunday lockdown||Vegetable markets remained crowded on Saturday as people made purchases ahead of the lockdown on Sunday. The State government had extended the night curfew and complete lockdown on Sundays recently as a measure to control the spread of COVID-19. Hence, the night curfew along with lockdown starts at 10 p.m. on Saturday and ends at 4 a.m. on Monday. Since all the shops and establishments will be closed on Sunday, people thronged vegetable and fruit markets on Saturday. With temperature soaring, most of the fruits were in demand as fruit stalls and temporary roadside shops selling fruits made brisk business throughout the day. Due to restrictions, all the meat stalls and fish markets were closed on Saturday, while snack shops and bakeries were doing brisk business. But, the patronage in most of the TNSTC buses was very poor as people avoided travel due to the pandemic and also due to government holiday on account of Labour Day. As only takeaway service was available in hotels, business was very poor while business was brisk in fast food shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-markets-crowded-ahead-of-sunday-lockdown/article34461621.ece
02 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Eight persons held for murder||Eight persons, including two women, who beat a youth to death, were arrested by the police here on Saturday. Ganesh of Vavipalayam in Tiruppur district was married to Jeyanthi and both were working at a farm in Karumandampalayam in Erode, rearing pigs. The farm belongs to Sathyamoorthy and the couple was staying on the farm premises. Sathyamoorthy’s mother Sampooranam was bed-ridden and it is said that Jeyanthi had stolen her gold ear ring and left for Tiruppur with Ganesh. Since they did not return for a week, Sathyamoorthy contacted them over phone and asked them to return to work. Ganesh returned to Erode on Saturday and was allegedly beaten by Sathyamoorthy and his relatives. In the impact, he suffered serious injuries. They contacted Jeyanthi and asked her to return the ring. She returned the ring and found Ganesh dead. The Malayampalayam police were alerted who sent the body to the District Headquarters and Hospital. A murder case was registered and the police arrested Sathyamoorthy and seven others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-persons-held-for-murder/article34461618.ece
02 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Control room set up||A district level control room has been established to help migrant labourers during the COVID-19 pandemic. A release said migrant workers, if they need any help, can contact the Nodal Officer and Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) D. Balathandautham at 86107-11278, Control Room Officers, C.P. Murugesan at 63800-21835 and N. Sankaran at 90470-12425. Also, workers can contact 0424-2270090 for any assistance, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-room-set-up/article34461619.ece
02 May 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre’s attitude on pandemic should change’||Blaming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre for its poor handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, senior Congress leader and M.P. P. Chidambaram on Saturday said the situation had slipped from bad to worse in many States. Speaking to reporters here, he said that the Congress had cautioned and suggested to the Centre the need for taking up certain measures on a war-footing. “Our leader Sonia Gandhi had written six times to the Prime Minister in this regard... Our former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had recently written to him on tackling the pandemic.” However, it was unfortunate that the Prime Minister had not even bothered to discuss or take up the suggestions in an earnest manner, he said. Clarifying that this was not the time for politics, the senior leader said the country had to join hands in saving lives. At a time when people looked for help, the Congress was ready to serve them in any manner. To a query on the Sterlite Copper plant seeking permission to produce oxygen, Mr. Chidambaram said when the Supreme Court had given a direction, there need not be a discussion. “Oxygen is required to save the people suffering in many hospitals admitted in COVID-19 wards. Hence, it is the duty of the government to ensure oxygen is in place...” he said. The Centre’s attitude in this hour of medical emergency should change, he added. At a time, when the people were worried over the pandemic, the Centre announced a “vaccine festival”. What was the need to celebrate the pandemic, he asked. The government had announced to inoculate vaccine shots for all above 18 years from May 1. It has not happened. There is no planning. The people, who needed support, were in the dark as to what the government was doing, he charged. As if the COVID-19 pandemic had been distanced and defeated, the BJP, in its national council meeting held on February 21, in a resolution hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the title “Vishwa Guru”. When in reality, the government had failed. Such encomiums had only aggravated the anger against the Centre. Quoting media reports, Mr. Chidambaram said there was a mismatch between the government’s data on the number of people testing positive and those buried or cremated in Karnataka. If the situation was alarming, the government and the officials should admit it. They should tell people about the reality and take steps to fight it on a war-footing. On exit polls, Mr. Chidambaram said the predictions in Tamil Nadu showed the mood of the voters.  The people were in the dark as to what the government was doing  P. Chidambaram Senior Congress Leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-attitude-on-pandemic-should-change/article34461636.ece
02 May 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre’s attitude on pandemic should change’||Due to poor handling of COVID-19 pandemic, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre had let the situation slip from bad to worse in many States, said senior Congress leader and MP P. Chidambaram here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said his party had cautioned and suggested to the Centre to take up certain measures on a war-footing. “Our leader Sonia Gandhi wrote six times to the Prime Minister. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had recently wrote to his successor Narendra Modi on ways to tackle the pandemic. It is unfortunate that he did not even bother to initiate a discussion or take up the suggestions,” Mr. Chidambaram said. On Sterlite plant seeking permission to produce oxygen, he said that when the Supreme Court had given a direction, there need not be a discussion on it. “Oxygen is needed to save people suffering in COVID-19 wards of hospitals. So, it is the duty of the government to ensure availability of oxygen,” he said. The Centre’s attitude in this hour of crisis should change. “At a time when people are worried over the pandemic, the Centre has announced a ‘vaccine festival.’ What is there to celebrate the pandemic. It was announced that COVID-19 vaccine will be administered to all aged above 18 from May 1. But it did not happen. There is no planning. The people are kept in the dark on the government’s next move,” he said. As if the COVID-19 pandemic had been defeated, the BJP, in its national council meeting on February 21, hailed the Prime Minister with the title ‘Vishwa Guru.’ When in reality, the government had failed, such encomiums would only stoke the anger people have against the Centre. Mismatch on data Quoting media reports, Mr. Chidambaram said there was a mismatch between the government’s data on number of people tested positive and those buried or cremated in Karnataka. If the situation was alarming, the government and the officials should admit to it. They should tell the people about the harsh reality and take steps to set things right on a war-footing. On exit polls, Mr. Chidambaram said the predictions in Tamil Nadu rightly showed the mood of voters. If the DMK government takes charge, it would have a big challenge as the AIADMK had emptied the coffers and also failed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic effectively, he said. The economy, which was already in tatters due to the inept Central government, would face more problems if there was a total lockdown, he said.  Though Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh wrote to Modi, he did not even bother to initiate a discussion P. Chidambaram Senior Congress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-attitude-on-pandemic-should-change-chidambaram/article34461608.ece
02 May 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Kochi Corporation halts judges’ apartment project||The Kochi Corporation has asked the Kerala Judicial Officers’ Cooperative Society to halt the construction of its 15-storey apartment complex at Chalikkavattom, following reports of falsification of land documents. A stop memo was issued to P.K. Mohandas, secretary of the society, on April 29. The construction of the complex with 65 dwelling units had reached its final stages, and the units were all set to be handed over to owners, including judges of the Kerala High Court and the district judiciary. The Kochi Corporation Secretary served the stop memo following an inspection on a complaint. The complainant had alleged that the building permit for the apartment complex had been obtained from the civic body after manipulating land documents. He complained that the possession certificate of the property was manipulated to show an area of eight cents in the 75- cent holding as ‘purayidam’ though it was recorded as ‘nilam’ in the Basic Tax Register of the Revenue Department. Society denies it Meanwhile, an office-bearer of the society denied manipulation of documents. No construction was carried out in the eight-cent area, where an authorised building with a door number issued by the Kochi Corporation existed, said the official, while confirming that a stop memo had been served to the Society. He suspected foul play in the matter. The permit was issued after the civic authorities carried out inspections, including site visit. The land in question was shown as garden land with road access in the fair value document of the State government, though it was recorded as nilam in the Basic Tax Register, he said. The corporation did not issue a show-cause notice or share the complaint before slapping the stop memo. The association will seek legal recourse against the violation of its rights, the official added.  Possession certificate has been manipulated to show an area of eight cents in the 75- cent holding as ‘purayidam’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kochi-corporation-halts-judges-apartment-project/article34461481.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,TAMIL NADU||‘Calicut Univ. denied Dalit student Ph.D. admission’||A Syndicate member of the University of Calicut has approached Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, also the Chancellor, against the alleged denial of admission to a Dalit student to the PhD programme in the Department of Life Sciences. In his mail to Mr. Khan, P. Rasheed Ahammed, the United Democratic Front-backed Syndicate member, claimed that K.P. Lijith Chandran had secured second rank in the PhD entrance test conducted by the university in 2020. Rank list still valid The rank list is valid for a year. Mr. Chandran was denied enrolment despite a vacancy in the department because of his political affiliation and his caste, alleged Mr. Ahammed. Mr. Chandran is also the Malappuram district president of the Kerala Students Union. Mr. Ahammed also alleged, quoting Mr. Chandran, that the selection process for the PhD programme lacked transparency. Question papers for the entrance test were prepared and evaluated by teachers of the department, which was against rules. It could lead to malpractices. Reservation rules He also claimed that the reservation rules were ambiguous and prone to misappropriation. Though the Director of Admissions was required to collect a status report from various departments on possible violations of rules, it was not being done. Mr. Ahammed also alleged that many other students had complained that the entrance process of the departments was not transparent. Chancellor petitioned He urged the Chancellor to direct the university authorities to ensure transparency in the entrance process for admission to postgraduate, MPhil, and PhD courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/calicut-univ-denied-dalit-student-phd-admission/article34461471.ece
02 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects counting centre||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy along with the general observers for the six Assembly constituencies inspected the counting centre and the halls at the Government Polytechnic College. Accompanied by general observers P.D. Palsan (Uthangarai, Bargur); G.Anuradha (Krishnagiri and Vepanapalli) and Hans Raj Chauhan (Thally and Hosur), the Collector inspected the counting centre. The counting halls have been allocated on different floors for each of the six Assembly constituencies of Uthangarai, Krishnagiri, Vepanapalli, Bargur, Thally and Hosur. The administration had put in place COVID-19 protocols and in compliance with those, counting process would be undertaken, the Collector said. Security at the counting centre has been beefed up to ensure law and order and smooth conduct of the counting process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-counting-centre/article34461612.ece
02 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Dos and don’ts for candidates, agents||Candidates and their principal agents are allowed one vehicle to reach the counting centre. While the other agents of the candidates shall all be transported in a single vehicle and vehicle passes shall be secured. Further, the vehicles shall be allowed only till the entrance of the campus. The agents shall wear their badge at all times, and the badge shall state the table number assigned to them along with the thumb impression of the agent. Except for the election observers, no one is allowed to carry mobile phones, ipads, and laptops into the counting hall. The agents may carry pens, pencils and also a copy of Form 17 C. Any discrepancy or disagreement at the counting table shall be brought to the notice of the principal agent and the candidate, who shall then take it up with the counting official and the observer. However, no agent shall engage in an argument with the counting staff. Further, agents shall not carry lighters, cigarettes, pan masala, liquor and such other substances banned inside the counting centres. The agents shall also not engage in political chatter leading to law and order concerns. Any violation shall lead to the cancellation of the agent’s pass and the agent shall be immediately removed from the counting hall. The counting staff shall ensure adequate stationary, computers, printers, paper for recording of votes polled and after each round, the exact numbers shall be printed and given to the counting observers. Each round of counting shall be wound up only upon handing over the numbers to the observer and the following fresh round of counting shall commence only upon the approval of the observer. The administration has set up counting centres equipped with COVID-19 safeguards that include 36 thermal scanners, 38 bottles (500ml) and 1,579 bottles (100ml) of disinfectants; 1,601 face shields, 11,400 surgical masks; 9,603 single use gloves; 198 yellow bags and 66 garbage bags. All counting centres shall be directly monitored through web cameras. Candidates and their agents are urged to follow the protocols and ensure a smooth conduct of the counting process, according to the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dos-and-donts-for-candidates-agents/article34461613.ece
02 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Counting of votes to be held at four centres in Madurai today||The last minute arrangements were under way in full swing at the four counting centres for the State Assembly elections across the district on Saturday. The counting of votes polled in the 10 assembly constituencies of the district will take place on Sunday. The counting centre for Madurai North, Madurai South, Madurai Central and Madurai West constituencies will be Madurai Medical College. For Melur and Madurai East constituencies, Agricultural College and Research Institute will be the counting centre. Tamil Nadu Government Polytechnic College will be the counting centre for Tirupparankundram and Tirumangalam constituencies. For Usilampatti and Sholavandan constituencies, Anna University Regional Campus at Vadapalanji will be the counting centre. Madurai district recorded a final voter turnout of 70.46 %. A total of 19,00,881 votes were polled in the district. An official from the district administration said that on Saturday the randomisation of EVMs for each of the assembly constituencies was completed. On Sunday morning around 6 a.m., the randomisation of EVMs will be done to allocate the EVMs for each table. Votes polled in 3,856 booths across the district will be counted on Sunday. It has been planned to have 14 counting tables in each round in each counting hall. One micro observer, counting assistant and counting supervisor will be deployed for each table. Around 420 government staff will be on duty at the four counting centres. "All the government staff have either been tested RT-PCR negative or have completed their two doses of COVID-19 vaccination," said the official. Similarly, 2,872 agents of political parties and around 160 candidates who have tested negative for COVID-19 will be present in the counting centres. CCTV cameras have been placed to record the counting process at all the counting rooms. Security personnel have been posted to ensure smooth counting process on Sunday, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counting-of-votes-to-be-held-at-four-centres-in-madurai-today/article34462200.ece
02 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea for periodical review of master plan||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered notice to the State government in a public interest litigation petition filed by the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry seeking direction to periodically review the Madurai Master Plan. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi ordered notice and sought the response from the State government in the petition filed by N. Jegatheesan, president of the chamber. The main objective of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 was to maintain transparency in the development and usage of lands. A master plan was prepared for towns and cities laying emphasis on the zoning regulations for the judicious use of land, he said. The master plan was a key development plan to provide land use allotment and under Section 32(2)(b) of the Act, the master plan must be reviewed after conducting the necessary survey once in every five years, he said. The petitioner complained the government had not granted approval for review of the master plan for the past 15 years and the authorities were still using the master plan drawn 26 years ago. The classification and usage of land had completely changed during this period. He said that as per the existing master plan, most of the lands were classified as agricultural land. The public had to run to the government offices seeking change of land use. They had to submit a separate application before filing an application for building plan permission. Each application for change of classification of land had to be forwarded to the government and notified. The process was a burden on the government officials and also made the public run from pillar to post to get an approval for the construction of a building. This affected the commercial and industrial growth of the region as none would show interest in investing in a place/region where there were such difficulties. Therefore, the government should periodically review the Madurai Master Plan in consonance with the Act, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-periodical-review-of-master-plan/article34461591.ece
02 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals increase beds for COVID-19 patients||A total of 465 additional beds for treating COVID-19 patients have been added in 44 private hospitals across the district in the wake of rising COVID-19 positive cases. Madurai district recorded 711 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday and the active cases in the district are 4,245. The rising coronavirus infections have increased the demand for beds across hospitals. District Monitoring Officer for COVID-19 B. Chandra Mohan said that the bed strength in private hospitals was increased in the last few days. According to the data given by him, there were 1,509 beds available in 44 private hospitals. The additional 465 beds have increased the total bed strength to 1,974. The data showed that all the private hospitals have cumulatively allocated 45.64% of their total beds to treat COVID-19 patients. A total of 13 private hospitals have allocated all their beds to treat COVID-19 patients Three hospitals, which have allocated 210 beds, will be part of COVID-19 Care Centres in Madurai district. There are 1,169 oxygen beds in private hospitals. There are 82 ventilators available in the private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-increase-beds-for-covid-19-patients/article34461593.ece
02 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishing festival held in Madurai and Sivaganga districts||Defying COVID-19 norms against mass gathering, a large number of villagers from in and around Tiruvadavur near Madurai participated in a fishing festival on Friday late evening. After the village tank filled up a few months back following good rains, the villagers had introduced fishlings into the tank. Now that the fish were big enough, men, women and children joined in the fishing festival to catch them. Some used fishing nets and others used saris or dhotis and caught catla (carp), kendai (rohu), kezhuthi (cat fish), viraal (murrel) and others. In Sivaganga district, hundreds of people from Iraniyur, Kallapettai, Nallur, Pappathi Oorani and other hamlets took part in the fishing festival at Pillamangalam Big Tank at Keezhaseevalpatti near Tirupattur on Friday late evening. Though these traditional fishing festivals have been banned to prevent mass gathering which could lead to the spread of COVID-19, the villagers did not pay heed to the government directive and caught fish over three hours. Though meat and fish markets should remain shut across the State on both the days of the weekend, many people were engaged in selling the catch. On hearing about the gathering in Tiruvadavur, police rushed there and dispersed the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishing-festival-held-in-two-places-in-defiance-of-ban/article34461598.ece
02 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Remove encroachments’||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed the Pudukkottai district authorities to remove encroachments in Kunnakurumbi tank in Aranthangi and file a report on the action taken. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi passed the direction on the petition filed by R. Pandidurai of Aranthangi. He said that the tank was the main source of water for the surrounding areas. He said the feeding channels to the tank were encroached upon by individuals. Improper maintenance of the culverts constructed on Aranthangi-Pudukkottai Road was another reason. The encroachments resulted in shortage of water supply to the tank and the farmers were affected. Due to the poor maintenance of the tank, it could not be filled to its full capacity even during the rainy season, the petitioner said. Though repeated representations were sent to the authorities to remove the encroachments and maintain the tank, it has not been looked into. The authorities must include the tank in the list of those tanks that were maintained by the Public Works Department, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachments-says-high-court/article34462198.ece
02 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Demolish unauthorised portion of building: HC||Taking a serious view of yet another case of unauthorised construction, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday ordered demolition of the unauthorised portion of a residential building at Tharanallur in Tiruchi. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Prabhakar who complained that his neighbour, T. Kumaran, had constructed a building in violation of the approved building plan. The unauthorised construction should be demolished, the petitioner said. Hearing the petition, a Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi quashed the order passed by the Tiruchi Corporation Commissioner that asked the two parties to reach a compromise over the issue. The authorities concerned ought to have taken steps to demolish the unauthorised portion of the building, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demolish-unauthorised-portion-of-building-hc/article34462205.ece
02 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Corporation turns 50||May 1, 2021, marked the 50th anniversary of the formation of Madurai Corporation. According to the corporation’s official website, the municipality of Madurai was formed on November 1, 1866 as per the Town Improvement Act of 1865. It was headed by a Chairperson and elections were continuously held for that post except during 1891 to 96. On May 1, 1971, it was upgraded as a corporation. Today, Madurai Corporation is one of the largest local bodies in the State with 100 wards. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said Madurai is one of the oldest cities in the world. It has many archaeological significant places and Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple. The ongoing developmental projects will ensure its growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-corporation-turns-50/article34461589.ece
02 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Kabasura kudineer’ distributed||Corporation of Madurai and Indian Red Cross Society have jointly organised distribution of ‘kabasura kudineer’ across the city on Saturday. Commissioner S. Visakan, who launched the distribution at the MGR Bus stand in Mattuthavani, told reporters that the concoction was being given in 80 containment zones covered in four zones in Madurai Corporation. He appealed to the residents in these containment zones to stay indoors and help the frontline workers in fighting the virus effectively. The Urban Primary Health Centres, which are situated in 31 locations, too have been giving the kabasura kudineer. According to the doctors here, 50 ml of the kabasura kudineer helped the people to gain immunity. Assistant City Health Officer Dinesh Kumar said that close to 2,000 litres of kabasura kudineer was being prepared and served at Velliveediyar Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, Arapalayam Cross Road in zone 1, TVS Nagar in zone 4 and Villapuram in zone 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kabasura-kudineer-distributed/article34461606.ece
02 May 2021||NAGERCOIL/CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rescued by Coast Guard, 11 fishermen return to shore||The 11 rescued fishermen from Thaengaaipattinam, who went missing when they were fishing in high-seas on April 28, returned home on Saturday afternoon. Even as the Coast Guard ship escorted Mercedes boat with the 11 fishermen to the Thaengaaipattinam fishing harbor, a group of people ventured into the sea with officials, including fisheries inspector Sivakumar and his deputy Kani Selvan and marine police inspector Arul Rose and received them at 4 nautical miles from the harbour. The fishermen were accorded an emotional reception by their family members while Congress MLA Rajesh Kumar and Congress candidate for Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-poll V. Vijay Vasanth felicitated them. After being taken to Vallavilai in a bus, the fishermen, along with their family and the villagers, participated in a Thanksgiving Holy Mass at St. Mary’s Church. “We have returned to the shores miraculously on the first day of May, the month dedicated to Mother Mary. Hence we offered the Holy Mass first before entering our homes,” said S. Joseph Franklin, owner and driver of Mercedes . The 11 fishermen went missing when another boat rammed their mechanised boat 600 nautical miles off the Goa coast on April 23. While the wheelhouse was tossed up into the sea, the fishermen were thrown into the sea. They managed to board the boat again. The crew of another mechanized boat Periyanayagi also from Vallavilai, saw the capsized wheelhouse of Mercedes and inferred that the boat had sunk after the mishap and informed their families over the satellite phone about it. After the district administration got the message from the devastated family members about the mishap, the Centre was alerted which launched a search operation. Meanwhile, Mr. Franklin contacted his family on April 28 morning via the satellite phone to inform them that all of them were safe. Subsequently, the Coast Guard vessels located the fishermen near Lakshadweep and escorted Mercedes up to Thaengaaipattinam fishing harbour. On information from the State government, the Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Center (MRCC) of the Coast Guard in Mumbai activated international safety net to alert merchant vessels transiting near the reported position to lookout for the missing boat. Alert sounded Simultaneously, Samudra Prahari of the Coast Guard was diverted for search. MRCC (Mumbai) coordinated with merchant vessel Maersk Horsburgh to join the search operation along with fishing boats operating in the area. As the reported position was located in Pakistan Search and Rescue Region, MRCC Karachi was requested for assistance as per International Marine Organisation (IMO) norms in vogue. Also having received information about the location of the boat, Coast Guard ship Vikram on deployment off Lakshadweep was diverted to render logistic and medical assistance to the crew. The boat was located by Vikram on April 29, around 25 nautical miles from Suheli Par, Lakshadweep Islands. It provided necessary first aid to the crew of Mercedes and confirmed the safety of all the crew. Vikram escorted the fishing boat to its base port at Thengapattanam fishing harbour. “We thank the Union government for the swift measures taken to locate the missing fishermen,” said Sunil Sabariar of Vallavilai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rescued-by-coast-guard-11-fishermen-from-thengaipattinam-return-to-shore/article34461595.ece
02 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.K., South African variants of COVID-19 found in Puducherry||The Union Territory of Puducherry has reported the mutant variants of the novel coronavirus since the second wave of COVID-19 struck the country. The throat swabs tested at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) have revealed the presence of the U.K. and South African strains in the population of the Union Territory. The Health Department has been monitoring travellers from the U.K. since January this year. Around 150 persons who arrived from the U.K. were tested but none was positive, L. Ravivarman, Head, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, told The Hindu . Subsequently, the National Centre for Disease Control directed the Health Department to submit samples of the throat swabs with high viral loads for an analysis of the genome at NIMHANS. “So far, 67 samples have been sent to NIMHANS for genome sequencing; the results in respect of 27 samples have come in, including 10 of the U.K. strain and 2 of the South African strain... Obviously, the increase in the cases reported in the Union Territory in the second wave could be due to the two mutated variants. Our vaccines are effective, and will give protection from the strains,” he said. Doctors say that unlike last year, many youngsters and middle-aged people are being infected in the Union Territory this time. Those who need oxygen are also on the higher side. Data from the Health Department reveal that around 45% of the infected people are aged 20-40; 23.79% are aged 21-30; and 22. 90% are aged 31-40. In these groups, men account for over 15%. An official says 13.92% of the infected are aged 41-51. The least affected are aged above 71 and up to 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uk-south-african-variants-of-covid-19-found-in-puducherry/article34461582.ece
02 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records 12 deaths for third day in a row||The Union Territory recorded 12 COVID-19 deaths for the third consecutive day on Saturday, raising the cumulative toll to 817, even as 1,379 new cases pushed the active caseload past the 10,000-mark. Puducherry reported 11 deaths and Yanam one. The patients, including four women, were in the 27-83 age bracket, and seven had no co-morbidity. With this, the region-wise cumulative toll was Puducherry (660), Karaikal (94), Yanam (49) and Mahe (14). Of the new cases, which were detected from 6,531 tests, 1,100 were in Puducherry, 113 in Karaikal, 121 in Yanam and 45 in Mahe. The test positivity rate was 21.11%, the case fatality rate 1.36% and the recovery rate 81.53%. After 623 patients got discharged in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 10,263. Of these, 1,773 patients were in hospitals and 8,490 in home isolation. The overall tally of cases was 60,001, with 48,921 patients having recovered till date. The bed occupancy statistics in Puducherry was JIPMER (294), IGMCRI (307) and COVID Care Centres (855). Of an estimated 8.03 lakh tests conducted by the Health Department so far, over 7.95 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 187 healthcare workers, 218 frontline staff and 1,086 members of the public took their first shots of the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The total number of people vaccinated in the Union Territory is 1,99,481, including 32,247 healthcare workers, 18,882 frontline personnel and 1,48,352 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-12-deaths-for-third-day/article34461585.ece
02 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. all set for vote count||After a nearly month-long wait since Puducherry voted under President’s rule on April 6, the spotlight has zoomed in on a sprawling campus in the city where the votes will be counted amid tight security on Sunday. The process will involve accounting for an estimated 8.20 lakh votes polled across 30 Assembly constituencies after the Union Territory, with 10.04 lakh voters, registered a turnout of 81.69%. The battle for the 30-seat House (which also has three nominated members) is essentially between the Congress-led alliance comprising the DMK, the Left parties and the VCK, and the NDA consisting of the AINRC, the BJP, the AIADMK and the PMK. The 324 candidates in the fray include nominees of the AMMK, the NTK and the MNM and Independents. The counting will take place in 31 halls spread across the six centres in the Union Territory. The three centres for all 23 constituencies in the Puducherry region will be on a campus at Lawspet — the Women’s Polytechnic, Mothilal Nehru Government Polytechnic and the Tagore Arts College. In the regional enclaves, there is one centre each for Karaikal (5 constituencies) and the sole constituencies of Mahe and Yanam. However, unlike in the past, the full results are likely to be available late at night as the Elections Department is carrying out the process in a staggered manner to comply with the COVID-19 safety directives of the Madras High Court and the Election Commission. The reduction of the counting tables from seven to five, ventilated halls, separate entry passages for polling officials and candidates and their agents, on-the-spot RAT facility and the availability of masks, face shields, PPE kits and biowaste bins are among the safety measures in place. Anyone entering the premises needs to produce RT-PCR/RAT-negative certificate or the two-dose vaccination certificate. “The counting will commence at 8 a.m. with the tabulation of postal votes. The votes polled in the EVMs will be counted from 8.30 a.m.,” said T. Sudhakar, Nodal Officer (Counting). 1,000 polling staff At the counting venue in Puducherry, over 1,000 polling staff and a 400-strong police force have been deployed. There are five tables each in 23 counting halls, with three officials at each table. The seating arrangement is such that one agent in PPE kit will be positioned between two counting agents. Additional AROs have been deployed for the counting of the postal ballots. A dedicated medical team with ambulance has been stationed at all centres. After completion of the EVM counting, the mandatory counting of the printed paper slips of five randomly selected VVPATs to cross-verify with the EVM count will be taken up, Chief Electoral Officer Shurbir Singh said. The EVMs of 12 constituencies will be completed first by 2 p.m. — Mannadipet, Mangalam, Kathirkamam, Kamaraj Nagar, Lawspet, Oupalam, Nellithope and Embalam (in Puducherry), while the counting will take place concurrently for Nedungadu and Karaikal North (in Karaikal), Mahe and Yanam. The next batch of EVMs from the 10 segments will be completed by 6 p.m. — Thirubhuvanai, Villianur, Indira Nagar, Muthialpet, Kalapet, Orleanpet, Ariankuppam and Nettapakkam (in Puducherry), and Thirunallar and Karaikal South (in Karaikal). The final batch of eight constituencies will be Ossudu, Oulgaret, Thattanchavady, Raj Bhavan, Mudaliarpet, Manavely and Bahour (in Puducherry) and Neravy TR Pattinam (in Karaikal).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-all-set-for-vote-count/article34461586.ece
02 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination for those above 18 put on hold in U.T.||The Union Territory has put on hold the programme to deliver COVID-19 vaccination for everyone above 18 years of age due to non-availability of vaccines. A top Health Department official said the administration was yet to receive stocks against its indent for an estimated six lakh vaccines for the 18-44 age group. “We had requested the Centre for a first consignment of two lakh vaccines for May and another four lakh for June but are waiting for stocks to be released,” the official said. 45 and above segment There is however adequate stock to sustain the vaccination programme for the 45 and above segment. The Health Department has in stock about 1.50 lakh vaccines of Covishield to cover first-timers as well as administer the second dose to those who have taken their first shot, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-for-those-above-18-put-on-hold-in-ut/article34461568.ece
02 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mangoes seized||Officials from Food Safety Department seized about 1.7 tonnes of artificially ripened mangoes from a godown here on Saturday. Based on a tip-off to R. Kathiravan, Designated Officer, Food Safety, officials Suruli, Arokiya Prabhu, Muthuraj and Sivalingam raided the godown in Mettupatti and seized the mangoes worth Rs. 1.4 lakh. A case would be registered against trader A.Venkateshan, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mangoes-seized/article34461622.ece
02 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. collects Rs. 2.03 lakh as fine for COVID-19 safety violations||Salem Corporation has collected Rs. 2.03 lakh as fine in two days for violation of COVID-19 safety protocols issued by the State government. According to a release, in past two days, Corporation officials have fined about 166 persons for travelling in public sans masks, 81 small businesses were fined Rs. 500 for not ensuring physical distancing among customers, 22 industries were fined to the tune of Rs. 5,000 each and two textile showrooms were fined Rs. 10,000 each for violating COVID-19 protocols. The officials said special teams had been formed to monitor adherence to safety protocols and stern action would be taken against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-collects-rs-203-lakh-as-fine-for-covid-19-safety-violations/article34461625.ece
02 May 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Close to 2,000 police personnel to be deployed in Salem||Close to 2,000 police personnel will be deployed for security purposes on counting day in Salem and police personnel conducted final drill at the counting centres on Saturday. There are four counting centres in Salem district, at Karuppur, Ammapet, Thalaivasal and Sankari. While Ammapet and Karuppur centres will be under the surveillance of Salem City police, Thalaivasal and Sankari centre will be monitored by the Salem district police. All precautionary measures had been taken at the counting centres to ensure smooth conduct of the counting process, police officials said. Collector S.A. Raman conducted randomisation of counting personnel on Friday and they were allotted respective constituencies. Including reserve strength, 198 counting observers, 198 counting assistants and 198 micro-observers had been deployed. As many as 2,190 personnel would be deployed for counting duty including assistants who would bring voting machines from strong rooms to tables. With 14 tables in each of the 11 counting halls, 154 tables would be arranged. Deputy Police Commissioner M. Chandrashekaran said, “as instructed by City Police Commissioner Santosh Kumar, the centres have been properly barricaded. Two entries have been designated at the counting centres for respective constituencies. As many as 376 police personnel and 72 Central Armed Forces personnel will be deployed at Karuppur centre and 372 personnel including central forces at Ammapet. Around 700 personnel will be deployed at various parts of the city as part of security centres and to conduct necessary checks.” He added that majority of the force had taken two doses of vaccination. In Salem rural limits, Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said about 700 police personnel would be deployed at both the centres and all personnel had been vaccinated. In Namakkal district, about 500 staff would be involved in the counting process for the six constituencies in the district at a private college. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said about 400 police personnel including Central Armed Forces would be deployed at the centre. About 50 personnel would be deployed outside the centre to manage traffic and other security purposes. All police personnel would be provided with security gear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/close-to-2000-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-in-salem/article34461628.ece
02 May 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Health teams to ensure adherence to safety protocols||Personnel from health department will be deployed at the counting centres to ensure adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols on counting day. In Salem, a 200-member health team would be deployed at the four counting centres. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services said health department staff would be present at the entrance to check the temperature of counting agents and staff and sanitiser would be provided. Health officials said the counting hall would be disinfected periodically and measures had been taken to ensure physical distancing among counting agents. Election officials said PPE kits had been provided to counting agents. Each counting centre had been provided with four LED screens to prevent crowding of agents. About 50,000 masks, and 10,000 face shields, PPE kits and 100 ml hand sanitisers had been procured for distribution among counting staff and agents. In Namakkal, S. Somasundaram, Deputy Director of Health Services, said a 300-member team would be deployed at the centre, and counting agents and staff should produce RT-PCR negative reports or certificates of receiving two doses of vaccination. Three-ply masks, face shields, gloves, PPE kits and hand sanitisers had been procured for distribution among agents and counting staff. Officials said as many as 15,000 masks, 12,000 gloves and other safety equipment had been procured. Markings had been done to ensure physical distancing among agents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-teams-to-ensure-adherence-to-safety-protocols/article34461624.ece
02 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Tea stalls to be shut down||In a bid to contain the spread of COVID-19, the district administration has decided to suspend the operation of tea stalls with immediate effect, said Collector H Krishnanunni here on Saturday. With the virus spreading across the district, Health Department officials reviewed the situation for the past one week. It was found that 171 tea shops had violated the COVID-19 norms and action was taken against those shopkeepers. It was also decided to shut down all tea stalls temporarily. They will be allowed to resume business once the situation improved.  As swimming or bathing in rivers and other waterbodies had been banned, parents would be held responsible if their children were spotted there. As many as 930 people were fined on Saturday alone for not wearing face masks, he said. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district saw a steep increase in number of fresh COVID-19 positive cases of 405 on Saturday. This is the highest single-day jump this year. Hitherto, the highest 24-hour jump was 297, registered in April. After 129 patients were discharged from the hospital, the number of active cases went up to 1,825. The district has registered 20,340 positive cases out of which 18,274 have been discharged. Till now, 241 patients have succumbed. In April alone, Virudhunagar district saw as many as 3,023 positive cases and 1,515 persons were discharged and nine patients died without responding to treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-stalls-to-be-shut-down/article34461565.ece
02 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Third phase of vaccination fails to take off on day one||Many in the 18-45 age group on Saturday returned disappointed from immunisation centres in Tiruchi due to non-availability of COVID-19 vaccines. The delay in phase three of the vaccination drive was due to shortage in supply. At Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, the biggest vaccination centre in Tiruchi district, at least 20 people were turned away and asked to come only when the State government made the next announcement on the third drive. “Many demanded that they be administered a shot. Although there is some stock, we have been asked to reserve it for those over 45-years-old, especially for people getting the second dose,” a vaccinator at Tiruchi GH said. R. Sathish, a 26-year-old working at an IT firm in the city, was one of the many who returned home disappointed. “I registered on CoWin portal on April 28 and hoped that I would get the first shot today, but it looks like I have to wait a little longer,” he said. A 42-year-old man, who had also hoped to get the vaccine shot, said he waited for his turn anxiously. “The authorities are saying that people between 18 and 45 years of age are falling severely ill with the new COVID-19 strain, but we are made to wait for our turn. How long will it take for us to be safe?” he asked. At Tiruchi MGMGH, 1,200 doses of Covishield and 700 doses of Covaxin were available. The doses would last another two days, senior officials at the hospital said. Official sources said the district had a stock of 16,000 vaccine doses and around 14,000 was Covishield. “But it cannot be used during the third phase as the policy has changed. The Central government procured these vaccines from suppliers and it can only be utilised for healthcare and frontline workers and people over the age of 45. Now, the State government has to procure supply for those between 18 and 45 and that is taking time,” said senior officials. The district authorities also took stock back from private hospitals, as they must procure the vaccine directly from suppliers, according to the new norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/third-phase-of-vaccination-fails-to-take-off-on-day-one/article34461554.ece
02 May 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||All arrangements put in place for counting of votes||All arrangements have been put in place for counting of votes polled in the five Assembly segments of the district on April 6. After polling ended on April 6, the Electronic Voting Machines were kept in the strong rooms in Government College of Engineering on Tirunelveli – Nagercoil Highway where 3-tier security arrangement has been put in place. Moreover, CCTV cameras have been installed in and outside the strong rooms and in and around the Government College of Engineering. Watch towers have been erected at vantage points around the counting centre where armed policemen with binoculars have been posted round-the-clock.  Strict norms Police personnel, officials to be involved in counting of votes, agents of the candidates and the reporters have been screened for COVID-19 as only those who carry the COVID-19 negative certificate or who had taken the two doses of the vaccines at the right interval alone will be allowed to enter the counting centre with masks and after producing the identity cards issued by the Election Commission of India from 6 a.m. After many of the agents tested positive, the candidates had to look for alternative arrangements in the eleventh hour so as to ensure the presence of their agents in the counting hall. Police Commissioner, Tirunelveli City, T. S. Anbu, said vehicular traffic on the small stretch between Anna University Regional Office and Tuckerammalpuram check-post will be stopped till the end of the counting of votes on May 1. Vehicles associated with the elections and essential services alone will be allowed to pass the stretch. While government officials and the police will be allowed to park their vehicles on Anna University Regional Office premises, others should park their vehicles on the ground opposite the Anna University Regional Office premises, the Police Commissioner said. The winning candidate along with only two persons will be allowed to enter the counting centre to receive the ‘winner’s certificate’ and no victory celebration will be allowed anywhere. “Even though the people coming to the counting centre carry the COVID-19 negative certificate, those who are suffering from severe cold and having abnormal body temperature will not be allowed to enter the counting centre, where physical distancing should be strictly followed. Those who dare to defy the instructions of the policemen deployed in and around the counting centre will be detained under the National Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code,” Mr. Anbu warned. Similar arrangements have been made in the counting centres at – Government Engineering College in Thoothukudi on VOC College premises, USP Polytechnic College at Kodikurichi near Tenkasi and Government Engineering College at Konam in Nagercoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-arrangements-put-in-place-for-counting-of-votes/article34462299.ece
02 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur district receives 3,900 vaccine doses||Tiruppur district received only 3,900 anti-COVID-19 vaccine doses on Saturday as the vaccination drive for 18-44 years age group was deferred due to vaccine shortage, according to officials in the Health Department. The 3,900 Covishield doses that arrived at the Office of the Deputy Director of Health Services in Tiruppur Corporation limits on Saturday were distributed only among the 130 government vaccination centres across the district and not among the 30 private centres. The preference for the administration of these doses would be given to the beneficiaries above 45 years in need of the second dose of Covishield, the officials said. The available vaccine doses were expected to be exhausted by Monday, by which additional doses would likely be made available by the Health Department to the district. Six UPHC Meanwhile, Tiruppur Corporation said that it would administer vaccines only at six urban primary health centres (UPHC). The vaccination hubs are T.S.K UPHC at Tiruppur-Avinashi Road, 15 Velampalayam UPHC at Anupparpalayam, Nesavalar Colony UPHC at Perumanallur Road, L.R.G.R UPHC at Uthukuli Road, Kovilvazhi UPHC at Dharapuram Road and Sundamedu UPHC on Mangalam Road, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-district-receives-3900-vaccine-doses/article34462108.ece
02 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder||A 30-year-old man has been arrested for murdering his roommateat Pandian Nagar. The accused identified as Rajkumar allegedly had an altercation with Chinraj regarding consumption of liquor, following which Rajkumar allegedly stabbed Chinraj in the neck late on Friday. Based on the complaint of other roommates, the police registered a case against Rajkumar and remanded him in judicial custody. Woman dies A woman, who allegedly poisoned her two daughters and consumed rat poison to die by suicide near Palladam in Tiruppur district on April 28, died on Saturday morning. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder/article34462111.ece
02 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||600 security personnel deployed at counting centre in Tiruppur||The district administration completed the arrangements at the counting centre in L.R.G Government Arts College for Women in Tiruppur on Saturday for the counting of votes polled in the eight Assembly constituencies in the district on Sunday. District Election Officer and Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inspected the counting centre on Palladam Road on Saturday. At the counting centre, 14 tables for counting of electronic voting machines (EVM) votes and two tables for counting of postal votes have been allocated for each of the constituency. All these 128 tables will have CCTV cameras to monitor the counting process, according to election officials. A total of 243 rounds of counting were proposed for all the eight Assembly constituencies, with Palladam constituency having the maximum number of rounds (40) and Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency the least number of rounds (26). The counting would likely be completed before midnight, the officials noted. Over 3,000 persons, including counting personnel, election officials, agents of political parties, candidates, security personnel and mediapersons would be present inside the counting centre on Sunday. Only those who have tested negative for COVID-19 would be allowed to enter the counting centre. Masks and face shields would be made mandatory to all inside the counting centre and the tables were arranged to ensure adequate personal distancing as per the COVID-19 safety protocol, officials said. A team of 10 staff members from Health Department would be available per Assembly constituency to monitor the adherence to the safety protocol, officials said. Sources in Tiruppur City Police said that 600 security personnel comprising three companies of Border Security Force (paramilitary personnel), 150 personnel of Tamil Nadu Special Force and personnel from Home Guards, Armed Reserve and city police would be present at the counting centre. The Assembly election was held on April 6 at 3,343 polling stations in Dharapuram (Reserved), Kangeyam, Avinashi (Reserved), Tiruppur North, Tiruppur South, Palladam, Udumalpet and Madathukulam. A total of 137 candidates were in the fray in these constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/600-security-personnel-deployed-at-counting-centre-in-tiruppur/article34462110.ece
02 May 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||442 cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 27,294 with 442 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 24,420 people have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 2,488. The death toll is 386. In Ranipet district, 217 cases were reported and the total stood at 20,921. In Tirupathur district, 151 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 10,204. In Tiruvannamalai district, 187 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 24,024. Of these, 21,907 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 1,813.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/442-cases-in-vellore/article34462264.ece
02 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements in place at counting centres in districts||The stage is set for counting of votes on Sunday morning for seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district, the outcome of which will decide the fate of 149 candidates in the fray. The process will start at 8 a.m. with counting of postal votes in seven halls by the counting staff in the presence of Assistant Returning Officer and counting agents. After a gap of 30 minutes, counting of votes from the control units of 2,370 electronic voting machines will be taken up. General Observers for each of the Assembly constituencies – Rajapalayam, Srivilliputtur, Sattur, Sivakasi, Virudhunagar, Aruppukottai and Tiruchuli – will be present in the respective counting halls. General Observers, along with Collector and District Election Officer R. Kannan, inspected the arrangements made at the counting halls. After a stringent protocol issued by the Election Commission, the district administration has made it mandatory for all candidates, their agents, counting staff, officials and media persons to get a negative RT-PCR test report or certificate of having taken both doses of COVID-19 vaccine. A total of 93 persons, including agents, staff and media persons, tested positive after they gave their swab samples at special camps held on Thursday and Friday. Replacements will be arranged for those agents and officials who have tested positive. The Election Commission has ordered disinfection of the counting halls after every three rounds. Similarly, every alternative counting agent should wear personal protective equipment kit. Meanwhile, a statement said that no vehicles would be allowed within 100 metres radius of the counting centre. Entry will be allowed only after thermal scanning. Medical teams will be deployed at the counting centres. The counting agents for Rajapalayam, Srivilliputtur and Sivakasi should go through the entrance of Sri Vidhya Arts and Science College and for the remaining four constituencies, the entry is through Sri Vidhya College for Engineering and Technology. Agents for postal vote counting can go though Alagapuri Road entrance. Vehicles can be parked on the VVV College of Nursing premises. While the contest is between the ruling AIADMK alliance and DMK-led front, parties like Amma Munnetra Kazhagam, Naam Tamilar and Makkal Needhi Maiam have made it a multi-cornered contest. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy had travelled across the district and DMK leader M. K. Stalin had an election meeting at Rajapalayam. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and State leaders of alliance parties had also come to the district and campaigned for their fronts. Prominent candidates are Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji (Rajapalayam), sitting MLAs K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran (Aruppukottai), Thangam Thennarasu (Tiruchuli), A. R. R. Seenivasan (Virudhunagar) and S. Thangapandian (Rajapalayam) - all DMK, and M. S. R. Rajavarman (AMMK). Former Minister Vaigaichelvam and former MLA K.K. Sivasamy are also back in the fray. Congress candidate P. S. W. Madhava Rao, who was admitted to hospital for COVID-19, succumbed after the polling. Dindigul Dindigul Collector and District Election Officer M. Vijayalakshmi and Deputy Inspector General of Police M.S. Muthusamy inspected the counting centre on Anna University Engineering College campus. Votes of all the seven Assembly constituency in the district - Palani, Oddanchatram, Athur, Nilakottai, Natham, Dindigul and Vedasandur - will be counted at this centre. Agents must surrender their mobile phones with the chief counting agent. The strong room would be opened in the presence of candidates and the counting agents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-in-place-at-counting-centres-in-districts/article34461602.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||All set for counting of votes today||The stage is set for counting of votes polled in the Assembly election in the region. Tiruchi Collector-cum-District Election Officer S. Divyadarshini said arrangements were in place at all four centres for counting of votes polled in nine constituencies of the district. While votes polled in Tiruchi (East) and TiruchI (West) would be counted at Jamal Mohamed College in TiruchI, Saranathan College of Engineering at Panjappur would be the centre for counting of votes polled in Srirangam, Manapparai and Thiruverumbur seats. The votes polled in Lalgudi and Mannachanallur constituencies would be counted at K. Ramakrishnan College of Engineering near Samayapuram. Imayam College of Engineering would be the centre for counting of votes polled in Thuraiyur and Musiri constituencies. Strong rooms, where EVMs were kept, would be opened in the presence of agents of candidates. Fourteen tables had been set up at the counting centres. Ms. Divyadarshini said counting of postal ballots would be taken up at 8 a.m. followed by EVMs. Each table would have a supervisor, an assistant and a micro-observer. Counting of votes would be undertaken in the presence of agents of candidates, who should come to the centre before 7 a.m. She said 3,562 personnel had been drafted for counting duty. A total of 2,352 agents of candidates were expected to participate in the process. They had been clearly instructed to carry COVID-19 negative certificates. They would not be allowed to enter counting centres if they failed to produce the negative certificates. Those found with high body temperature would not be allowed inside. The Collector said personnel,who were drafted for counting, had been asked to report for duty at 5 a.m. They would come to know the tables allotted to them after randomisation. Early trends would be known around noon. Arrangements had been made to announce the lead position at the end of every round. Karur Collector Prashant M. Wadnere said agents would not be allowed to carry mobile phones, laptops and other electronic gadgets inside the counting hall. They could bring calculator. Lead position would be announced after completion of each round. Chances were bright for announcement of results in the evening. All arrangements had been made at M. Kumarasamy College of Engineering, where the votes polled in Karur, Krishnarayapuram, Kulithalai and Aravakurichi constituencies would be counted. Candidates were clearly instructed not to resort to celebration in any form in view of spread of COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-today/article34461549.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 521 new cases||As many as 521 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 318 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. As per the bulletin, 14 persons died of the disease in Salem. In Namakkal, 258 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Erode reported 378 new cases on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 21,617. While 357 persons were discharged, 3,214 persons continue to be under treatment. Five persons died, taking the toll to 166. Krishnagiri reported 423 fresh cases and one death. The number of active cases stood at 3,149 and the total number of cases 14,944 in the district. As many as 422 persons were discharged on Saturday. Dharmapuri saw 175 new cases, and 165 discharges. The total number of active cases was 1,234. As of date, a total of 9,668 cases were reported in the district. In Coimbatore, a total of 1,257 persons tested positive on Saturday, the highest daily caseload reported so far in the district. The district had 7,288 active cases of the disease, according to the Health Department. According to the Department, 913 persons were discharged on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-521-new-cases/article34461617.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate on rapid rise with 1,897 new cases reported in central region||The central region reported 1,897 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, the highest so far since the outbreak of the pandemic. Tiruchi and Thanjavur district both reported the highest single-day spikes with 528 and 492 patients respectively testing positive. Eight deaths were reported in the region — five in Tiruchi and one each in Karur, Thanjavur, and Tiruvarur. Men aged 60 and 40 years, both with no pre-existing ailments, and women aged 59 and 57 years, both suffering from hypertension and diabetes, succumbed to COVID-19 in Tiruchi. A 60-year-old woman with a history of diabetes from Karur, a 52-year-old man from Thanjavur suffering from coronary artery disease and a 55-year-old man from Tiruvarur also died of the viral infection. Tiruchi district saw 528 patients test positive, the highest number so far. Five among the officials deployed for election duty at counting centres on Sunday tested positive. Among them was a junior assistant in Tiruchi East, a village assistant in Tiruverumbur and a village administrative officer in Thuraiyur taluk. Collector S. Divyadharshini said manpower had been deployed adequatelyto ensure smooth process at the counting centres. Meanwhile, Thanjavur reported a further spike compared to the previous days with 492 fresh cases. Nagapattinam recorded a slight spike with 233 patients testing positive, while Tiruvarur reported 224 and Karur 175. Pudukottai district reported 164 fresh cases. Perambalur district reported a sudden increase in COVID-19 cases with 43 patients testing positive on Saturday, while Ariyalur recorded 38 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-on-rapid-rise-with-1897-new-cases-reported-in-central-region/article34461555.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 1,257 fresh cases||A total of 1,257 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday, the highest daily caseload reported so far in the district. The district had 7,288 active cases of the disease, according to the Health Department. According to the Department, 913 persons got discharged from treatment centres on Saturday. The district’s death toll reached 723 after a 63-year-old woman died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Thursday. Tiruppur district’s daily caseload saw a slight increase on Saturday with the reporting of 438 new cases, which took the tally to 26,850 cases. The Health Department did not report any new deaths as the toll remained at 239. This is the second consecutive day that the district’s daily caseload remained above 400-mark as 423 cases were reported on Friday. As many as 3,168 patients were active cases and 23,443 patients have recovered so far in Tiruppur district. On Saturday, 305 patients were discharged from various treatment centres. For Tiruppur district, the vacancies of beds in government and private hospitals were 47% and the beds in government and private COVID-19 care centres were 59%, according to the Health Department. In the Nilgiris, 63 people tested positive on Saturday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 9,910. The number of deaths stood at 51 on Saturday while 418 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-1257-fresh-cases/article34462114.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chithirai car festival begins in Srirangam||The 11-day Chithirai car festival of Ranganathaswami Temple in Srirangam began with the hoisting of holy flag on Saturday. Since the temple was closed due to spread of COVID-19 infection, only temple administrators and priests took part in the ceremony. However, all pujas and rituals associated with the ceremony were performed. S. Marimuthu, Joint Commissioner-cum-Executive Officer of the temple, said pulling of Chithirai car event would be held on May 9. However, due to COVID-19 restrictions, it would be held inside the temple. Arrangements had been made to livestream the important events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chithirai-car-festival-begins-in-srirangam/article34461551.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||May Day celebrations subdued||Members of trade unions celebrated May Day by hoisting their organisation flags at industrial townships of BHEL, Ordnance Factory, High Energy Projectile Factory and Golden Rock Railway Workshop on Saturday. The events were held in a subdued manner in view of the severity of the second wave of COVID-19 infection. Tiruverumbur MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi joined employees of BHEL affiliated to Thozhilalar Munnetra Sangam in the celebration. Mr. Mahesh addressed the gathering and distributed sweets. Members of CPI(M) and Democratic Youth Federation of India celebrated the day by hoisting their party flags at their homes in Gandhi Nagar and Selvapuram in Tiruverumbur area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/may-day-celebrations-subdued/article34461557.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thanks to copious rain, cotton research station’s test with pisciculture successful||The Cotton Research Station at Veppanthattai in the district, affiliated to Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, has successfully reared fish in its farm ponds to demonstrate scope for income augmentation for farmers. The bountiful rainfall of 1,160 mm in the district in 2020, which was 45% more than the normal level, helped in use of harvested water for multiple purposes including raising of short-duration additional crops and pisciculture. Multiple-Use of Harvested Rain Water (MUHRW) was an innovative approach for poverty reduction and enhancing water productivity in dry lands, said S. Somasundaram, Associate Professor and Head of Cotton Research Station. After harvest of cotton crop, the mainstay in the region, short-term additional crops such as chickpea and cowpea were raised with the harvested water alongside pisciculture. K. Sakthivel, Assistant Professor (Plant Breeding and Genetics), said fingerlings of catla, roghu, mirgal, silver crap and grass carp that were let into the farm pond during October 2020 were harvested last month. The success in fish production had prompted farmers to try it out in the coming season in their farm ponds, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanks-to-copious-rain-cotton-research-stations-test-with-pisciculture-successful/article34461559.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Recreating offline audience experience||TEDxNITTrichy has recreated its trademark offline audience experience through ‘Fractals 2021’, the first-ever virtual edition at National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi. Starting off with an open quiz in commemoration of World Heritage Day, the recent event spanning four hours was replete with audience activities. Ajit Padmanabh, CEO of WhoVR, spoke about reigniting interest in heritage using the power of cutting-edge tech with his own VR-enabled tours of temples as well as a virtual music concert. Prasanna Agoram, cricket analyst, spoke about the importance of data in sport, chronicling his journey from humble beginnings to Team Proteas and beyond. Both engaged in a robust question and answer session with an enthusiastic audience. A short icebreaker activity allowed the diverse audience to get to know each other as they progressed through the event. The next speaker, Umesh Malhotra, co-founder of Hippocampus, spoke about how tailored learning solutions for children could bring about an educational revolution. Vimal Chandran, visual artist, spoke about the effective power of art, especially in the digital age, while demonstrating some of his hard-hitting commentary presented through art. Speakers from the Goa-based Edible Archives threw light on conscientious, community-driven businesses in the context of restaurants. The final speaker, Arivarasu Kalainesan, also known as Arivu, of Enjoy Enjaami fame, appealed to the audience to understand the power of art in bringing about social change. Addressing the valedictory session, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said there was a need for such community events in trying times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recreating-offline-audience-experience/article34461560.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Summer is here||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/summer-is-here/article34462105.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Poll prep||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-prep/article34462263.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Queuing for care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/queuing-for-care/article34461577.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trust to promote organic farming||The National Centre for Organic Farming has approved the Prithivi Indigenous Natural Farmers Trust, Aadhirengam, in Thiruthuraipoondi taluk to function as Regional Council (RC) under the PGS-India programme to promote organic farming. The NCOF, functioning under the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare of the Union Government, is implementing the PGS-India (Participatory Guarantee System of India) programme, which is a quality assurance initiative that is locally relevant and emphasises the participation of producers and consumers of organic farming products. The RCs formed under the programme will act as agencies to facilitate capacity-building, training, knowledge/technology dissemination among local farming groups. The Prithivi Indigenous Natural Farmers Trust, formed by Aadhirengam Nel Jayaraman Traditional Paddy Protection Centre, will function as RC of the PGS-India programme and also facilitate marketing of organic produce within and outside the country. Interested farmers can avail further information by dialling 88256-46196 or 94433-20954, according to a PINFT release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trust-to-promote-organic-farming/article34461547.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The king of fruits is here||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-king-of-fruits-is-here/article34461563.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Even people in older age group turned away||With mixed messages on vaccine availability from the State government, 40-year-old Raju S. was not sure if he would actually get his first shot when he decided to visit a vaccination camp organised by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) at Medahalli Government School, near K.R. Puram, on Saturday. But when he arrived, he found only around 10 people waiting in line to get their first shot of the COVID-19 vaccine. With no one in the above 45 years category, the staff at the camp decided to vaccinate him and others who fell in the 18 to 44 years category. Tepid start Unlike Mr. Raju, many citizens, even those in the older age groups, were unable to find vaccination centres that had stock. On the first day of a tepid start to the fourth phase of the vaccination drive, vaccines were in short supply at government-run and private centres. Only 19,602 doses across all age groups were administered in government hospitals and primary health centres on Saturday as against the daily average of over 40,000. Shridhar Murthy (name changed), a 61-year-old resident of Nandini Layout, who was due for the second dose, visited at least three Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) in Nandini Layout, Mahalakshmi Layout, and Rajajinagar on Saturday only to be told that he would have to return another day as there were no vaccines available. Several UPHCs in the city had put up print-outs reading ‘COVID-19 vaccine no stock’ . Some UPHCs maintained minimal stock for those whose second dose is due. According to a staffer at the Jalahalli UPHC, there were just five vials in stock. Rudresh L.T., who works in the UPHC at Agrahara Dasarahalli, said there was no stock. “We do not know when we will get the next consignment,” he said. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu that the State government had already placed an indent for vaccines from pharmaceutical companies. “Till such a time when vaccines are distributed to the BBMP, we will have to make do with the existing stock. Based on the demand, the existing stock is being distributed to the UPHCs,” he said. Crunch in pvt. hospitals It was a similar situation at private hospitals which have returned their existing stock to the BBMP. A senior civic health official said they received around 3,000 doses from private hospitals. Prasanna H.M., president of PHANA, said: “There is no clarity on when we will get vaccines as the private supply channel is yet to be defined. Even suppliers of vaccines for polio and other infections do not have any idea.” He said he would write to the government urging them to supply vaccines to private hospitals through the supply chain that has already been established. “Everybody has the right to health and there should be no discrimination. Let the government provide vaccines to private hospitals as well,” he said, and added that if the State does not respond favourably, PHANA would file an affidavit before the Karnataka High Court on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/even-people-in-older-age-group-turned-away/article34462086.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Active cases cross 4 lakh mark; over 92% reported in April alone||The COVID-19 pandemic that is spinning out of control in the State has resulted in an enormous burden on the creaking healthcare infrastructure, with active cases surging. From 2,62,162 active cases on April 25, the number of active cases crossed four lakh and touched 4,05,068 on Saturday. This is more than a three-fold rise than the highest active cases (1,20,270) reported last October during the first outbreak. Indicating that the active caseload in the State has exploded beyond expectations, as many as 1,20,528 active cases have been added in the last five days alone. Over 92% (3,74,203) of the total active caseload was reported in the last one month alone. Overwhelming With 2,70,993 active cases, Bengaluru alone has nearly 70% of the total active caseload in the State. With active cases continuing to surge, COVID-19 experts warned of a massive rise in deaths, as hospitals, especially in Bengaluru, are overwhelmed with the surging cases. Giridhar R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said active cases are bound to surge as the test positivity rate (TPR) is increasing rapidly. Asserting that we are still two weeks away from the peak, Dr. Babu said the cases we are seeing now are a result of the transmission that happened 7 to 14 days ago. The impact of the janata curfew (the partial lockdown that is in place now) can be seen only after the next two weeks, he said. Pointing out that cases may start reducing two weeks into the partial lockdown, Dr. Babu said: “That does not mean we can reopen everything in one go. The existing restrictions should be well implemented and if possible there should be a total lockdown in the coming days with very few relaxations. That is what was done in Maharashtra.” He said there is a lag time in surge in cases and surge in deaths. “The deaths reported on a particular day are pertaining to critical cases that went to ICUs 14 days ago,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer of labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said it would be advisable to continue the restrictions for another week if the partial lockdown yields significant results by the end of next week. “This is essential to sustain the prevention of spread and give some more breathing time to hospitals and the healthcare system,” he said. Effect after 10 days Another TAC member V. Ravi, who is also the nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said it will be foolish to conclude that cases are surging despite the lockdown. “The effects can be seen only after 10-12 days. Let’s wait and watch,” he said. Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said nearly 90% of the total active cases are under home isolation. “As the surge is being reported from across the State, we are now admitting only those who require oxygen. We are preparing to further expand facilities and ensure no patient in need of hospitalisation is denied treatment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/active-cases-cross-4-lakh-mark-over-92-reported-in-april-alone/article34461660.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Furnaces in electric crematoria are breaking down||It’s not just the city’s health infrastructure that is straining under the sheer volume of COVID-19 cases. Unable to bear the daily load of bodies, furnaces in Bengaluru’s 12 electric crematoria, which are functioning beyond their capacity, are breaking down. In the last week alone, three furnaces in Kudlu and Mysuru Road crematoria broke down. They are up and running again, but it is evident that they are not enough to cope with the death toll. More furnaces are on the verge of breakdown, said civic officials. This has spurred the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Pakile (BBMP) to start mass burning in open crematoria using firewood. Images of multiple pyres burning simultaneously, similar to those from Delhi, depict the extent to which the country’s IT capital is ravaged by the pandemic. Not enough The makeshift crematorium at Tavarekere, which started operating earlier this week, has the capacity to cremate 26 bodies at once But that too is not enough. Another makeshift crematorium is coming up at the Mavallipura landfill, where the civic body is working towards building a capacity to cremate 50 bodies at a time. “These open crematoria will decongest the electric ones in the city. This way, people need not have to wait in long queues. We cannot build electric crematoria at such a short notice and hence this is the only way out,” said Sarfaraz Khan, BBMP Joint Commissioner who is overseeing cremations in the city. Each of the 12 crematoria in the city has two furnaces that can burn up to five bodies a day, say civic officials. Even as the official death toll for the city — 137 on Wednesday, 143 on Thursday, and 93 on Friday — suggests the capacity is enough, but the ground reality seems entirely different. Somashekhar, whose young relative died of COVID-19 recently, said he had to wait for two days at a city crematorium to conduct the last rites.“The body was kept on a pavement in the crematorium for an entire night. There were so many ambulances and bodies, with many quarrels over jumping the queue erupting often,” he recounted his ordeal. Civic officials acknowledge the fact that crematoria are getting more bodies than the official death toll. They attribute it to gaps in the BBMP’s ability to capture deaths outside the hospital system and those who have tested negative but have the infection and the glut of bodies at crematoria from neighbouring districts.     These open crematoria will decongest the electric ones in the city. This way, people need not have to wait in long queues. We cannot build electric crematoria at such a short notice and hence this is the only way out. Sarfaraz Khan,BBMP Joint Commissioner overseeing cremations in the city||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/furnaces-in-electric-crematoria-are-breaking-down/article34462075.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPCC president accuses legislators, BJP MP of taking boxes of Remdesivir||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday alleged that despite the country facing a severe shortage of drugs related to COVID-19, legislators and an MP belonging to the ruling BJP in Karnataka have been taking boxes of antiviral Remdesivir drug. He demanded action against them. “Who gave permission to the BJP MP and legislators to collect Remdesivir injections in boxes? Are they hospital owners? Do they have drug licenses?” he asked, without naming the people. Addressing presspersons here at the party office, the Congress leader lashed out at the manner in which the pandemic was being handled in the State and said: “When we requested for Remdesivir, they said only drug-license holders can purchase it.” Urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to look into the matter, the KPCC president demanded action against the MP. Earlier, Mr. Shivakumar had alleged that hospitals run by the Congress leaders had been denied oxygen supply and Remdesivir. Helpline launched Following delay in availing ambulance services to COVID-19 patients, the KPCC on Saturday launched an ambulance service in the city. Mr. Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and senior leaders flagged off 10 ambulances at the party office. The party has set up a helpline and has received more than 3,000 calls. Volunteers have helped over 100 patients to get admitted to hospitals in Bengaluru. The helpline numbers are: 7204527379 and 9986926365. He said a helpline would be started in all districts. Efforts were being made to reach out to needy patients across the State. The party’s central leaders have been watching the work done by the State unit, he said. Mr. Shivakumar said a social media war room had been set up at the party office by appointing social media warriors. Any person who was committed to the Congress principles can become a social media warrior, he said. If any student or youth wants to become a social media warrior, he or she can give a missed call to 1800120000044 or WhatsApp call to 7574000525, Mr. Shivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-president-accuses-legislators-bjp-mp-of-taking-boxes-of-remdesivir/article34461657.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Final-year medical, nursing, AYUSH students to be roped in||The State government has decided to rope in final-year MBBS and nursing students for treating COVID-19 patients, by giving them grace marks, incentives, and postponing examinations. With the government finding it difficult to handle the pandemic following crumbling State health infrastructure and shortage of medical personnel, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday chaired a meeting with heads of top corporate hospitals in Bengaluru and decided to take services of final-year students of MBBS, nursing, pharmacy, physiotherapy, AYUSH, dental, and hospital management courses for treating COVID-19 patients. On a priority, it was decided to vaccinate students before utilising their services in hospitals. Services of doctors, who have graduated in foreign universities, will also be utilised by registering their names in the Karnataka Medical Council, said sources in the Chief Minister’s Office. A couple of days ago, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had suggested to the government on involving final-year medical students under the supervision of experienced doctors. Following the suggestions from experts in the field of medicine and hospital management, it was decided to set up oxygenated beds by converting hotels as step down COVID-19 hospitals by utilising oxygen concentrators, and transforming centralised oxygenation system beds into ICU beds. To provide beds to symptomatic patients, all asymptomatic patients would be discharged from hospitals and asked to undergo home isolation by strengthening tele-medicine. All medical college hostel beds would be upgraded to oxygenated beds. The government has decided to provide financial support to establish oxygen generation plants in private medical colleges. To prepare for 3rd wave To check and control a third wave of the pandemic, the meeting decided to constitute an expert committee to provide suggestions to the government. Other decisions taken at the meeting included conducting audit of Remdesivir, speeding up of vaccinations, increasing incentives to doctors, and meeting expenses by the government in case of doctors involved in treating COVID-19 patients. Cardiac surgeon Devi Prasad Shetty, M.S. Ramaiah Hospital chairman M.R. Jayaram, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Health Minister K. Sudhakar, and senior officials attended the round-table meeting.  An expert group will be constituted to advise government on prevention and mitigation of possible third and future waves of infection. The pandemic is an unprecedented challenge to humanity and we have to defeat it together with confidence, compassion and collaboration. B.S. Yediyurappa on Twitter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/final-year-medical-nursing-ayush-students-to-be-roped-in/article34461655.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||40,990 new cases, 271 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 40,990 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 15,64,132. Of these, 19,353 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 271 deaths, the toll rose to 15,794. This is apart from 20 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 18,341 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 11,43,250. The State now has 4,05,068 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 23.03%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.66%. As many as 1,77,982 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,64,703 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,57,74,973.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40990-new-cases-271-deaths/article34461662.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Patient, two relatives die in accident involving ambulance, trucks||In an accident that ultimately claimed the lives of three people, an ambulance burst into flames when it collided with a container truck. The driver lost control when a speeding truck rammed into the ambulance from behind while trying to overtake it. The incident took place Friday afternoon on the Bengaluru-Tumakuru highway near Nelamangala as the ambulance was transporting a 40-year-old woman with a neurological condition to NIMHANS. The woman along with two others succumbed to their injuries on Saturday. “All the six people would have been burnt alive, but a water tanker passing by came to their aid, and doused the flames before bystanders could pull the injured passengers from the mangled ambulance,” said a police officer. Eyewitnesses told the police that on impact, the ambulance overturned before catching fire. Passers-by watched helplessly as the vehicle burst into flames. “The people trapped in the ambulance had sustained multiple fractures and could not come out. We could hear them cry for help but could do nothing,” an eyewitness told the police. Prakash Kumar who was driving the water tanker was passing by in the opposite direction and heard the trapped family’s cries for help. He took a U-turn to reach the spot and locals poured water to control the fire. All six people were rescued and later shifted to Victoria Hospital. However, the patient, Hasina M. (41) from Sira Gate in Tumakuru and her relatives Chandini (24) and Saadiq (23) succumbed on Saturday. According to the police, Hasina was suffering from a neurological condition and had to be taken to NIMHANS for advanced treatment. Saadiq borrowed an ambulance from a mosque in Sira and asked his friend Sadiqh B., a driver by profession, to take them to Bengaluru. The injured have been identified as Salman (24) and Shabina Taj (30) and ambulance driver, Sadiqh B. ( 25), from Arekere are recovering in Victoria Hospital.The Nelamangala traffic policeare on the lookout for the truck driver and the container driver who are on the run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patient-two-relatives-die-in-accident-involving-ambulance-trucks/article34462083.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mavallipura residents oppose BBMP move to set up open crematorium||Residents of Mavallipura, who have been fighting the pollution caused by landfill for many years now, are opposing the upcoming open crematorium. Ramesh, one of the residents of the village leading the protests, said that while it was not respectful to cremate the dead in a garbage landfill, it would also further add to the pollution problems in a village already reeling from the adverse impacts of the landfill. “There is a High Court order directing the civic body to use the land only for biomining,” he said. Discarded PPE kits, billowing smoke from burning 50 bodies at once and the ash reaching the already polluted water table, are causes for concerns, he said. Residents of Nanjamba Agrahara, an area adjoining the crematorium at T.R. Mills where many bodies are being burnt using firewood, are also up in arms as they have to live with the constant fumes from the pyres. “We have to sit in houses closing all windows and doors to protect ourselves from billowing smoke,” a woman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mavallipura-residents-oppose-bbmp-move-to-set-up-open-crematorium/article34462076.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress criticises lack of clarity over vaccination||The Opposition Congress took the government to task on Saturday over the confusion on vaccination for 18-44 age group, with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Health Minister K. Sudhakar making contradictory statements on when vaccines will be available to all in this category. One Congress MLA and former Minister took to Twitter to ask who people should believe between the Chief Minister and Health Minister. “The Chief Minister says there is enough stock but the Health Minister says there isn’t. This is leaving people confused. Who is lying between the two,” he asked. Krishna Byre Gowda, another Congress MLA and former Minister, pointed out in a Facebook post, “Today morning Chief Minister of Karnataka B.S. Yediyurappa ‘inaugurated’ vaccination for 18-44 age. Reality is there are no vaccines for even above 45, leave alone 18-44.” He further said, “It’s unfortunate that this humanitarian tragedy does not come in the way of political stunts.” Meanwhile leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah held Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for the confusion. He said Mr. Modi, who promised youngsters vaccination from May 1, should take responsibility and apologise, considering that States are not ready with doses. He said in another tweet that Mr. Modi “himself should have reappeared on television to request youngsters to pardon him & ask to wait for few more days to get vaccinated. Instead, he is letting States to take the responsibility”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-criticises-lack-of-clarity-over-vaccination/article34462077.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP seeks Nasscom assistance||With COVID-19 cases on the rise, the BBMP, in its efforts to boost support infrastructure, held a discussion on Saturday with the National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom). The industry body expressed interest in setting up a 50-bed hospital and sought space from the civic body for the same, said BBMP Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta. “We are exploring this option,” he said. The meeting also discussed augmenting the technology systems, and the civic body sought help with increasing teleconsultation and triaging. “We also sought assistance with regard to oxygen devices. Even if we get 1,000 oxygen concentrators, it can support that many beds and many lives can be saved,” he said. The civic body also sought help in outreach programmes with support of NGOs. Earlier, interacting with RWAs, Mr. Gupta said that COVID-19 Care Centres could be opened with approval of zonal commissioners, in line with the guidelines of the State government. He said the health officers would visit the apartments to inspect if there is adequate space. BBMP’s Chief Health Officer Vijayendra said several RWAs, apartments owners’ associations, companies, and NGOs had evinced interest in setting up CCCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-seeks-nasscom-assistance/article34462078.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Revenue inspector, three others booked for property tax fraud||The Banashankari police have registered an FIR against a BBMP revenue inspector and three of his assistants for property tax fraud and cheating a businessman. The accused are revenue inspector Ramaiah H., revenue collector Srinivasa, and computer operators Pradeep and Manjunath from Yediyur ward. In 2018, Ramesh T., 45, a businessman from Banashankari 2nd Stage who owned a site on Anjaneya Road, Yediyur, went to the BBMP office to pay property tax dues. There, Ramaiah informed him that he had to pay Rs. 4 lakh for the period between 2010 and 2018. Mr. Ramesh paid the tax and obtained the receipt. On Thursday, Mr. Ramesh visited the BBMP ward office to pay property tax dues for three years from 2018 onwards . “The accused, however, told him that he had tax dues since 2010. When he showed them the receipt they had issued him three years ago, the accused claimed the receipts were fake. They denied issuing it to him,” said a senior police officer. According to the police, the accused had printed fake BBMP receipts to cheat citizens last year. “They had been arrested by the Jayanagar police last year in a similar case of fraud, but got bail,” said a senior police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revenue-inspector-three-others-booked-for-property-tax-fraud/article34462084.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals must display bed availability||With several COVID-19 patients finding it difficult to get beds in hospitals, the State government on Saturday directed all private hospitals to mandatorily display details on availability of beds, allocation, and availability of essential medicines. They have also been directed to establish help desk counters. The second wave has seen more people seeking beds, especially oxygenated beds, and there have multiple cases of people not being able to find them. Lack of a transparent bed allocation system in private hospitals is cited as one of the reasons. A notification, issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, directed all hospitals registered under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (KPME) to display on board at the reception counter the total number of beds available in the hospital, number of beds allocated for COVID-19 patients referred by BBMP, number of ICU beds, number of ICU beds with ventilators, beds with high flow of oxygen, and beds with regular flow of oxygen. The government had issued an order directing all private hospitals registered under KPME to allocate 50% of beds to COVID-19 patients. The data provided by hospitals must corroborate with the data of the central bed allocation system at the BBMP, the Chief Secretary said. The availability of essential medicines and provision of help desk in all hospitals should be provided. Similar arrangements should be made in all healthcare institutions in districts, the notification said. Non-compliance of the order would attract punishment under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, the Chief Secretary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-hospitals-must-display-bed-availability/article34461658.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC refuses to quash FIR against former KSOU V-C||The High Court of Karnataka has declined to quash the criminal case registered against a 76-year-old former Vice-Chancellor of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) for alleged irregularities in tie-ups with private institutions. It said there was “ prima facie material to investigate the matter”. Justice H.P. Sandesh passed the order while dismissing a petition filed by K. Sudha Rao, who was Vice-Chancellor of KSOU during 2003-2007. The Mysuru city police had registered an FIR against the petitioner and several other former Vice-Chancellors and various private institutions. The FIR was based on a complaint lodged by the Registrar of KSOU on November 20, 2019, over the illegal signing of MoUs with private institutions beyond the territory of Karnataka. KSOU had lodged the complaint based on the direction given by the Chancellor of the varsity after a one-man enquiry committee found grave errors in the signing of MoU with many private institutions for academic collaboration. Based on the complaint, the court noted that a specific allegation has been made that “the university, right from the tenure of Prof. K. Sudha Rao, committed a grave error in entering into MoUs with many private persons, firms, societies, trusts, private companies etc., permitting them to admit students to various courses without seeking legal opinion from the State government”. Multiple MoUs The serious allegation is that the university entered into MoUs with private institutions beyond the jurisdiction of Karnataka and admitted students to various technical, paramedical, and online programmes, contrary to the provisions of the KSOU Act, guidelines/instructions issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, the University Grants Commission, the All India Council for Technical Education, and the Medical Council of India, the court noted. While noting that the first two such MoUs were signed during Ms. Rao’s tenure, the court said that the “...matter has to be probed to unearth the crime” when the complaint was lodged on the Governor’s direction, based on the findings of the one-man committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-refuses-to-quash-fir-against-former-ksou-v-c/article34461679.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cab drivers accuse police of high-handedness||Taxi drivers who are allowed to operate in emergency situations and to ferry passengers to and from the airport or railway stations have accused the police of high-handedness and harassment. The taxi drivers’ association alleged that one driver who was driving back after dropping a passenger off at Kempegowda International Airport was assaulted by the police. The association said that they are working in an emergency situation during the crisis and warned that they would stage a protest. 843 vehicles seized The Bengaluru city police on Saturday seized as many as 843 vehicles from motorists who violated lockdown rules without valid reasons. According to an official release, 784 of the vehicles seized were two-wheelers. The police have also booked seven cases against shops and commercial establishments under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cab-drivers-accuse-police-of-high-handedness/article34462081.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Short-term tender for biomedical waste||The surge in the number of active COVID-19 cases in the city has also led to an increase in the quantum of sanitary and biomedical waste that is generated. According to rough estimates, from an average 40 to 45 tonnes per day, over the past few weeks, it had increased by another 25 tonnes a day. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep told The Hindu that the civic body had floated short-term tender to handle the biomedical waste now being generated, especially from the various COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) and electric crematoria. The civic body will be opening the tenders next week.  Incineration As per the waste management rules, the sanitary and biomedical waste can only be disposed off through incineration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/short-term-tender-for-biomedical-waste/article34462079.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIR against hospital||The Malleswaram police have registered yet another case under the Disaster Management Act against a private hospital for allegedly denying beds to COVID-19 patients. Based on a complaint by BBMP health officer Suresh Rudrappa, the police on Thursday registered an FIR against Vegus Hospital for failing to reserve beds to treat COVID-19 patients referred by the civic body. The hospital had denied admission to patients on April 27 and 28 citing non-availability of beds. “However, an inspection carried out by BBMP health officials found thatthe hospital management was lying and giving incorrect information on beds,” said a police officer. Mr. Rudrappa, in his complaint, said it amounted to serious lapses on the part of the hospital during the time of the crisis and hence liable to be prosecuted under the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fir-against-hospital/article34461665.ece
02 May 2021||Benglauru,KARNATAKA||Quick clearance for COVID-19 relief material||The Customs Department, which has recorded a rise in COVID-19 relief material arriving in Bengaluru, has formed a task force with six nodal officers to ensure that there are no delays in their clearance. Thirty-two consignments of COVID-19 relief material that arrived in Bengaluru between April 26 and 30 were accorded fast-track clearance and exemption benefits from customs duty, said a press note from the office of the Chief Commissioner of Customs, Bengaluru zone. The consignments comprised essential medical goods such as ventilators, oxygen concentrators, and respiratory devices, stated the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quick-clearance-for-covid-19-relief-material/article34461683.ece
02 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hungry man with no help scavenges for food||Thirty-five-year-old Raju, who was employed as a loader at a ginger farm, has had no work ever since the lockdown began. Unable to find sustenance, on Saturday he was found foraging for food in a waste dump yard at Kone Pete near Alur. Sathish C.K., a resident of Chikka Kanagal in Alur taluk, spotted him on Alur-Bikkodu Road near Kone Pete. “I was on my way back from Alur when I saw him looking for something in the waste dump. I stopped my bike and went close to him. I was shocked to see him eating the food thrown out by hotels,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Sathish stopped him from having the spoilt food and arranged for rice and sambar with the help of a local friend. “During the conversation, he said he had come to Alur to work on loading ginger bags at a farm. After completing his work, he could not return to his place because of the lockdown. He had no food or shelter. Some of his words were incomprehensible, but he was clear that he had had no food for the past four days,” Mr. Sathish said. Later, Mr. Sathish contacted the Health and Family Welfare Department to get him tested for COVID-19. Anand, a building contractor of Alur, has come forward to offer Mr. Raju temporary shelter and food. “We will make arrangements to send him to his native place once the lockdown is relaxed,” Mr. Sathish said. ‘Not a one-off case’ Locals say they have come across many such cases. Akmal Javed, an activist, said, “I see many people struggling to get food daily. Many people come to Hassan from distant places for small jobs. They work in the daytime and sleep in bus stands or on pavements. Nobody is bothered about such people.” Indiramma, who runs a hotel with other women, said that four senior citizens used to visit her hotel regularly for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. “As they had differences with their children, they were having food outside three times a day. They preferred to have food in hotels to taking parcels. I am worried how they are managing now with all the hotels closed,” she said. Last year, during the lockdown, the district administration, with the help of donors, had made arrangements to distribute food kits to the needy. This time, the authorities have not taken any such steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hungry-man-with-no-help-scavenges-for-food/article34461678.ece
02 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Alumni oppose handover of college land for Khelo India project||Hundreds of old students of Shivamogga’s Sahyadri College, the oldest in the city and set up before Independence, have opposed the proposal to set up a special training centre for sports on the college campus. They have urged the university not to give up its land for the project. Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports, during his visit to Shivamogga in February this year, had announced that a special sports training centre with advanced infrastructure would be set up in the city under Khelo India, a Union government-sponsored project. Following his assurance, the district administration held a meeting under the chairmanship of K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister in charge of the district, and decided to propose the Sahyadri College campus for the project. Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra and others were present at the meeting. Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar wrote to Kuvempu University on April 16 requesting the Vice-Chancellor to hand over 18.04 acres of campus land to the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports so that the training centre could be established. Subsequently, many organisations and former students of the college have raised their voice against this move. Sahyadri College was set up in 1940 on 100 acres of land, allotted by Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar. Over the years, some portions of the campus have been taken over by several departments to set up offices. At present, the college, under the direct control of Kuvempu University, has a campus spread over 79 acres. It houses three colleges with more than 6,500 students. Future requirements B.P. Lohit Kumar, an alumnus of Sahyadri Arts College, said the sports centre should be set up outside the college campus. “The special training centre is a big project. It would require more than 50 acres of land. Initially, they are seeking 18.4 acres. Gradually, the project will extend, occupying more area. We are worried that one day the government might ask the college to vacate the campus,” he said. The alumni conducted a social media campaign against the land handover on Friday. They maintained that the sports centre would hardly benefit the college students as it would be under the control of different departments. Hundreds of students have sent emails to the Vice-Chancellor appealing to him not to hand over the land. B.P. Veerabhadrappa, the Vice-Chancellor, held a meeting with the teaching faculty of the three colleges recently on the proposal. Many senior professors also opposed the move. When The Hindu contacted Prof. Veerabhadrappa, he said the university had not taken a decision yet. “We have held three or four meetings and also written to the State government seeking its opinion. The sports centre is coming up on the collaboration of six agencies working under State and Union governments. It will help the students of the college as well. However, we will make a decision considering all the factors,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alumni-oppose-handover-of-college-land-for-khelo-india-project/article34461681.ece
02 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Confusion over lockdown||The confusion over lockdown guidelines among officers caused hardship to shopkeepers at the vegetable market in Hassan on Saturday. The officers of Hassan City Municipal Council forced the shopkeepers to vacate the place around 8 a.m. arguing that they would not be allowed to do business on Saturdays, as weekend curfew was in place. With the help of policemen, the CMC officers vacated the market place and put barricades stopping the entry of the public into the market. Even as some sellers argued that they were allowed to do business up to 10 a.m. even during the weekend as per the latest guidelines, they were not allowed. The officers received instructions from their seniors that vegetable markets could remain open up to 10 a.m. on Saturdays as well. However, by then many farmers, who bring produces to sell in the market, had left the place. The public criticised the officers for confusion among themselves over the guidelines. “Let the officers know the guidelines properly, before implementing the lockdown effectively. Who will bear the loss that many sellers suffered on the day? The police action was also uncalled for”, commented B.R. Manjunath, a resident of K.R.Puram in the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confusion-over-lockdown/article34461772.ece
02 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cameras lying idle, photographers have nothing to shoot||H.B. Lokesh, a marriage photographer, purchased a new video camera recently spending about Rs. 4.5 lakh, hoping that he would make good business during this year’s marriage season. “But three-four people have cancelled the marriage orders and I am worried about clearing the loan”, said Lokesh, who is also secretary of Hassan taluk unit of Photographers’ Association. Last year, he had zero business as there were no marriages due to lockdown following the COVID-19 pandemic. The same thing is happening again. The government has restricted the number of people participating in marriages to 50. “April-May is the marriage season. As the government had often said there would not be a lockdown, I purchased a new camera. But the government imposed lockdown again, taking away our business”, he said. There are around 300 photographers in Hassan district facing similar problems. Even if people hold marriage as per the schedule, they would hire photographers for a limited time. “Earlier, we were asked to cover rituals held on the eve of marriage, not now. With only 50 people in the marriage, how many photos can we click? We can hardly produce half-an-hour video. Earlier, we used to provide them with a two-hour video, earning a decent income. Now the output will be low, reducing the revenue”, said Lokesh.  Choultry owners’ plight Like photographers, flower decorators, choultry owners, cooks, helpers, cleaners are also hit. Kalyana Mantapa Malikara Sangha, an association of choultry owners in Hassan, has taken a decision not to return the advance amount to those who cancel the marriage, citing fresh guidelines. H.M. Dinesh, owner of Gomathi Kalyan Mantap and president of the association, told The Hindu , “People can come and conduct marriages, following the norms strictly. We will not return the advance deposit if they cancel the marriage”, he said. The owners had already suffered a huge loss last year. Despite no business the owners had to clear bank instalments, borrowing private loans. “The government has allowed industries, where hundreds of people work. Many people are arranging marriages in villages and temples by inviting hundreds of people. But, there is a restriction only to have the ceremony at choultries”, he said. “Many would put choultries on sale if the restriction on marriages was continued further. If a marriage is cancelled it would hit at least 100 families of workers involved. Many helpers would lose their income. The government should offer financial assistance to those badly hit by the lockdown”, added Mr. Dinesh. H.M.Suresh, who built a choultry recently, said, “Maintaining choultries demand a huge investment. And, we hardly get orders for 50 marriages in a year. A majority of them are in the month of April and May. For the second year, we have no business during the peak season. I don't know how to repay loans”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cameras-lying-idle-photographers-have-nothing-to-shoot/article34461779.ece
02 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cases up in Hassan||The number of COVID-19 cases has been on the rise in Hassan. As many as 349 fresh cases were reported on Saturday and nine more people died. With that, the total number of cases in the district rose to 39,541 and so far 590 people have died in the district due to the infection. The deaths are said to be increasing due to the non-availability of beds in the intensive care units. Of the total 6,238 active cases, as many as 77 people are undergoing treatment in the ICU. A youth, in whose family three members including him are suffering from COVID-19, said his father died on Saturday morning as he could not get an ICU bed. “I am of the opinion that he could have survived if he had been admitted to ICU. My mother and I are undergoing treatment for the infection at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. The government should arrange for more beds” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-up-in-hassan/article34461771.ece
02 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Big cat found dead in Chikkamagaluru dist.||A tiger, aged between five and six, was found dead near Shantaveri in the Tanigebailu forest range in Chikkamagaluru district on Friday evening. The animal is said to have suffered injuries in a territorial fight with another tiger. Forest staff noticed the dead animal on Friday evening and informed senior officers. A team of doctors conducted the autopsy on Saturday. They noticed deep injuries and concluded that a territorial fight might have been the cause of death. Takhat Singh Ranawat, Conservator of Forests and director of Bhadra Tiger Reserve, said, “Our staff had noticed another tiger near the place where this tiger was found dead. There could be no other cause for its death.” The carcass was burnt later. Senior officials were present on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/big-cat-found-dead-in-chikkamagaluru-dist/article34461682.ece
02 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. will consider plea for extending business hours’||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad in charge Jagadish Shettar has said that the government would consider the demand for extending business hours at Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yards in the State. Speaking to presspersons after inspecting the arrangements at the APMC yard at Amaragol, Girani Chawl market, and Siddharoodh Mutt in Hubballi on Saturday, Mr. Shettar said that there had been demands for increasing business hours permitted under lockdown and also to allow the APMC yards to function till evening. “The issue will be considered and discussed at the government level and a decision will be taken,” he said. Emphasising the need for maintaining physical distancing at morning markets and APMC yards and also wearing masks, the Minister said that in the wake of complaints about crowding in these markets, the officials had taken steps to minimise the crowd and allow business transactions with adherence to COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Shettar said that the APMC yard at Amaragol in Hubballi was the biggest APMC yard in Asia and business was carried out on a large scale. “Considering the experience during the previous lockdown, we had asked the officials to shift the vegetable market to a more spacious and open area and accordingly it has been done now to minimise the crowd,” he said. On the bypolls, the counting of which is scheduled to be held on Sunday, Mr. Shettar expressed confidence that BJP would win all the three bypolls. In the elections held in five States, the BJP would get a good result in West Bengal and come to power in Puducherry and Assam. In the other two States also the party would fare well, he said. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, directed APMC members and officials to distribute masks to traders, farmers, and buyers out of the money they receive through market cess. During his visit to Siddharood Mutt street, several citizens requested him to allow the market to be held on the mutt premises. He was accompanied by Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Municipal Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-will-consider-plea-for-extending-business-hours/article34461650.ece
02 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Members of CFD observe fast||Seeking free vaccine for all and ensuring better healthcare system in the country, members of Citizens For Democracy (CFD) observed a fast across the country at their homes on Saturday. National president of S.R. Hiremath and other office-bearers observed the fast on Saturday and also paid tributes to COVID-19 victims, who died due to lack of healthcare facilities. Mr. Hiremath said that the crisis was due to the mismanagement of the Centre. “We have been struggling for the last year against the COVID-19 but we could neither evolve a reliable testing system nor could arrange sufficient beds in hospitals. Oxygen generation units got decreased and many patients have died for lack of oxygen. The Union government did not take necessary steps to improve health system in the country because it was more interested in promoting private hospitals,” he alleged. Mr. Hiremath said that in the past 73 years the Union government had been supplying vaccines and medicines for infectious diseases to States under a national programme. But surprisingly, this time the Centre had abdicated its responsibility and had asked the States to buy vaccines for themselves at a price which shall be determined by suppliers and business companies, which was a result of the policy of privatisation, he said. Mr. Hiremath emphasised the need for free treatment for COVID-19 patients and free vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/members-of-cfd-observe-fast/article34461651.ece
02 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||12 journalists in Belagavi test positive||As many as 12 journalists of Belagavi district have tested positive for COVID-19 and have been advised home isolation. The Election Commission has declared a COVID-19 negative report mandatory for entry into counting centres. In the wake of the counting of the votes for the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll scheduled on Sunday, nearly 80 journalists of Belagavi had undergone a RT-PCR test on Thursday. The results of the same were received on Friday and Saturday, and 12 of them have tested positive. Deputy Director of Information and Publicity Gurunath Kadabur has said that 11 among them are asymptomatic. “However they have to remain in home isolation as per the COVID-19 protocols. The Health Department officials and staff will contact them and provide necessary treatment. The Deputy Commissioner has said that all necessary help would be extended,” he has said. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has personally spoken to Principal Secretary of Information Public Relations Anjum Parvez and asked him to arrange necessary treatment and medicines to all the journalists from Belagavi who have tested positive. In a press release he has said that since the journalists served around-the-clock, taking care of their health was also important. Priority should be given to the treatment of the journalists through coordination with the local Health Department. Suitable health advisory should be given to the families of the journalists who have to undergo home isolation, he said, wishing them a speedy recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/12-journalists-in-belagavi-test-positive/article34461652.ece
02 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘COVID-19 death rate in second wave is less than that in first’||In an effort to remove the public fear surrounding COVID-19, Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar has said that the death rate had fallen in the second wave of the pandemic as compared to the first wave last year and appealed to the people not to panic, but take precautions. “The COVID-19 death rate in the first wave was 1.3% and now it has fallen to 0.6%. So, people need not worry but need to take precautions as panic and fear tend to increase the death rate. The death rate in Kalaburagi district is slightly higher at 0.69% as compared to the State average. The district administration should optimise the utilisation of manpower and infrastructure to reduce the death rate as well as contain the spread of the pandemic,” he said. He was addressing a media conference in Kalaburagi after visiting State-run Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), a COVID-19 hospital, on Saturday. On the shortfall of Remdesivir injection, Mr. Sudhakar said that public misconception on the use of the drug had led to increased demand and created the shortfall. “Last year, over 11 lakh COVID-19 patients had recovered without taking Remdesivir injection. However, a public misconception that Remdesivir does a great job in treating the pandemic has created a rise in demand. Doctors will decide who needs the drug and we have issued guidelines to doctors as well about its use. I would like to tell private facilities and doctors to procure the drug only for immediate use. If you [the private hospitals] stock for future use, we will cancel your licences. You will be held responsible even for the wrongdoing of your employees in this respect,” he said. In a meeting with the senior officers, he expressed discontentment over the functioning of the Health Department and warned the public health staff of stringent action if they failed to discharge their duties and handle the situation. “You [District Health and Family Welfare Officer] have enough staff and resources and you need to efficiently utilise them. There are complaints that Remdesivir injection is being sold at inflated rates in the black market. You should form a team to monitor the movement of the drug as well as the oxygen and submit a report on a daily basis. We will take stringent action against the public servants who fail to discharge their duties,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-death-rate-in-second-wave-is-less-than-that-in-first/article34461645.ece
02 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bypoll: All set for counting in Bidar||The Basavakalyan Assembly constituency in Bidar district is going to declare its representative to the Legislative Assembly on Sunday. The byelection for the constituency, which was necessitated by the demise of incumbent MLA B. Narayana Rao, was held on April 17. The vote counting is scheduled to begin at B.V. Bhumareddy College in Bidar city at 8 a.m. on Sunday. The Bidar district administration has made arrangements for the counting of votes. Three halls in the college have been selected for the purpose and four tables have been put in each of them. The counting will be done in 28 rounds. As per the information provided by Deputy Commissioner R. Ramachandran, supervisors, micro observers, and assistants have been appointed for the purpose. Two counting observers have already arrived to monitor the process. All candidates in the fray, their agents, and counting agents have been asked to be present in the centre by 7 a.m. They were clearly notified that the latecomers will be barred from entering the centre. In view of COVID-19, the candidates and their agents have been asked asked to produce a COVID-19 negative report before entering the centre. The administration made it clear that no candidate or agent would be allowed inside the counting centre if he/she fails to produce the COVID-19 negative report. The COVID-19 negative report is made mandatory for the counting staff as well. The administration has kept 200 Rapid Antigen test kits ready for screening the staff who, for any valid reason, fail to produce the COVID-19 negative report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bypoll-all-set-for-counting-in-bidar/article34461648.ece
02 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Family members of policemen stitch masks for police force||Having stitched masks for garment outlets last year, a group of eight women from the police family members’ Jnanodaya Seva Mandali here are now making them for the 2,000-odd city police personnel. “These women will stitch 10,000 masks for our personnel. We have planned to give five washable cloth masks to each of the personnel in the city police force,” Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here on Saturday. The police are expecting the delivery of 10,000 masks in a week, he added. The eight women are among the many family members of police personnel staying at the police quarters in Pandeshwar, who have been trained in stitching and other skills at the Seva Mandali. This mandali is located at the old Police Welfare Centre building. “Masks were among the many things we stitched for the garment outlets last year. Mr. Kumar asked us to stitch masks for the personnel and we agreed. We want to complete the order well within the stipulated 10 days,” said Bhageerati, who runs the mandali and leads the team of eight women, said. Susheela, another woman stitching the mask, said that Mr. Kumar gave them a mask made by the Karnataka State Reserve Police Force in Bengaluru using khaki used to make the police uniform. “We were a bit apprehensive about the material. But when we used it, we found these masks to be comfortable. We are preparing the same type of masks,” she said. The city police provided the cloth, elastic tape, and other materials for the team. “We finish our household chores and come here to stitch masks during the day,” said Asha, another member involved in the task. “We are happy that the masks stitched by us will be used by my husband and his colleagues who are fighting to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” said Poornima, wife of Ravi Kumar who works in the Traffic South police station. Netravathi, wife of Assistant Sub Inspector Janardhan, said this is the first time she is stitching masks. The other members involved in stitching masks are Sunitha, Poornima, and Tanuja. Mr. Kumar said the city police will give honorarium to each of the eight women. “If any other department wants face masks, we will arrange to get it stitched from these women,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-members-of-policemen-stitch-masks-for-police-force/article34462216.ece
02 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Udupi officials asked to open COVID Care Centres in taluks||Home Minister and Minister in charge of Udupi district Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday asked the district administration to open COVID Care Centres in taluks in the next four days. Speaking at a meeting in Udupi, the Minister said that those patients who are in home isolation and lacking basic facilities like separate toilets can be accommodated in such care centers. The Minister said that the district administration has to keep an eye on the future situation predicting at least one week situation in advance. He asked people to stay at home to help in controlling the spread of the infection. Later, he told reporters that the positivity rate in the district in the last one week stood at 19 %. He said that doctors in the district will be pooled and doctor on call for treating emergency cases will be enabled in the district. Efforts are on to get more vaccine doses and the oxygen supply will be also increased, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-officials-asked-to-open-covid-care-centres-in-taluks/article34462209.ece
02 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Wenlock allowed caretaker inside COVID-19 ward: Congress leader||Leader of the Congress in Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Council A.C. Vinayraj alleged on Saturday that a doctor at Government Wenlock Hospital made the sister-in-law of a 74-year-old COVID-19 patient look after her in the hospital on Friday night. Medical Superintendent of the hospital, who is also the District Surgeon, Sadashiva has refuted the allegation. He told The Hindu that no caretaker is being allowed inside the COVID-19 ward and the hospital building to look after their family members. In a press release on Saturday, Mr. Vinayraj, who is also the spokesperson of the Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee, said that the patient from Kodical had been shifted from the A.J. Hospital and Research Centre to the Wenlock Hospital and admitted in the B ward. The patient preferred free treatment at the Wenlock Hospital when she was tested positive after getting admitted at the private hospital. After shifting, a doctor at the government hospital made the patient’s sister-in-law look after her in the ward. The caretaker has not been allowed to go outside the ward, Mr. Vinayraj alleged stating that it was an irresponsible act. Quoting the caretaker, Mr. Vinayraj said that the hospital has made family members of six other COVID-19 patients in the same ward look after the patients. The Congress demanded that disciplinary action be taken against such doctors. Mr. Vinayraj said that the relatives of COVID-19 patients admitted at the hospital allege that there are not enough doctors and nurses to look after the patients. The district administration should take it seriously. “Why haven’t Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, and D. Vedavyasa Kamath, MLA, visited the hospital and reviewed the situation. Are they shirking away from their responsibility,” the Congress leader asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wenlock-allowed-caretaker-inside-covid-19-ward-congress-leader/article34462212.ece
02 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KCCI seeks Finance Ministry’s intervention||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to rush to the rescue of trade and industry, particularly MSMEs, in the wake of the State government imposing severe restrictions on commercial activities to curb the spread of COVID-19. In a letter to Ms. Sitharaman, KCCI president Isaac Vas said the industrial fraternity understood the reasons for imposing the restrictions. However, just as the government cares for the well being of its people, it should also care to the well being of the industrial sector, he said demanding a White Paper on the industrial scenario in the country. With due concern towards public health, the restrictions have also affected the trade, industry, and commerce with severe short and long-term adverse impacts hitting the economy.  As an urgent action from the government, KCCI requested the Minister to extend all compliance dates ending July 31 to August 31 without penalty, input tax credit relaxation for six months, and similar relaxations under other laws.  The banking sector should waive interest for MSMEs during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kcci-seeks-finance-ministrys-intervention/article34462207.ece
02 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||4,572 receive vaccination in Dakshina Kannada, 2,744 in Udupi||With only the government healthcare facilities vaccinating people in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Saturday, a total of 7,316 people aged 45 and above were jabbed in the two districts. While 4,572 were vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada, 2,744 received the vaccine in Udupi district. Dakshina Kannada district nodal officer for vaccines, B.V. Rajesh, said as vaccine was in short supply, priority was being given to those who were awaiting their second dose. Only Covishield vaccine was being administered and the district was yet to receive stock of Covaxin. Dr. Rajesh said government healthcare facilities have been asked to look into their database and send intimations to people who are due for their second dose. “We are trying to ensure that second dose is received well between six and eight weeks time from the first dose,” he said. Those aged 45 and above, who have to receive the first dose, have to book slots online, he added. With 4,572 receiving the vaccine on Saturday, a total of 3,51,378 have been vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada. According to the CoWin portal, 349 received the vaccine at Surathkal Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC), 325 at Government Wenlock Hospital, 262 in Kadri UPHC, 240 in Jeppu UPHC, 244 in Kasba Bengre UPHC, 152 Padil UPHC, 105 in Kuloor UPHC, 94 in Ullal PHC, and 60 at Shakti Nagar UPHC. Among the health facilities in the District , 145 persons received at Puttur Taluk Hospital, 134 in Sullia Taluk Hospital and 118 each at Nelyadi PHC and Yekkuru PHC With 2,744 receiving the vaccine in Udupi district, a total of 2,55,311 persons have been jabbed so far. As many as 260 received at Udupi District Hospital, 233 at Udupi UPHC, 165 at Padubidri PHC, 166 at Bailoor PHC, 142 at Pernankila PHC and 110 at Mandarthi PHC on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4572-receive-vaccination-in-dakshina-kannada-2744-in-udupi/article34462218.ece
02 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DC refutes allegation||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said on Saturday that there is no question of allowing caretakers inside the COVID-19 ward and inside the COVID-19 hospital building. Speaking to The Hindu he said if family members brought food, they are taken inside by the hospital staff from the entrance without allowing the members inside. The family members are allowed inside only in “extraordinary cases” after taking an undertaking from them and making them to wear the PPE, Dr. Rajendra said. The Deputy Commissioner said he visited the COVID-19 hospital on Thursday and met some patients and there were no complaints. Dr. Rajendra said 12 expert doctors from Kasturba Medical College will be deputed to the ICU of Wenlock Hospital shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-refutes-allegation/article34462213.ece
02 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Case against eatery under epidemic diseases Act||A case has been booked against a fast-food restaurant in Attavar here under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act for giving coffee and other items to customers late on Friday night. The city police took action following the circulation of photographs and videos of the operation of Midnight Bristos on social media. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that the police visited the restaurant on Saturday and checked the CCTV footage of the restaurant. “It clearly showed customers being provided with coffee and other items beyond midnight. The operation of the restaurant in the night was a violation of curfew guidelines,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-eatery-under-epidemic-diseases-act/article34462214.ece
02 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for damaging ATMs||The Uppinangady police on Saturday arrested Sameer, 23, of Savanur village of Kadaba taluk, for his alleged theft attempt at an ATM centre in Uppinangady town on April 27. The police said Sameer has been accused of damaging two ATM machines at the centre and also destroying three CCTVs installed between 6.45 p.m. of April 27 and 7.40 a.m. of April 28. The ATM centre was of State Bank of India. The manager of SBI Uppinangady branch, Sridhar, noticed it on April 28 and filed a complaint. The accused was traced by a team led by Puttur Rural Circle Inspector Umesh Uppalike and comprised Sub-Inspector Kumar C. Kamble, Probationary Police Sub Inspector Anil Kumar D., Assistant Sub Inspectors Choma P. and Harishchandra, and constables Jagadish A., and Shivaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-damaging-atms/article34462217.ece
02 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘GPs should encourage cultivation on fallow land’||Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivas Poojary has asked gram panchayats to motivate those land owners who have left their paddy lands fallow for over the years, to take up cultivation. Chairing a meeting here on Friday, the Minister said that village accountants, revenue inspectors, and panchayat development officers (PDOs) should encourage the land owners to take up cultivation. He asked the panchayats to conduct a survey within a week of all types of farm land that have been left fallow and submit a report. The Minister said that the district had 2,412.75 hectares of fallow land of paddy alone. In that, 2,125 hectares are in Mangaluru taluk, 150 hectares in Bantwal, 112.75 hectares in Sullia, 85 hectares in Belthangady, and 20 hectares in Puttur. He said that if the fallow paddy land was brought under cultivation they will help in the recharge of groundwater and the availability of water. Going for mechanised farming will help to overcome the shortage of labourers and then it is possible to cultivate crops by reducing the expenditure. Mr. Poojary said that 7.56 lakh quintals of paddy was grown in the district on 37,817.50 acres during 2020-21. The Minister said that the government can take over farm land which have been left fallow for over two years. Farmers should not give scope for the same and cultivate their fallow land. Mr. Poojary said that the government has introduced Subhiksha scheme for growing vegetables, flowers, and vegetables in small patch of land and the farmers should make use of the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gps-should-encourage-cultivation-on-fallow-land/article34462221.ece
02 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply to Tallur, Jadkal, Kavradi, Vandse, Karkunje, Keradi, Ajri, Neralakatte, and Bandya in Udupi district on May 4 from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. It is for maintenance works, a MESCOM release said.    The Department of Legal Metrology in Udupi has asked people to complain to the department if any medical shops, suppliers and dealers sold medical equipment above the maximum retail price, including the taxes, mentioned on their packs. They should attach the bills with the complaint copy. Call 9845154263 or log on towww.emapan.karnataka. gov.in, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34462211.ece
02 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||1,424 discharged, but cases up||Even as the number of new COVID-19 cases on Saturday saw a drop compared to the record number of infections (3,500) reported on Friday, the infection has continued to remain high with the district recording 2,500-plus new cases and seven deaths. Out of 2,529 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, nearly 80 percent of them are the contacts of the infected. As many as 1,973 are the contacts, 535 and 21 are ILI and SARI cases respectively. In a span of 23 days, 142 people have died of the disease, taking the death toll to 1,212, which is second highest in the State after Bengaluru. On a positive note, Saturday’s discharges were close to 1,500 with constant increase in the number of people recovering from the deadly infection. As many as 1,424 people were discharged on Saturday. With no respite from the surge, the number of active cases crossed the 11,000-mark. As on Saturday, the active case tally stood at 11,873. The positive cases were close to 80,000 amidst the spike. The number of patients in home isolation is also inching closer to 5,000-mark, with the infected showing mild and moderate symptoms recommended home isolation with the hospital beds strictly set aside for those with complications. The districts of Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu also recorded a high rate of infections. But, in a relief, no deaths were reported on Saturday in Mandya, which reported nine deaths on Friday. Mandya reported 1,235 cases while Kodagu and Chamarajanagar detected 590 and 548 new cases respectively on Saturday. Kodagu had three deaths due to COVID-19 related complications. Vaccination Meanwhile, the vaccination for people aged between 18 and 44 years did not take off in Mysuru as expected. Even the symbolic launch as done in Bengaluru was not held here. However, some people of this age group visited a few vaccination centres here on Saturday unaware that the rollout had been put off over shortage of vaccines and the government’s appeal not to throng the centres on May 1 (Saturday). The vaccination, however, for 45-plus age group went ahead as usual with over 10,000 covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1424-discharged-but-cases-up/article34461775.ece
02 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Talks held with oxygen suppliers||Amidst the increasing demand for medical oxygen in the current wave of COVID-19, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and Commissioner of Police Chandragupta, accompanied by the officials from the Office of Drug Controller, Mysuru, inspected a few units here that produce and refill medical oxygen. The inspection comes after a recent meeting with the oxygen suppliers by the Deputy Commisioner where she directed them to ensure uninterrupted supplies for medical reasons and hospitals in view of rapid surge in infections. The delegation went around the units in the Hebbal industrial area and spoke to the people running them on the steps taken by them for rationalising the supplies. According to the Police Commissioner’s office, the DC and the Commissioner discussed the problems of demand and supply and measures need to be taken for streamlining supply of crucial medical oxygen for saving the lives of COVID-19 patients. As per the data made available by the District COVID-19 War Room on Saturday, Mysuru district has 967 numbers of jumbo oxygen cylinders of 47-litre capacity besides 409 numbers of 10-litre capacity, 30 numbers of 1.1 litre capacity and 57 Dura cylinders of 200 litres of liquid medical oxygen. The government and private hospitals in Mysuru city have more oxygen stock than the taluk hospitals since the number of patients’ being hospitalised was more here. However, compared to other taluks, H. D.Kote and Hunsur have only a few numbers of jumbo cylinders. According to Health Department sources, Mysuru district required around 10.5 kl of medical oxygen after the surge in cases. K.R. Hospital and the District Hospital have 13.5 kl and 6 kl of liquid medical oxygen tank for centralised supply to the oxygenated beds, whose demand had gone up by two to three folds in the current wave of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/talks-held-with-oxygen-suppliers/article34461647.ece
02 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Containment zones introduced||Containment zones have been introduced in Chamarajanagar district to prevent the spread of COVID-19 which is sweeping across the rural hinterland. People testing positive but advised home isolation will be stamp marked lest they break the COVID-19 regulations and abet the spread of the pandemic. While the first wave of the pandemic was staved off and restricted to urban centres of the district, the second wave has been relentless in its sweep and intensity, affecting rural areas as seen in the number of cases emerging from the hinterland. Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi told media persons on Saturday that almost 79 per cent of the new cases that were reported in April emerged from rural areas or villages while only 21 per cent of the cases were reported from towns. The district reported 3950 cases in April against which 3,120 cases were from rural areas and the remaining 830 cases were from urban areas. An analysis of the cases from health experts indicated that the villages were reporting 8 to 10 or 15 cases over a two-day period unlike in the past and hence COVID-19 was now well entrenched and spreading across the district. Hence the district administration has announced that containment zones will be introduced based on the number of cases in a locality. Any area in a radius of 100 metres in rural areas will be brought under the containment zone if it reports 5 or more COVID positive cases. For villages In case there were 10 or more cases in a small village, the entire settlement will be cordoned off and declared as a containment zone. In case of a larger village the entire streets where the cases are reported will be declared as containment zones, said Mr. Ravi. In towns across Chamarajanagar district, 10 or more COVID-19 positive cases will result in the entire ward being declared as a containment zone. All activities barring essential services will be suspended in the containment zones. Highly vulnerble An analysis of the age group of the COVID-19 patients indicate that people above 60 years contracting the virus were relatively few and accounted for 10 per cent of the total cases. But they were also highly vulnerable and required hospitalisation and the fatality rate in this age group was also the highest. Also, the positivity rate was high among those in the 18 years to 40 years age group. But the fatality rate was the lowest – 0.3 per cent. There are 1663 patients under home isolation but the district administration will assess if they have separate rooms to isolate themselves. If not, such people will be shifted to the COVID care centres till the completion of the quarantine period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-containment-zones-in-chamarajanagar/article34461646.ece
02 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Case fatality rate in second wave is less than in first||Even though the second wave of COVID-19 has caused widespread concern, among the case fatality rate in the second wave, so far, has been less than the first wave. An analysis of the number of positive cases and deaths reported during the first wave and the second wave shows that the number of people reported to have died due to COVID-19 has been less in the second wave. The first wave peaked during August, September and October 2020 when the number of cases was in the region of 13,000 to 16,500 per month while the number of deaths was 302 in August, 293 in September and 219 in October. Though the second wave is believed to have been raging since the beginning of April 2021 with a record 20,965 cases being reported during the month, the number of people reported dead due to COVID-19 during the month has been 151, which is half the number reported during the peak of first wave in August 2020. Chidambara, a Health Department official in Mysuru, who is also the nodal officer for testing, said the second wave may have been marked by a high number of positive cases, but the number of people dying has been less. While vaccination - with more than 50 per cent of the above 45 years population in the district receiving at least the first dose - could be one of the reasons, Dr. Chidambara said the virulence of the second wave is yet to be fully studied by experts even though the infection rate is very high. Mysuru district reported a staggering 3,500 cases on a single day on April 30. Dr. Chidambara noted that the number of deaths had increased in the last 15 days and said he expected the same mortality rate to continue for another 15 days till mid-May as the second wave had peaked. A decreasing trend may begin in the third week of May, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-fatality-rate-in-second-wave-is-less-than-in-first/article34461777.ece
02 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Lockdown: MCC sets up shelter for poor and homeless; NGO offers support||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has set up a shelter home for the homeless and the poor who have been affected by the lockdown imposed over the pandemic. The temporary shelter has come up at the Nanjaraja Bahadur Choultry on Vinoba Road to help the distraught destitute, orphans, labourers and others in need of aid. It provides them food and other facilities. The MCC has established the shelter with the support of Credit-I, an NGO. In the past wave too, the MCC had established the shelter at the same venue which was made use by hundreds of people affected by last year’s nationwide lockdown. The MCC has urged the public to help pass the information on the shelter to such people and help them make use of the facility. For more information on the shelter and other details, interested persons can call M.P. Varsha of Credit-I on 6362147286; Assistant Commissioner of MCC Zone-6 Mruthyunjaya on 9480515351; Shivappa of MCC on 9886715356; and J.S. Bairalingaiah of MCC on 9740556548.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-mcc-sets-up-shelter-for-poor-and-homeless-ngo-offers-support/article34461778.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Howzat!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/howzat/article34461654.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Symbolic’ launch||Meanwhile, Apollo Hospitals in Bengaluru started the fourth phase vaccination at its Bannerghata branch on Saturday. A statement from the hospital said the drive will begin in all three branches in the city from Sunday. “As per the government guidelines, the vaccines will be administered to eligible individuals who have registered on the CoWIN portal and have made an appointment for the vaccine jab at Apollo Hospitals,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/symbolic-launch/article34462087.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Life saver||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/life-saver/article34462220.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Care centre||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/care-centre/article34461664.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Parents scramble to take care of children||Rakesh Prabhu’s brother first fell ill, but was told it was not COVID-19 by a neighbourhood doctor. Life went on as usual, until Rakesh’s six-year-old daughter fell ill. Even his parents fell ill, and developed fever. His father tested positive and Mr. Prabhu and his wife got themselves tested, after which it emerged they were positive. “We live in a single bedroom house, but there was a vacant house next door. The owner was kind enough to let us occupy it for a few days. We later moved back into our house and ensured our daughter was not in contact with us,” he said. Surpiya also shared the story of her neighbour. Both parents tested positive and each one was quarantined in different rooms. “Their seven-year-old son has been managing with food catered through some agencies. They are stuck inside and they give instructions to him to open and close the door, and spray sanitisers,” she said. Keeping children away It is not just COVID-19 positive parents who are finding it hard. S. Swathi’s family consists of her senior citizen parents, both over 75 years, her husband, and two children — 10 and 14 years. Her mother’s condition deteriorated this week and after driving from north to south Bengaluru, they finally found a hospital bed. “We had driven her and admitted her in the hospital, making us primary contacts. My father is still COVID-19 positive and at home. It is a struggle keeping the children away from us and their grandparents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parents-scramble-to-take-care-of-children/article34461667.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Different fortunes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/different-fortunes/article34461671.ece
02 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||At 2,536, new daily high in Alappuzha||In a new daily high, Alappuzha recorded 2,536 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. It surpassed the previous biggest single-day spike of 2,235 cases logged on April 28. Of the 2,536 patients, 2,520 contracted the virus through local contact. The source of infection of two others remains unidentified. Fourteen people who came from other States were diagnosed with the disease. The new cases include 166 reported from Alappuzha and 117 from Cherthala municipalities. Chennam Pallipuram (99 cases), Kayamkulam (80), Aroor (75), Haripad (71), Arookutty (69), Panavally (63), Cherthala South (60), Chettikulangara (58), Mararikulam South (58), Thanneermukkom (56) Mavelikara (52), Karuvatta (51), Kumarapuram (51), Pathiyoor (50) Ambalappuzha North (46), Ambalappuzha South (44), Bharanikavu (43), Champakulam (40), Muhamma (40) and Pallippad (40) also recorded a high number of cases. Meanwhile, 326 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 18,043. The police on Saturday registered 24 cases and arrested 24 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 1,437 people for not wearing face masks and 1,197 for violating physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-2536-new-daily-high-in-alappuzha/article34461731.ece
02 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Art given shape to by an app||Artists usually do drawings using brush and ink on paper, but here is an artist who uses a primitive memo app to express ideas or feelings. ‘Alexa! Win this War!,’ a collection of 88 digital drawings, by Radha Gomathy plays out like pages from an unbound manuscript of a graphic novel about a tyrant’s violent and degrading yet comical fantasies of control and domination with a virtual digital assistant. Seen individually, and read with tiny fragments of the accompanying text, they configure violent, angst-ridden, remorseful, and ecstatic moments from the life of a couple. The work is currently being exhibited at Shed ‘D’ of the Kerala State Coir Corporation in Alappuzha, one of the venues of Lokame Tharavadu, a contemporary art exhibition curated by Bose Krishnamachari. All the drawings in the assemblage were done by Ms. Gomathy using the memo app that she had downloaded in 2018 but became her companion in 2020 during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Phone as a studio For an artist like her, without a studio, the phone turns every space into one, says Ms. Gomathy. The drawings happened one by one, reflecting the micro-histories of the day, her thoughts, and interactions. “I never had a plan. It just happened that way. The only thing was to let go. When you get a straw, you hold on to it and let it pull you, and then everything else falls into place,” she says. Ms. Gomathy writes in her concept note: “Increasingly, art for me is a deft fusion of sight and touch-like a blind woman seeing her beloved one with her fingers. It offers the same sense of security and loving response that clay offers me when I sculpt.” Range of media A poet, she works in a range of media, including video, painting, writing, performance, and sculpture. She uses a mix of natural and other materials and most of her art is layered and conceptual – mythopoeic in nature and figurative in approach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/art-given-shape-to-by-an-app/article34461737.ece
02 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Pandemic protocol will be adhered to: Collector||Arrangements have been completed for the counting of votes polled in the Assembly election held on April 6. District Collector H. Dinesan said on Saturday that minimum number of officials would be used for counting of votes on Sunday in adherence with the COVID-19 protocol. The counting staff will sit on one side of table and the agents on the opposite side with enough distance between the counting tables. Those allowed entry to the counting stations should present COVID-19-negative certificate. It was expected to complete the counting process by noon. Crowding would not be allowed outside the polling stations, he said. The counting of postal ballots will begin at 8 a.m. and on each table, 500 votes will be counted. There will be micro-observers inside the stations and the winners will be announced by the chief electoral officer. Only two persons will be allowed to accompany the winner to receive the certificate from the chief electoral officer, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-protocol-will-be-adhered-to-collector/article34461723.ece
02 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||A U.S. citizen’s long struggle for vaccination||Johny Pierece, 75, a U.S. citizen staying at Wagamon for over 14 months finally was given permission to receive the COVID-19 vaccine after the U.S. embassy office at Chennai intervened in the affair. Mr. Pierece was staying on at Wagamon after renewing his visa. With the number of COVID-19 cases increasing, he wanted to get himself vaccinated and had been trying for it from January. Every time, he was informed that only Indian citizens will be vaccinated. When he received the same answer last Tuesday, he contacted the embassy. He was informed by the embassy officials that he could get vaccinated. However, Mr. Pierece has changed his mind now. He said that with cases spiralling in India, he would like to return to his country and had booked flight tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-us-citizens-long-struggle-for-vaccination/article34461722.ece
02 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||College to be made COVID treatment centre||The Kattappana municipality has decided to covert the Government Arts and Science College at Kattappana to a COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (FLTC). There will be 100 beds to treat patients and taxis and ambulances will be made available. The FLTC opened by the municipality at St. John’s Hospital will be made a second-line treatment centre, said a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-to-be-made-covid-treatment-centre/article34461724.ece
02 May 2021||KALABURAGI/ BELAGAVI,KERALA||Counting of votes today amid precautions||Even as all arrangements have been made for the counting of votes polled for the byelections held in one Lok Sabha and two Assembly segments on Sunday, adherence to COVID-19 protocol is an additional mandatory requirement this time in the wake of the surge in cases. Byelections were held in two Assembly constituencies of Basavakalyan in Bidar district and Maski in Raichur district, and in Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency. This time around, the district administrations have taken extra care to ensure strict adherence to safety protocols. In all three constituencies, producing COVID-19 negative reports in addition to the requisite passes is mandatory for gaining entry to the counting centres. Speaking to presspersons after reviewing the counting preparations in Maski on Saturday, Raichur Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh said that as per the Election Commission guidelines, it was mandatory for the candidates and their agents to produce negative COVID-19 test reports and also vaccination certificates to gain entry to the counting centre. For the counting being held at SRPS PU College in Raichur city, around 210 officials and 290 police personnel have been deployed.  R. Ramachandran, Deputy Commissioner of Bidar, said the officials on poll duty have been asked to wear double masks as a precaution. Here too, vaccination certificates and reports of RT-PCR test or RAT are mandatory for all those enter the counting centre. The counting for Basavakalyan byelection will be held at B.V. Bhoomaraddi College in Bidar city. As producing COVID-19 negative report is mandatory to gain entry into the counting centres, the Deputy Director of Information and Public Relations Gurunath Kadabur had arranged RT-PCR tests for around 80 journalists of Belagavi on Friday. In Belagavi, the counting of votes will be taken up at Rani Parvati Devi College in Tilakwadi of Belagavi city. Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan has banned the entry of the general public into the counting centre. Apart from the passes issued by the Returning Officer, the candidates, counting agents, officers on poll duty, and security personnel are mandated to bring COVID-19 negative certificates. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner K. Harish Kumar has promulgated prohibitory orders around the counting centre to avoid crowding. Victory celebrations and processions after the results are banned. Standard COVID-19 protocol will be observed during the counting, said a release from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/counting-of-votes-today-amid-strict-precautions/article34461673.ece
02 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||24x7 oxygen war room opens in Wayanad||An oxygen war room has started functioning at the District Emergency Operations Centre at the Collectorate here in the wake of an increase in COVID-19 cases in the district. The round-the-clock war room would coordinate oxygen supply and ensure its availability in the district, said District Collector Adeela Abdulla. Assistant Collector Balpreet Singh is the nodal officer of the programme. The staff members and equipment needed will be provided by the District Medical Officer. All hospitals in the district will keep the war room informed of oxygen stocked, daily use and number of empty cylinders. Ms. Abdulla has directed industrial oxygen supply agencies in the district to hand over the stocked cylinders to the health department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/24x7-oxygen-war-room-opens-in-wayanad/article34461702.ece
02 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Security stepped up at counting centres||Elaborate security arrangements have been made at counting centres at Sulthan Bathery, Mananthavady, and Kalpetta, District Police Chief Aravind Sukumar has said. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Sukumar said security for the inner cordon of counting centres would be provided by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). Security arrangements at each counting centre will be supervised by a police team which includes a Deputy Superintendent of Police, a Police Inspector, two Sub Inspectors, and 32 civil police officers, Mr. Sukumar said. Security arrangements outside the counting centres will be supervised by the Sub Divisional Police Officers concerned with the assistance of a 34-member team. Two mobile patrol squads will be present within each police station limits, apart from the patrolling vehicles of Inspectors and Sub Divisional Police Officers. No one will be allowed to enter counting centre premises without valid identity cards issued by the Returning Officer concerned. The 100-metre stretch of road in front of the counting centres will be a sterile area, and no vehicle will be allowed there till the completion of counting, Mr. Sukumar said. No processions and gatherings will be allowed in the district. Strict action under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance will be initiated against violators, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/security-stepped-up-at-counting-centres/article34461701.ece
02 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No clarity yet on vaccination rollout for 18-plus||There is no clarity yet on when vaccination for people over 18 years will begin in Ernakulam district. Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for immunisation, said no specific directions had been received yet on the roll-out for those in the 18 to 45 age category. The district has been facing severe shortage of vaccines for around two weeks now, though doses have been trickling in in quantities that have been insufficient to meet the demand. Slots are also not being allotted via the COWIN portal for those seeking to take the first shot, since people are now being prioritised for the second dose of the vaccines. Private hospitals have also been uncertain about procuring the vaccine. A spokesperson of a private hospital, where vaccination has remained suspended for over a week, said there was no clarity yet on how they would procure the vaccine, and that no move had been made yet to purchase stock. Dr. Junaid Rahman, a member of the district programme management and supporting unit, said private hospitals were keen on purchasing doses but were uncertain about when stock would be available. “When I contacted Serum Institute to ask about purchase, we were told that it would not be available till the end of May,” said Dr. Rahman, who is the medical director at Sree Sudheendra Medical Mission in Kochi. On Saturday, only 19 vaccination centres held sessions. They were all at government facilities. Only 3,000 to 4,000 doses were administered on Saturday, since there was a shortage of stock, Dr. Sivadas said. No vaccination sites will function on Sunday. A few private centres used to hold sessions on Sundays earlier, but since no private hospital is currently administering doses, sessions will not be held on Sunday. So far, 8,51,917 doses have been administered in the district. A total of 5,66,261 people in the 45 to 60 and over 60 age categories have taken the first dose. Of them, 65,353 have taken the second dose as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-clarity-yet-on-vaccination-rollout-for-18-plus/article34462187.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pandemic curtails harbour operations in Ernakulam||The spread of the fresh wave of COVID-19 has hit fishing harbours in the district, including Chellanam, Thoppumpady, Vypeen, Pallippuram, and Munambam. At the Thoppumpady fisheries harbour, where 20 to 25 boats land with catch on normal days, only two boats arrived on Saturday. Dwindling catch The trend is not only because of the pandemic situation but also due to dwindling catch and fewer boats venturing out, said M. Majeed of All India Deep Sea Fishers’ Association. He added that both the scarcity of resources and restricted operations on account of COVID-19 had hit fishers’ livelihood hard. The situation has been serious since March 2020, and it has lingered on. A senior Fisheries Department official said fishing operations had been regulated through standing orders issued during the first wave of the pandemic. COVID protocol Harbours have management committees to oversee operations in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol. Auctions continue to be banned, and sale of fish takes place on the basis of pre-fixed price for the catch. However, when harbour stakeholders fail to adhere to the pandemic protocol, the authorities are forced to restrict operations. Lockdown Lockdown in panchayats like Pallippuram has not affected the operation of major harbours such as Munambam. The harbour was reopened on the intervention of the authorities following an appeal by stakeholders. The operation of the Chellanam fish landing centre too had been affected by the second wave of the pandemic. P.V. Jayan, a traditional fisherman at Vypeen, said the number of boats venturing out had considerably come down because of poor catch and uncertainties triggered by the pandemic.  Auctions continue to be banned and sale of fish takes place on the basis of pre-fixed price for the catch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-curtails-harbour-operations/article34462192.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||When COVID-19 symptoms worsen||On what is to be done when COVID symptoms worsen or oxygen saturation levels fall, health officials said people in isolation at home are to keep at hand the contact numbers of the junior public health nurse (JPHN), ASHA worker, Junior Health Inspector, nurse or medical officer at the local primary health centre. They are to be informed of the patient’s condition. If unable to contact local health staff, the district control room can be contacted on 0484-2368702/2368802/ 2368902. Ambulance service If shifting is necessary, local health staff will ensure the closest available ambulance, or a vehicle arranged by the local body will be dispatched to transport the patient to the nearest ‘stabilisation centre’. Taluk hospitals and second-line treatment centres are equipped with such emergency centres, where the patient’s vitals will be taken, and oxygen or medication will be administered as necessary. If the patient is to be shifted to a tertiary care facility, an ambulance will be arranged from the stabilisation centre. Stabilisation centre Till a bed is found and allotted for admission at a tertiary care facility, the patient will remain at the stabilisation centre. A bed is allocated (regular beds, ICUs, high dependency units, ventilators) at a suitable facility depending on the patient’s needs as assessed by doctors at the stabilisation centre. In an effort to decentralise the shifting system, taluk-level control rooms have been set up for medical officers to coordinate shifting of patients. The taluk-level centres allocate beds at domiciliary care centres and first-line treatment centres (FLTCs), while the centralised system for the district focuses on tertiary care facilities at government and private hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-covid-19-symptoms-worsen/article34462184.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Active caseload crosses 50,000-mark||With 5,002 new COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam on Saturday, the active caseload of the district has crossed the 50,000-mark. A total of 52,836 people are currently recovering from the infection in the district. Thrikkakara continues to record the highest number of cases, with 210 people testing positive. Thripunithura registered 133 new cases, Elamkunnapuzha 123, Kadungalloor 112, Koovapady 98, and Perumbavoor and Mazhuvanoor 96 each. Palluruthy recorded 94 cases, Udayamperoor 93, Kalamassery 88, and Pallipuram 82. One health worker was infected. The source of infection could not be determined in 50 cases. Only one person who arrived from outside the State has tested positive, and 4,950 people contracted the infection through local transmission. As many as 17,397 samples were sent for testing, leaving the district’s test positivity rate at 28.75%. of the total tests done, 5,557 were RT-PCR tests. A total of 1,987 people who recovered on the day, 184 were discharged from hospitals and other treatment centres. Of those recovering from the infection, 44,435 remain at home. At the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, 160 patients are recovering, while 68 patients are at PVS Hospital, and 64 are at the Aluva District Hospital. All three hospitals provide tertiary care to COVID-19 patients. At hospitals and treatment centres, 557 fresh admissions were made on Saturday. In ICUs, 357 patients are admitted. The number of people admitted in ICUs has been growing. The figure was at 225 a week ago. At private hospitals, 1,979 patients are recovering. A total of 37 people are at FLTCs, 405 are at SLTCs, and 379 are at domiciliary care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-caseload-crosses-50000-mark/article34462186.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ecological condition of Perandoor, Edappally canals worsens||Three months after detecting alarming levels of faecal contamination, the ecological condition of Perandoor and Edappally canals continues to be on the decline. Tests results of samples taken from five new monitoring stations on March 15 by the State Pollution Control Board revealed that the total coliform count, indicating faecal contamination, has exceeded the maximum permissible limits by 320 times in Perandoor canal. In Edappally canal, the maximum permissible limit was breached by nearly 230 times.  The Hindu had reported on January 28 that the total coliform count had exceeded the maximum permissible limits by 160 and 96 times respectively in Perandoor and Edappally canals. The tested samples were collected between December 9 and December 23 last year. The spike in coliform count shows the indiscriminate discharge of septage into the two major canals. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the maximum permissible limit of faecal coliform in water used for organised outdoor bathing is 2,500 cfu/100 ml, while the desirable value is only 500 cfu/100 ml. The coliform presence in samples collected from Kattakara Canal Road near the Greater Cochin Development Authority’s LIG colony and Pachalam bridge along the Perandoor canal was 8,00,000 cfu/100 ml, which was nearly 320 times higher than the maximum permissible limit. The worst level of faecal contamination in Edappally canal was detected at the monitoring station at Chembokkadavu bridge. The coliform presence here was 5,80,000 cfu/100 ml, nearly 232 times higher than the maximum permissible limit. The total coliform levels in the other monitoring stations were Lulu Mall (4,00,000 cfu/ml); Civil Lane Road near Padivattom (3,50,000 cfu/100 ml); Indiraji bridge, Muttar (1,40,000 cfu/100 ml); and Thuthiyoor bridge, Palachuvadu (1,10,000 cfu/100 ml). The faecal contamination in the remaining monitoring stations in Perandoor was no different. At Sastry Nagar bridge, it was 4,80,000 cfu/100 ml while the corresponding figures were 3,50,000 cfu/100 ml at Elamakkara and 2,00,000 cfu/100 ml near the railway overbridge in Gandhi Nagar. The Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD), a proxy for organic pollution, was higher than the ideal limit of 3 mg/litre prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board in samples collected from both the canals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ecological-condition-of-perandoor-edappally-canals-worsens/article34462194.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cab driver turns Good Samaritan||Binu U.K., a cab driver from Ponnurunni, takes one too many showers a day though not out of any phobia. For someone now left to make a living transporting the pandemic-infected, that is the minimum he can do to have at least a notion of safety. Binu, 41, used to run tour packages before the outbreak of COVID-19 left the tourism industry in ruins. Things were beginning to look up and he had even organised a tour to Kullu-Manali and Goa earlier this year when the second wave of the pandemic hit, nipping his nascent hope in the bud. Then he joined the ranks of cab drivers operating from the Kochi airport but found the returns hardly consummate with the long hours of waiting, as he often ended up getting short trips. Left with no other alternative to make a living, Binu moved his wife and toddler son to her home and started transporting COVID-19-infected people between hospitals, labs, and their homes. “Since I cannot afford PPE [personal protection equipment] kit for every trip, I use the other safeguards like masks, shields, gloves, sanitisers, and internal separation of the cab. And then after every trip, I take a shower,” he said. He is now a regular in transporting infected people in the Vyttila Janatha and Ponnurunni divisions of the Kochi Corporation. “Binu is a very dependable guy who is very caring with the people he transports and charges only nominal fees. His phone number is available with Asha workers in the division,” said Baiju Thottaly, former councillor of Vyttila Janatha. Sony Joseph, the present councillor, said though he had not been formally engaged, his service often comes in handy. K.K. Pradeep Kumar, secretary of the Sahakarana Resident’s Association, Ponnurunni, is also appreciative of Binu who, he said, was available on call even during late nights. “He was at hand last Sunday when an aged and childless lottery agent had to be taken for testing after he developed complications following vaccination,” he recalled. For someone who has always enjoyed life and frequently travelled with his family, Binu remains upbeat in the face of hardships though he is aware of the potentially serious health hazards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cab-driver-turns-good-samaritan/article34462293.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Online sale of milk booms in Milma’s Ernakulam region||The online sale of milk by the Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union (ERCMPU) is witnessing a boom. John Theruvath, chairman of the regional milk cooperative, said the sale in collaboration with its partner AM Needs had gone up to around 3,000 packets per day. The Ernakulam region comprises primary milk cooperatives and dairy farmers in Ernakulam, Kottayam, Idukki, and Thrissur, and along with the Thiruvananthapuram and Malabar regional cooperatives is affiliated to the Kerala Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation. Mr. Theruvath said the second wave of COVID-19 had not had much of an impact on milk procurement and sale. According to the latest figures, ERCMPU procures around 3.80 lakh litres of milk a day, and the sale volume stands at around 3.6 lakh litres.  The region had achieved self-sufficiency in procurement earlier this year. The arrival of young entrepreneurs is one of the key features in recent times, as the pandemic has restricted employment opportunities. Meanwhile, Mr. Theruvath was honoured by the State Milk Marketing Federation for the efficiency with which milk procurement and sale were conducted in the Ernakulam region during the pandemic. K. Raju, Minister for Dairy Development, presented a special citation to Mr. Theruvath in the presence of federation chairman P.A. Balan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-milk-sale-booms-in-ernakulam/article34461704.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CBI blames IB for unprofessional probe||The officials of the Intelligence Bureau (IB) who probed the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case had acted in an unprofessional manner and caused mental agony to six persons, who were arraigned as accused in the case, according to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In its report on the role of IB officials in the investigation, the CBI had pulled up former Joint Director Mathew John and former Deputy Director R.B. Sreekumar of failing in their duty to conduct the inquiry in a fair manner. On the unofficial notes on investigation prepared by the then IB Director and dispatched to the Union Home Minister, Union Cabinet Secretary, Principal Secretary to Prime Minister, Home Secretary and other high functionaries, the CBI pointed out that the notes were prepared without verification of the interrogation report. This led to serious complications, including casting doubts on the integrity of two top ISRO scientists, it said. Veracity of statements The IB officers did not verify the veracity of the statements of the accused persons. Had the IB officials carried out on-the-spot verification of the disclosures allegedly made by the accused, the arrests of innocent persons could have been avoided, it said. The report blamed the IB officials for torturing and ill-treating Maldivian woman Mariyam Rasheeda, businessman Chandrasekhar and space scientist Nambi Narayanan. Though Mr. Narayanan and S.K. Sharma, a businessman, were interrogated, the IB officials did not prepare the interrogation reports. The statements were not recorded as it appeared that the accused did not toe the line suggested by the IB officials, it said. The interrogation reports of Fauzia Hassan, another Maldivian national, Ms. Rasheeda, Mr. Chandrasekhar and Mr. Sasikumaran, another space scientist, were found undated and unsigned. Though the interrogations of Ms. Hassan, Mr. Chandrasekhar and Mr. Sasikumaran were videographed and the tapes produced in the Kerala High Court, no officers admitted to having videographed the interrogation, it said. Even the Joint Director, IB, who was overall in charge of interrogations, failed to identify the officers who videographed the interrogation. The Deputy Director of the IB went on to state that he was unaware of videography, the report said. Responding to the developments, Mr. Sreekumar said a subsequent department inquiry had absolved all the officials who were criticised by the CBI in its report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbi-blames-ib-for-unprofessional-probe/article34461743.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Centre steps up oxygen allocation||The Union government has increased the medical oxygen allocation for Kerala from 99 tonnes to 150 tonnes a day, said R. Venugopal, Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) for Kerala and Lakshadweep, and nodal officer for medical oxygen supply. The revised oxygen supply plan is also meant for other States like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, and the National Capital Territory of Delhi. Rise in demand The Centre’s order said the revised allocation was in keeping with the rise in demand for medical oxygen. Dr. Venugopal said the Kerala State Medical Supplies Corporation had informed that the number of COVID-19 patients was on the rise, and that there was a dire need for medical oxygen. Dr. Venugopal said PESO was also reviewing ways to increase the gaseous oxygen availability in Kerala and had held a review meeting with BPCL Kochi Refinery. Steps planned At a meeting convened by PESO last Friday, Dr. Venugopal said it was decided to seize all inert gas cylinders from all industrial customers. Such cylinders are being made medical oxygen cylinders as per the safe operating procedures adopted by PESO. They will be in the custody of District Medical Officers, and they can send the cylinders to 24 oxygen filling plants licensed by PESO in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-steps-up-oxygen-allocation/article34462195.ece
02 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Forum calls for safety of deep-sea fishers||The newly floated All India Deep Sea Fishers’ Association, representing around 7,000 fishers mostly from Tuthoor, Vallavila, Chinnathura, Poonthura, Irambiyanthura, Kollamgod South and Neerodi villages, have demanded steps to ensure the safety of deep sea fishers in the wake of a series of accidents that saw fishing boats being hit by merchant navy ships. M. Majeed, secretary of the association, said that deep-sea fishers, in the gillnet and longline boats, numbering around 600 and operating mostly out of Kochi, were not being accounted for now. ‘Extend help’ The association wants the authorities to keep a record of the number of fishing boats going out into the deep sea on a regular basis and to provide them help in case of accidents. Charles George, president of the association, said deep-sea fishers went close to the coast of Oman for fishing. They are a traditionally skilled community but the governments, both the State and Centre, had not provided them enough protection. ‘Use their knowledge’ However, he said, it was time that the governments took these fishers into account, provided them security and recognised their knowledge of the fishing grounds along the Indian coast. He said the new association wanted various agencies in the fisheries sector to come together to help traditional deep-sea fishers, who provide a livelihood to thousands of others. The deep-sea fishers mostly operate out of the Thoppumpady fisheries harbour and facilities like a dormitory should be established to harbour them when they come back to the shore. The new harbour facilities being developed by the Cochin Port Trust and MPEDA would take care of these needs, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forum-calls-for-safety-of-deep-sea-fishers/article34461745.ece
02 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Piravom has highest number of postal ballots||The Ernakulam district election wing has received 45,878 postal ballots of the 47,892 issued as on Saturday. Of the 1,611 electronic postal ballots, the authorities received 542 votes. Piravom constituency had the highest number of postal ballots (5,252) followed by Kothamangalam (4,591). The number of postal ballots of absentee voters in Piravom was 3,763. Kochi constituency had the minimum number of postal ballots (2,168) followed by Ernakulam (2,265). Piravom also had the highest number of electronic postal ballots (207) followed by North Paravur (161), according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/piravom-has-highest-number-of-postal-ballots/article34462196.ece
02 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Naval hospital supplies cylinders||INHS Sanjivani, the naval hospital at the Southern Naval Command (SNC), gave 10 jumbo oxygen cylinders to the taluk hospital at Palluruthy for COVID-19 treatment. Each cylinder has a capacity of 7,000 litres. Coordination of efforts between the State government and the armed forces was discussed at a meeting chaired by the Chief Secretary recently. The SNC maintains close liaison with the district administration which coordinated the handing over of the cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-hospital-supplies-cylinders/article34462182.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tourism stakeholders observe Black Day||Expressing angst at the alleged lackadaisical attitude of the Centre and State governments in helping out the crisis-ridden tourism stakeholders and the over-a-million-strong workforce in Kerala, members of the fraternity observed May 1, Workers’ Day, as Black Day through protests, including through social media. The observance of Black Day comes at a time when the resurgent pandemic has resulted in foreign and domestic tourists cancelling or postponing their trips to the State which banks heavily on the over Rs. 40,000-crore annual revenue from the sector. “Foreign tourists alone brought an average of over Rs. 10,000-crore revenue each year to Kerala. Soft loans and other measures announced by the government to help such people have not benefited even a fraction of the over 2 lakh tourism workforce who lost their jobs due to the pandemic crisis, since banks have discretion in sanctioning loans, and they do not care much for the State Level Banking Committee,” said George Scaria, president of Tourism Professionals Club. The Centre, which is much better placed to help the labour-intensive sector from crumpling further, is remaining a mute spectator. Most countries have announced plans to reopen borders for tourists, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-stakeholders-observe-black-day/article34462188.ece
02 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Restrictions tightened in Eloor||Eloor Municipality has strengthened curbs following a spike in COVID-19 cases. Around 550 persons contracted the disease as on Saturday following the second wave, according to A.D. Sujil, Municipal Chairman. “We will start care centres for taking care of affected persons this week. More restrictions will be in place to stop the spread,” he said. The Binanipuram police have barricaded the entry to Eloor from Kadungalloor. Besides Kadungalloor, the nearby Alangad panchayat was also designated as a containment zone. Mr. Sujil said the regulator-cum-bridge at Pathalam was also closed as part of the ongoing restrictions along with the entry into the Pathalam bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-tightened-in-eloor/article34462191.ece
02 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Idling boats leave fishers in deep waters||Hit hard by an unprecedented dip in catch, the majority of fishing boats in Kerala has been lying idle for the last few days generating anxiety in the sector. While 80% of the trawlers have stopped venturing into the sea, traditional fishers say there has been an alarming decline in the availability of pelagic fish species such as mackerel and sardine. Though the annual lean season is not over, the fishers say they are facing a fish famine for the first time in several decades. They also feel that this drastic depletion may hint at a change in marine environment and its capacity to replenish fishery stocks. Hike in fuel price “Along with the low availability of fish, the hike in fuel price has left us in a difficult spot. The diesel price was around Rs. 62 last year, but now it has touched Rs. 86, which makes a huge difference in total expenditure. If we can’t return with a reasonably good catch, the result will be mounting debts and we have decided to stay off waters due to this,” says Peter Mathias, president, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association. The fishers say the situation has proved all normal forecasts wrong and point out many reasons for the famine, including pollution and overfishing. “Only small units are venturing into the sea at present and they are able to survive as the prices have skyrocketed due to the shortage. We agree that this is a lean season, but we have never experienced such scarcity before,” says Jackson Pollayil, president, Kerala Swatantra Matsyathozhilali Federation. Since climate change and rising sea temperatures can affect the migratory pattern and stock size of pelagic fish, they also fear that some species might have moved away from the shallow coastal waters. “In the month of April and May we usually harvest mackerel and sardine in huge volumes, but right now both have become rare. Traditional fishers mainly depend on the pelagic stock and now it remains nearly empty.” Mr.Pollayil adds that unscientific fishing methods, including pair trawling, too have contributed to the situation. “They use Chinese engines and multiple gears to sieve all three levels of the sea. They net a lot of juveniles and that part of the catch goes straight to the fish meal fish oil (FMFO) industry. In a sense, the ban and regulation on fishing during the early pandemic days helped us as the landings were really good in post-lockdown days,” he says. Overexploitation Mr.Mathias says overexploitation can be one main reason as an enormous number of crafts are currently fishing in our sea. “We have boats and crafts three times beyond the capacity of our sea and the government keeps giving permission. At present 80% of boats in the mechanised sector are staying off the waters, which is something totally unheard of under normal circumstances. If this continues it will be difficult for the sector to stay afloat,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idling-boats-leave-fishers-in-deep-waters/article34461747.ece
02 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,648 test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,648 new cases of COVID-19 and 925 recoveries on Saturday. The new patients include 1,643 contact cases, three health workers and two others who had travelled from other Indian States. Kollam currently has 25,094 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 11,12,978. While 1,670 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 2,11,213 primary and 16,184 secondary contacts of the patients. Kollam currently has two COVID second-line treatment centres (CSLTCs) and four COVID first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) functioning in the district. Vaccinated Meanwhile, 11,964 persons in the district including firstline workers were vaccinated on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1648-test-positive-in-kollam/article34461735.ece
02 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Counting day curbs till May 4 in Kollam||Strict restrictions will in force in the district till May 4 in connection with the counting of votes, said District Collector B. Abdul Nasar here on Saturday. Meetings, rallies, parades and victory celebrations after the announcement of election results will not be allowed to contain the spread of COVID-19. The norms will be applicable to offices of various political parties and counting stations. The political parties had promised in an all-party meeting on April 22 that there would not be any celebrations from May 1 to 9. All the counting centres in the district will adhere to COVID-19 and green protocols. Each centre will have 20% reserve staff and vaccination or COVID-19 negative certificate will be mandatory for officials and agents. Mobile phones will not be allowed and arrangements have been made to store them. The District Collector has imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) in places that reported a test positivity rate (TPR) above 15%. From 6 a.m. today The restrictions will come into force from 6 a.m. on May 2 at places including Adichanallur, Ayalamon, Alappad, Anchal, Chadayamangalam, Clappana, Kottankara, Kundara, Kalluvathukkal, Mayyanad, Mynagappally, Neendakara, Oachira, Panayam, Pathanapuram, Thazhava and Yeroor among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/counting-day-curbs-till-may-4-in-kollam/article34461734.ece
02 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||KSU opens vaccine registration desk||Kerala Students Union (KSU) Eravipuram Assembly committee has opened a COVID-19 vaccine registration desk at College Junction. Youth Congress State general secretary Faizal Kulappadam inaugurated the desk and KSU Assembly committee president Nezfal Kalathikadu presided over the function . Kollam constituency president Bichu Kollam, Gokul Krishnan, and Sujimon were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksu-opens-vaccine-registration-desk/article34461732.ece
02 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Best social worker award for Chennithala||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan gave away the award for the best social worker instituted by the R. Sankar Foundation of Kerala to Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala (in pic) at a recent function at Raj Bhavan in the capital. The award carries a purse of Rs. 50,001, a citation, plaque and ponnada. Party leaders K. Muraleedharan, M.M. Hassan, K. Sudhakaran, and V.S. Sivakumar were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/best-social-worker-award-for-chennithala/article34461762.ece
02 May 2021||Kottayam,KERALA||Special, postal votes likely to prove crucial||With just hours left for the counting of votes to begin, all eyes are now on the special and postal votes, which, the parties believe, will be crucial in deciding the outcome in at least a few seats. As per estimates, as many as 31,762 voters had used the facility in Kottayam this time. They include 22,713 persons over the age of 80, physically challenged persons (3,151), COVID-19 patients, and those in COVID-enforced quarantine (45), employees belonging to the essential services category (1,511) and polling officials (4,334). Highest in Pala With 4,868 votes, Pala recorded the highest number of postal votes, followed by Kaduthuruthy at 4,388. The figures in other constituencies are as follows: Vaikom - 3,427, Ettumanur - 4,033, Kottayam - 2,858, Puthuppally - 3,630, Changanassery - 2,923, Kanjirappally - 3,000, and Poonjar - 2,817. “In constituencies like Pala, where the LDF and the UDF stand neck to neck, such a huge number of postal votes will have an impact on the outcome,” said a Kerala Congress leader. In Pathanamthitta The number of postal votes in Pathanamthitta is just over 26,000. As per estimates, 6,132 persons cast their votes using the postal ballots, while 20,214 persons voted using the special ballot facility. With 6,874 special votes, Aranmula accounted for the highest number of special and postal votes, followed by Konni with 5,630.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-postal-votes-likely-to-prove-crucial/article34461726.ece
02 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Poll result crucial for Kerala Congress outfits||As the stage is set for counting of votes for the Assembly elections on Sunday, both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Fronts (UDF) are having their share of anxious moments. In Central Travancore, however, the results will be watched primarily to assess how the two mainstream Kerala Congress parties have fared this time. For, the outcome is critical to the future direction and place of these regional parties in the State's political landscape regardless of their positioning. The Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani, which contested in 12 out of the 13 seats allotted to it by the LDF, amply demonstrated its might in Kottayam during the local body polls last year when it helped the LDF make significant gains in the region. Confident side The Kerala Congress led by P.J. Joseph, which contested 10 seats this time, too approached the Assembly elections as a confident side on the back of a stellar performance in Idukki, its home turf, on the same occasion. Meanwhile, the split has helped the KC outfits to expand their presence to 22 Assembly segments as against the 15 seats when they stood together as a UDF ally. Of these, the two factions have come head-to-head in as many as four seats — Kaduthuruthy, Thodupuzha, Idukki and Changanassery. Notwithstanding the traditional advantage that the Joseph group holds in three of these seats, the contest appears to be evenly poised in at least two of these segments, Changanassery and Idukki. Among these, it is the battle for Idukki where the KC(M) leader and sitting legislator Roshy Augustine met Francis George, a former Parliament member, that promises to be the most fascinating. While the KC(M), on the back of an intense election campaign facilitated by the LDF machinery, hopes to bag at least nine seats, including Changanassery and Idukki, the Joseph group counts on winning at least six seats hands down. “The KC groups have not faced a more critical election in decades than the one it faced this time as a below par performance by them will surely raise questions on their special position assumed in the agrarian core of Idukki and Kottayam. For the Joseph group, it may also mean a hardening of the dissident voices post the reorganisation,” pointed out a senior KC leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-result-crucial-for-kerala-congress-outfits/article34461753.ece
02 May 2021||KOTTAYAM/Pathanamthitta,KERALA||2,515 in Kottayam||The district on Saturday reported 2,515 more COVID-19 cases. Of the new cases, all but nine contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate for the district slightly came down to 21.07%. Despite strict restrictions, Kottayam municipality reported 298 more cases, followed by Aymanam with 95 cases. 1,903 recoveries With 1,903 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 14,825 persons under treatment, besides 60,569 persons under surveillance. In Pathanamtitta, as many as 1,065 persons tested positive for the virus during the day. Of this, 1,010 contracted the virus through local transmission. 10 deaths The district also reported 10 COVID-19 related deaths during the day. With 68 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pandalam with 47 cases. As many as 815 persons recovered from the disease on the day, bringing down the total number of patients to 10,872. At the same time, 24,265 persons are under observation for suspected infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2515-in-kottayam/article34461728.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||First leads to be known by 8.30 a.m.||After almost a month-long wait, the counting of votes polled in the Assembly elections will be held at 13 centres in Kozhikode district on Sunday. Elaborate arrangements have been made by the District Election Office to provide the latest results to the public. The counting of postal votes will begin at 8 a.m. The progress of counting will be available on the website of the Election Commission of India ( https:results.eci.gov.in ). The first leads in the 13 Assembly segments will be known by 8.30 a.m. Unlike previous elections, the number of postal votes has gone up this time. Thus even before the completion of the counting of postal votes, the counting of votes polled in electronic voting machines (EVMs) will begin at 8.15 a.m. However, the final results will be delayed on account of the huge number of postal votes as well as the increase in the number of counting tables in line with the COVID-19 protocol. Each of the 13 Assembly constituencies will have 28 tables for counting. One round will be completed when the votes are on those 28 tables. The results will be announced after each round. After all the rounds are over, the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) from five randomised booths will be counted. After the counting of postal votes, the Returning Officer will hand over the certificate to the winning candidate. Counting centres The following are the counting centres in the 13 Assembly segments: Vadakara – Government College, Madappally; Kuttiyadi – Memunda Higher Secondary School; Nadapuram – Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Madappally; Koyilandy – Payyoli Government Vocational Higher Secondary School; Perambra – Perambra Higher Secondary School; Balussery – Markaz High School; Elathur – West Hill Government Polytechnic; Kozhikode North – JDT Islam Polytechnic; Kozhikode South – Malabar Christian College; Beypore – Government Arts and Science College; Kunnamangalam – Government Law College; Koduvally – KMO Higher Secondary School, and Thiruvambady – St. Alphons Senior Secondary School, Korangad. Official sources said the randomisation of employees for each counting table would be completed at 5 a.m. Employees deputed for counting duty should report at the centres at 6 a.m. They will have to take an oath of secrecy before the counting of votes. Subsequently, postal ballots will be opened in the presence of representatives of political parties. Similarly, the strong room where the EVMs are stored will be opened. Postal votes of employees deployed for election duty will be accepted till 8 a.m. All postal votes will be counted on separate tables. Each constituency has six to 12 tables for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-leads-to-be-known-by-830-am/article34461690.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daily test positivity rate crosses 30% in Kozhikode||One in every three persons undergoing COVID-19 test in Kozhikode is testing positive for the virus now. There is a rise in the number of people getting discharged from hospitals, first-line treatment centres and other facilities as well. 2,295 recover The Health Department said 5,554 fresh cases were reported on Saturday in the district when 18,760 samples were tested, resulting in a daily test positivity rate of 30.98%. As many as 2,295 people recovered from the infection too. According to a release, there were 5,414 locally acquired infections and the source of 135 others is not known. Four persons had returned from other States and one from abroad. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 1,735 cases of local transmission of the infection, Kunnamangalam 163, Puthuppady 126, and Meppayyur 109. Active caseload from the district surged to 46,057.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-test-positivity-rate-crosses-30-in-kozhikode/article34461695.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Curbs intensified in Central Market||Restrictions have been imposed on activities at Central Market in Kozhikode city to check the spread of COVID-19. A meeting of merchants called by Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed has decided to restrict wholesale business between 5 a.m. and 7 a.m. and retail business between 7.30 a.m. and 3 p.m. Only ten vehicles will be allowed inside the market a day to unload fish. Five vehicles may be brought to the yard while the other five should be parked on the roadside. The health inspector of the circle should be informed about the numbers of vehicles that will be brought to the market every day in advance and all employees of all vehicles should undergo health screening. Labourers need to furnish COVID-negative certificates to be able to work in the market. A management committee comprising four labourers and the health inspector has been formed to ensure that the COVID-19 protocol is being followed in the market. Police surveillance will also be strengthened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-intensified-in-central-market/article34461692.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity serves notice on academic for writing article||The University of Calicut has served a notice on K.S. Madhavan, Associate Professor, Department of History, for allegedly “discrediting the image” of the institution through writing an article in a Malayalam newspaper in violation of rules. The notice issued on April 29 alleges that the article published in Madhyamam newspaper on April 21 had violated Rules 58A, 60, and 62 of the Kerala Government Servants Conduct Rules, 1960. Mr. Madhavan has been asked to file a written explanation. He has also been directed to furnish the circumstances which led to the violation of the rules and reasons for not initiating action against him, in a week. The article, co-authored with academic P.K. Pokker, had criticised universities in Kerala, accusing them of violating reservation policies while appointing staff to various posts. The article claimed that the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, a constitutional body, had sought a detailed report from the University of Calicut on the “sabotage of reservation rules”. Mr. Madhavan told The Hindu that the article was not polemic in nature. “I am a public intellectual and academic who has been active in the public sphere of Kerala, speaking and writing on major social issues. The above-said article was an attempt to highlight the social exclusion practised in institutions of higher education. It also sought to implement the constitutional policies of reservation in such institutions,” he said. Mr. Madhavan said it was the duty of academics to create public opinion on social issues so that the government implemented inclusive policies in education. Meanwhile, Mr. Pokker, also a visiting professor attached to the Basheer Chair of the university, asked the authorities to withdraw the notice. He claimed that the article was a follow-up to their years of research on the anti-sabaltern attitude prevalent in Kerala’s universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-serves-notice-on-academic-for-writing-article/article34461742.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||More restrictions in containment zones||District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao has imposed further restrictions in containment zones and critical containment zones against the backdrop of the spike in COVID-19 cases here. According to an order on Saturday, the regulations are under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. All containment zones will have one entry and exit point and the remaining roads shall be closed. No movement, except for medical emergencies, and for transporting essential goods and services, will be allowed. Outsiders can enter the area only for emergency purposes. Public gatherings will not be allowed and all public places will remain closed. People will be allowed to work from home and all offices and shops, except those in the essential service category, will be closed. Shops should stick to the protocol and adopt home delivery service. Critical containment zones too have only one entry and exit point. Shops and establishments on food delivery, health and pharmacy will be allowed to open. All are expected to stay at home and local self-government institutions and rapid response teams should try to supply essential commodities to the doorstep of the people with the help of volunteers. The Collector pointed out that there was a drastic increase in the number of new cases and the daily test positivity had gone up from 10.6% to 26% in four weeks, indicating that the disease spread was very high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-restrictions-in-containment-zones/article34461693.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Residents’ plea to unblock road||Around 20 persons living along the road connecting the third and fourth railway gates in Kozhikode city on the eastern side of the railway line have appealed to the Southern Railway not to block the road, which is the only way to their homes. In a letter to the General Manager of Southern Railway, forwarded through M.K. Raghavan, MP, they alleged that the railway authorities had partially blocked the road near the third railway gate, below the C.H. flyover, on April 27, as a result of which only very small number of vehicles could ply on it. The road has been in existence since the 1940s and has been maintained by the Kozhikode Corporation. It is a 10-feet wide concrete road leading to the Corporation Colony for members of Scheduled Caste communities. The residents said they had not trespassed on railway property as stated in a complaint, on the basis of which the road was blocked. They complained that the railway authorities had not conducted a proper inquiry before blocking the road and reducing its width to six feet. The letter pointed out that the entry to the road had become so narrow that even ambulances or fire service vehicles could not use it. The letter is accompanied by a signature campaign as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-plea-to-unblock-road/article34461698.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Prohibitory orders in rural station limits||District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao on Saturday issued prohibitory orders covering all rural police station limits in Kozhikode as part of security measures taken to ensure peaceful counting. The orders issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure will be in place till May 7. Mr. Rao said the intention of the order was to ensure strict implementation of the COVID-19 protocol and avert all possible chances of clashes in politically sensitive areas. No public gatherings or assembling of more than five persons would be permitted within a kilometre radius of the counting stations, he said. Police officials from various rural stations said they would ensure that no public demonstrations or vehicle rallies were held. Stringent regulations as recommended by the police higher-ups would be in place in all critical containment zones in view of the COVID-19 scare, they said. According to officials, the regulations would be applicable to all commercial establishments near the counting centres. Even shops selling essential commodities located within one kilometre radius of the counting station should remain closed. Displaying election results using LED screens would be treated as a violation of prohibitory orders. Distribution of sweets and bursting firecrackers would not be permitted. Officials said the premises of various political party offices would be brought under the scanner. District Police Chief (Kozhikode Rural) A. Srinivas told The Hindu on Saturday that the support of 3,000 police officers would be used to ensure peaceful counting of votes. “Police pickets and patrolling have also been intensified to manage the law and order situation,” he said. District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George said the protection of the five counting centres within the city limits would be managed with the support of 1,000 police officers. They would be under the supervision of nine Assistant Commissioners, he added. As part of the heightened security arrangements, drone cameras would be used for flawless aerial surveillance in the city. Police officers were asked to impound vehicles used for non-emergency trips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prohibitory-orders-in-rural-station-limits/article34461699.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rail users demand steps for safety of passengers||The Confederation of All India Rail Users’ Association has requested the Railways Ministry to take adequate steps in trains to ensure the safety of passengers. In a letter addressed to Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal  and former minister Manoj Sinha, in the backdrop of the recent attack on a woman in the Guruvayur-Punalur passenger, the confederation pointed out the stark similarity of the incident to one that happened 10 years ago at Shoranur, in which the victim succumbed to her injuries. The confederation brought to the Minister’s notice the security steps suggested then, including setting up of CCTV cameras in the ladies’ compartment with connectivity to the guard’s room, filling up of vacancies in the Railway Protection Force, and placing the ladies’ compartment in the middle portion of the train. However, none of the suggestions were implemented, stated the letter. The rail users, in a meeting chaired by national chairman A.V. Anoop, after the incident, have suggested bringing out a handbook on passenger safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rail-users-demand-steps-for-passenger-safety/article34461696.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Merchants seek more time to pay taxes||The Malabar Chamber of Commerce has requested the State and Central governments to provide more time for the business community to pay their taxes in the wake of COVID-19-related restrictions. A meeting of the Chamber on Friday noted that the merchants had complied with every restriction imposed by the governments in connection with COVID-19, even during peak business seasons. The merchants were facing huge losses due to the reduced working hours. Bank loans Those who prepared for the season using bank loans were unable to pay back the loans and hence the governments should allow some relaxations, said the Chamber. The Chamber also called for vigil during and after the counting of votes as violations of the COVID-19 protocol during the polls was one of the reasons for increased spread of the disease. It also demanded that the government ensure availability of vaccines at ESI hospitals. Chamber president K.V. Haseeb Ahamed presided over the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/merchants-urge-governments-to-give-more-time-to-pay-taxes/article34461697.ece
02 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police to ensure camera surveillance||The election authorities and the police will ensure a flawless camera surveillance covering all counting stations in Kozhikode district on Sunday. Visuals of all government officials and election agents entering the counting stations will be recorded. All counting centres are equipped with closed circuit television cameras. Officials and election agents will be allowed to enter the counting centres after screening using door frame and hand-held metal detectors. Meanwhile, drone cameras will capture visuals of unlawful gathering, demonstrations, and rallies. Control room personnel have been authorised to hire the required number of drones. The surveillance is also expected to curb violations of the COVID-19 protocol. Those caught on camera will be booked under Sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The rules will be applicable to counting officials and election agents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-ensure-flawless-camera-surveillance/article34461700.ece
02 May 2021||MADURAI,KERALA||Despite curbs, fishing fest held in Madurai||Flouting COVID-19 norms, a large number of villagers in and around Thiruvathavur near Madurai participated in the traditional fishing festival held late on Friday night. According to residents, the recent rains had enabled the tanks to fill with water and fishlings were let in a few months ago. Men, women and children had fishing nets and some even used their sarees and dhotis for the catch, which included catla , carp and kendai fish varieties among others, they said. Village crowd In neighbouring Sivaganga district, at Keezhaseevalpatti village near Tirupathur, hundreds of village residents from Iraniyur, Kallapettai, Nallur and Pappathi Oorani among other hamlets assembled at the Pillamangalam big tank to catch fish on Friday night. Though officials claimed to have banned these festivals in view of the prevailing pandemic, local residents turned up in huge numbers and stood at the tanks to catch fish for over three hours. Though the Fisheries Department officials had, on Thursday, stated that fish markets would remain shut across the State on Saturday as per COVID-19 restrictions, many were engaged in selling the produce in villages today. In both Madurai and Sivaganga, many buyers and sellers were not wearing face masks. There was no physical distancing as well. As information about the fishing festival spread, police officers in Madurai said they dispersed the Thiruvathavur village residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-restrictions-fishing-fest-held-in-madurai-sivaganga/article34461630.ece
02 May 2021||Mangaluru,KERALA||MLA takes lead in fallow land farming||A school in Udupi bringing 50 acres of fallow land under cultivation last year to mark its golden jubilee has prompted the Udupi MLA to take the lead in paddy cultivation on 2,000 acres of fallow land in his Assembly constituency this year. Nittur High School in Udupi, managed by Nittur Educational Society, had encouraged 80 to 100 families to cultivate paddy on their lands which had been left fallow for years. The initiative was the brainchild of the then school headmaster Murali Kadekar. “The families could get 30 tonnes of rice from about 45 tonnes of paddy cultivated organically,” said Mr. Kadekar, who has now retired. The rice is now being sold at Rs. 50 per kilogram. K. Raghupati Bhat, MLA and president of the society, has now floated a trust called ‘Kedarottana’, headed by him, to grow paddy organically on 2,000 acres of fallow land. The councillors of Udupi City Municipal Council and presidents of gram panchayats are its members as his constituency comprises 19 GPs and 35 CMC wards. Mr. Bhat told The Hindu that there could be more than 7,000 acres of fallow paddy land under his constituency. The trust will take the lead to promote paddy on 2,000 acres for three years by providing the support required to the families. Later, the families will have to continue the cultivation without depending on the trust. “Those paddy fields have been fallow for 25 to 30 years,” he said. Brand name Work on levelling of land, removal of garbage, and creation of water channels have already begun on the fallow land in areas such as Parkala, Kakkunje, Chantaru, Haradi, and Kadekar. “Once the harvest is done, the rice will be sold in the brand name of the trust,” Mr. Bhat said. H. Kempe Gowda, Joint Director of Agriculture, Udupi, said 10 quintals of paddy per acre can be grown under the organic method in Udupi and 16 quintals can be cultivated per acre by using chemical fertilisers and pesticides. The department will provide guidance and technical support tothe trust. Meanwhile, Kota Srinivasa Poojary, Minister in charge of Dakshina Kannada, has instructed the Agriculture Department to encourage paddy cultivation on 2,412.75 hectares left fallow in his district by motivating the owners.  My trust will promote paddy on 2,000 acres for three years by providing support to farmer families. Later, they will have to continue the cultivation on their own K. Raghupati Bhat,MLA for Udupi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-takes-the-lead-in-fallow-land-farming/article34461675.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Growth of the curve slowing down in the State||Improbable as it may seem, it does look like the growth of the COVID-19 case graph is slowing down in the State, a direct result of the stringent lockdown-like restrictions in the State and the manner in which public is responding to the extraordinary crisis they face. “The case numbers will continue to grow but the growth of the epidemic curve is slowing down, except may be in two or three districts. It effectively means that while the graph will continue to rise, the peak will not be as steep as we thought it is going to be. The control measures and containment efforts and people’s compliance to government’s efforts will have to be continued at a substantially higher measure for the graph to stabilise,” a senior Public Health professional said. That said, the situation in the field continues to be grim, as oxygen beds and ICUs are getting filled up. Rise in ICU admissions, the real indicator of the intensity of the pandemic is becoming evident in the State, with 118 more critically ill persons newly entering ICUs on Saturday. The State has 1,808 persons in ICUs now, with 650 of them requiring ventilator assistance. The State added 35,636 new COVID cases to its tally on Saturday when 1,46,474 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The average test positivity rate in the State has not gone beyond 25% since the past three-four days and slowed a slight reduction , at 24.33% on Saturday. The active case pool of the State, which crossed the three lakh mark, is now 3,23,828. The number of COVID patients currently being treated in hospitals in the State is 25,326, with 4,675 patients getting newly admitted in various hospitals on Saturday. At present, a total of 6,62,517 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Saturday, 15,493 patients were declared to have recovered from COVID. Thanks to the new discharge policy that has done away with testing before discharge, the State is able to let off a large number of people much earlier from hospitals. The total recoveries till date is 12,77,294. Total caseload The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 16,06, 819 cases. On Saturday, the State added 48 new deaths over the past few days to its official COVID toll, taking the cumulative toll of COVID fatalities in the State to 5,356 deaths. These included 20 deaths reported from Thrissur, 15 from Palakkad, five frim Kopllam, three from Kannur, two from Thiruvananthapuram, and one death from Malappuram. Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam districts have over 3,200 hospitalised patients. Except for three, all other districts have at least 1000-1,500 hospitalised patients. Among districts, Kozhikode reported the highest number of new cases with 5,554 cases, Ernakulam 5,002, Thrissur 4,070, Malappuram 3,354, Thiruvananthapuram 3,111, Alappuzha 2,536, Kottayam 2,515, Palakkad 2,499, Kollam 1,648, Kannur 1,484, Pathanamthitta 1,065, Kasaragod 1,006, Idukki 978 and Wayanad 814 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/growth-of-the-curve-slowing-down-in-the-state/article34461765.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Counting of votes to begin at 8 a.m. today||The counting of votes polled in the Assembly elections will begin in the district at 8 a.m. on Sunday, adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines, District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Saturday. The counting will start with the postal ballots at 8 a.m., followed by the counting of votes polled in the Electronic Voting Machines (EVM) at 8.30 a.m. The initial trends will be available by 10 a.m. The strong rooms will be opened at 6 a.m. in the presence of the observers appointed by the Election Commission of India. Each round of counting will be carried out in 21 tables in three halls (seven tables each) in each counting centre. The counting is expected to be completed in 15-16 rounds, the Collector said. There will be separate tables for counting the postal ballots. A total of 500 postal ballots will be counted on a table in each round. The final two rounds of EVM votes will be counted only after the postal ballots are fully counted. The winner will be announced after the counting of slips in five of the VVPAT machines. The machines will be selected by a draw of lots. The votes polled in ten Assembly segments in the district will be counted at the following centres at Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar, Nalanchira: silver jubilee auditorium of the Sarvodaya ICSE School (Varkala segment); St Peter's block of Sarvodaya ICSE School (Attingal); Mar Ivanios College Auditorium (Chirayinkeezhu); St John's HSS (Nedumangad); third floor of the main building of Mar Ivanios College (Vamanapuram); third floor of the Mar Gregorios College of Law (Aruvikkara); Sarvodaya CBSE School (Parassala); Mar Baselios College of Engineering (Kattakada); Mar Theophilus Training College (Kovalam); ground floor, Mar Gregorios College of Law (Neyyattinkara). The counting centres for the other four constituencies are, Loyola School, Sreekaryam (Kazhakuttam); St Mary's School, Pattom (Vattiyoorkavu); Manacaud Government Girls HSS (Thiruvananthapuram); Government GHSS, Cotton Hill (Nemom). Prohibited Victory celebrations, at the counting centres and other parts of the district are prohibited, given the COVID-19 celebrations, the Collector said. People should not leave their residences unless it is absolutely essential, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/counting-of-votes-to-begin-at-8-am-today/article34462284.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hospitals cautioned on fire hazard while handling oxygen||All hospitals in the State should immediately update its fire safety measures and train all its staff in the safe handling of oxygen as the increased storage and handling of oxygen cylinders and use of mechanical ventilators during COVID heightens the risk of hospital fires several fold. Already two incidents of hospital fires have been reported from two COVID hospitals in Gujarat in the past two weeks, one as recent as Friday when at least 18 patients were killed. In both instances, the fire had broken out in the ICUs. “Fire is a huge risk during this pandemic, especially, as there is a lot of turnover of oxygen cylinders in hospitals. Even a small spark generated while oxygen cylinders are handled – like two cylinders grazing each other creating a minor spark – can set off a fire. It is essential that those handling oxygen cylinders are well-trained in the safety protocols,” says Rajeev Jayadevan, vice chairman, Indian Medical Association’s research wing. The issue of heightened fire hazard during COVID and the need for hospitals to re-assess fire safety precautions had been brought up during the recent internal discussions between hospitals, Dr. Jayadevan adds. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, also flagged the issue on Saturday. Warning to hospitals He warned all hospitals of the heightened fire hazard because of the increased handling of oxygen cylinders and to ensure that their Fire and Safety measures were up and running to prevent such incidents in Kerala. He also asked the Fire Force Department to oversee the safety measures in hospitals Increased use of mechanical ventilators during COVID can lead to enhanced oxygen levels in the hospital environment. Ventilation is a process wherein additional oxygen is delivered in a pressurised manner to aid physical breathing. But when there is a surge in the use of ventilators, as during COVID, there is the risk of oxygen leaking from tubes and canisters and masks, leading to an environment enriched in oxygen inside hospital wards/rooms. Oxygen is not flammable, but it can cause other materials to ignite more easily. NHS, U.K., in a guidance it sent to hospitals in March last year, warned of increased risks of combustion in hospitals because of more ventilators being used to treat COVID-19 patients. The guidance advised hospitals to maximise their levels of air changes through ‘natural and mechanical ventilation’ to lower the combustion risk. Dr. Jayadevan, who has taken extensive classes on fire safety and hospital drills, recommends that all hospitals carry out risk assessment exercise and provide oxygen safety training to all staff. The rational use of oxygen should be practised and it should be turned off when not in use. Electrical equipment, which are not in use, should be switched off, so that a stray spark does not lead to a fire in the oxygen-enriched environment, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospitals-cautioned-on-fire-hazard-while-handling-oxygen/article34461766.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation to arrange for 1,000 more beds||The city Corporation has decided to arrange 1,000 more beds across various COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTC) that are newly set to open. Speaking at a press conference here on Saturday, Mayor Arya Rajendran said that 516 out of the 629 available beds in 9 existing FLTCs and secondary care centres have already been filled. “In addition to the nine existing FLTCs, thousand more beds will be arranged soon at the FLTCs to be opened at the BSNL centre in Kaimanam, at LNCPE hostel, Karyavattom campus, CET campus, Samethi at Anayara, Greenfield Stadium and Rosa Mystica School near Kottapuram,” she said. She said that the most number of demands that the councillors get from people in their wards is for transport facility to COVID-testing centres, especially from those whose family members have already tested positive. The Corporation has decided to buy two ambulances, as well as rent out ambulances and use mini buses from government schools under the Corporation for this purpose. A total of five hundred autorickshaws, with five from each of the hundred wards, will also be readied exclusively to take people to testing centres, she said. Janakeeya hotels There has also been demand for food from those who have tested positive and are in home isolation, and from those who are in quarantine. The Corporation will use its volunteer force to distribute food from the 16 Janakeeya hotels in the city to such households. The rapid response team will monitor this. Two more Janakeeya hotels will be opened in Pattom and Edavacode. It has also been decided to expand the existing control room at the Corporation with eight separate counters for general information, transport facilities, sanitation, vaccination, medical team, food and medicines, collection centre for masks and other pandemic-related material and for volunteers. A standing committee chairperson and a health official will be in charge of each of these. The control rooms can be reached at 04712377702 and 04712377706. The Mayor said that the control room has been receiving 200 to 300 calls daily, with requests for help for those who have tested positive, information on beds and complaints on COVID-19 protocol violations. A total of 2,500 volunteers have been readied in the city with 25 volunteers in each of the hundred wards. The Mayor, Secretary, health standing committee chairperson, health officer and other health wing officials have been meeting online at regular intervals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-city-to-arrange-for-1000-more-beds/article34461730.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. care home residents hunker down to safety||The second wave of COVID-19 transmission has forced the elderly residents of Government Care Home at Pulayanarkotta to hunker down to ride out this surge safely. The first dose of COVID-19 vaccination has been administered to all 70 residents of the home, which has a sanctioned strength of 100. Restricted New admissions to the home have been restricted on the directions of the Social Justice Department to prevent spread of infection among the elderly who are very vulnerable. Any emergency admission is made only on the directions of top department officials. Even then, a new resident has to go into isolation for 14 days and then get tested, says Home Superintendent Beena George. Any mingling among residents in large groups is restricted. The residents are not exactly cooped inside all day – they can take a walk, sit out in the garden, or read, but only in small groups of two or three. Even the television has been switched off to prevent any mass interaction. Since the residents are put up in rooms, they too prefer to limit interaction, she says. The residents are not allowed visitors, unless there is any emergency. In such cases, visitors are allowed to meet the office staff. Mostly though, they are met by the staff at the portals of the home. Residents who have mobile phones can communicate with their family. This has been the practice for the past year, she says. If the residents need to be taken to hospital for an emergency, then PPE kits are provided. The office staff are not allowed to come into contact with the residents; only the care staff can be near them. The staff who work 14-day shifts and then take a break for the next 14 are required to get tested for COVID-19 before returning to the care home, Ms. George says. No issues Biju Mathew, State Head, HelpAge India, says no major issues have come to the organisation's notice as yet. Mr. Mathew says they are also pushing for health staff to go to old-age homes and vaccinate the elderly as there are practical difficulties in transporting them en masse to a vaccination centre. Most homes, he says, have 30 to 40 residents on an average; some even have 100 or 150. However, they do not have enough staff to accompany the residents to a centre or the facilities for that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-care-home-residents-hunker-down-to-safety/article34462276.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3,111 new cases in capital, 3,460 recover||The COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram district went up by 3,111 as the test positivity rate stood at 22.36% on Saturday. As many as 13,909 people were subjected to COVID-19 testing during the last 24 hours. While 1,719 people tested negative for the infection, the number of active cases was 26,313. The death toll inched towards the 1,000-mark with two more persons succumbing to the disease. The deceased were a 78-year old woman and a 77-year old man. As many as 991 people have died due to COVID-19 in the district. While there were nine health workers among those who were newly diagnosed, health authorities were unable to trace the source of infection in 189 cases. A total of 5,955 people have been ordered to go into quarantine, taking the number of people being monitored for symptoms to 70,481. The district authorities permitted 3,460 people to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period in self-isolation. The district health authorities have administered 8,60,425 COVID-19 vaccine doses thus far. Of these, 1,70,419 people have received both doses. The vaccination drive has been suspended for two days. Containment zone New containment zones have been declared in Chanthavila, Punnakkamughal, Nettayam, Kodungannoor and Thirumala; Kizhakkela, Mudisasthamcode, Aramkallu, Mukkola and Kallayam; Keezhattingal, Vilayilmoola, Sasthamnada, Thinavila, Thekkumbhagam, Nilakkamukku, Bhajanamadam and Mannanaakku; Pedikkulam and Porunthaman in Pulimath grama panchayat; Naalumukku, Chilambil and Perunkuzhy junction in Azhoor grama panchayat. Kunnampara in Valiyavila and Moonamoodu in Kachani, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation have become micro-containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3111-new-cases-in-capital-3460-recover/article34462280.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tight vigil in rural areas of district||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have intensified vigil in its 10 election sub-divisions. Deputy Superintendents of Police (Dy.SPs.) have been entrusted with enforcing law and order in Attingal, Venjaramoodu, Varkala, Nedumangad, Aruvikkara, Pothencode, Kattakada, Malayinkeezhu, Neyyattinkara and Parassala. Executive magistrates will also oversee the restrictions in each election sub-division. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) P.K. Madhu, a total of 175 vehicle patrol teams led by Sub-Inspectors have been deployed across the areas that come under the 38 police stations in the Thiruvananthapuram rural police district. Picketing has also been set up in sensitive areas. People must refrain from gathering in view of the COVID-19 situation. Unnecessary travel must also be avoided on the day. Stringent checking will be put in place at each police station limits as well as at the inter-State borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tight-vigil-in-rural-areas-of-district/article34462282.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||#savetourism goes viral on social media||Tourism Samrakshana Samithi’s ‘#savetourism’ campaign, which observes May 1 as ‘Black Day’ in an effort to seek Centre’s and State’s intervention to save tourism from the impact of pandemic, has emerged as one of the largest online protest campaigns of the tourism industry. The campaign by the Samithi, the umbrella body for 20 organisations working in the tourism sector of the State, went viral on social media platforms right from Saturday morning. In view of the prevailing situation in the State due to the second wave of the pandemic, the samithi avoided public demonstrations on the Labour Day. More than 70,000 social media posts were made by people with #savetourism in facebook, twitter, instagram and whatsapp, surprising the organisers. Those working in the sector from Kasaragod in the north to Poovar in the south took part in the campaign. In Twitter, all tweets were tagged to the Prime Minister’s Office, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Seetharaman, Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel, and Kerala Chief Minister’s Office. “We distributed over 10,000 black masks and people have been creating digital masks and posting pictures with black masks. The huge response was unexpected and those from outside the State joined us in the campaign,” said P.K. Anishkumar of the ATTOI and one of the brains behind the movement. Frontline tourism workers like drivers, waiters, front desk personnel, guides, ayurveda therapists, staff of the house boats, tour and transport operators were in the forefront of the day-long campaign. “The campaign has resulted in informing the society of the current situation of the tourism sector that has come to a grinding halt. Many have come forward already with a helping hand. We hope the Centre and State authorities will open their eyes and step in to help Kerala Tourism,” he added. Tourism fraternity’s aim was to press the State and Union government to intervene resolve the grave issue facing the tourism sector due to the restrictions that threaten to eliminate the sector. Tourism has been a mainstay of the Kerala economy with the sector generating Rs. 44,000 crore annually and providing employment to 15 lakh people both directly and otherwise. For the last 14 months, the samithi has said tourism has been struggling to come out of the travails in the wake of the pandemic. The samithi’s demands include Rs. 5,000 month to the jobless, exemption of taxes and fees for tourist vehicles and houseboats, moratorium on paying tax arrears and Rs. 250 crore package to support the tourism workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forums-savetourism-campaign-goes-viral/article34461729.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Virtual network to lean on in these testing times||All across the country, with the surge in COVID-19 cases, the past few days have witnessed desperate calls for beds in hospitals, for oxygen cylinders, plasma, and medicines. Often, the public are at a loss as to whom to reach out to. A group of youth from Kerala has been over the past one week running an informal online network called ‘Covid Volunteer Network (CoVolNet) through more than 30 WhatsApp groups spread across various States to connect people to the right resources. Coming in handy in dealing with the distress calls is their experience in running such a voluntary network under the government during the floods that hit Kerala in 2018 and 2019. Bharath Govind G.S., who co-founded the group with his friend Aishwarya Chandran, says that their virtual control rooms across the State handle more than a 100 calls daily. “We have separate WhatsApp groups for most States and for every metro city. The biggest demand is for oxygen cylinders, especially in Delhi, where I am currently based in. We have a verification and research team that verifies information on availability and connect the needy to them. The team includes doctors from India and abroad, IAS officers, students from major Indian universities, IT professionals, and bank officials, all of whom joined in the effort based on personal contact. Connections with government officials and others, built during the flood relief work, have aided a lot in this,” says Mr. Bharath. Team work The team has been able to connect many to oxygen suppliers, identify hospital beds, provide medicines, and help many in registering for vaccination. One of the heartbreaking messages the team received was a request for breast milk for a two-day-old baby in Delhi, whose mother had succumbed to COVID-19 “We at times struggle to fulfil the needs. It is difficult to get verified information of available resources in some places. Even after verifying, for instance the availability of oxygen cylinders, it could be exhausted within microseconds, because the demand is too much. In some cases in Delhi, we have later received messages that the person has passed away, waiting for a bed or a cylinder,” he says. The demand from Kerala has been increasing over the past few days, so are the number of volunteers from here joining the group. But the demand for beds and oxygen is still less from the State. The team was also able to report illegal operators, who try to fleece people during the crisis. The CoVolNet can be reached by the public at 9633096769 or by sending a message toinstagram.com/covid_volnet.  Team has been able to connect many to oxygen suppliers and identify hospital beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-network-to-lean-on-in-these-testing-times/article34461759.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrangements in place for counting of votes||The counting of votes polled in the April 6 Assembly elections will begin at 8 a.m. on Sunday at 633 counting halls across 114 centres. The exercise will be carried out as per the COVID-19 protocols. The counting of postal ballots will start at 8 a.m. By 8.30 a.m., counting of votes polled in the EVMs will begin. Initial trends are expected by 10 a.m. The strong rooms where the EVMs are stored will be opened at 6 a.m. in the presence of Election Commission of India (ECI) observers. The ECI has made arrangements for the dissemination of trends and results via the websitehttps://results.eci.gov.in. The public can also access trends and results through the 'Voter helpline' mobile app that can be downloaded on Google Play store. Kerala had registered a voter turnout of 74.06%. The counting process may take more time than usual due to the large number of postal ballots. Consequently, the official declaration of the results may also be delayed. Of the 633 counting halls, 527 will be dedicated to the counting of EVM votes. The number of tables in each hall has been restricted to seven. Postal ballots will be counted in 106 halls. The ECI has deputed 24,709 officials for the counting duty. The police and the District Collectors have been directed to prevent social and political meetings, gatherings and parades till May 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrangements-in-place-for-counting-of-votes/article34461760.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM warns private labs against overcharging||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday warned private laboratories against overcharging citizens seeking RT-PCR test to recognise COVID-19 infection. The State government had revised the rate for an individual test from Rs. 1,700 to Rs. 500. It had fixed the cost for the test after analysing the current market price of RT-PCR field test kits. The government had also factored in the labour cost and overhead expenses for administering the test. The CM said some laboratories had not accepted the government’s revised rate and continued to charge an exorbitant cost from citizens. The RT-PCR test was currently a prerequisite for air travel and other necessities. Some States have insisted that inter-State truck drivers carry COVID-19 negative certificates. The CM said some laboratories pressured patients to take the more expensive TrueNat test. The government would take legal action against such institutions. He also requested citizens to remain indoors on Sunday and urged party workers to shun celebratory marches. The CM said stored supplemental oxygen was combustible and ordered the Fire and Rescue Department to inspect such storages and ensure fire safety. The weekend lockdown curbs would continue on Sunday despite the counting of votes. The police have booked 21,733 persons for not wearing masks in public places in the last 24 hours. They have charged 11,210 persons for violating the physical distancing mandate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-warns-private-labs-against-overcharging/article34461755.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More COVID treatment centres being set up||Seven new domiciliary care centres (DCCs) and and four COVID-19 First Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) have been taken over in the wake of the surging COVID-19 cases in the district, Collector Navjot Khosa has said. One DCC each will start in Neyyattinkara and Chirayinkeezhu taluks, two in Nedumangad, and three in Thiruvananthapuram taluk. They will have 550 beds. Thiruvananthapuram taluk will also get three FLTCs, while one will open in Neyyattinkara. They will have 620 beds. Secretaries of the local self-government institutions concerned will make arrangements required for the functioning of the DCCs and FLTCs. Adequate staff will also be posted to ensure their smooth operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-covid-treatment-centres-being-set-up/article34462277.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SPC: enforce ban on gatherings||State Police Chief Loknath Behera has directed all District Police Chiefs to enforce a total ban on gatherings and celebratory processions on account of the declaration of results of the Assembly polls until Tuesday. The move comes against the backdrop of a Kerala High Court order in this regard. Field officers including the District Police Chiefs will directly lead such efforts from Sunday onwards. They have been directed to ensure focus on sensitive areas in their jurisdictions. Adequate preparations must be made to handle exigencies. Commando squad The Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) in charge of Kerala Anti Terror Squad has been instructed to deploy the urban commando squad wherever necessary. Violators must be charged under provisions of Disaster Management Act, Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and Indian Penal Code. Mr. Behera added political parties and candidates must also be made aware of the court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/total-ban-on-gatherings-celebrations/article34462281.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CEO directed to pay for disfigured classrooms||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) to make arrangements for bearing the expenses incurred for restoration of school walls and classrooms disfigured during the recent Assembly elections in the State. Acting on a complaint from a Class IV student from Kollam that the beautifully decorated walls of her school classroom and many other schools in the State were spoilt by sticking posters on them and a media report that poll officers in charge of school buildings had damaged school walls, a full bench of the commission on Friday directed the Director of General Education (DGE) to inspect schools where the paintings were destroyed, prepare a report regarding the expenses for their restoration, and submit it to the CEO for compliance. The restoration will be undertaken by the DGE. The CEO will be free to recover the responsible amount from the polling officers responsible, the commission said. The commission said its inquiry detected serious violation of child rights of the complainant and other affected children as the painted walls of classrooms supported learning through activity as part of child-centred learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ceo-directed-to-pay-for-disfigured-classrooms/article34461738.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Control room set up for migrant workers||A control room has been opened for migrant workers in the district against the backdrop of the COVID-19 resurgence. District Collector Navjot Khosa said the control room has been set up at the district labour office, and two officials deployed to it. Migrant workers may call 0471 2783944 to clear their doubts and get clarifications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/control-room-set-up-for-migrant-workers/article34462278.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No Venad Express on weekends||In view of the poor patronage from commuters, Railways have cancelled 06302/06301 fully reserved daily specials between Thiruvananthapuram Central and Shoranur Junction and back on weekends till May 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-venad-express-on-weekends/article34461754.ece
02 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||No let-up in cases in Thrissur||There is no let-up in the number of COVID-19 cases in Thrissur. The district recorded 4,070 positive cases on Saturday. The district also recorded 1,467 recoveries. The test positivity rate of the district is 28.82%. Most parts of the district remained as containment zones. There are 33,899 active cases in the district and 111 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. Cumlative cases So far, 1,52,063 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 1,17,442 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 4,044 people, including 11 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Among the new cases, 517 are above the age of 60 and 277 are below the age of 10. In all, 27,344 people are under home care. As many as 14,123 samples were taken for testing on Saturday. So far, 5,76,385 people have taken the first dose of the vaccine in the district while 1,12,343 people have taken the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-cases-in-thrissur/article34462290.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Solitary marcher||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solitary-marcher/article34461740.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tougher days||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tougher-days/article34461768.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A hand of help||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-hand-of-help/article34462190.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Summer is here||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summer-is-here/article34462197.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livelihood concerns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livelihood-concerns/article34462286.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||All set for counting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-counting/article34462295.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||History on canvas||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/history-on-canvas/article34461749.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Summer is here||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summer-is-here/article34461752.ece
02 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pharma unit to provide 600 oxygen cylinders||An intervention by District Collector Vivek Yadav resulted in Jocil Pharmaceutical allotting 600 cylinders of industrial oxygen which can be used to treat mild cases and as concentrate in COVID Care Centres. Mr. Vivek Yadav visited the facility on Saturday afternoon and following his suggestion, the management immediately agreed to allot 600 cylinders. Mr. Vivek Yadav said that all efforts were being taken to ensure medical oxygen supply to hospitals. The district administration had taken all oxygen refilling agencies under its control and was regulating the supply. Efforts were also on to ensure conversion of industrial oxygen into medical oxygen. General Manager of Jocil J. Murali Mohan said that 2.5 metric tonnes of oxygen was produced every day in the plant and 600 cylinders of 7 cubic litre capacity were available with them. Later, the Collector also visited Bhagyalakshmi Medical Oxygen Refilling at Perecharla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pharma-unit-to-provide-600-oxygen-cylinders/article34462306.ece
02 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu politicising pandemic: Sajjala||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has lambasted TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for politicising even a crisis like COVID-19. Addressing the media at the party central office here, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that Mr. Naidu was trying to instigate government personnel and derive political mileage. “Mr. Naidu is trying to cast his spell sitting in his cosy home in Hyderabad. Does he have the courage to face people and fight for their cause? He claims to have invented the online system. Is it possible to produce food and supply essential services online? Is it possible to cook online?” Mr. Reddy questioned. ‘CM fulfilling promises’ Stating that the Chief Minister had been working in right earnest, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was delivering his promises. “Even when the State is worst-hit due to the pandemic, the Chief Minister has decided to continue the welfare schemes. People too have recognised this fact, and voted overwhelmingly in favour of the YSRCP in the local body elections. The decision of the Chief Minister on the issue of lockdown is proving to be right as the economy will collapse should the lockdown be imposed. Vaccination is the only way to control the virus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-politicising-pandemic-sajjala/article34462245.ece
02 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No student will be put to inconvenience’||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has taken the decision to go ahead with the conduct of the Intermediate Public Examination (IPE) keeping in view the future of the students. Addressing the media on Saturday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said there were two issues – one cancellation of the examination and the other, its postponement. “The government is determined to conduct the examination. We will ensure that no student is put to any inconvenience. The examination halls will be sanitised and all the invigilators will be wearing face shields and masks. Isolation rooms are being set up for the infected students and positive contacts. The government has relaxed several issues such as timings. It is ensuring that adequate physical distance is maintained and is even providing transport in sanitised buses,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. On the question of postponement of the examination, Mr. Reddy said the issue was subjudice. He, however, observed that in case the situation did not improve in the next three months, postponement of the examination would not serve the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-student-will-be-put-to-inconvenience/article34462246.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana Health Minister loses portfolio||On a day of fast-paced developments, Minister for Health Eatala Rajender was stripped of his portfolio just 24 hours after a few beneficiaries of assigned lands to weaker sections at Atchampet village in Masaipet mandal of Medak district complained to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao that their lands were encroached by the Minister for the expansion of his poultry farm and hatchery. A press communique released from the Raj Bhavan said: “On the advice of the Chief Minister of Telangana, the Governor has approved the transfer of Medical, Health and Family Welfare portfolio from Eatala Rajender to the Chief Minister with immediate effect.” Highly placed sources said a letter from the Chief Minister’s office was sent to the Governor’s office on Saturday morning. The e-file was immediately forwarded to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. The Governor immediately approved the file and sent it back to Hyderabad. The ouster of Mr. Rajender topped a day of significant political developments, which unfolded with Medak Collector A. Harish leading a team of Revenue officials to survey the lands in question and digitise measurements in the hatchery at Atchampet. Within a few hours, the Collector, who inspected the land records in the tahsildar office at Moosapet, told presspersons that the existence of the assigned lands in the custody of Mr. Rajender was confirmed. Mr. Rajender confined himself to his house at Shamirpet here throughout the day as supporters from his constituency of Huzurabad converged in large numbers. None of his Cabinet colleagues, MLAs and MLCs of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) reportedly tried to contact him. MLAs, including Rasamai Balkishan who is a regular at his house, were also not seen. Mr. Rajender told presspersons that his portfolio might have been withdrawn to extend better healthcare services to the people. He said the Chief Minister had the authority to allot or withdraw any subject from a Minister. He said he was targeted in a planned manner to defame him. He hoped the truth would be out soon. Such acts would not be appreciated by the people and the perpetrators would pay a price, he added. Mr. Rajender refused to bridge the gap with the Chief Minister, adding that he would respond after the full report was out. Jamuna Hatcheries, which is involved in the construction of hatcheries, in a release denied that it had grabbed land. The company purchased land to build 12 breeder-laying farm sheds, in addition to two brooding farms, in seven survey numbers at Atchampet. The erection of a poultry feed plant was in the final stages in another survey number in adjoining Hakimpet. Incidentally, Mr. Eatela is the second Health Minister to have been sacked from the post. On January 25, 2015, the then health minister in the first TRS government T. Rajaiah was asked to resign in similar fashion. Dr. Rajaiah was the Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister too but had to go because of alleged failure to tackle the challenge of swine flu that had claimed 22 lives. He also faced allegations of corruption in the departmental affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-minister-loses-portfolio-cm-takes-over/article34461473.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu NRIs send oxygen concentrators to TS, AP||As the State gasps for oxygen, Telugus sitting thousands of miles away in USA are ensuring that the elixir of life is generated here. Rising COVID cases and shortage of oxygen for patients have moved the American Telugu Association (ATA) that has sent about 100 oxygen concentrators for supply in hospitals and health centres in the two Telugu States. The machines have already reached New Delhi and will be distributed in the State in a couple of days. ATA trustee Sharat Vemula said that Telugus across USA have donated these machines on ATA’s call in a few days. “We are sending another 500 machines that will reach India by May 8,” he said, acknowledging the huge response for the call. Free shipping “They are easily available in the US and come at half the cost of Indian makes,” Mr. Sharat said. UPS, one of the biggest shipping services in USA, has come forward to ship it free of cost to India, he said. “It has helped us cut the costs and time.” Realising the gravity of the situation in India, a lot of Telugus have come forward to donate the machines and some of them have requested to be donated to their villages or the nearest healthcare centre. Mr. Sharat revealed that ATA has now decided to ship individual requests as well. “Some of them want to send the machines to their parents or friends or some NGOs in need and we are obliging their request.” In fact, those in India can also place request for the machines on the ATA website. “It costs 500 US$ and we are ready to ship specific requests from India as well.” Mr. Sharat explained. The American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI) has also shipped 1,000 concentrators for India through its partner SEWA International. Srini R. Gangasani, the Atlanta-based surgeon associated with AAPI, said that destinations within India have been identified based on urgency and acute need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-nris-send-oxygen-concentrators-to-ts-ap/article34462159.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruse to divert attention: Cong.||Telangana Congress has questioned the sincerity of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in inquiring into the land grabbing allegations against Eatala Rajender while keeping mum on the allegations on other Ministers and his own family. At a press conference, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar and AICC secretary Sampath Kumar said the Congress had been raising the issue of land grabbing by TRS leaders but the CM had always ignored them. Mr Bhatti said similar complaints were lodged against Ministers Puvvada Ajay, Ch. Malla Reddy, S. Niranjan Reddy and Srinivas Goud and asked the reasons for sparing them. He said KCR had the habit of diverting people’s mind to other issues when his government had been cornered on its failures. He said the Congress was not bothered about KCR’s political moves against his partymen but wanted that the lands grabbed from downtrodden sections be given back to them. Mr. Ponnam Prabhakar asked why the CM did not take action when it was revealed that Minister Gangula Kamalakar was found harassing an anchor. He was accused in land grabbing as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruse-to-divert-attention-cong/article34462173.ece
02 May 2021||K. Umashanker CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||People awaiting second dose face ‘humiliation’ at jab centres||People waiting for the second does of Covaxin are facing uncertainty in Chittoor district. Their fears have been further increased with the daily tally of COVID positive cases on Saturday at 2,768, the highest figure since March last year. With no stocks of Covaxin doses in Chittoor since a week, hundreds of people awaiting the second dose are rushing to vaccination centres at the community health centres, primary health centres and village and ward secretariats everyday, but in vain. Misconception COVID Task Force officials deplored that a big misconception was prevailing among the people that “Covaxin is more powerful and effective than Covishield, and that’s why the high demand for the former, leading to its non-availability.” People in the rural areas are apparently worried that “if the second dose of the vaccine is not given within a month, the first dose taken would be futile”. A senior medical officer lamented that there was absolutely no coordination among the various wings of the COVID Task Force at the vaccination centres. “Instead of reassuring those coming for the second dose and educating them about the jab schedule, some field staff are rude with the visitors, and further heightening their worries by misinforming them that the vaccines are not available,” the official said. Key staff at the vaccination centres in Chittoor observed that in view of confusion among the people over the second dose, they were doing their best to inform the situation to the nodal officers. “We are not able to contact the senior official responsible for the vaccination drive for three days and his mobile remains continuously switched off though he is on duty,” a medical officer in the immunisation wing said. Kesav Singh of Jendaman Street in Chittoor town said that like him hundreds of others awaiting the second dose of Covaxin were made to return from the vaccination centre without proper answer or clarification from the staff. A government official nearing his retirement age and on second dose schedule said the people coming either for the first dose or second dose are facing a sort of embarrassment with the coarse handling of things by staff at the vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-awaiting-second-dose-face-humiliation-at-jab-centres/article34461500.ece
02 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister promises to address oxygen shortage||Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Saturday directed the East Godavari district authorities to set up a COVID Care Centre in all the revenue divisions on a war-footing basis. In a review meeting held with the district officials and public representatives, Mr. Krishna Srinivas admitted that there is a shortage in supply of oxygen in the district and assured the officials that the required 72 kg of oxygen per day would be arranged soon. At present, the district authorities are able to get barely 45 kg per day. Active cases Of the total cases reported in the district during the second wave, Rajamahendravaram revenue division alone accounts for 34.3%. In East Godavari, as many as 690 persons succumbed to COVID by April 30 and 12,234 cases are active. The Minister has appealed to the district authorities to ensure that people get their COVID test results within one day. Mr. Krishna Srinivas also said that the district has 2,328 beds with oxygen facility in the 76 COVID hospitals, in which totally 4,461 beds are available. As many as 788 beds with Intensive Critical Care facilities are available in the district as on Saturday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-promises-to-address-oxygen-shortage/article34461504.ece
02 May 2021||Kalaburagi,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 die due to lack of oxygen in Kalaburagi||Three COVID-19 patients in Khaja Banda Nawaz Hospital in Kalaburagi died on Saturday evening. It is learnt that the tragedy occurred when they were being shifted to other healthcare facility after the hospital ran out of oxygen. As the news reached the district administrative headquarters, Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna dispatched oxygen cylinders to the hospital. The deceased were on oxygen support. When the hospital staff found that the ICU would run out of oxygen, they began shifting the patients to other hospital in ambulance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-die-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-in-kalaburagi/article34462068.ece
02 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati byelection: all set for counting of votes today||With the Andhra Pradesh High Court dismissing the pleas for cancellation of the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection on the charges of rigging by the ruling YSRCP, the stage is set for the counting of votes on Sunday. Polling was held on April 17 for the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha (SC) reserved constituency. The counting would be taken up in 25 rounds from 8 a.m. amid tight security and COVID-19 safety protocol at D.K. Government Degree College for Women in Nellore for four Assembly segments in SPSR Nellore district and at S.V. Arts College in Tirupati for three Assembly segments in Chittoor district, said SPSR Nellore Collector and Returning Officer K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu. Amid Opposition charge of ‘bogus voting by the YSR Congress Party’, a charge denied by the ruling party, 64.42% of the electors had voted in the byelection held when the second wave of coronavirus wreaked havoc in the constituency comprising the Assembly segments of Sarvepalli, Gudur, Sullurpeta and Naidupeta in SPSR Nellore district and Tirupati, Srikalahasti and Satyaveedu in Chittoor district. The electoral fortunes of 28 candidates, including YSRCP nominee M. Gurumoorthy, former Union Ministers Panabaka Lakshmi of the TDP and Chinta Mohan of the Congress, and bureaucrat-turned-politician K. Ratnaprabha of the BJP, have been sealed in the EVMs in the byelection caused by the death of sitting MP B. Durgaprasad of the YSRCP.’ PPE kits “Adequate number of PPE kits for counting agents and candidates have been arranged following COVID-19 guidelines,” said the Collector. The counting agents’ seating arrangement would be in such a way that between two counting agents one agent would be in a PPE suit, he said after overseeing the conduct of COVID-19 tests for some of the candidates, agents and media persons. They could produce RT-PCR/RAT report from any authorised lab also. In all, 1,000 counting supervisors and counting assistants have been deployed with 50% reserve in view of the COVID-19 situation. No mobile phones/ electronic gadgets will be allowed in the counting halls. Sale of liquor has been banned from midnight of May 1 to 10 a.m. of May 3. No victory processions will be allowed. Not more than two persons will be allowed to accompany the winning candidate. Meanwhile, Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan said that 70 tables were arranged for the exercise with 230 polling staff at SV Arts College. The counting would commence at 7 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-byelection-all-set-for-counting-of-votes-today/article34462248.ece
02 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal children complete ‘Bharat Darshan’ tour||Twenty tribal children and three helpers from tribal habitations in Nallamala forest in Andhra Pradesh returned home after two months, having completed a ‘Bharat Darshan’ yatra, according to a communication received from the office of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu. The children, hailing from the habitations close to Yerragondapalem in Prakasam district and Srisailam in neighbouring Kurnool district, had covered a distance of 3,000 km by cycling, walking and running. “It will be an unforgettable life time experience for all of us,” said their team leader Vamsidhar Kalidasu. The nation-wide tour has instilled into them discipline, punctuality and the importance of education, he added. The team leader thanked the Vice-President and Swarna Bharat Trust Managing Trustee Deepa Venkat who extended all assistance and facilitated the tour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-children-complete-bharat-darshan-tour/article34461509.ece
02 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||ABVP activists torch effigies of CM, Minister||Activists of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad(ABVP) burnt the effigies of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and State Education Minister A. Suresh in protest against the YSR Congress party government’s decision to go ahead with class X and intermediate examinations. Tension erupted at the Church Centre area as the police tried in vain to prevent the protest by the members of the students wing of the Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh against the government which wanted to conduct exams when the State witnessed a rapid rise in COVID-19 cases. Many students suffered minor injuries in the jostling that ensued and they consigned the effigies of the duo to flames before the police could intervene. No arrest had been made in this connection, said the police who restored order by chasing away the students from the Collectorate area. Leading the protest, ABVP East and West Prakasam units organising secretary T. Hanumanthu alleged that the State government was ‘playing’ with the lives of the students and their families by not cancelling the examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abvp-activists-torch-effigies-of-cm-minister/article34461506.ece
02 May 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam’s daily count crosses 1,000-mark||There was no end to the woes of COVID-19 patients in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as nine more persons succumbed to the virus, which infected another 2,197 persons in a span of 24 hours. With this, the number of active cases shot up to 20,736 with SPSR Nellore district accounting for 1,091 fresh cases. Prakasam district’s daily tally crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time this year with 1,106 new cases in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday, a health bulletin released by the State government said.  Toll rises to 1,249 The toll went up to 1,249 with four patients in SPSR Nellore district and five patients in Prakasam district losing the battle against the disease. So far 616 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 633 patients in Prakasam district had died since the outbreak of the pandemic. Health professionals struggling to treat the ever-growing number of patients had a bit of relief as 1,140 patients in the region, including 665 in Prakasam district, were cured of the disease in the last 24 hours. Vaccination Those in the age group of 18 to 44 were a disappointed lot in the region as the much-publicised universal vaccination programme announced by the Centre did not take off on Saturday. In Prakasam district, only 7,474 patients above 45 years of age were vaccinated at the 126 session sites, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered so far to 4.49 lakh doses, according to Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli. In Ongole, a large number of people who turned up for testing to the Mini Stadium returned disappointed as testing kits got exhausted. Meanwhile, overseeing the newly-set up COVID-19 Care Centre at Atmakur, SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu exhorted industries to start CCCs in the respective industrial units as the number of coronavirus cases might go up further in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasams-daily-count-crosses-the-1000-mark/article34461508.ece
02 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre favouring corporates, alleges CITU||CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao on Saturday alleged that the Union government was trying to suppress the voice and rights of workers across the country while taking decisions in favour of corporates and major industrial houses. He alleged that the four Labour Codes passed recently in Parliament were aimed to protect the interest of corporate companies instead of ensuring justice to labourers, who used to have protection under 44 labour laws. On the occasion of May Day, he addressed a public meeting at Pydibhimavaram industrial zone. Mr. Govinda Rao asked the pharmaceutical companies and other industries in the zone to accept the charter of demands of the workers of immediately. CITU vice-president Ch. Ammannaidu asked the Labour department to implement provident fund, retirement benefits and other facilities for the workers of all the companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-favouring-corporates-alleges-citu/article34461510.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala braces itself for Assembly election outcome||Kerala is bracing itself for the outcome of the Assembly elections on Sunday. The counting for 140 Assembly constituencies will commence at 8 a.m. in 633 halls across the State. The enumeration of votes will cap a tumultuous election year stamped by a global pandemic and economic downturn. The counting for the 2021 Assembly elections is unlike any other in the State’s history. The celebratory atmosphere that marks the tallying of votes will be conspicuously absent due to the COVID-19 ban on public jubilation. Party workers will confine displays of triumph and despair largely indoors. The tabulation of votes will take more time, given the many postal ballots. The long wait for the results since polling day on April 6 has put political parties on tenterhooks. Pre-poll and post-poll surveys had given the Left Democratic Front (LDF) a lead over the Congress-led United Democratic Front (LDF) Opposition. Poll predictions However, the UDF has stiffly contested the poll predictions. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said opinion polls were no bellwether of voter behaviour. Pollsters had based their projection on the opinion of 250 voters in a 2.5 lakh Assembly segment. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hoped to supplant Congress as the main Opposition in Kerala and has predicted an increase in its vote share and seat tally. It has not publicly contested the exit poll findings. Despite the vivid displays of confidence, several politicians felt the electoral picture remained foggy. The counting was likely to be a nail biter. They pointed out the campaign was deeply polarising, given the emphasis on the Sabarimala issue. Questions remained whether identity politics had prevailed over broad-based party loyalties. There were reports of cross-voting undercurrents partly fuelled by regional and caste sentiment and intra-party rivalries. The Central investigation into the UAE consulate linked gold smuggling case had accorded the Congress and BJP sensational plotlines to assail the LDF government. Welfarism The ruling front had campaigned on welfarism. The appeal of national leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Rahul Gandhi of the Congress, were also at play at the hustings, they said. An estimated 74.06% of Kerala’s 2.74 crore electorate had voted on April 6. Election officials rehearsed the enumeration process to check for last-minute glitches on Saturday. Newspaper websites and television channels are poised to relay the ups and downs of the counting process in real-time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-braces-itself-for-assembly-election-outcome/article34461477.ece
02 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New bryophyte species spotted in Kerala||A new species of moss of the genus Bryocrumia has been named after the Malabar region of Kerala, from where it was spotted.  Bryocrumia malabarica , discovered in the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary along the Western Ghats, is special, say the botanists responsible for its discovery. This tiny bryophyte is only the second species to be identified in the genus Bryocrumia , which has for long been thought to be monotypic, that is, represented by just one species. The team of botanists that made the discovery was led by Manju C. Nair of the Zamorin’s Guruvayurappan College, Kozhikode; R. Prakashkumar, Director, Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram; Prajitha B. of the Malabar Botanical Garden and Institute for Plant Sciences, Kozhikode; and W.Z. Ma of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Yunnan, China. Their findings have been published in the latest issue of the journal Acta Botanica Hungarica . For years, the genus Bryocrumia was thought to include only one species — Bryocrumia vivicolor . Found on rocks in streams,  Bryocrumia vivicolor has been spotted in the Congo and Uganda in Africa, North and South Carolina in the United States, China’s Yunnan, Nuwara Eliya in Sri Lanka, and Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala in India.  Bryocrumia malabarica was found on rocky patches along a stream in the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary. The plant, which is light green in colour, differs from Bryocrumia vivicolor in the structure of its leaves. The plant was first collected in 2014 as part of Ms. Prajitha’s Ph.D. programme on the taxonomy of bryophytes of the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary. “Bryophytes are a group of plants that play significant roles in the ecosystem. They arrange the suitable microclimate in the forest ecosystem, and provide suitable microhabitats for many other organisms, especially small insects,” Dr. Prakashkumar said. Unique plant group  Bryocrumia malabarica is the twelfth species of bryophytes newly described from Kerala in recent years, said Dr. Nair, who has been studying this unique plant group for the past two decades. “The present discovery indicates the potential of our habitats in holding new taxa, and the need for detailed documentation,” she said. Dr. Ma of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, one of the co-authors of the paper, helped in confirming the plant as a distinct species, Dr. Nair said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-bryophyte-species-spotted-in-kerala/article34461479.ece
02 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka, Kerala, T.N. add over 96,000 cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 case growth trend seemed to slow, in what is seen as the result of stringent lockdown-like restrictions and the public response to the crisis. “The case numbers will grow but the epidemic curve is slowing, except may be in two or three districts. It effectively means that while the graph will continue to rise, the peak will not be as steep as we thought it would be,” a senior public health professional said. But the situation continued to be grim, as oxygen beds and ICUs were filling up. Rise in ICU admissions was evident with 118 more critically ill persons in intensive care on Saturday. The State added 35,636 new cases on Saturday from 1,46,474 samples. The average test positivity rate (TPR) had not gone beyond 25% over the past three-four days and dipped to 24.33%. The number of COVID patients currently being treated in hospitals in the State is 25,326, with 4,675 patients getting newly admitted in various hospitals on Saturday. A total of 6,62,517 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Saturday, the State added 48 deaths from the past few days.  Andhra Pradesh had a fresh new daily high of 19,412 infections on Saturday, and 61 patients succumbed to the disease. As many as 11,579 patients recovered in the past day leaving 1,30,752 active cases and over 88,800 of them were under home isolation while 32,301 were being treated in hospitals. Telangana had comparatively low testing for the fourth day, and fewer cases. On Friday, the State recorded 7,754 cases after testing 77,930 samples. At 51 deaths, fatalities remained above the 50 mark.  Tamil Nadu saw a further surge in COVID-19 cases on Saturday with 19,588 persons testing positive, taking the tally to 11,86,344. In the last 24 hours, 147 persons died — 92 at government health facilities and 55 at private hospitals — taking the toll to 14,193. After treatment, 17,164 persons were discharged bringing up the total to 10,54,746. Now, 1,17,405 persons are under treatment, either at home or at hospitals.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-kerala-ap-add-over-96000-cases/article34461475.ece
02 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||As pilgrim footfalls fall, TTD revenues take a hit||The temple of Lord Venkateswara has been registering thin crowds since the second week of April. The pilgrim turnout, which was about 50,000 a day till the first half of April, plummeted to a little over 20,000 later following the suspension of ‘Sarvadarshanam’ from April 12 to curb the spread of the second wave of COVID-19. As per statistics, the temple had registered footfalls exceeding 20,000 only on five days in the last fortnight. On the remaining days, the pilgrim rush stood well below that mark. The footfalls fell drastically to 9,640 on April 29 and 6,431 on April 30. Slash in tickets Slashing the darshan tokens from 30,000 to 15,000 a day in the last week of March and suspending them thereafter are said to be the reasons for the decline in the pilgrim footfalls. The low turnout has directly impacted the proceeds derived from the temple ‘hundi’, which is the main source of income for the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). The ‘hundi’ income, which gradually increased to about Rs. 85 crore a month in the aftermath of the five-phased Unlock process announced by the Central government, took a plunge and stood at around Rs. 2 crore a day since the second week of April. As per statistics, the ‘hundi’ income had not exceeded the Rs. 2 crore-mark for about 11 days in the last fortnight. In fact, the income failed to cross even Rs. 1 crore on three days. The income netted was an all-time low of Rs. 62 lakh on April 29. While things stood such, the TTD brought down the issuance of the Rs. 300 special entry online darshan tickets from 30,000 to 15,000 a day from Saturday amid fears of the second wave of the pandemic. Surprisingly, the darshan tickets, which are generally sold out within a couple of days of their release, are still available in ample number on most of the days during the current month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/as-pilgrim-footfall-falls-ttd-revenues-take-a-hit/article34461750.ece
02 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-hit TTD staff to get quality medicare||TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has directed the officials to initiate all steps to provide quality medical services to the employees affected by COVID-19. At a review meeting on handling the health crisis here on Saturday, Dr. Reddy said priority in vaccinating the employees should be accorded to those waiting for the second dose. “A hassle-free vaccination drive will be organised for all TTD employees,” he said. Attendance He also sought details on department-wise break-up of enrolment for vaccination. He maintained that some beds should be reserved for TTD employees in SVIMS COVID hospital too. With the cases witnessing a spike and many undergoing treatment, he suggested 50:50 ratio for attendance in TTD offices and medical advances for COVID-hit employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-hit-ttd-staff-to-get-quality-medicare/article34461512.ece
02 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amara Raja offers to comply with APPCB orders||Amara Raja Batteries Limited (ARBL) has pressed contingency plans into action to avoid dislocation in supplies of batteries to its customers across product segments, including essential service sectors like defence, hospitals and telecommunication. Responding to the closure notice served by the AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB) on Friday for its plants located at Karakambadi near Tirupati and Nunegundlapalli near Chittoor, the company announced to take all steps to comply with the orders. “We shall continue to engage with the APPCB authorities in the interest of avoiding a dislocation in supplies to some of our largest clients in sensitive sectors. At the time of a national emergency in the form of COVID-19 pandemic, such a dislocation could be calamitous,” a company spokesperson said. The company recalled that its plants had undergone annual and bi-annual environmental audits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amara-raja-offers-to-comply-with-appcb-orders/article34462249.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu blames govt. for death of patients in Kurnool, Anantapur||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday held the YSRCP government’s “inefficiency” responsible for the death of COVID-19 patients in Kurnool allegedly due to lack of timely supply of oxygen. Mr. Naidu also criticised the government for its “negligence” in curbing deaths due to improper supply of oxygen. “Ten lives were snuffed out in Anantapur as the government did not take the Srikakulam and Kurnool incidents seriously,” Mr. Naidu said in a statement. Mr. Naidu sought to know how many more people should lose their lives because of the “failure of Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy’s administration.” “Without wasting any time, the government should give top priority to solving the shortage of oxygen in the State,” he said. “All private hospitals equipped with necessary facilities should be converted into COVID treatment centres, and the number of oxygen beds should be increased on an emergency basis. Better medical care should be provided to the virus-infected patients,” he said. Mr. Naidu said that the government was not providing correct details on availability of oxygen while patients were losing their lives for want of timely oxygen supply. He said the government should initiate measures on a war-footing to ensure adequate supply of medical oxygen. ‘Postpone exams’ Earlier, addressing a meeting of the TNTUC and other party leaders on the occasion of May Day, Mr. Naidu demanded that the government postpone the SSC and Intermediate examinations to prevent health threat to the students, their parents, and also the teaching and non-teaching staff. He said it was unfair to ask the students to appear for their examinations amidst the pandemic fear. The government had announced that the younger lot would have to wait for vaccination in the wake of inadequate stocks. Under these circumstances, asking students to come out of their houses, travel all the way to the exam centres and write their tests made little sense, he argued. He alleged that the government had ignored the welfare of both the organised and unorganised sector workers with its “inefficient policies.” Mr. Naidu supported the Work From Home demand of the Secretariat employees, and pointed out that 10 employees had died due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-blames-govt-for-death-of-covid-patients-in-kurnool/article34462252.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 COVID hospital clusters formed in Krishna district||The private COVID-19 hospitals in the district were formed into 11 clusters as per the guidelines of the State government to monitor and check violations. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that there were 73 government and private hospitals treating COVID patients in the district as of Saturday. Mr. Imtiaz said each cluster contains six private hospitals and the clusters were formed based on geographical location. They were named as Pushpa Hotel (Cluster-1), Puspha Hotel (Cluster-2), Dornakal Road, Nakkala Road, Moghalrajpuram (Cluster-5), Moghalrajpuram (Cluster-6), Ramavarappadu, Autonagar, Benz Circle, Machilipatnam and Nuzvid. Task committees Mr. Imtiaz said that each cluster would have a cluster level task committee that ensures the supply of medicines, oxygen and others in addition to monitoring of the treatment and management of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-covid-hospital-clusters-formed-in-krishna-district/article34462305.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP women’s wing stages deeksha for cancellation of examinations||Members of the Jana Sena Party’s Veera Mahila wing on Saturday staged a day-long deeksha demanding that the State government cancel plans to conduct the SSC and Intermediate Board exams in view of the unprecedented COVID crisis. The women staged the protest in their respective houses at the behest of their party president Pawan Kalyan. They said the situation was very grim on account of the rapid spread of the virus. People were afraid of stepping out of their houses. In such difficult times, it was unwise on the part of the government to conduct the examinations and put lakhs of lives at risk. CBSE example The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had cancelled 10th exams and many States had also followed suit, giving priority to the safety of students, they pointed out. They warned that if the government failed to heed their plea, they would resort to a State-wide protest, along with student organisations, students and their parents. They said COVID-19 testing had been stopped while the virus spread was at its peak. In this atmosphere of fear and uncertainty, the government expected the students to write their exams, they criticised. Those who led the protest included the party’s political affairs committee member P. Yasaswini, Srikalahasti in charge Vinutha Kota, women leaders Ghantasala Venkata Lakshmi, Ravi Soujanya and A. Subhashini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-womens-wing-stages-deeksha-for-cancellation-of-examinations/article34462250.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PCB orders Amara Raja Batteries to close its units in Chittoor dt.||The AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB) has issued notices to the Amara Raja Batteries to close its manufacturing plants at Karakambadi and Nunegundlapalli in Chittoor district for “flouting norms.” ‘Norms violated’ In its orders on Friday, the APPCB charged the company with polluting ambient air, which resulted in the presence of high levels of lead in the blood of almost all its employees and people of the surrounding villages, discharging untreated waste water into the drains and untreated sewage into the storm water drains, and causing soil pollution. Punitive action warned The APPCB stated in its notices that if the polluting units continued to be operated even after the receipt of its orders, punitive action would be taken against the company under the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. The AP Southern Power Distribution Company Limited was directed to cut power supply to the two units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pcb-orders-amara-raja-batteries-to-close-its-units-in-chittoor-dt/article34462253.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB takes Dhulipalla into custody||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) took TDP leader and Sangam Dairy chairman Dhulipalla Narendra into custody from the Rajamahendravaram Central Prison on Saturday. The ACB Court on Friday gave four days custody of Narendra to the investigation officers to question him in the case. The former MLA was reportedly shifted to Vijayawada. On April 23, the ACB arrested the TDP leader, MD of the dairy P. Gopala Krishnan and former District Cooperative Officer M. Gurunadham. Cases were registered against them under corruption and other charges. Earlier, the High Court dismissed the quash petition filed by the former MLA and the bail plea filed by Narendra and Gopala Krishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-taken-into-acb-custody/article34461480.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A new lease of life||Doctors at the Andhra Heart and Brain Institute (Andhra Hospitals) successfully performed a complex heart procedure, Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR), on a 90-year-old without the use of a knife and sutures. The patient N. Adilakshmamma of the city underwent TAVR, a procedure through which the aortic valve was replaced and an effective alternative to open-heart surgery. In a release, Chief Interventional Consultant Cardiologist J. Srimannarayana said that upon investigation, it was found that the patient was not fit for surgical aortic valve replacement and TAVR, was performed with the consent of the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-new-lease-of-life/article34462304.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake job racket busted||Police arrested a six-member gang that duped several jobless youth in A.P. and Telangana by promising government jobs and collected about Rs. 1.17 crore from them. The accused were identified as Muppalla Rekhasri alias Rekha Rani of Vijayawada, J. Edukondalu of Hyderabad, Paladi Ravichandra of Khammam, Nanduri Venkata Satyapradhanam, Deputy Tahsildar in Vuyyur, Krishna district, Nalluri Seeman and Parimi Kiran Babu of Vijayawada. Edukondalu and Ravichandra ran an outsourcing agency and lured unemployed youth by promising them jobs. They introduced the victims to Rekhasri, who promised them government jobs. They had collected Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 9 lakh for junior assistant, postal assistant, junior engineer and other posts from 37 persons and gave fake appointment orders, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. A team led by Police Commissioner’s Task Force Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas arrested the accused on Saturday and recovered fake appointment orders and joining orders from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-job-racket-busted/article34462308.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jewel shop worker held, booty recovered||The Central Crime Station (CCS) and the Governorpet police on Saturday arrested Bobbili Venkata Harsha, who allegedly committed theft in Rahul Jewellery and seized jewellery and cash, all worth about Rs. 5 crore. The accused, who was working in the jewellery shop since a year, allegedly escaped with 10 kgs gold on April 27. He stole a cheque of his owner and drew Rs. 4.6 lakh from the bank to escape from the city, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. The Commissioner said Harsha, a native of Srikakulam district. On April 27, when shop owner Mahavir asked Harsha to bring the ornaments from his home, the accused allegedly escaped with two bags of jewellery, weighing about 10 kg. After committing the theft, Harsha changed different autos and reached home. The next day, he withdrew Rs. 4.6 lakh from a private bank by forging the signature of his owner and planned to escape to other State, said DCP Vikrant Patil. Police tracked the movements of the accused and arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jewel-shop-worker-held-booty-recovered/article34462309.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Volunteers missing in action during pandemic’||BJP Minority Morcha State president Sk. Baji on Saturday said the government failed to control the spread of COVID-19 in the State. The healthcare system collapsed, Mr. Baji said while addressing the media here. What were the ward / village volunteers doing when the second wave spiralled out of control, he asked. The volunteers were extensively used during the elections, but they were not seen helping the needy during the present crisis, he alleged. While this was so, private hospitals were exploiting the patients, he alleged. Mr. Baji said the Chief Minister should own up responsibility if the students writing the SSC and Intermediate examinations contract COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteers-missing-in-action-during-pandemic/article34462254.ece
02 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR cancels 25 trains||The South Central Railway (SCR) has cancelled 25 trains due to poor occupancy. It had cancelled 10 services earlier. Trains originating from Guntur, Tirupati, Visakhapatnam, Renigunta, Secunderabad, and Repalle were cancelled, said a release on Saturday. Most of the trains were cancelled from May 2 to 31, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-cancels-25-trains/article34462259.ece
02 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hand over 50% of beds to govt., Collector directs private hospitals||The situation in the district is getting worse with every passing day as COVID-19 cases continue to rise on a daily basis during the second wave. It is an emergency-like situation for the district administration, as they fight to increase the bed strength in the district, by using every possible opportunity. There is a serious shortage of beds, as people getting infected is much higher than the available bed strength of around 6,500. In April alone, the district recorded close to 18,000 new cases and every day the count is going up by 1,000 to 1,200 new ones. While the cases recorded are only those who opt for RT PCR test for confirmation, in reality the cases are much higher, as people, opting for rapid antigen test or HR CT scan to confirm the infection or positivity, are not officially recorded, said District Medical and Health Officer P. Suryanarayana. As of now, there are around 2,200 beds in the government-run hospitals such as CSR block in KGH and VIMS, and around 4,500 beds in notified private hospitals under category A and B. The District Collector has asked all the 80 private hospitals in the district, including those notified earlier under category A and B, to put 50% of its beds under his control. This should reduce the scramble for beds and solve the issue of private hospitals denying beds to needy patients to a certain extent, as around 4,000 beds will now be directly under the control of the District Collector and the beds will be allotted through the 24/7 district COVID Call Centre, which is located at Andhra Medical College and manned by a team of doctors. All one has to do is to call the call centre numbers and ask for beds 0891 2501278 or 0891 2501279 and depending on the availability they will be allotted. The call centre will keep track of the availability of beds, said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. Apart from bringing 50% of the beds in private hospitals under the control of the district administration, 15 new private hospitals have been notified, which should increase the bed strength by at least 300. This apart, 90 beds in the family ward of District Psychiatry Hospital, which were oxygenated last year during the first wave, and 150 beds in the ENT and Regional Eye Hospital, have once again been opened up. This should take the total bed count from 6,500 to 7,000 plus, said Dr. Sudhakar. The bed strength in KGH is also being increased from 500 to 1,000, in a phased manner. Right now the CSR Block, which has about 500 beds is the designated COVID block. “To begin with we are converting 100 beds in the Rajendra Prasad block for COVID care and another 400 will be added from various other wards in the next few days, to take the total bed strength at KGH to 1,000,” said the AMC Principal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hand-over-50-of-beds-to-govt-collector-directs-pvt-hospitals/article34462269.ece
02 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records whopping 1,722 COVID-19 infections||The Visakhapatnam district reported a whopping 1,722 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours as on Saturday morning. This is the highest single-day tally in the district since the first case was reported in March last year. The cumulative tally has breached the 80,000-mark and stands at 81,638. For the seventh day in a row, the district has reported over 1,000 cases in a single-day. Since April 25, the day tallies were 1,047, 1,051, 1,030, 1,067, 1,083, 1,358 and 1,722. Since the last one week, the district saw 8,358 cases, with an average of around 1,194 cases being reported every day. The death toll has also increased to 618 after seven more patients succumbed to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has crossed the 11,000-mark and stands at 11,052. With the recovery of 913 persons, the total number of recoveries has increased to 69,968.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-whopping-1722-covid-19-infections/article34462323.ece
02 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Darshan till 2.30 p.m. at Simhachalam from today||Devotees will be allowed into Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam only up to 2.30 p.m. with effect from May 2. This decision was taken by the temple administration due to the prevalence of COVID-19 and as some of the priests fell ill. Temple Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala noted in a statement on Saturday that all the rituals at the temple will go on as usual up to ‘pavalimpu seva’ at 9 p.m. However, devotees will not be allowed after 2.30 p.m. Out of 22 priests, 14 fell sick and are on leave. The samples of the priests were sent for testing and the results are awaited. ‘Grant leave’ The EO ordered the departments concerned to grant leave to any employee, suffering from any kind of illness irrespective of COVID-19 positive or negative, in case they have any symptoms. She said that if there is some relief for the priests, there won’t be any problem in the conduct of the forthcoming Chandanotsavam, which is the biggest annual festival of the temple.  ‘Follow protocol’ Many temples in the State have taken similar decisions to safeguard the employees and devotees. Ms. Suryakala asked the employees to follow the COVID protocol strictly and appealed to devotees to cooperate in implementation of the new timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/darshan-only-up-to-230-pm-at-simhachalam-from-today/article34462267.ece
02 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC occupancy ratio dips as cases rise||With the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases for the last one month, the occupancy ratio (OR) in the APSRTC buses has gradually declined in Visakhapatnam region. The RTC officials say that the OR has dropped by almost 40% compared to the previous months. APSRTC Regional Manager, Visakhapatnam region, M.Y. Danam, said that in February and March, the OR in the region was about 70%. However during mid April, the OR had dropped to 35% to 40%. This was the case for all buses, including city buses. According to the RTC officials, the impact of COVID-19 and closure of schools were main reasons for this. Even though only 50% passengers are allowed to board a bus, many people fear that they would contract the virus if they travel in the buses. The low OR has forced the RTC officials to reduce the number of bus services in the region. “Normally, we used to operate around 1,000 buses in the region daily. We have reduced almost 25% of the services,” Mr. Danam said. He said that the RTC officials have been taking all COVID-19 precautions according the protocol. “Even if someone boards a bus without a mask, we are asking them to wear one or get down. We are sanitising the bus daily. We have marked the seats in which a passenger must sit adhering to the norms,” said N. Adinarayana, an RTC bus driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-occupancy-ratio-dips-as-cases-rise/article34462319.ece
02 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stay mentally strong, COVID patients told||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer S. Venkateswar inspected the COVID-19 ward at Paderu hospital wearing a PPE kit here on Saturday. Interacting with the patients being treated at the hospital, he enquired about the facilities there. He also checked the food being provided to the patients. Mr. Venkateswar asked the patients to stay mentally strong during these tough times and wished them speedy recovery.  Oxygen storage The doctors and health staff have been working relentlessly since the outbreak of pandemic and their services should be used, he said. He also enquired about the oxygen storage in the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stay-mentally-strong-covid-patients-told/article34462324.ece
02 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Duranto Express temporarily cancelled||Due to steep rise in coronavirus infections leading to poor patronisation, train no. 02204/ 02203 Secunderabad-Visakhapatnam-Secunderabad Duranto special express is cancelled temporarily. Train no. 02204 Secunderabad-Visakhapatnam Duranto special, leaving Secunderabad from May 3 to 31 is cancelled. Similarly, 02203 Visakhapatnam-Secunderabad Duranto special, leaving Visakhapatnam from May 4 to June 1 is cancelled. The railways have decided to run 07329 Yesvantpur – Danapur one-way summer Special Express as below: Train no. 07329 Yesvantpur – Danapur summer Special Express will leave Yesvantpur at 00:15 hrs(midnight) on May 6 (Thursday) and will reach Danapur at 8:45 p.m. on May 7 (Friday) for one trip only. The one way special will have halt at Vijayawada – 13:25/13:35 hrs, Rajahmundry – 15:48/15:50 hrs, Visakhapatnam – 19:55/20:15 hrs (on May 6) and Khurda Road – 01:40/01:50 hrs, Bhadrak – 05:43/05:45 hrs (on May 7). The train will have 23 coaches comprising seven sleeper coaches, 14 Second Class coaches and two Second Class Luggage-cum-Brake-Vans. Similarly, it has been decided by railways to continue the running of 08047/08048 Howrah–Vasco Da Gama – Howrah Summer Special and Howrah-Hyderabad-Howrah Special as per the dates mentioned below with existing stoppages and timings. Train no. 08047 Howrah – Vasco Da Gama Special, leaving Howrah every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, has been extended to run up to June 26. Train no. 08048 Vasco Da Gama -Howrah Special, leaving Vasco Da Gama every Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, has been extended to run up to June 29 and 08047/08048 Howrah– Vasco Da Gama– Howrah Summer Special will run with revised composition of four AC 3 tier, 10 Sleeper Class and two Second Class coaches. Train no. 08646 Howrah – Hyderabad Special leaving Howrah daily has been extended to run from May 1 to15. Train no. 08645 Hyderabad -Howrah Special leaving Hyderabad daily has been extended from May 3 to 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/duranto-express-temporarily-cancelled/article34462318.ece
02 May 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSEZ official made PCCF||Development Commissioner of the Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ) A. Rama Mohan Reddy has been elevated to the rank of Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) by the Government of Himachal Pradesh. An IFS officer, Mr. Reddy belongs to the HP cadre, and has been posted in the VSEZ by the Union Government on deputation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsez-official-made-pccf/article34462255.ece
02 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transport dept. services stopped||Deputy Commissioner of Transport Ch. Sridevi on Saturday said that the department would not take up any works directly for the public till May 31, in view of COVID surge. In a press release, she said that all renewals, new driving licences and other works would be taken up from the first week of June. She said that the officials, however, would continue their office work as usual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transport-dept-services-stopped/article34462266.ece
02 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Remdesivir not being supplied directly to patients’||District Drug Control Department’s Assistant Director A.T.V. Rama Devi on Saturday said the department would take stern action against private hospitals, medical shops and individuals who indulge in black-marketing of Remdesivir injections. In a press release, she said the department was no supplying the injections directly to patients. She said that the supply was to designated COVID-19 hospitals only with prior application with all the details of patients. The department would get injections on day to day basis to ensure proper treatment to all the patients who needed them. The department's statement assumed significance in the backdrop of vigilance department's raids on Queen’s NRI hospital which reportedly indulged in black-marketing of Remdesivir injections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remdesivir-not-being-supplied-directly-to-patients/article34461511.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stocking up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stocking-up/article34462331.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Self-help!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/self-help/article34462311.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A short recess||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-short-recess/article34462258.ece
02 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Allegations of drug diversion to private facility surface||Amid the rising demand for anti-viral drugs used in COVID-19 treatment, allegations of “diversion” of some essential medicines from the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam to a private hospital in the temple town surfaced on Saturday. The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of various Adivasi organisations has alleged that the essential medicines allotted to the Government Area Hospital in the State’s tribal heartland were being diverted to a private hospital in a clandestine manner. The JAC demanded that a CBI-CID inquiry should be ordered into the alleged diversion to unravel the “racket” and punish the guilty, according to a press release issued on Saturday. Bhadradri-Kothagudem has been recording more than 100 cases daily in the past seven days, with the exception of April 27 when it logged 82 infections. Police inquiry Meanwhile, the local police have reportedly initiated an inquiry into the incident. The hospital authorities could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allegations-of-drug-diversion-surface/article34462147.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One-fourth of State’s total caseload logged in April alone||Telangana witnessed the worst phase of the COVID-19 pandemic in April this year, recording more than one-fourth of its total caseload in the past 30 days alone. The month witnessed a total of 1,34,584 infections and 611 deaths, and not to mention, an unmatched agony and desperation of several families in searching for hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and drugs for treatment of their dear ones. The magnitude of tragedy can be understood when record numbers from last year are considered. From March to November 2020, the highest cases of 65,903 were detected in September while August saw maximum deaths with 306 patients succumbing to the virus. In April this year, however, the monthly fatalities were double of 2020’s record numbers while the caseload was more than 100% higher. The record daily case burden was recorded on April 28 this year with 10,122 testing positive. On the same day, 58 COVID patients died. The all-time highest testing was logged on April 20 when a total of 1,30,105 samples were examined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-fourth-of-states-total-caseload-logged-in-april-alone/article34462140.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to add 10K oxygen beds in govt. hospitals||A high-level meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to review the COVID-19 situation in the State on Saturday has decided to provide medical oxygen supply infrastructure to another 10,000 beds in the government hospitals taking the number with the facility to 20,000. Special Secretary to the Chief Minister in-charge of looking into COVID situation P. Rajasekhar Reddy, senior officials Jayesh Ranjan, Sandeep Kumar Sultania, S.A.M. Rizvi, Rahul Bojja, D.S. Lokesh Kumar, Ronald Rose, N. Satyanarayana, M. Raghunandan Rao, Preeti Meena, Sarfaraz Ahmed, K. Ramesh Reddy and others participated in the meeting. The Chief Secretary requested the Centre to allot 600 tonnes of medical oxygen to the State, to meet the increasing needs of COVID patients, from the present 430 tonnes a day now. He stated that oxygen supply from Odisha was taking place at satisfactory level following the use of IAF planes and railway rakes to transport the medical oxygen. However, there would be higher need of oxygen as it had been increasing constantly. In last September, the hospital beds with oxygen facility both in the government and private hospitals was only 18,232 but it has gone up to 49,133 now and steps were being taken to increase the number to 60,000, Mr. Somesh Kumar said. On the care and treatment of the COVID positive persons in home isolation the Health Department officials said about 7.5 lakh COVID medical kits were available now and another 5 lakh kits were being arranged to be supplied to the positive persons at home. The Chief Secretary stated that it was decided to add another 500 beds in NIMS, 200 in Sarojini Devi Hospital, 50 in Chest Hospital, 200 in Gandhi Hospital and 200 in TIMS on the directions of the Chief Minister. Besides, 100 each beds would be added to hospitals at Golconda, Malakpet and Vanasthalipuram and 50 at Ameerpet. On the coronavirus vaccination drive, the Chief Secretary said the Centre had allotted only 4.4 lakh doses for May for vaccinating the population in the 18-44 age group against their number of 1.72 crore in the State. Similarly, against the requirement of 30.45 lakh doses of vaccine for giving the second dose to the age group above 45 years the Centre had allotted only 8.35 lakh doses for the first fortnight of May. A call centre with No. 040-21111111 was set up for assistance to the COVID patients in GHMC area, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10k-more-oxygen-beds-in-ts-hospitals/article34462154.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||As COVID bodies burn, residents fume||“Now he will pour diesel on the pyre to make it burn quickly,” says G. Ramulu watching from the terrace of his three-storeyed house in Bapu Nagar. And just as he predicts, a crematorium worker runs with a jerrycan of fuel and sloshes it over the wood pile making the fire roar into the air. Four other pyres burn simultaneously, and two more bodies arrive in ambulances in quick succession at noon time on Saturday. The trees in the crematorium have turned brown by the continuous burning of corpses of COVID patients. As the number of cremations go up in the city, residents living in the surrounding areas are being forced to lock themselves in their homes. While Hyderabad has two cremation grounds on either bank of the Musi River, one near Purana Pul and the other at Amberpet, a large number of cremations are taking place in the grounds which are within the city. The Panjagutta cremation ground is almost in the heart of the city surrounded by Banjara Hills and Ameerpet. The ESI Cremation ground is near the densely populated Sanjeeva Reddy Nagar. “We are able to stand here because the wind is blowing this way. If it blows the other way, we cannot even stand here. The smell of burning flesh is overpowering. In the evening, they burn a greater number of bodies, and it becomes worse,” says G. Goverdhan, a bank employee who lives in Bapu Nagar. The crematorium is fringed by a number of apartment complexes whose residents have raised an alarm. “People are bringing coronavirus affected corpses into the ground and burning them. The resulting acrid some is become unbearable not only to us and also to other apartment blocks and Bapu Nagar basti. It may be a serious health hazard,” a resident of Rajasree Residency complained to the commissioner of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. “The bodies are being burnt 24x7, it is not just bad smell. Small droplets are settling down on clothes, vessels and anything kept outside. The situation has become worse over the 20 days,” says M.A. Fayazuddin of Devarkonda Basti, which abuts the Panjagutta crematorium. “The GHMC should find a site that is away from the city to burn so many bodies,” says Mr. Fayazuddin. There are reports of residents living near Amberpet crematorium leaving for their native places unable to bear the smoke being belched out from the burning bodies. But for citizens living in makeshift houses on either side of the Musi River, there is no escaping the smoke and smell of burning bodies emanating from the 100-feet tall chimney stacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/as-covid-bodies-burn-residents-fume/article34462162.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Not an easy job, but the idea is to save lives: actor||With the second wave of COVID-19 getting more intense by the day, Sonu Sood has gotten busy again. This time, people in distress, from across the country, are reaching out to the Bollywood actor for help with arranging hospital beds, oxygen supplies, Remdesivir and other life-saving medicines. Helping people get oxygen cylinders, medicines and hospital beds is more satisfying than delivering a Rs. 100 crore film, says the 47-year-old actor, who was been grabbing headlines for the past year and a half for serving the needy amid the pandemic. He is currently flooded with countless SOS calls and at least 30,000 messages every day on his personal mobile number, keeping him busy for most part of the day. “Every day, I personally respond to at least hundreds of calls and get at least 30,000 messages. Calls and pleas for help are only increasing by the day,” he says in a phone conversation with The Hindu from Mumbai. The actor, who recently finished shooting his part for Chiranjeevi-starring Acharya and Akshay Kumar’s Prithviraj , said balancing finances, family and his professional life is a thing of the past for him and now he only thinks about people in need. “When you think about finances and family, you cannot do the service. You have to keep on doing it and moving, and God will be guiding you,” he says. Stating his nation-wide philanthropy work as an ‘impossible task’, Mr. Sood says that he had been doing it for the past one and half year, and spending sleepless nights trying to arrange things for people in emergency situations. “These days, I am up for at least 22 hours, talking to people over phone and arranging whatever they want. I start my day at 5.40 a.m. and on several days, I go to bed after seeing the next day’s sunrise,” he avers. It’s not an easy job, he admits, adding, “But I feel very happy when I am able to get a hospital bed or Remdesivir or oxygen cylinder for the needy and airlift stranded migrant workers and students”. Asked how long his philanthropy would sustain, he says it had no end now. “This thing has become an integral part of my life and will go on. It will continue forever. We can’t sleep when people are waiting outside hospitals, looking for beds,” says Mr Sood, who recently tested positive for COVID-19 and recovered within a week after quarantining at home. Recently, the actor mortgaged eight Juhu properties — two shops and six flats — to raise Rs. 10 crore for his humanitarian efforts. “Money is a temporary thing. The idea is to save lives. If you have good intentions, you will definitely find a way to help people in need. I’m touched by the outpouring of love and blessings,” he adds, stating that he isn’t comfortable talking about finances. The actor started with food distribution during last year’s lockdown, sending migrants workers home, helping them secure employment, health benefits and education. “When so many people put their trust on your shoulder, you have to deliver and that is what I am trying to do,” he points out. So far, the actor had reached out to 1.5 million people in distress, providing two lakh jobs, helped more than 5,000 people with life-saving surgeries and hundreds with education. Last year, he was chosen for ‘SDG Special Humanitarian Action Award’ by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for his humanitarian work during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/helping-people-more-satisfying-than-a-rs-100-crore-film/article34462164.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A helping hand from across the fence||After 13 months of being united by a public health crisis that has had repercussions for almost everyone, many citizens are now taking up the cudgels to help each other as far as possible. There has largely been a welcome change in the attitude towards COVID-positive persons, a far cry from this time last year when they were treated as outcasts. A septuagenarian couple in an apartment in Ameerpet were initially tense when they tested positive and had mild symptoms. Their immediate concern was that there was no one in the family to attend to them; their children reside abroad. Then there was the concern of being stigmatised and facing an awkward situation like many of their acquaintances had. But, to their relief, their neighbours ensured the couple was taken care of and well. Residents of their apartment complex offered to share the responsibility of providing meals to them on a daily basis. Thanks to a WhatsApp group created by the residents of the complex, the communication became easier. The neighbours could directly enquire about their specific needs. “It was totally unexpected. For us, a bigger concern was being treated as untouchables. We are grateful to all the residents for being very caring and concerned,” says Venkat, a retired government employee. This is not an isolated case. Similar friendly neighbourhood stories have been pouring in from a newly-constructed apartment in Miyapur. Three of a family — a man, his wife and a school-going daughter — tested positive for COVID-19, while the youngest member — a son — tested negative. In their case too, neighbours joined forces to keep the family’s morale high besides meeting their daily needs. “Such kind gestures may as well be a factor that help affected families in home isolation recover faster,” remarked a resident of the apartment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-helping-hand-for-those-in-distress-from-across-the-fence/article34462144.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amid choking healthcare infra, TIMS a saving grace||The Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS), which was established during the first wave of coronavirus pandemic as a stand-by healthcare facility, has become the major COVID-19 treatment centre and a saving grace to the State government facing criticism for not scaling up the health infrastructure. It has the second highest number of oxygen beds in the State and has third highest number of ICU beds after Gandhi and King Koti Hospital. The numbers hold good for the corporate hospitals too as none of them have oxygen and ICU beds to match the facility in TIMS, lest Gandhi Hospital. Of the 1,261 beds in TIMS, 980 have oxygen facility and 137 are ICU beds unlike no other super speciality hospital in the corporate sector. All the 137 ICU beds have mechanical ventilator facility too. To match the physical infrastructure, the government has posted 266 doctors and 535 support staff to provide proper care to the patients admitted there. According to Health officials, TIMS housed in the 14-storey building, does not have wards but comprises all special rooms, each having the facility to treat only two patients. The building was constructed as an athletes’ hostel for the 2003 Afro-Asian Games and was transformed into a hospital last year to deal with the pandemic to provide round-the-clock care with doctors visiting the in-patients three to four times a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amid-choking-healthcare-infra-tims-a-saving-grace/article34462272.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For COVID-affected families, food is a call away||The surge in COVID-19 cases in Hyderabad over the last few weeks has prompted citizens to step up and help those affected. Some offer to pick up and drop essentials and medicines, some collate information on tele-consulting facilities, hospital beds and oxygen cylinders, while others are helping with day-to-day food requirements. Tiffin centres, cloud kitchens and home chefs have been cooking more, to ensure that affected families get their daily intake of nutritious meals. Third-party delivery services such as Swiggy Genie, Dunzo and Rapido are pressed into service to deliver packages to different localities in the city. Anil Agarwal of Sai Kailash Dhaba in Attapur has been receiving an average of 100 orders per day for lunch and dinner. “My wife, friends and family are helping to keep this service running. We are taking orders for lunch and dinner and deliver in Attapur, Malakpet, Koti, Narsingi, Shamshabad and Nalanda Nagar,” he says. The dhaba began catering to pandemic-affected families in 2020 and the demand has gone up, with the recent spurt in cases. A 14-day lunch package costs approximately Rs. 4000 and lunch and dinner packages cost Rs. 6000. Bhargavi Bijjam, an IT professional, has begun cooking for two or three COVID-19 families in her neighbourhood, each day. It’s her way of giving back with gratitude for the help she received in 2020 when her parents tested positive for the coronavirus: “I could focus all my attention on doing the needful to ensure my parents recover soon. Friends pitched in by sending us breakfast, lunch or dinner.” Insta chefs On Instagram, Bhargavi invited like-minded people to do their bit in their neighbourhoods through the initiative #COOK (Collective Opportunity of Kindness). She and her friends have been helping by supplying food, as well as medicines and other essentials for elders living on their own in the city. To ensure that the carbon footprint is on the lower side, Bhargavi crowd pooled disposable meal boxes that would have been accumulated in households with time. Similarly, in Secunderabad, Pooja Vijayakumar began looking out for elders in her locality who needed help, when the pandemic began. Now, she cooks meals for COVID-19 affected families in her locality with the help of her aunt: “I do it as a voluntary service and don’t charge. There have been instances of families wanting home cooked-food for their children while one of the parents is recouping. Some hesitate to avail free meals and offer to pay. I ask them to pay as they wish since all I am doing is cooking more of what I make for my own family. How tough is it to cook two more cups of dal or rice that we make for ourselves?” she asks. Cloud kitchens Cloud kitchen units, which so far relied on food delivery apps to keep their business going, have shifted their attention to catering to pandemic-affected families as the demand continues to rise. Divya Sagar Mallela, the proprietor of Telugu Inti Bhojanam in Kukatpally, says they have two chefs and others helping cook and pack 50 lunch and dinner packages each day: “Some families enquire per day packages, which works out to Rs. 499, then they ask for seven or 14-day period. Each lunch package contains about half a kg of rice and 10 varieties of accompaniments, which is sufficient for a small family.” With the help of third-party delivery services, they cater to KPHB, Miyapur, Chandanagar, Madinaguda, Bachupally, Kondapur and nearby areas.  (For restaurants or home chefs to help tide over the recovery period, check www.covidmealsforindia.com for food services in different cities.)   My wife, friends and family are helping to keep this service running. We are taking orders for lunch and dinner. Anil Agarwal, Sai Kailash Dhaba||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-covid-hit-families-food-is-a-call-away/article34462152.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccine drive for 18-44 age group failed to take off||The COVID-19 vaccination programme for the 18-44 age group could not kick start at corporate hospitals in Hyderabad on May 1 (Saturday). The COWIN website too, did not reflect any slots for the age group for the next two days at least. Heads of the hospitals here said that they are expecting a clarity on the date of delivery of doses in two to four days. Since the Telangana government had announced that vaccines would be given free of cost to the entire population in the State, a few hospitals sought clarity on whether they have to buy vaccines from the manufacturers or the State government will provide them. Meanwhile, corporate hospitals in Hyderabad have started communicating with vaccine manufacturing firms. “Some major hospital chains spread across the nation have got some vaccine doses. We might know the date of delivery to us in two to three days,” said head of a corporate hospital on condition of anonymity, as curiosity among people to get the shot persisted. “We sent a letter to Bharat Biotech to allot us the doses. We are awaiting confirmation from them,” said executive director SLG Hospitals D.V.S. Somaraju. “We received a lot of calls from people of the 18-44 age group. They were able to register but slots were not available. So, they called us to inquire about the vaccination,” said group Chief of Medical Services, Care Hospitals, India, Dr. Nikhil Mathur. In case of government vaccine centres, DPH Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said on Friday that the programme will not be conducted at government centres across the State on May 1 and 2 as they did not receive doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-drive-for-18-44-age-group-fails-to-take-off/article34462156.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Funerals turn chaotic||A politician’s relative died on Friday and the street outside the Amberpet crematorium got filled with wailing family members. The family members hugged and cried as the traffic flowed normally on the main road. Many families are not so lucky as the funerals are becoming chaotic affairs as cremation workers race to clean up spaces for the stream of bodies. But first the families have to bargain. Cremations which used to cost Rs. 22,000 now cost Rs. 30,000. “There is no sanctity or peace about this cremation. It is all about money. Everyone is focussed on money. There are philanthropists and volunteers but we have not come across any,” said a family member at the ESI Cremation ground walking toward the funeral of a relative. NGOs and civic activists involved in helping families cremate or bury COVID-19 patients are seeing grim, and darker shades of reality. They are stepping in when entire families are affected by COVID-19 or if children are abroad. Most of the calls are received when the patients or people suspected of COVID-19 die at home or small-scale hospitals. “We receive calls from children whose mother or father die at home. They call us from abroad seeking help,” said Mujtaba Askari, trustee, Helping Hand Foundation. His team also helps out if the entire family is affected by COVID-19. A few days ago, a family of seven people tested positive. “Two family members died. Four more were in hospitals. The last person who had to take care of everything called us. We helped them out ,” he said. Member of Feed The Needy organisation Sai Teja Katragadda, who too helps out people in taking bodies for burial or cremation along with his team, had similar tragic accounts. He said that they have cremated people without homes who die by the side of road. “In a few cases, people around them said that the persons suffered from fever for two to three days or had other symptoms and did not undergo tests. We treat it as suspected COVID death and follow the protocol involved,” Mr. Sai Teja said. He and his team also received calls from residential welfare societies when watchmen, electricians, or other staff suspected of COVID die.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/funerals-turn-chaotic/article34462160.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Situation extremely chaotic’||BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has described the medical and political situation in Telangana as extremely chaotic, and accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of misappropriating the funds given by the Centre for corona treatment. At a press conference here, he dwelt on issues regarding the corona situation and allegations against Eatala Rajender, and said the political row was just an effort to divert people’s attention from the government’s failure to tackle the COVID situation. Was it fair for the Chief Minister to indulge in this kind of politics when the entire state was gripped with the virus and people were frightened, he asked, referring to Mr. Rajender episode. At the same time, he said, KCR was surrounded by corrupt leaders but he chose to ignore those close to him and defame those who questioned him. Why was he not taking action against the Ministers and MLAs who were facing far more serious charges, Mr. Sanjay asked and demanded an explanation. CM himself exposed his Minister’s corruption now but what was he doing for the last several years? “It is an opportunity for CM to prove his corruption-free governance and he should inquire into the allegations of all the Ministers,” he demanded reminding that the BJP had demanded the same earlier as well.  Mr. Sanjay had a tiff with the reporter of T News channel when the scribe asked him about the situation in BJP-ruled states. After some heated argument, Mr Bandi Sanjay Kumar asked the reporter to get out as his conduct was not like a journalist but defending the State government’s failures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/situation-extremely-chaotic/article34462172.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS posts 7,754 new cases as under 80,000 samples tested||Telangana continued to witness comparatively low testing for the fourth consecutive day, leading to detection of fewer cases. On Friday, the State recorded 7,754 cases with a total of 77,930 tests being performed. For a few days between April 8 and April 24, around 1 lakh to 1.3 lakh tests were being conducted on a daily basis. The all-time highest caseload of 10,122 was recorded on April 26 when 99,638 samples were examined. However, since then, the number of tests has been gradually dipping. The number of fatalities, however, continues to remain over 50. On Friday, 51 COVID patients died. The death toll now stands at 2,312. Of the total 7,754 fresh cases, the highest of 1,507 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits followed by 630 in Medchal Malkajgiri, 544 in Rangareddy and 325 in Sangareddy. Of the 77,930 persons tested, 50.8% were primary contacts and 12.95% were secondary contacts. So far, the State has tested more than 1.29 crore samples, and of those, 4,43,360 turned up positive for coronavirus. As on April 30, a total of 78,888 cases were active with 3,62,160 having recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-posts-7754-new-cases-less-than-80000-samples-tested/article34462142.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Relief Riders’ come to the elderly’s rescue||A group of 25 cyclists called ‘Relief Riders’, all of them full-time employees of various multi-national companies, have decided to embark on a journey across the city to help elderly citizens who cannot move out to purchase medicines given the second wave of the COVID-19pandemic. Leading the group is 41-year-old Santhana Selvan, Bicycle Mayor of Hyderabad, who hopes their number would increase to about 150 in the next few weeks. He says the initiative was launched on Friday in Hyderabad and that it happens to be the second city after Bengaluru in India where the Relief Riders will be discharging this social responsibility. “The concept is pretty simple. The senior citizens can call us on 95661-70334 and send the medical prescription to us either by WhatsApp or inform us over phone. We will buy the medicines and deliver it to them along with the bill. They can reimburse it to us either by cash or online payment, depending on that particular cyclist’s convenience,” Selvan explains. “The service is voluntary and absolutely free,” he adds. The idea behind the initiative is to prevent the elderly from stepping out for medicines, for which the group targets to have at least one cyclist in each locality. “We are all volunteers and not any profit-making group. We thought this is the minimum we can do during these testing times. A lot of people are coming forward to take care of people’s food, we thought of medicines,” he says. The group will be on this job only from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. “We are optimistic about more people joining us as volunteers. After all, it is for a social cause. I am sure there are many looking for a platform to give back something to society,” he adds.  A lot of people are coming forward to take care of people’s food, we thought of medicines. The service is voluntary and absolutely free. Santhana Selvan, Lead volunteer, Relief Riders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/relief-riders-come-to-the-elderlys-aid/article34462146.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Weekly markets should not be COVID spreaders: HC to GHMC||The Telangana High Court had directed GHMC to explain steps taken by it to ensure street shandies, which come up in residential localities of Hyderabad on different days of a week, do not turn into super-spreaders of COVID-19. A Bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy instructed the GHMC to file an affidavit with details of weekly shandies held in different parts of the city and measures initiated to check spread of coronavirus from those street markets. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by a law student M. Bhuvana who stated that no COVID-19 protocols were being observed at these weekly shandies. She contended that, with no one monitoring compliance of rules relating to face masks and maintaining social distances, these street markets held on different days of a week amidst residential colonies were likely to trigger more positive cases. Her counsel B. Mayur Reddy said there were guidelines for street vendors. But those norms were not adhered to. Officials did not ensure their compliance. Some vegetable vendors in these shandies were engaging minors to assist them. No officers were monitoring these vendors to comply with the norms of COVID-19 like compulsory wearing of face masks and maintaining physical distance. Many of them were not using sanitisers also, the lawyer contended. GHMC counsel Pasham Krishna Reddy told the court that all such markets come under the purview of agricultural market committees. He said the GHMC had no role in monitoring such street markets. He said even Rythu Bazaars are governed by the Agricultural Marketing department. The Bench, however, declined to agree with his contentions. It made clear to the GHMC counsel that the matter pertained to weekly street markets held in residential colonies. Since the GHMC was permitting them, the respective sanitary inspectors had a role in overseeing them, it said. The High Court Bench issued notices to State Health Secretary to explain steps being taken to ensure such weekly street markets did not become breeding grounds of COVID. The matter was posted to June 3 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/weekly-markets-should-not-be-covid-spreaders-hc-to-ghmc/article34462158.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Get all counting staff tested for coronavirus: SEC||The State Election Commission (SEC) has asked all District Collectors and Commissioners/Superintendents of Police in whose administrative purview the elections to several urban local bodies including Greater Warangal and Khammam Municipal Corporations and five other wards in as many ULBs were held on Friday to ensure that only COVID-negative functionaries enter the counting centres on Monday. At a review meeting held with the officials on Saturday, State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi asked the police get all the personnel and officers to be deployed for the counting-related duties tested for coronavirus before the commencement of their duties for the purpose. Similarly, he asked the District Collectors to get the Covid-19 tests conducted to all counting officials and other support staff, the counting agents of the candidates and the candidates themselves so that only those with negative reports were allowed into the counting centres. The SEC stated that required quantities of test kits were also being supplied to the authorities concerned to conduct the tests. “Unlike the polling exercise in which the electorate who were allowed without any test reports the counting exercise involves some extent of safety concerns as all those involved in the process would have to be present in counting halls at least for six hours. The health of all others would be at risk – the chances of getting infected – in case even a few infected persons are present in the counting halls,” Mr. Parthasarathi explained. Only those who test negative would be allowed to enter the counting centres that too after getting certified by the health officials before 6 am on the day of counting – May 3. To further reduce the risk to those involved in the counting process, thermal scanners would also be placed at the entrance of counting stations so that any person drawn for the purpose was stopped in case of having high temperature in spite of having the negative report, the SEC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/get-all-counting-staff-agents-tested-for-coronavirus-sec/article34462167.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Volunteers step in to screen SOS numbers||As the raging second wave of COVID-19 pandemic creates unprecedented demands on healthcare workers and medical infrastructure, it is social media and citizens who bringing an order to the chaos using all resources at their disposal. While the first few days saw creation of various lists to help patients and their relatives, it is now individual voluntary efforts that are coming to people’s rescue in this hour of crisis. “There are a lot of lists floating around for oxygen, Tocilizumab, plasma donors and Remdesivir stockists. Patients and their relatives are getting frustrated and distraught when the phone numbers don’t work. I thought of volunteers who would do the basic calling and make the connection needed for delivery,” says Raj Janagam, an IT professional, who roped in 20 volunteers to make the calls and network to help caregivers and patients in the city. Verified database At the other end of the spectrum is Sugandh Rakha, another IT professional, who has created a database ‘hydcovid.com’ that has a string of verified numbers and contacts for medical needs of COVID patients. Another resource set-up to help citizens deal with the overwhelming demand for medical information is ‘hydcovidresources.com’. As the demand for drugs, beds and oxygen is growing, many of the suppliers are unable to meet the demand and are keeping their phones switched off or not answering calls. “The supply has become very dynamic. An oxygen cylinder supplier may have a dozen oxygen cylinders at 12 p.m. but by 1 p.m., he might exhaust his stock and would have to go to get fresh stock,” says Mr. Janagam whose volunteers hand-hold patients and their relatives till their needs are met. The need for volunteers screening the numbers has increased as scammers are circulating lists of numbers with the aim of bilking patients and their relatives. A few WhatsApp groups have also morphed into volunteers crosschecking numbers before sharing them with patients or their attenders. But the biggest resource that has become a lifeline for citizens is micro-blogging site Twitter which is connecting people in real time as the calls for help are rising by the minute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/volunteers-step-in-to-screen-sos-numbers/article34462143.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||All doors closed||Minister Eatala Rajender doesn’t expect any message from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao now as he feels things have gone too far to be put back on track. None of his ministerial colleagues nor a senior leader gave him a call in this hour of crisis, giving any confidence of rapprochement and his continuation in the party. “I was not even expecting support given the way the party is run but there was no decency in the entire episode created to defame me,” he said while expressing his gratitude to his followers. The stripping of his Health portfolio much before the inquiry report was given to the CM and what he calls deliberate ‘character assassination’ in the party’s own media newspapers and channels is the final nail in the coffin. “I will not be cowed down by these personal attacks and fight back for my honour” is what the Minister told his close confidants as he faces the lowest phase of his political career. The day after the damaging episode, he spent his time at the farm house with hundreds of his followers from his Huzurabad constituency. They raised slogans against the government calling it a conspiracy against a tall leader from the Backward Classes. In the constituency as well there were demonstrations and effigy burning of the government in his support even as he called for calmness and wait for the investigation report. Unprepared Mr. Rajender was clearly not prepared for this onslaught from his own leader and he admitted it in as many words while describing it as an ‘insult’ and ‘hurting’. “The aggression with which they are behaving is not good for the party for which I contributed for 20 years,” he said. Meanwhile, the TRS camp was silent and none of them dared to express their opinion. Ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Malla Reddy and MLA Balka Suman who addressed a press conference at Telangana Bhavan did not utter a word on Eatala. In fact, when reporters raised the issue they simply evaded and walked out saying the Chief Minister was dealing with it. What next? Followers of the Minister expect that the Chief Minister will call for his resignation on Sunday when the country would be busy with the election results and the intriguing developments related to it. “Whoever knows KCR well will understand that he will ensure our leader is pushed into inside pages and away from breaking news,” a close follower claimed. “There is a lot of time to think on the future course of action. We will wait.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-doors-closed/article34462175.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL overcomes COVID-19 blues||Production of coal, dispatch, removal of overburden and generation of thermal and solar power in Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has been going on in full steam despite the surge in COVID-19 spread this financial year with April month posting healthy statistics overcoming the blues of April last year. According to SCCL officials, coal production this April saw 62.9% growth compared to April last year as 48.56 lakh tonnes of coal has been produced during the first month of current fiscal against 30 lakh tonnes of coal production in April last year hit by COVID-19 lockdown. In dispatch of the coal produced, there was 79% increase this April compared to April last year as 54.43 lakh tonnes coal was dispatched this April against 30.4 lakh tonnes in last April. Similarly, the company posted 27.5% growth in overburden removal this April compared to April last by removing 347 lakh cubic meters against 272.2 lakh cubic meters. As the demand for energy is higher during the summer season, the company has ensured seamless supply of coal at about 1.8 lakh tonnes per day. CMD N. Sridhar asked the officials to meet targets of at least 1.9 lakh tonnes of coal production and dispatch everyday and removal of 13.5 lakh cubic meters of over burden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-overcomes-covid-19-blues/article34462181.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All zoo parks, tiger reserves closed from today||Minister for Forests, Endowments and Justice A. Indrakaran Reddy announced on Friday that all zoological parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves in the State would be closed for visitors from Sunday due to the surge in coronavirus cases. The decision has been taken following an advisory issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change and Central Zoo Authority to prevent the spread of coronavirus among wildlife. Accordingly, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden of Telangana R. Sobha issued orders on Saturday for closure of Nehru Zoological Park here, Kakatiya Zoological Park at Warangal, Kawal and Amrabad tiger reserves, all national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in the State to visitors with immediate effect. In Hyderabad, KBR National Park would be closed for visitors as part of implementing COVID control measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-zoo-parks-tiger-reserves-closed-from-today/article34462155.ece
02 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Krishna Ella deserves Bharat Ratna’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gudur Narayana Reddy on Saturday urged the Government of India to confer Bharat Ratna award on Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech International Limited Krishna M. Ella for his endeavours in bringing out COVID vaccine Covaxin. He appealed to the Telangana Chief Minister, Mr. K. Chandrasekhar Rao, to recommend Dr Krishna Ella’s name to the Government of India for conferring the top award reminding that he had enabled India to have an equal position with the developed countries that had produced vaccine for COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/recommend-krishna-ella-for-bharat-ratna/article34462176.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Early bird offer extended (brief)||The State government has extended the early bird offer of 5% rebate on payment of property tax for 2021-22 in all urban local bodies, including GHMC, up to May 31 in view of the prevailing situation of COVID 19, according to a Government Order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/early-bird-offer-extended-brief/article34462170.ece
02 May 2021||Kalaburagi,TELANGANA||Karnataka to cap price for private CT scan||Following complaints that private healthcare facilities were overcharging for CT scan, the State government has decided to cap the rate for scan. An order to this effect will be issued shortly. “The expert committee recommended CT scan for better diagnosis of COVID-19. In government facilities, we are doing the scan for free. But, we have been receiving complaints of overcharging by private hospitals,” said K. Sudhakar, Minister for Health and Family Welfare, in Kalaburagi. HRCT method High Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT) of the chest has become a common investigation method for COVID-19 and for suspected cases to rule out lung involvement. This has become all the more prevalent given many cases of negative RT-PCR reports. When asked about objection to the reservation of 15% beds in some Bengaluru hospitals for COVID-19 patients of Chickballapur district, Mr. Sudhakar said: “Where should patients from districts that don’t have well-equipped medical colleges and hospitals go for tertiary care? Chikkamagaluru, Ramangaram, Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, and Yadgir districts don’t have well-equipped medical colleges and COVID-19 positive patients will have to be sent to nearby medical colleges and hospitals in other districts.” No complete lockdown Mr. Sudhakar said there was no proposal before the government for a complete lockdown. “Results cannot be visible in just four days after we imposed the lockdown. Maharashtra is under lockdown for the last 44 days and now the condition is coming under control. If the situation doesn’t improve, we will have to go for stricter measures,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-to-cap-price-for-ct-scan-at-private-facilities/article34461666.ece
02 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Politically motivated action’||CPI (ML-New Democracy) State assistant secretary Potu Ranga Rao has demanded that a judicial probe by a sitting Judge of the High Court be ordered into allegations of land grabbing against several Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) elected representatives, including a few ministers and MLAs. In a statement issued here on Saturday, he alleged that Health Minister Eatala Rajender, a senior leader of the Telangana movement, was stripped of his portfolio by the K. Chandrasekhar Rao government unceremoniously for political reasons. It was a deliberate attempt to remove him from the State Cabinet on land grabbing charges, he alleged, demanding that a judicial inquiry be ordered into all the allegations of land encroachments against some influential Telangana Rashtra Samithi leaders holding key positions in the ruling dispensation. Stringent action should be taken against those found guilty, he said. “The inquiry should look into all the pending complaints pertaining to regularisation of hundreds of acres of illegally occupied assigned lands by several influential leaders of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi in gross misuse of the provisions of Government Orders," he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/politically-motivated-action/article34462274.ece
02 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Puvvada tests positive for coronavirus||Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar on Saturday tested positive for COVID-19 with mild symptoms. According to sources, his RT-PCR COVID-19 test results returned positive on Saturday. He is presently in home isolation. He urged all those, who had come in contact with him in the last week, to get themselves tested for COVID-19 and take all precautionary measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/puvvada-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/article34462180.ece
02 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Preliminary probe finds land encroachment by Eatala family||Medak Collector A. Harish has confirmed that assignment/ceiling land to the extent of 65 acres that is in question was allegedly encroached upon by Jamuna Hatcheries, a firm owned by family members of Eatala Rajender, former Health Minister. Along with senior officials, he visited Achampet and Hakimpet villages in Masaipet mandal since Saturday morning and interacted with farmers who had alleged land grabbing by the Minister’s family members. The preliminary inquiry conducted by revenue officials in Achampet village of Masaipet mandal in Medak district found that Jamuna Hatcheries had constructed sheds and roads were laid on ceiling lands. Three teams consisting of eight tahsildars and 15 surveyors were roped in to inquire into land grabbing allegations and from revenue department the inquiry was almost completed and report would be submitted (in the next few hours). “It was identified that about 65 acres of ceiling land was under occupation and this was confirmed in the inquiry conducted by our staff. Some trees were also felled and a road was laid. This is being looked after by forest department officials. We will be submitting report shortly,” Mr Harish told the media. He said that action had been initiated in the past for violations and it would be completed against those responsible. Vigilance department SP Manohar said that their inquiry was on and it would take two more days to complete and submit a report. Officials took complaints from farmers and they are still pouring in. Officials of Revenue, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Vigilance are conducting inquiries simultaneously. Stance changed In a related development, village sarpanch Lakshmi changed her stance and made allegations against Mr. Rajender. In the morning, she had said that farmers had voluntarily surrendered the land to the Minister as they were not yielding revenue. By evening, Ms. Lakshmi made wild allegations against the Minister, stating that their lands, including her three acres, were grabbed by the Minister. Earlier in the day, a team of revenue officials visited Achampet and Hakimpet villages in Masaipet mandal of Medak district amid huge police security. From morning, officials arrived in teams and started interacting with farmers in both villages. A large number of police officials reached these villages to prevent any law and order problem. Toopran DSP Kiran Kumar made security arrangements. The land survey commenced under the supervision of Toopran Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) Ram Prakash. Land survey is being conducted in about 170 acres at Hakimpet and Atchampet villages in survey numbers 130, 111, and 81. Inquiry officials included Veldurthi MRO Suresh, Masaipet MRO Malathi, Vigilance SP Manohar, DSP Anand, and CI Satish Reddy. It was informed that as many as 10 teams were involved in collecting details from farmers. On Friday, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had ordered inquiry into complaints of land grabbing in Achampet village of Masaipet mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/preliminary-probe-finds-land-encroachment-by-eatala-family/article34462169.ece
02 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Baseless charges, says hatchery||In a twist to the ongoing controversy over the land encroachment at Achampet and Hakimpet villages in Masaipet mandal, Jamuna Hatcheries Pvt. Ltd. on Saturday submitted a memorandum to Collector A. Harish, stating that the allegations levelled against them on land encroachment were false, fabricated and baseless. “These allegations were made to malign our company’s reputation by vested interests. There is not an iota of truth in allegations made against our company. We hereby and hereunder bring the following facts about legally acquired land by our company,” said company representatives in their memorandum submitted to the officials. They listed out the extent of land purchased by the company, the date and from which farmer in detailed format. Six such instances were mentioned in the list. “Having purchased above mentioned lands, we have built 12 breeder laying farm sheds in addition to two brooding farm sheds with utmost bio-security standards in survey numbers 55, 124, 125, 127, 128, 129 and 130 of Achampet village of Masaipet mandal. Also we are in the final stage of erecting poultry feed plant in survey number 111 of Hakimpet by obtaining several loans from Canra Bank. The fact being so, false news being telecast against our company. The same kindly be noted. We, as a corporate legal entity, are bound by law of the land and committed to follow in true spirit. Should you need any further information, we are ready to furnish the same and cooperate with the investigation officers,” said the memorandum submitted by the Jamuna Hatcheries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/baseless-charges-says-hatchery/article34462179.ece
02 May 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Siddipet district leads in vaccination||Siddipet district scripted a success story, once again. It has successfully vaccinated about 1.99 lakh people aged 45 years and above till April 30. This is over and above the district population in the prescribed age limit. The district has about 1.96 people who crossed 45 years of age. Even people from neighbouring Medak, Karimnagar and Hyderabad got their vaccines in Siddipet district. This was possible due to the efforts of public representatives including, mandal level officers and panchayat secretaries at the village level. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and Collector P. Venkatrama Reddy laid a special focus on the vaccination drive and the total responsibility was entrusted to Additional Collector Muzammil Khan who coordinated with officials of various departments and public representatives. Even transport was arranged for people from villages to the vaccination centres and that made more people get their shots. “Conveyance became a hurdle in target people getting vaccinated. Therefore, the Collector took a decision to arrange for transport to everybody who wants vaccination. In the last few days, 4,000 people got vaccinated and now, we have reached a target of 8,000 people per day. Meanwhile, people have become more aware and are understanding that there is no negative reaction and there is no difference between Covaxin and Covishield. We also activated our network of Asha, ANMs and medical officers. These officials went to several villages, identified people eligible for vaccination and motivated them. For example, each Asha worker encouraged 10 people per day. In the second phase, we reached the target of 12,000 people per day. And, in the final phase, we have started opening camps in large villages and got every eligible vaccinated and the number touched 24,000 per day,” Mr. Muzammil Khan told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/siddipet-district-leads-in-vaccination/article34462166.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||One-week lockdown in Narayanakhed||In view of the increasing corona cases in their area, the municipal authorities have decided to impose lockdown from May 3 to May 10. The elected members and co-option members held an emergency meeting on Saturday led by Municipal Chairperson Rubina Nazib and decided to implement local lockdown for one week from May 3. Vegetable shops, medical, grocery and fruit shops would be open till 11 a.m. Medical and milk shops are exempted from lockdown. Weekly fair on May 4 and 11 was cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-week-lockdown-in-narayanakhed/article34462178.ece
02 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Five patients die at Gurugram hospital due to ‘oxygen shortage’||Five COVID-19 patients died at a private hospital here in Sector 56 in the early hours of Saturday. The family members of the deceased alleged that the deaths were caused due to short supply of oxygen and negligence of the doctors. ‘Doctors fled hospital’ The police, however, denied the allegations of short supply of oxygen, saying that oxygen was supplied to the hospital in a tanker on Friday night and again on Saturday morning. Repeated calls and messages to Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg to seek his response on the allegations went unanswered. The hospital authorities too did not respond to the calls. The family members of the deceased told a local news channel that the doctors fled the hospital after the situation went out of hand and they had to call the police. Later, the police arranged for doctors but five patients had died till then. They alleged that the doctors kept them in the dark about oxygen shortage. One of the attendants, who lost two family members, said that he arranged three oxygen cylinders for his patients, but they could not be saved. Kaustav Ritwik, who lost his grandmother in the incident, in a tweet said the doctors left the building when they came to know that nothing could be done. “They should have informed us in priority. We could have arranged for O2 on our own! [sic]”, said the tweet. He also shared a few videos of the incident featuring the families of the patients and the police. Four patients had died due to alleged short supply of oxygen at a private hospital in Gurugram a week ago. The administration had set up a committee to probe the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/five-patients-die-at-gurugram-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage/article34461811.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU defers final-term exams||The Delhi University is set to defer examination of final-year students, which were scheduled to begin in May, in view of a surge in COVID-19 cases across the country. Speaking to The Hindu, senior DU officials confirmed that the examination will now take place from June 1, the notification for which will be issued soon. D.S. Rawat, DU’s Dean of Examination said, “A meeting was held on Saturday with all the heads of departments and Deans. The meeting was chaired by the Vice-Chancellor and it was decided that the examinations for the final-year students will be postponed to June 1. A notification regarding the same will be issued on Monday.” Officials said that the examination will be held in the online mode itself and that a decision about other batches will be taken later, officials said. Appeals were made “Examinations for the intermediary batches are cancelled for now and a decision, on what is to be done for those batches, will be taken later. As of now, the examination for the terminal-year batches have been postponed,” said Mr. Rawat. Several students’ and teachers’ associations had earlier urged the administration to defer the exams. In a letter dated April 30, the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) had said, “The fact that students are battling illness of self and family members is evident from the fact that attendance in classes has significantly dropped. It is cruel for us to continue to behave as if we ought to be unaffected by whatever is happening around us.” “The university must take a sensitive view of the situation that students and teachers find themselves in. No one is in a position to write or conduct examinations at this moment. Hence, we request you to consider cancelling examinations for all students and decide upon alternative means to evaluate students,” the letter read.  The meeting was chaired by the V-C and it was decided that the exams for final-year students will be postponed to June 1 D.S. Rawat DU’s Dean of Examination||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-defers-final-term-examinations/article34461809.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Large-scale vaccination for 18 plus to begin tomorrow||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday visited a polyclinic at Saraswati Vihar to mark the symbolic beginning of the vaccination drive for citizens aged between 18 and 44 years. “In one way, today is symbolic as vaccination drive for those between 18 and 44 years has started only at one centre from today. We have already received 4.5 lakh vaccines and now we are distributing them in all districts,” he said. “From day after tomorrow, which is May 3, the vaccination drive will start in Delhi on a largescale. It’s my request to everybody, it’s not walk-in yet, so please don’t queue up outside the vaccination centres. Everybody will get an appointment. You make your appointment online and come accordingly,” he said. Talking about oxygen scarcity in the Capital, Mr. Kejriwal said the government was facing “a lot of trouble” regarding its supply. Even on Saturday, he said, the government received SOS calls from hospitals all across the city. These, he said, pertained to supplies ranging from only one hour to only half an hour of oxygen remaining. “We have conveyed it to the courts as well as written to the Central government that Delhi has a requirement of 976 metric tonnes per day. Against the 976 metric tonnes, we have been allotted 490 metric tonnes oxygen, however, we are not even getting the 490 metric tonnes,” he said. “Yesterday, 312 metric tonnes were provided. So as against 976 metric tonnes needed by Delhi, if only 312 metric tonnes are being provided, then how are things supposed to work out? Delhi needs oxygen,” he appealed. The Chief Minister, when asked about why patients were being asked to wait outside hospitals, said this too was because of lack of oxygen availability. The Radha Soami Satsang Beas had 5,000 beds but only 150 beds were functional because there was no oxygen. At COVID Care Centres created at the Commonwealth Games Village and the Yamuna Sports Complex, he said, 1,300 beds had been prepared but there was no oxygen. “If we get oxygen today, 9,000-oxygenated beds will be ready in Delhi within 24 hours. There is no oxygen. Delhi does not produce its own oxygen. To whom do we go, from whom should we borrow oxygen?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/large-scale-vaccination-for-18-plus-to-begin-tomorrow/article34461813.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for running over constable on picket duty||A 57-year-old Delhi police constable was killed after a car hit him while he was on duty at a picket in South West Delhi’s Vasant Vihar in the early hours of Saturday. The accused driver — who was allegedly on his way home after attending to his COVID-infected wife at a hospital — has been arrested, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said that the victim has been identified as Constable Munshi Lal who on duty at the picket outside Al Kauser restaurant. The accused has been identified as Samit Yadav (42), a resident of Munirka and an IT professional. The police said that a PCR call was received at 4 a.m. regarding the officer being hit by a car. The officer was rushed to AIIMS Trauma Centre but he succumbed, the police said. “The offending vehicle rammed into the picket tent that was erected for staff to ensure lockdown and dragged Lal for 30 to 40 metres,” Mr. Singh said. Wife infected The accused was arrested from the spot and during interrogation, he allegedly told the police that he fell asleep behind the wheel while returning from Max Hospital in Gurugram after attending to his wife as she is undergoing treatment for COVID-19. The police said that Yadav was taken to Vasant Vihar police station and given a PPE kit and isolated in police station premises as a precautionary measure. His medical test will be conducted. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. The police said that Lal was an ex-serviceman and was posted at Vasant Vihar police station since August 28 last year. He is survived by his wife and three children .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-running-over-constable-on-picket-duty/article34461803.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||City records highest COVID deaths so far||The Capital reported 412 COVID-19-related deaths in the past 24 hours — the highest since the beginning of the pandemic — taking the total number of deaths to 16,559, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, 25,219 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 11,74,552. A total of 79,780 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 10,61,246 people have recovered and there are 96,747 active cases. Out of the total 21,428 beds for COVID-19 treatment, only 6.2% of beds were vacant at 11 p.m. Also, only 15 ICU beds were vacant. The positivity of new cases was 31.61%. This means more than 31 out of 100 people taking the test are now COVID-19 positive. The positivity, which is the percentage of people testing positive out of the total tests done, has been almost on the same level for more than one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-records-highest-covid-deaths-so-far/article34462126.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||BJP for White Paper on oxygen crisis||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Saturday expressed grief over the loss of lives at Batra Hospital due to lack of oxygenand termed “shameful” that the oxygen crisis still persisted 10 days after it had erupted. Mr. Gupta said on one hand, the government had not started lifting its enhanced oxygen quota while on the other it had acquired several oxygen plants in Delhi but had yet made no distribution plan. “Due to this callousness of the Kejriwal government the oxygen crisis continues for patients. It has also come to my knowledge that two major Delhi government hospitals, Lok Nayak and GTB, don’t even have sufficient cylinders to store oxygen,” he alleged. “We demand the Kejriwal government immediately bring out a White Paper on the oxygen distribution situation in Delhi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-for-white-paper-on-oxygen-crisis/article34461801.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police to act against COVID malpractices||The Delhi police on Saturday said that people can now complain against COVID-19 related malpractices, including overcharging of ambulance, fake medicines and hoarding of oxygen cylinders on its helpline number. Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava directed senior officers to act strictly against malpractices by ambulances, black-marketing of COVID medicines, oxygen and fake life-saving injections, the police said. The police said that the helpline will start receiving complaints and information on overcharging by ambulances for COVID patients, harassment at cremation grounds, cheating and frauds committed in name of providing treatment medicines and injections, oxygen cylinders among other COVID-related issues on its helpline number 011-23469900. The police also said that Mr. Shrivastava reviewed the enforcement of lockdown and action taken against hoarding or black marketing of medicines or oxygen gas cylinders. The Commissioner said that the court orders for release of seized medicine and oxygen cylinders be taken so that the seized articles could be used by needy patients. Chargesheets of arrested persons should be prepared promptly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-to-act-against-covid-malpractices/article34461802.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 arrested for selling fake Remdesivir injections||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly selling fake Remdesivir injections at exorbitant prices, the police said on Saturday. The police said that the accused have been identified as Anshuman (31), a resident of Rohini, and Kartik (24), a resident of Tilak Nagar. The police said that an information was received on Friday that one Anshuman, who was selling fake Remdesivir injections at exorbitant price, would come near Cross River Mall around 8 p.m. in his car to sell injections to someone after which a police team spotted them and apprehended them when they tried to flee. Rs. 35,000 per vial The police said that a total of 17 Remdesivir injections and one car were recovered from their possession and during interrogation, they allegedly revealed that they procured these injections from one Akarshan, a resident of Noida, through one Anil. They were selling these injections at a price of Rs. 35,000 per vial, the police said. In another incident, a 30-year-old ambulance driver identified as Pramod Kumar, resident of Ghaziabad, was arrested for allegedly overcharging a patient’s family. The police said that on Friday, one Irshad complained that he had to shift his COVID-19 positive relative from Apollo Hospital to Holy Family Hospital and that the ambulance driver was overcharging. The driver allegedly demanded Rs. 8,500 to shift the patient within a distance of 5 km. During probe, a decoy client called the driver for ambulance service . The driver was subsequently arrested following a raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-arrested-for-selling-fake-remdesivir-injections/article34461808.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Doctor found dead at home||A 35-year-old doctor working at Max Hospital, Saket, was found dead at his residence in South Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, the police said on Saturday, adding that a note has been recovered. A senior police officer said that a call was received from a woman who stated that her friend’s husband was not opening the door of his room. When the police reached the spot, the man was found dead. He was living in Malviya Nagar with his wife who is two months pregnant. A note was also found in which hasn’t blamed anyone for his step. The police said that his body was shifted to AIIMS mortuary for post-mortem and was later handed over to his family.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctor-found-dead-at-residence/article34461806.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. launches portal for help||The Delhi government on Saturday launched an initiative welcoming people in India and abroad to contribute to its ongoing fight against the ongoing wave of COVID-19. The government stated it was looking to get urgent support on a range of critical medical equipment among others through the initiative. “Indian citizens and diaspora have always been at the forefront of helping governments deal with calamities in the country,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. Anyone interested in contributing by providing priority equipment and funds for the purchase of priority equipment can express their commitment through the websitedelhifightscorona.in/ donate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-launches-portal-for-help/article34461807.ece
02 May 2021||Noida,||Sense of dread prevails despite dip in bodies||Most pyres burnt unattended except the odd one, or two, being videographed by PPE-clad men capturing a PPE-wearing son or grandson performing the last rites of their kin to later share the moment with the rest of their bereaved family back home, a priest shouting instructions from afar. On the other side, smoke billowing non-stop from a chimney pipe towering above the sole CNG cremation station as a hearse carrying the body of another COVID patient pulls to a stop outside it followed by the arrival of another being carried on a byre resting on two pairs of family members’ shoulders. ‘Antim Niwas’, the only facility reserved for cremation of COVID-19 patients from the district located in Noida’s Sector 94, was less crowded on Saturday compared to the same day the previous week. Last Saturday, even non-COVID bodies were brought to it like usual by families unaware of government orders designating it as a COVID-only facility. The same sense of dread, despair and distress, however, was palpable despite the comparative dip in footfall. “Was it this platform or that one where Vimla aunty was cremated,” Dharmendra Sukhija [name changed on request], who had visited the crematorium earlier this week for the last rites of his mother’s sister, asked his son pointing at two adjacent funeral platforms one after the other. On Saturday afternoon, Mr. Sukhija said he was at the same cremation facility to perform the last rites of his mother. It was not, however, his son reminded him, the same platform. “This pandemic has proved to be precisely that. No one is safe. Earlier this week we came here for my aunt’s funeral; today we have performed the last rites of her elder sister, my mother. Both of them got infected around the same time a few weeks ago, passed way and were cremated near each other,” he said. The facility, where another CNG cremation station to deal with the rush of COVID vicitms which continues unabated is being constructed, now allows families to book time slots for cremation in advance, a priest engaged at it said. The new station is expected to be operational over the next 10 to 12 days, he added. “There are lesser bodies this week because only COVID bodies are allowed and the process has been streamlines; but that doesn’t mean we aren’t working as hard. Cremations are still beginning early morning and last till well beyond dusk,” the priest, who asked not to be named since he is not authorized to speak to the media, said. The Gautam Buddha Nagar district, till 3 p.m. this Saturday, had recorded a total number of 225 deaths due to COVID-19 since the beginning of the pandemic; till 3 p.m. last Saturday, the total death toll stood at 143. “I have been spending more time here assisting with cremations over the last few weeks than I ever did in the past. Just look at the number of discarded PPE kits around,” said Raj Bahadur, from Pilibhit, who works at a prominent food chain during the week and at the crematorium on the weekends to earn a little more. Dustbins placed all around the facility were overflowing with PPE kits which are mandatory for those performing the last rites of COVID patients bearing testimony to the sheer number of cremations taking place at it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/new-cng-station-to-come-up-at-noida-facility/article34461805.ece
02 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||17 journalists die of COVID-19 in Odisha in 2 months||Pritiman Mohapatra, a senior journalist, died of COVID-19 here on Saturday. Mohapatra, 48, is survived by his wife and daughter. He was working as an assistant news editor with the Bhubaneswar edition of Times of India . He had been on ventilator support after suffering cardiac arrest during his COVID-19 hospitalisation. Odisha has lost as many as 17 journalists in the past two months, including 15 in April. On Friday, Debendra Samantray, a journalist with Sambad , died of COVID. Jatish Khamari, a 46-year-old reporter from the same group also died weeks ago. Amjad Badshah, 45, a Jharsuguda-based journalist recently passed away in Rourkela where he was admitted to the hospital after testing positive. Badshah was also contributing to Down To Earth , a fortnightly news magazine. Manas Ranjan Jaipuria, who was working in Zee Odisha , too succumbed to the deadly virus. There are reports of journalists succumbing to COVID in Bargarh, Ganjam and Sundargarh districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/17-journalists-die-of-covid-19-in-odisha-in-2-months/article34461826.ece
02 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Unprecedented caseload in Punjab govt. hospital||Thirty-seven patients died in the past 24 hours at the COVID-19 isolation facility in Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital, according to official data released on Saturday. “Earlier this week, too, the same number of patients died in a span of 24 hours. We are seeing an unprecedented increase in patient load. The situation is twice as worrying in comparison to the last peak of COVID-19. During the last wave (mid August-September 2020), we peaked with severely patients (L3) at 90, but currently we have cumulative L3 patients at 210. We have more than twice the numbers of very severely and critically ill patients,” Surabhi Malik, nodal officer, Tertiary Care, Rajindra Hospital, told The Hindu . The Rajindra Hospital is a tertiary care facility for COVID-19 patients from from not only Punjab but neighbouring States and the National Capital Region. Three of the patients who died were from Delhi, eight were from Patiala, while 25 others were from various parts of Punjab. Two patients were brought dead. Punjab recorded 7,041 fresh COVID-19 cases on May 1, and reported 138 more deaths, according to a statement by the Health Department. The number of confirmed positive cases so far have reached 3,77,990 across the State. The Health Department said the active cases number 58,229, and 3,10,601 patients have so far been cured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/unprecedented-caseload-in-punjab-govt-hospital/article34462128.ece
02 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana Cong. charges govt. with failing to handle crisis||The Congress in Haryana has accused the ruling BJP-JJP government of failing to handle the situation with health services and infrastructure on the verge of collapse. On Saturday, at a videoconference party meeting, which was attended by Haryana Congress in-charge Vivek Bansal, State party chief Kumari Selja, Congress national general-secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda among others, it was pointed out that black marketing of medicines is rampant and huge amount was being charged from COVID patients in private hospitals. Ms. Selja said: “Along with oxygen, reports of shortage of beds, ventilators, and medicines in the hospitals of the State are also appearing. Black marketing of medicines is taking place. A huge amount is being charged from patients in private hospitals. Many patients have lost their lives due to lack of proper treatment.” She added that the Centre has started a vaccine campaign for people between 18 years and 44 years from May 1. But in most districts of Haryana, this campaign has not been started due to lack of vaccine, she said. Ms. Selja said Corona Relief Committees have been constituted by Congress to assist patients. “Congress workers are helping patients, but the administration and the government are not supporting us in the same,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-cong-charges-govt-with-failing-to-handle-crisis/article34461823.ece
02 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. launches Rs. 3.5 crore health scheme||Chiranjeevi Yojana, the Rajasthan government’s universal health insurance scheme launched here on Saturday, is expected to provide succour to COVID-19 patients. The Rs. 3,500-crore scheme gives an annual cashless insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh to every family in the State. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said while launching the scheme at a virtual event that it would turn out to be a “historic step” in ensuring social security for vulnerable sections of society and help bridge the gap between the rich and the poor. The Centre and other States should also consider starting such a scheme to give the right to health to the public at large, he said. Mr. Gehlot also formally started the COVID-19 vaccination of the people between the age of 18 and 45 years in Jaipur, Ajmer and Jodhpur districts. He distributed the policy documents to some of the beneficiaries in the three districts. The last date for registration for Chiranjeevi Yojana, which also covers treatment expenses for COVID-19, was extended from April 30 to May 31 on Mr. Gehlot’s instructions. The scheme was announced in the State Budget for 2021-22 for treatment in the government and empanelled private hospitals. The registration will be free for those who are covered under the National Food Security Act, Socio-Economic Caste Census, small and marginal farmers, contractual workers and those who have received the COVID-19 ex-gratia assistance. Others who do not fall in these categories will be required to pay Rs. 850 as 50% of the annual premium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-govt-launches-rs-35-crore-health-scheme/article34461825.ece
02 May 2021||Mumbai,||63,282 new cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 63,282 fresh COVID-19 cases and 802 fatalities, taking the tally to 46,65,472 and the toll to 69,615, the State Health Department said. A total of 61,326 patients were discharged during the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 39,30,302. Of the 802 fatalities, 438 occurred in the last 48 hours, 178 in the last week, while the rest 186 occurred in a prior period. The active case tally has now touched 6,63,758. The State’s recovery rate stood at 84.24%, fatality rate at 1.49%, while the positivity rate is 17.03%. Mumbai city recorded 3,897 new cases and 90 deaths, raising its tally to 6,52,368 and toll to 13,215. With 2,89,006 new tests, the number of samples examined so far in the State has gone up to 2,73,95,288. The Mumbai division, including Mumbai city and satellite towns, recorded 10,581 fresh cases and 160 deaths, taking the case load to 13,81,460 and the toll to 23,466. The Pune division saw 14,551 fresh infections, including 4,268 in Pune city, 3,739 in rural parts of Pune district, 2,291 in Satara district and 2,028 from Solapur district, as per the department. Of the 145 fatalities in the Pune division, 49 occurred in Solapur city, 39 in Pune city and 25 in Satara district. Nashik division reported 11,291 new cases, including 3,192 in Ahmednagar district and 3,115 in Nashik city. Ninety deaths were reported in the division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/63282-new-cases-in-maharashtra/article34462242.ece
02 May 2021||Mumbai,||‘Jail chief has no authority to comment on health of inmate’||Several civil rights activists on Saturday said “the jail superintendent is no authority to give an opinion on the clinical condition of a jailed person” while responding to news reports on the Byculla Jail superintendent’s comments on the health condition of Sudha Bharadwaj, one of the accused in the Elgaar Parishad case. On May 1, The Hindu published a story quoting the Superintendent of Byculla Jail saying, “Ms. Bharadwaj keeps complaining. She has no body ache, no diarrhoea. She resorts to these gimmicks to get bail.” Several writers and activists, including Harsh Mander, Apoorvanand, Kavita Srivastava, and Navsharan Kaur, among others, in a letter, said, “We are hearing reports about prisoners in different jails getting symptoms of COVID-19. Most of them are ignored. We also know that this new variant of corona is not being detected by the tests. We also know that Indian prisons are crowded beyond their capacity and it is impossible for them to keep the jail inmates secure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jail-chief-has-no-authority-to-comment-on-health-of-inmate/article34462239.ece
02 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||CIDCO to set up COVID centres in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai||The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has decided to build two COVID Care Centres, one each in Navi Mumbai and Mumbai. The move follows requests put forward to the State government by the Panvel Municipal Corporation and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, seeking development of additional COVID Care Centres by CIDCO in their respective regions. A CIDCO official said, “In view of the rising number of COVID-19 patients in the second wave and to provide them quick and efficient treatment, the State government has instructed CIDCO to set up dedicated COVID Care Centres in Navi Mumbai’s Kalamboli and Mumbai’s Kanjurmarg.” The centre in Kalamboli will be equipped with 800 beds, including 690 oxygenated and 110 ICU beds, while a 2,000-bed facility will come at Kanjurmarg, including 1,400 oxygenated, 400 non-oxygenated and 200 ICU beds. Dr. Sanjay Mukherjee, managing director of CIDCO, said: “Taking into consideration the rising numbers of COVID-19 cases in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, CIDCO is doing its best to assist the State administration in its fight against the pandemic. These COVID Care Centres will be handed over to the respective municipal corporations for operations.” In Kalamboli, preliminary work has started to convert a warehouse of the Cotton Corporation of India Ltd into the facility. Once completed, the centre, which will comprise a non-invasive ventilation facility, will be transferred to the Panvel Municipal Corporation. The official said, “The hospitals will be developed in accordance with the administrative and financial procedure under the emergency procurement policy mentioned in the State Government Resolution of 2016 and the Procurement of Goods Manual of the Government of India for handling procurement in emergencies and disaster management.” The two municipal corporations will be responsible for infrastructural facilities along with power and water supply; appointment of doctors and other medical professionals; obtaining the required certificates; general security; and provisions for fire safety, beds, supply of medicines and other equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cidco-to-set-up-covid-centres-in-mumbai-navi-mumbai/article34462240.ece
02 May 2021||Srinagar,||J&K govt. teacher dismissed under Article 311 without inquiry||In the first such order, a J&K government teacher — who in the police records is a Tehreek-e-Hurriyat (TeH) supporter — was terminated from his services without holding any inquiry “in the interest of the security of the State”. “The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Idrees Jan, Teacher, Government Middle School, Kralpora, Kupwara,” reads an order of the General Administration Department. The L-G, according to the order, after considering the facts and circumstances and on the basis of the information available that the activities of Mr. Jan, a teacher posted at the Government Middle School, Kralpora, Kupwara, are such as to warrant his dismissal from service. Sources in police said Mr. Jan was a supporter of the Tehreek-e-Hurriyat, which remains headless in Kashmir since Syed Ali Geelani resigned from its top post last year. An official said Mr. Jan was facing a number of FIRs against him for his activities and was even booked twice under the Public Safety Act for his separatist activities. The J&K government on April 21 constituted a Special Task Force to identify and scrutinize the government employees and lodge cases against those involved in any cases related to posing threat to the country’s security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jk-govt-teacher-dismissed-under-article-311-without-inquiry/article34462127.ece
02 May 2021||Kabul,||U.S. begins final phase of Afghan pullout||The final phase of ending America’s “forever war” in Afghanistan after 20 years formally began on Saturday, with the withdrawal of the last U.S. and NATO troops by the end of summer. President Joe Biden had set May 1 as the official start of the withdrawal of the remaining forces — about 2,500-3,500 U.S. troops and about 7,000 NATO soldiers. He had set September 11 as the deadline for withdrawal. Even before Saturday, the herculean task of packing up had begun. The military has been taking inventory, deciding what is shipped back to the U.S., what is handed to the Afghan security forces and what is sold as junk in Afghanistan’s markets. In recent weeks, the military has been flying out equipment on massive C-17 cargo planes. The U.S. is estimated to have spent more than $2 trillion in Afghanistan in the past two decades, according to the Costs of War project at Brown University, which documents the hidden costs of the U.S. military engagement. According to defence department officials and diplomats, the withdrawal has involved closing smaller bases over the last year. They said that since Mr. Biden announced the end-of-summer withdrawal date in mid-April, only roughly 60 military personnel had left the country. The U.S. and its NATO allies went into Afghanistan together on October 7, 2001 to hunt the al-Qaeda perpetrators of the 9/11 terrorist attacks who lived under the protection of the country’s Taliban rulers. Two months later, the Taliban had been defeated and al-Qaeda fighters and their leader, Osama bin Laden, were on the run. In his withdrawal announcement last month, Mr. Biden said the initial mission was accomplished a decade ago when U.S. Navy SEALS killed bin Laden in his hideout in Pakistan. Since then, al-Qaeda has been degraded, while the terrorist threat has “metastasised” into a global phenomenon that is not contained by keeping thousands of troops in one country, he said. The insurgent group continues to accuse Washington of breaching the deal it signed with Mr. Biden’s predecessor more than a year ago. In that agreement, the U.S. said it would have all troops out by May 1. In a statement on Saturday, Taliban military spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the passing of the May 1 deadline for a complete withdrawal “opened the way for (Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan) Mujahideen to take every counteraction it deems appropriate against the occupying forces.” However, he said fighters on the battlefield will wait for a decision from the leadership before launching any attacks and that decision will be based on “the sovereignty, values and higher interests of the country.” Mounting toll Violence has spiked in Afghanistan since the February 2020 deal was signed. Peace talks between the Taliban and Afghan government quickly bogged down. On Friday, a truck bomb in Logar province killed 21 people, many of them police and students. Afghans have paid the highest price since 2001, with 47,245 civilians killed, according to the Costs of War project. Millions more have been displaced inside Afghanistan or have fled to Pakistan, Iran and Europe. Afghanistan’s security forces are expected to come under increasing pressure from the Taliban after the withdrawal if no peace agreement is reached in the interim, according to Afghan watchers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-begins-final-phase-of-afghan-pullout/article34461394.ece
02 May 2021||WASHINGTON,||On N. Korea, Biden to chart his own course||The White House says President Joe Biden plans to veer from the approaches of his two most recent predecessors as he tries to stop North Korea’s nuclear programme, rejecting both Donald Trump’s deeply personal effort to win over Kim Jong-un and Barack Obama’s more hands-off approach. Press secretary Jen Psaki announced on Friday that administration officials had completed a review of U.S. policy toward North Korea, seen as one of the greatest and most vexing national security threats facing the U.S. and its allies. Ms. Psaki did not detail findings of the review, but suggested the administration would seek a middle ground between Mr. Trump’s “grand bargain” and Mr. Obama’s “strategic patience” approaches. “Our goal remains the complete de-nuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula with a clear understanding that the efforts of the past four administrations have not achieved this objective,” Ms. Psaki told reporters on Air Force One as Mr. Biden travelled to Philadelphia. The administration announced it would conduct the review soon after Mr. Biden took office in January. Ms. Psaki said officials consulted outside experts, allies and predecessors from several previous administrations as part of the process. “Our policy will not focus on achieving a grand bargain, nor will it rely on strategic patience,” she said. Mr. Biden, like his old boss Mr. Obama, has confirmed that he sees North Korea as perhaps the most delicate foreign policy quandary for the U.S. and its allies. But Ms. Psaki’s comments suggest distancing from Mr. Obama’s dual-track policy that kept engagement open for its good behaviour while seeking to impose sanctions for its bad behaviour. The Biden administration also appeared to signal it is trying to set the stage for incremental progress, in which denuclearisation steps by the North would be met with corresponding actions, including sanctions relief, from the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/on-n-korea-biden-to-chart-his-own-course/article34461395.ece
02 May 2021||Hawaii,||Pentagon chief calls for ‘new vision’ for American defence||In his first major speech as Pentagon chief, Lloyd Austin on Friday called for developing a “new vision” for American defence in the face of emerging cyber and space threats and the prospect of fighting bigger wars. Reflecting President Joe Biden’s promise to put diplomacy first in dealing with foreign policy problems, Mr. Austin said the military should provide leverage that diplomats can use to prevent conflict. His comments suggested a contrast with what critics call the militarisation of U.S. foreign policy in recent decades. “U.S. military isn’t meant to stand apart, but to buttress U.S. diplomacy and advance a foreign policy that employs all of our instruments of national power,” Austin said. Mr. Austin cautioned that the U.S. military cannot be satisfied with believing it is the strongest and most capability military in the world today — “not at a time when our potential adversaries are very deliberately working to blunt our edge.” He appeared to be referring to China, which other officials say has accelerated its military modernisation and sped up its construction of a wide range of sophisticated weaponry while the U.S. was focused for two decades on combatting extremists. “The way that we fight the next major war is going to look very different from the way that we fought the last ones,” he said. “We all need to drive toward a new vision of what it means to defend our nation.” Mr. Austin said U.S. defence will continue to rest on maintaining deterrence. The U.S. military must use existing capabilities, develop new ones, and use all of them in new and networked ways — “hand in hand with our allies and partners.” “It’s always easier to stamp out a small ember than to put out a raging fire,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pentagon-chief-calls-for-new-vision-for-american-defence/article34461398.ece
02 May 2021||Vienna,||Envoys from 5 nations resume nuclear talks||High-ranking diplomats from China, Germany, France, Russia and Britain resumed talks on Saturday focused on bringing the United States back into their landmark nuclear deal with Iran. The U.S. will not have a representative at the table when the diplomats meet in Vienna because former President Donald Trump unilaterally pulled the country out of the deal, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, in 2018. U.S. President Joe Biden wants to rejoin the deal, however, and a U.S. delegation in Vienna is taking part in indirect talks with Iran, with diplomats from the other world powers acting as go-betweens. The Biden administration is considering a rollback of some of the most stringent sanctions in a bid to get Iran back into compliance with the terms of the nuclear agreement, according to information from current and former U.S. officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/envoys-from-5-nations-resume-nuclear-talks/article34461396.ece
02 May 2021||Geneva,||WHO approves Moderna vaccine for emergency use||The World Health Organization has given the go-ahead for emergency use of Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine. The mRNA vaccine from the U.S. manufacturer joins vaccines from AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech and Johnson & Johnson in receiving the WHO’s emergency use listing. Similar approvals for China’s Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines are expected in the coming days and weeks, WHO has said. The greenlight for Moderna’s vaccine, announced late on Friday, took many months because of delays that WHO faced in getting data from the manufacturer. Many countries without their own advanced medical regulatory and assessment offices rely on the WHO listing to decide whether to use vaccines. The announcement, however, wasn’t likely to have an immediate impact on supplies of Moderna’s vaccine for the developing world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-approves-moderna-vaccine-for-emergency-use/article34461399.ece
02 May 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan to limit inbound flights: NCOC||Pakistan has decided to reduce the inbound international flights to 20% of the current numbers from May 5 as part of measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the country, authorities said on Saturday. “Pakistan has decided to reduce inbound international travel from May 5 to May 20. International flights to Pakistan will be reduced to 20% during this period,” the National Command and Operation Center (NCOC) said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-to-limit-inbound-flights-ncoc/article34461400.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Daniel Smith is interim U.S. envoy to India||Shortly on the heels of its announcement that more than $100 million in assistance was being directed to India, the Biden administration announced the appointment of Daniel Smith, the Director of the Foreign Service Institute, as the new interim Chargé d’Affaires at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi. Mr. Biden has not yet appointed an Ambassador to India. Mr. Smith was Acting Secretary of State for a few days after the Trump administration’s Mike Pompeo demitted office and before Antony Blinken was sworn in Secretary of State. “Ambassador Smith carries the highest Foreign Service rank of Career Ambassador,” a State Department statement said. Mr. Smith’s appointment was announced on the same day the White House issued travel restrictions for India. The timing was possibly to soften the impact of the former. On a practical level, the interim appointment is also likely to facilitate U.S.-India cooperation on fighting COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/daniel-smith-is-interim-us-envoy-to-india/article34461418.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Auto firms log subdued April sales amid COVID||Major automobile manufacturers Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motor, Tata Motors and Kia on Saturday reported a sequential decline in passenger vehicle sales in April compared with March as the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic hit dispatches. However, Mahindra & Mahindra along with Honda Cars India posted sequential growth in their passenger vehicle sales last month. Sales in April this year are not comparable with that of the corresponding month a year earlier as companies had reported zero sales due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India reported a 4% decline in total sales to 1,59,691 units in April as compared to 1,67,014 units in March this year. Similarly, Hyundai Motor India Ltd. (HMIL) posted total sales of 59,203 units in April, a decline of 8% from the 64,621 units it had sold in March 2021. Hyundai sales dip HMIL Director (Sales, Marketing and Service) Tarun Garg said, “In these challenging times, we stand in solidarity with the nation and are continuing all efforts to support the affected... While our efforts presently focus primarily on supporting the lives and livelihood of people, we have also received positive sales results in April”. Homegrown auto major Tata Motors said its passenger vehicle sales in the domestic market stood at 25,095 units in April, down 15% from 29,654 units in March. ‘Supply chain challenges’ However, Mahindra & Mahindra said its passenger vehicles sales in the domestic market stood at 18,285 units last month, up 9% from 16,700 units in March. “With the increase in lockdown restrictions in many parts of the country, we foresee continuing supply chain-related production challenges,” M&M’s Automotive Division CEO Veejay Nakra said. “While demand remains good, there would be some impact in the first quarter as a result of low customer movement and dealership activity due to the lockdown restrictions,” he added.  Honda sees 28% jump  Honda Cars India also reported a 28% increase in its domestic sales to 9,072 units last month as compared to 7,103 units in March. “The current health calamity has struck the entire nation and at this time nothing is more important than the health and well-being of our countrymen,” Honda Cars India Senior VP and Director (Marketing & Sales) Rajesh Goel said. “Of course, it has had an impact on the business and deliveries in the marketplace,” he added. Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) said its dispatches to the dealers last month stood at 9,622 units. ‘Mobility needs’ “Despite the challenges, we continue to witness good demand owing to personal mobility needs and the same has helped us clock 9,622 units of wholesales in the month of April,” Toyota Kirloskar Motor’s Senior Vice President Naveen Soni said. Kia India reported a 16% decline in dispatches to dealers at 16,111 units in April, while MG Motor India said its retail sales last month stood at 2,565 units. MG Motor said its production and vehicle dispatches to dealers last month was significantly higher than retail sales although it currently has an order backlog of more than three months across its product lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-firms-log-subdued-april-sales-amid-covid/article34461523.ece
02 May 2021||COIMBATORE,||Cotton production estimated to be lower at 360 lakh bales||The Committee on Cotton Production and Consumption expects production during the current season (October 2020 to September 2021) to be at 360 lakh bales, slightly lower than the 2019-2020 season estimate of 365 lakh bales. At a meeting held on Friday, the committee estimated cotton exports in the current season to be at 70 lakh bales and consumption by textile mills at 288 lakh bales. The closing stock is projected to be almost 119 lakh bales. In its previous meeting held in January this year, the committee estimated 2020-2021 production to be 371 lakh bales, textile mill consumption at 312 lakh bales, and exports to be at 75 lakh bales. According to K. Selvaraju, secretary general of the Southern India Mills’ Association (SIMA), textile mill consumption and exports this year may be lower than the estimates because of the spread of COVID-19 and its impact on industrial activities. “Worker shortage is the main challenge for textile mills,” he said. Atul S. Ganatra, president of Cotton Association of India, said about 43 lakh bales had been shipped for exports so far. Exports to China and Bangladesh had slowed. With huge closing stock, domestic cotton prices were likely to remain stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cotton-production-estimated-to-be-lower-at-360-lakh-bales/article34461520.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Jet fuel price soars 6.7%, petrol increase seen soon||Jet fuel price on Saturday was raised by a steep 6.7%, reversing price cuts of last month, while an increase in petrol and diesel prices may be on the anvil as international oil prices firmed up. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) price was increased by Rs. 3,885 per kilolitre (kl), or 6.7%, to Rs. 61,690.28 per kl in the national capital, according to a notification by State-owned fuel retailers. The increase in price comes after two rounds of reduction last month. Prices were cut by 3% on April 1 and then again by Rs. 568.88 per kl (1%) on April 16. Petrol and diesel prices remained unchanged for the 16th day on Saturday, but oil company officials indicated a rate increase in the near term. Despite concerns about rising COVID-19 cases in India denting demand, international crude oil prices continue to rise on account of strong U.S. demand recovery and a weak dollar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jet-fuel-price-soars-67-petrol-increase-seen-soon/article34461518.ece
02 May 2021||MUMBAI,||SBI cuts home loan interest rate to 6.7%||State Bank of India (SBI) has announced lower interest rates on home loans, starting from 6.7% for loans up to Rs. 30 lakh. The lender will charge 6.95% for loans above Rs. 30 lakh and up to Rs. 75 lakh. Loans above Rs. 75 lakh will attract interest of 7.05%. Women borrowers will get a special 5 bps concession. Customers applying via YONO can avail additional interest concession of 5 bps, SBI said. “Affordability increases immensely with the present interest offerings that reduce EMI amounts substantially,” said C.S. Setty, MD (Retail & Digital Banking).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-cuts-home-loan-interest-rate-to-67/article34461515.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. extends time for ITR filing to May 31||The government on Saturday extended timelines for various income tax compliances, including the filing of belated or revised return for the 2019-20 fiscal, till May 31. “In view of the adverse circumstances arising due to the severe COVID-19 pandemic and also in view of the several requests received from taxpayers, tax consultants and other stakeholders from across the country, requesting that various compliance dates may be relaxed, the government has extended certain timelines today,” the Central Board of Direct Taxes said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-extends-time-for-itr-filing-to-may-31/article34461516.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||Power consumption grows 41%||Power consumption grew 41% in April 2021 to 119.27 billion units (BU) over the same month last year, showing robust recovery in industrial and commercial demand of electricity, according to ministry data. Power consumption in April last year was recorded at 84.55 BU. During April this year, peak power demand met, or the highest supply in a day, touched the highest level of 182.55 GW and recorded a growth of nearly 38% over 132.73 GW in April 2020. Consumption in April last year had dropped to 84.55 BU from 110.11 BU in the same month in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/power-consumption-grows-41/article34461521.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Pollard’s stunning heist leaves Super Kings shell-shocked||It was Power Play by Kieron Pollard. The big man freed his arms and the ball took flight. In this heavyweight contest, he delivered the knock-out blow. It was a brutal onslaught. In one of IPL’s greatest innings, Pollard, 87 n.o. off 34 balls with six fours and eight sixes, fired Mumbai Indians, chasing a mammoth 219, to a heart-stopping last-ball four-wicket win over Chennai Super Kings in their clash at the Feroz Shah Kotla ground in New Delhi on Saturday. After several twists, the contest boiled down to 16 off the last over. After a dot ball, Pollard flicked Lungi Ngidi to the fence. The third ball was swung to the fence but the fourth was a dot. The fifth was sent flat over square-leg for a six and a hectic brace off the last ball settled the issue. Mumbai had pulled off an incredible win. As tension mounted, Faf du Plessis put down Pollard - on 68 - at long-on off Shardul Thakur. The heavy-hitting Pollard,waded into Ravindra Jadeja with some rousing hitting; three sixes in an over. He also ruthlessly dismissed Lungi Ngidi for two on-side sixes while Thakur was bludgeoned for a straight six. The West Indian zoomed to 50 off just 17 deliveries. Sam Curran struck for CSK, trapping Krunal Pandya leg-before with a yorker. The combative Curran sent down an excellent 17th over, conceding just two runs. Hardik Pandya, however, whipped two successive sixes of Curran in the 19th before falling to the left-armer. Earlier, Rohit Sharma and Quinton de Kock gave their side a brisk start. Thakur struck for CSK after Dhoni bowled out Deepak Chahar who struggled with cramps. Rohit was held at sweeper cover. Then Jadeja had Suryakumar Yadav caught behind by one that held its line. And Moeen Ali consumed de Kock. In CSK’s innings, Ambati Rayudu’s captivating 72 not out off 27 balls was a compelling blitzkrieg. Rousing straight sixes, pulls over mid-wicket, scorching shots through covers after Rayudu made room were the gems that studded his innings. Moeen delighted after Ruturaj got a leading edge to Trent Boult. His 58 was an innings with nonchalant pick-up shots, searing straight drives, glorious cover-drives and dismissive pulls. du Plessis played his part, twice pulling Bumrah for the maximum. The wily Pollard struck with his medium pace, sending back du Plessis - falling to a ramp shot - and Suresh Raina, in his 200th IPL game, held at mid-wicket to trigger a mini collapse. As the night wore on, Pollard threw in the killer blow.  Probably one of the best T20 games that I've been part of. It was one of the best innings from Polly Rohit   It was a brilliant wicket. The difference was the execution and we were off-target Dhoni||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pollards-stunning-heist-powers-mumbai-to-a-blockbuster-win/article34461378.ece
02 May 2021||Pallekele,||Impressive debut by Jayawickrama||Sri Lanka left-arm spinner Praveen Jayawickrama took six wickets on his debut to dismiss Bangladesh for 251 and put the hosts in a strong position on day three of the second Test on Saturday. Jayawickrama, a replacement for the injured Lasith Embuldeniya, has had a modest record in First Class cricket, but impressed with six for 92 to give Sri Lanka a healthy 242-run first-innings lead. He was backed by off-spinner Ramesh Mendis who took two wickets. Sri Lanka took the new ball soon after it was available and Suranga Lakmal polished off the tail taking the last two wickets in successive overs. Sri Lanka, which declared earlier on 493 for seven, did not enforce the follow-on and was 17 for two in its second essay. The first Test in the two-match series ended in a draw.  The scores: Sri Lanka 493/7 decl. and 17/2 vs Bangladesh 251 (Tamim Iqbal 92, Mominul Haque 49, Mushfiqur Rahim 40, Jayawickrama 6/92) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/impressive-debut-by-jayawickrama/article34461535.ece
02 May 2021||London,||City, Inter on verge of title wins||Manchester City is within touching distance of the Premier League title after Sergio Aguero and Ferran Torres sealed a 2-0 win at Crystal Palace on Saturday. Pep Guardiola’s side sits 13 points clear at the top and will be crowned champion if second-placed Manchester United loses against Liverpool on Sunday. After a tepid first half in south London, it was fitting that Aguero — the architect of so many big moments in City’s history — should open the scoring with a typically lethal finish. Torres killed off Palace two minutes later as City eased to an 11th successive away victory in the Premier League, equalling the English top-flight record. City was languishing in 14th place in late November but a blistering run since then has carried it to the brink of a third title in four seasons.  Atletico Madrid stayed in charge of LaLiga’s four-way title race by grinding out a 1-0 win at struggling Elche on Saturday but rode its luck to the extreme when the hosts missed a penalty in stoppage time. Marcos Llorente scored the only goal of the game with a deflected shot in the 23rd minute but gave away the penalty in the 90th for a handball as Atleti defended its slim lead. Elche midfielder Fidel Chaves took the penalty and his shot beat goalkeeper Jan Oblak but came off the post.  The results:   Premier League: Crystal Palace 0 lost ot Manchester City 2 (Aguero 57, Torres 59); Brighton 2 (Gross 14-pen, Welbeck 79) bt Leeds 0.   LaLiga: Eibar 3 (Kike 3, 50, 59) bt Alaves 0; Elche 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 1 (Llorente 23).   Serie A: Hellas Verona 1 (Salcedo Mora 46) Spezia 1 (Saponara 86)   Friday: Premier League: Southampton 1 (Ward-Prowse 61-pen) drew with Leicester 1 (Evans 68).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-city-nudges-closer-to-title/article34461381.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Can Williamson breathe fresh life into SRH?||Bottom-placed Sunrisers Hyderabad will hope a change of captain brings a change in fortune when it takes on seventh-placed Rajasthan Royals at the Arun Jaitley Stadium in Delhi on Sunday. Kane Williamson took over SRH’s captaincy from David Warner for the remainder of IPL 2021 on Saturday. The franchise also announced there will be a change in its overseas combination.  The manner of SRH’s five defeats has highlighted the frailty of its middle-order. The side is over-reliant on Williamson and Jonny Bairstow. Manish Pandey’s 46-ball 61 in the last match (vs. CSK) will provide hope, but Warner's laborious fifty didn’t soothe nerves. It is possible Jason Holder or Jason Roy could replace Warner. The bowling will again revolve around Rashid Khan. Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who has missed back-to-back games, is yet to be passed fit. For RR, skipper Sanju Samson is back among runs (42 n.o. vs KKR, 42 vs MI) and the hope is for it to rub off on the likes of Jos Buttler, who has only 130 runs in six innings (SR: 127.45). RR’s decision to send Shivam Dube ahead of David Miller against MI backfired. It needs Miller batting higher up. The left-arm trio of Jaydev Unadkat, Mustafizur Rahman and Chetan Sakariya has been crafty but inconsistent. Chris Morris has become a good death-bowling option. Both sides are desperate for a win to revive their playoff pursuits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/can-williamson-breathe-fresh-life-into-srh/article34461375.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||DC, PBKS in an anticipated high-scoring clash||Less than 48 hours after nailing an in-form Royal Challengers Bangalore, Punjab Kings will hope to scalp another front-runner in Delhi Capitals, at the Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad on Sunday. Having lost to DC by six wickets in the reverse fixture, PBKS has a score to settle. However, its vulnerable middle-order will face scrutiny. Explosive batsmen This ‘Northern Derby’ promises to be a high-scoring encounter. The teams are capable of shifting gears, courtesy their explosive frontline batsmen. Leading contenders for the Orange Cap — PBKS leader K. L. Rahul and DC's Shikhar Dhawan and Prithvi Shaw — will resume the race. With Chris Gayle and Shimron Hetmyer making no secret of their desires to be in the mix, and Nicholas Pooran desperate to end his poor form (four ducks so far), a few bowlers could come under the pump. With seven games left to play, DC has five victories and PBKS three. Clearly, the result assumes more importance for the Punjab side. It needs a winning run like the one in IPL 2020, where it notched up five successive triumphs in the second half of the competition. Since PBKS will play its last five matches in Bengaluru, providing a sense of homecoming for Karnataka lads Rahul and Mayank Agarwal, and former RCB star Gayle, it can stay optimistic of its qualifying prospects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dc-pbks-in-an-anticipated-high-scoring-clash/article34461384.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen takes on Nakamura in final||As anticipated, World champion Magnus Carlsen and a fiercely competitive Hikaru Nakamura set up the final of the New in Chess Classic online rapid tournament after taking contrasting routes on Friday. Carlsen, held 2-2 by Levon Aronian in the first match of their semifinal, won the second 3-1. Nakamura, needing a draw to reach the final, was all at sea against Shakhriyar Mamedyarov. Shakhriyar won 3-0 to force the blitz tie-breaker. After both blitz games ended in draws, Nakamura won the decider in 54 moves. Carlsen and Nakamura, searching for their first title on the Champions Tour, last met in the epic seven-day final of the 2020 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour. The dramatic final saw the World champion hitting back thrice after trailing by a point in the contest and prevailing in a nail-biting Armageddon game.  The results: Semifinals: Match Two: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Levon Aronian (Arm) 3-1; Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 3-0.   Tie-breaker: Blitz games: Mamedyarov drew with Nakamura 1-1; Armageddon game: Mamedyarov lost to Nakamura .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-takes-on-nakamura-in-final/article34461529.ece
02 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM:,||Mzilikazi clinches feature event||Mzilikazi, ridden by B.R. Kumar, won the Emperor Of Rome Handicap (Div. I), the feature event of the races held here on Saturday (May 1). The winner is the property of M/s. Five Stars Shipping Co. M/s. Darashaw Bloodstock and trained by R. Foley, who also saddled two more winners on the day.  1. SANTA ANITA HANDICAP (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: DOMINANT (A.M. Alam) 1, Fabulous Show (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Victoria’s Secret (Surya Prakash) 3 and Wonderful Era (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1, hd and 1-1/4. 1m 28.85s. Owner: Mr. Mohit Malhotra. Trainer: Fahad Khan.  2. MAY DAY CUP (1,300m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): BOHEMIAN GRANDEUR (Nakhat Singh) 1, Hallucinate (P. Koushik) 2, Sovereign Power (Rajendra Singh) 3 and Whistle Podu (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 3-3/4, 1-1/2, and 1-1/2. 1m, 22.61s. Owner: Mr. AL. Murugappan. Trainer: R. Foley.  3. PLENIPOTENT HANDICAP (1,300m), 6-y-o & over rated 40 to 65: DECISIVE (Shahar Babu) 1, My Kingdom (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Desert Hawk (M. Bhaskar) 3 and Starlight (Manikandan) 4. Lnk, 3-1/2 and 1. 1m, 21.75s. Owners: Dr. Arun Raghavan & Raghavan K. Trainer: Saddam Iqbal.  4. EMPEROR OF ROME HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 60 to 85: PRICELESS RULER (Nakhat Singh) 1, Breaking Bounds (Koshi Kumar) 2, Octavian (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Star Twist (R. Manish) 4. 1-1/4, 6-1/4 and nk. 1m, 27.49. Owner: Mr. K. Muthuvellayan. Trainer: R. Foley.  5. EMPEROR OF ROME HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 60 to 85: MZILIKAZI (B.R. Kumar) 1, Hebron (Nikhil Naidu) 2, Royal Chieftain (Nakhat Singh) 3 and That’s My Class (K.V. Baskar) 4. 4-3/4, 1 and 2-3/4. 1m 27.19s. Owner: M/s. Five Star Shipping Co. M/s. Darashaw Bloodstock. Trainer: R. Foley.  6. COONOOR HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: WISE DON (Kuldeep Singh) 1, Queen Of Gibraltar (Nakhat Singh) 2, Supreme Excelsior (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Glorious Sunlight (Nikhil Naidu) 4. Not run: Platini. Snk, 2-3/4 and 1-3/4. 1m, 43.56s. Owners: Mr. A.V. Jayaprakash, Mr. M.K. Chengappa & Mr. P. S. Kariappa. Trainer: Mandanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mzilikazi-clinches-feature-event/article34461531.ece
02 May 2021||New Delhi,||RR ropes in SA pacer Gerald Coetzee||Rajasthan Royals on Saturday signed South African pacer Gerald Coetzee as a replacement for England batsman Liam Livingstone for the remainder of the Indian Premier League. Livingstone had pulled out of the tournament due to bio-bubble fatigue last month. Coetzee has played eight T20 matches so far and has taken nine wickets at an average of 23.33 in the format.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rr-ropes-in-sa-pacer-gerald-coetzee/article34462063.ece
02 May 2021||BOSTON,||Tatum drives Celtics’ come-from-behind win||Jayson Tatum scored a career-high 60 points, including four free throws in the final 12 seconds of overtime, as Boston Celtics came back from a 32-point, second-quarter deficit to beat the visiting San Antonio Spurs 143-140 on Friday in a wild game. Terence Davis scored 10 fourth-quarter points as visiting Sacramento rallied for a 110-106 victory over Los Angeles, spoiling the return of LeBron James from injury. It was the Kings first win over Lakers at Staples Center since 2018. Two days after earning their first playoff appearance in 11 years, Phoenix claimed a share of the best record in the NBA thanks to a win over visiting Utah. Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton each scored 22 points as Milwaukee won at Chicago.  The results: Chicago 98 lost to Milwaukee 108; Brooklyn 109 lost to Portland 128; LA Lakers 106 lost to Sacramento 110; Boston 143 bt San Antonio 140 (OT); Cleveland 93 lost to Washington 122; Phoenix 121 bt Utah 100; Memphis 92 bt Orlando 75; Philadelphia 126 bt Atlanta 104 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tatum-drives-celtics-come-from-behind-win/article34461528.ece
02 May 2021||CHENNAI,||TNSA writes to State govt. on vaccination for sailors||For the first time-ever, four Indian sailors have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics. Out of them, two 26-year-olds from Tamil Nadu — Varun Thakkar and K.C. Ganapathy — who have made it to the quadrennial event as a pair in the 49er class, are yet to be vaccinated and the Central administration is yet to authorise the state in vaccinating the qualified sailors. In a letter to Dr. M.K. Agarwal, Additional Commissioner (UIP), Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ashok Thakkar, president of Tamil Nadu Sailing Association, said that the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Government of Tamil Nadu, had asked the former to grant it permission to vaccinate the two Olympic-bound athletes, but there has been no response so far from the Central Government. “While Varun and Ganapathy went for vaccination here on May 1, they were sent back with the message that the plans to vaccinate those below 45 have been put on hold. And the COWIN website is not opening,” said Thakkar. “Is there any policy by the Government to vaccinate the Olympic-bound sportspersons? Some States are vaccinating their Olympians and some are waiting for instructions from Government of India. “As a state recognised federation, I would like that either a clarification is issued or a permission is given to all States to vaccinate the qualified sportspersons, who are all under 45 years of age.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnsa-writes-to-state-govt-on-vaccination-for-sailors/article34461537.ece
02 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian team aims to have long training||After its overwhelming performance in the World Cup here in March, Indian shooting has lost a precious month planning the preparation for the Tokyo Olympics. The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) maintained that the discussions were on between the stake holders and the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to finalise the course of action. The cream of Indian shooting has been reduced to home training after the World Cup. Some like Divyansh Singh Panwar, Manu Bhaker, Sanjeev Rajput and Abhishek Verma have been training at the Dr. Karni Singh range here in their individual capacity.  Rifle coach Deepali Deshpande conceded that it was hard to finalise training as so many aspects tended to divert the plans. “We finalise something and in a day or two some new restrictions come in and we have to change our plan. We are on the edge now. We must decide and start working,” said Deepali. The general plan is to have a long training camp for the shooters which could be the only preparation for them before they compete in Tokyo. “The European championships are still on. But I am not sure whether we can reach there,” said Deepali.  The Dr. Karni Singh Range is likely to be the venue for training, even though the shooters, especially in the 25 and 50 metre events would struggle with the summer conditions. “We have many good training facilities but all of them are in places where the summer is really harsh. AMU in Mhow has a better facility and good weather also,” said Deepali. Quite thoughtfully, SAI has tweaked the quarantine rules in such a way that shooters would be able to start training “in small groups” straight-away. In about a week’s time, the Indian shooters are expected to start firing away as a team till they depart for Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-team-aims-to-have-long-training/article34461720.ece
02 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Munda lauds archers||Archery Association of India (AAI) president Arjun Munda, on Saturday, lauded the recurve archers for putting up a fine show in the World Cup Stage-1 in Guatemala amid adversity. Speaking at an online felicitation, Munda, also the Union Tribal Affairs Minister, praised the archers who bagged three gold medals and a bronze despite facing issues such as flight connectivity, waiting a day in Guatemala and spending about 23 hours in Paris to catch a return flight to India. He thanked the support of the Sports Ministry, Sports Authority of India, Indian Olympic Association and its sponsor NTPC Limited. The archers, including Atanu Das — who won an individual gold in men’s section after 11 years — and his wife Deepika Kumari, shared their experiences — including facing COVID-19 protocols and health-related guidelines — during the World Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/munda-lauds-archers/article34461800.ece
02 May 2021||Buenos Aires,||Maradona got ‘deficient’ health care||Football legend Diego Maradona received “inadequate, deficient and reckless” health care before his death, a panel of medical experts has concluded. Prosecutors in Argentina asked the panel to investigate Maradona’s medical team after the footballer passed away in November last year. Maradona died of a heart attack at his Buenos Aires home, aged 60 on 25th November 2020. He had successful surgery on a brain blood clot earlier in November and was to be treated for alcohol dependency. A few days after his death, Argentine prosecutors launched investigations into the doctors and nurses involved in his care. In March, prosecutors convened a panel of 20 medical experts to examine Maradona’s cause of death and to determine if there had been negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maradona-got-deficient-health-care/article34462064.ece
02 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Williamson to take over SRH captaincy||Sunrisers Hyderabad announced on Saturday that Kane Williamson will be taking over captaincy from David Warner for the remainder of the on-going IPL season. In a statement, Sunrisers informed that the New Zealander Williamson will be leading the team, which is right now at the bottom of the points table with five losses from six games, in the match on Sunday. The team-management has also made the decision that they will be changing their overseas combination for tomorrow’s match against Rajasthan Royals. This decision has not come lightly as the management respects the enormous impact Warner has had for the franchisee over a number of years, the statement said. “As we face the remainder of the season, we are sure Warner will continue to help us strive for success both on and off the field,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/williamson-to-take-over-srh-captaincy/article34461386.ece
02 May 2021||Bengaluru,||India opens against NZ||The Indian men’s hockey team will open its campaign in the third edition of FIH Pro League against New Zealand on February 5 next year as the world governing body released the schedule of the prestigious tournament. After the match against the Black Sticks, India will take on Australia on February 12 and 13 before facing Spain (Feb. 26 and 27). India will play against Germany (March 12, 13) and Argentina (March 19, 20) at home. The next month, India will face England (April 2, 3) at home, followed by away games against Belgium (June 11, 12) and Netherlands (June 18, 19) in a packed 2022 season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-opens-against-nz/article34461524.ece
02 May 2021||Portimao (Portugal),||Bottas denies Hamilton 100th pole||Valtteri Bottas took pole position for the Portuguese Grand Prix with seven-time World champion Lewis Hamilton completing a Mercedes front-row lockout in qualifying on Saturday. Hamilton’s pursuit of a 100th pole at the track where last year he notched up his record 92nd win was delayed when Bottas earned the 17th of his career. Red Bull’s Max Verstappen, one point off Hamilton in the drivers’ standings, took third on Sunday’s grid with his teammate Sergio Perez alongside him on the second row in Portimao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bottas-denies-hamilton-100th-pole/article34461530.ece
02 May 2021||OEIRAS (Portugal),||Riya enters doubles final||Riya Bhatia in partnership with Gabriela Ce of Brazil beat the fourth seeds Valeriya Strakhova and Shalimar Talbi 7-5, 6-0 in the doubles semifinals of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament in Portugal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-enters-doubles-final/article34461532.ece
02 May 2021||Harare,||Innings win for Pakistan||Pakistan defeated Zimbabwe by an innings and 116 runs in the first Test on the third day here on Saturday, taking a 1-0 lead in the two-match series. Zimbabwe was bowled out for 134 in its second innings with fast bowler Hasan Ali taking five for 36 and spinner Nauman Ali two for 27) on a slow and turning Harare Sports Club pitch. Pakistan took a big 250-run lead with Fawad Alam scoring 140.  The scores: Zimbabwe 176 and 134 (T. Musakanda 43, Hasan 5/36) lost to Pakistan 426 (Imran Butt 91, Abid Ali 60, Fawad Alam 140, Mohammad Rizwan 45, Muzarabani 4/73, Tiripano 3/89) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/innings-win-for-pakistan/article34461536.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 07:57 IST,||Sudoku — May 2, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-2-2021/article34462383.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The golden ticket||Amid the glittering gold and bedazzling brides in the latest Tanishq ad, you catch brief glimpses of her, but they are glimpses that stay with you. Saroja Raman, 82, in a pattu sari, dons a pair of dark glasses, her white hair tied back in a clip, laughing with a bridal group as they all pose for a photograph. Commercials are nothing new for Chennai-based Saroja; she has been appearing in them for over two decades, and it started, she says, completely by accident. Some 20 years ago, when she was babysitting a friend’s child on the sets of Mani Ratnam’s Kannathil Muthamittal in Ooty, she was asked to play a small role when the woman who had been cast for the scene did not show up. “I don’t know how to act,” she had said then, but was persuaded to do it. “I thought this was a one-time thing — I had no connection with cinema at all,” but soon, many offers began coming her way for advertisements. The grandmother of six and great-grandmother of four lives alone in an apartment adorned with photographs of her children, and she keeps a collection of albums documenting her career. Saroja was a homemaker until her career took off, and she has now appeared in more than 250 advertisements for products ranging from silk saris to her latest, a food app. She has travelled extensively to Mumbai, Hyderabad, Kerala and across Tamil Nadu for shoots, and has enjoyed every minute of it. The money wasn’t very important to her. “I did not do it for the money then, and I still don’t,” she says. Saroja is one of a growing number of senior citizens who have been exploring the world of modelling and acting, a career often beginning after retirement, and for many of them, with no prior experience. Memorable storytelling In 35 years, senior model coordinator and casting director Thaara Umesh went from seeing just one elderly woman model in print advertisements to dozens now in television, digital ads and films. “Earlier, we had to beg people to come in and model, but now, senior citizens want to do it. They know that it’s not a full-time job and it gives them a chance to get out into the world, to meet new people and earn some money,” she says. The advertising industry has indeed seen a shift over the last decade — from only using glamorous models, movie stars and cricketers to endorse products, to ordinary people and senior citizens, many of them unknown faces. “The focus has shifted from beauty alone to storytelling that touches an emotional chord,” says Deepan Ramachandran, who has worked in the ad industry for 14 years and is the founder of Chennai-based agency Mind Your Language. He has seen a rise in the number of senior citizens in commercials over the years. “And senior citizens help in great storytelling — they make for very memorable ads.” The first time Janaki Jayaraman, now 78, appeared on a set to shoot for an ad around a decade ago, she was anxious: “I had taken part in school plays but that was 50 years ago. I wanted to do well and I was asking myself, can I do it?” She went ahead and did it, and hasn’t looked back since. A homemaker, Janaki had lost her husband in 2010, and was, at that time, looking for a way to beat back memories as well as gain some financial independence. She has now been part of a number of commercials, most memorably for Preethi home appliances, where she has played an amiable grandmother, an intimidating one, and an athletic one. Freshness factor In 2018, there was more excitement: Janaki was cast as the grandmother in actor Vijay’s hit film, Sarkar . “That was a wonderful experience. From Preethi paati , I became known as Vijay paati ,” she laughs. The money helps: the mother of three and grandmother of six and great-grandmother of three does not want to depend on her family. What works, says casting director Sharanya Subramaniam of Sharanya Spots Talent, is the ‘freshness factor’. Advertisements are always on the lookout for something new that will resonate with the audience. And despite little or no experience, a lot of senior citizens manage to hit just that right note. “They have no ego, they are not scared, and they listen to the director’s guidance,” she says. “And while some of them do it as a hobby, there are others who have always wanted to perform but have only managed to do so after retirement, and then there are those who may need the money.” Interestingly, it’s not just products traditionally aimed at seniors that now use older models. From masalas to mobile phones, seniors feature in every kind of commercial. One recent Swiggy ad, for instance, features an elderly man (Naresh Gosain) opening the door for a food delivery executive. At the doorstep, he opens his gulab jamun and eats it, gorging it down with complete bliss, then goes back inside to the couch, where his wife is seated. Mari Valan Inigo, assistant director, ads and films, calls this the “cuteness factor” that works for ads. For those not used to being in front of a camera, breaking the ice is important, he says. “We have to set the mood, figure out their potential and work with that. Overall, we’ve had sweet experiences with almost all the senior citizens we have worked with,” he says. Two years ago, when Micky Singh, then 59, first appeared on set to shoot a commercial, she found it intimidating. “There are lights on your face and everybody in the studio is staring at you,” says the mother of two and grandmother of one, based in Mumbai. “I had butterflies in my stomach — there still are every time I face the camera.” But now, Micky, who was a homemaker until she began appearing in commercials, is completely hooked. One of the reasons there are more senior citizens coming in now, says Kavish Sinha, founder of the casting company On My Kayroll, is purely because there are abundant opportunities — in both the advertising field and OTT platforms. Advertisements with senior citizens call for niche casting and also add “believability”: “We are conditioned to believe and take seriously what our dadis and nanis tell us,” Sinha says. Advertising appears to still be booming business. According to Sam Balsara, founder and chairman of Madison World, a diversified communication group, the industry has almost doubled in value from Rs. 27,400 crore in 2011 to Rs. 54,200 crore in 2020. Last year, even with the pandemic, digital advertising grew by 10%. The ad industry, though, is all about demographics, as Professor Maitrayee Chaudhuri of the School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, points out. And senior citizens form an untapped segment for advertisers. “Marketers are discovering that senior citizens of a certain class today are an important segment, as they have purchasing power. They also watch a lot of TV, unlike the middle-class urban young,” she says, and this may be a factor in the casting of more senior citizen models. C. Raja Ravi Varma always wanted to be in cinema. As a child artist, he both acted and sang, but ultimately turned to academics and became a doctor. After 35 years of practice, he voluntarily retired from government service last September and now wants to pursue what has always been his passion: acting and singing. “I’m completely free now and can do what I’ve always wanted to,” says the 60-year-old. Dr. Varma was part of two commercials some years ago while he was still working full-time, but says he is waiting for the right opportunity and, in the meantime, will work towards “familiarising his face”. Look your best For some, there’s a gradual transition or the merging of the advertising and cinema worlds. Dinesh Mohan is one such. Six years ago, Mohan, now 62, could not have dreamt that his life would change so dramatically. Battling depression after personal tragedies, he had become so overweight that he had been confined to his bed for a year. After losing over 60 kg beginning 2013, he began leaving the house again and taking an interest in life outside. “It was my physiotherapist, who was teaching me to walk again, who suggested I try modelling,” says Mohan, who is based in Chandigarh. “I didn’t even know modelling for seniors existed.” Crazy ride On his 57th birthday, Mohan was selected at an audition in Delhi, and since then, “it’s been a crazy ride,” he says. After a number of commercials and even a ramp walk, Mohan made his debut in cinema in the Salman Khan-starrer Bharat that released in 2019; then came Happy Sardar in 2019, Saand ki Aankh also in 2019, and a role in the Rajinikanth-starrer Darbar that released early last year. Two more films, one in Tamil and one in Malayalam, are due for release. But as amazing as his career has been, it has not been, as he puts it, a cakewalk. “It’s not the easiest of jobs. It involves long hours, lots of travel and hotel stays, and a constant effort to look your best,” he says. Perhaps that’s why cinema, while eternally appealing, doesn’t necessarily attract all senior citizen models. “I prefer commercials because they are generally one-day jobs whereas film shoots take much longer and are more taxing,” says Janaki. Senior citizen models may get paid fees ranging from under Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000 per shoot, with the amount, those in the industry say, increasing with experience. Fees are still lower for them than for younger models. “Younger female models always get paid more in the industry,” says Thaara. Is society beginning to celebrate the old? Says Prof. Chaudhuri, “For a country as large, diverse and unequal as India, this visibility of senior citizens is definitely welcome; but both those who model in commercials and those who watch them only form a small segment of society.” And ageist attitudes remain. They work both ways: the constant expectation for women to look good, and the disapproval if they look “too good”. Mohan agrees. “Age-shaming is a problem. Younger people sometimes mock older models. And society can be cruel towards older people who take trouble with their appearance and dress in trendy, stylish outfits,” he says. The allure of strobe lights is, however, potent. “I’m mad about acting and modelling,” laughs Chennai-based S.N. Bhatt, who is in his 90s. A veteran of both cinema and advertising, beginning with the 1982 film, Moondram Pirai , Bhatt was a businessman before stepping in front of the camera and has featured in a number of commercials, including for Vasan Eye Care and Appaswamy Real Estates. His latest project, he says, is a role in the yet-to-be released movie, Vaazh , directed by Arun Prabhu. “I am still looking forward to doing more,” he says. Age, after all, is just a number.  Senior citizens of a certain class today are an important segment, as they have purchasing power. They also watch a lot of TV, unlike the middle-class urban young, says Maitrayee Chaudhuri||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-golden-ticket/article34462011.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The legend’s in the lettering||A few weeks ago, I chanced upon a fascinating book called Calligraphy and Art of Writing in Jain Manuscripts , written by Dr. Shridhar Andhare and edited by Ratan Parimoo. Full of coloured plates on Jain calligraphic and painted scrolls, the book was a revelation. The photography and design by Subrata Bhowmick, a leading graphic designer, and his associate, Payal Nanavati, add value to the book. Dipping into the exquisite scrolls presented here is like embarking on a journey in an ancient caravan that moves through time. There are numerous halts where you can pause like a latter-day Aurel Stein, the great European Indologist, and search for seals and parchments left behind by merchants of the Silk Route. Travelling down the great highway connecting the East with the West, these traders brought in globalisation centuries before we knew it as such. Arab merchants from Samarkand and Baghdad imported to India the Chinese technique of paper-making. In West India, paper became the standard material for Jain manuscripts from the 14th century onwards, replacing, and sometimes co-existing with, palm leaves. Indic perspective While for much of the earlier years, Jain teachers were engaged in conveying their knowledge through oral transmission, it was during a period when famines threatened to destroy whole communities that the need to record the sacred texts became urgent. Interestingly, Andhare and Parimoo narrate the tales of Jain manuscripts from a firmly Indic perspective. Steeped as they are in the traditions of sub-continental visual arts, especially the miniature paintings of north-western India, they are able to point out interesting variations of tone, colour and, of course, subject matter. There is a strong case for the documentation of the “manuscript wealth of India” and the contribution of “the scribes” or “masters of calligraphy”. This is even more important as calligraphy is not thought to be part of the Indian manuscript tradition in the way it is for Japanese or Chinese cultures. But there are exceptions. For instance, a short paragraph translated from the Lipisaushthava, a Gujarati text of the medieval period, underlines the importance given to the perfectly formed text. Work of art In the period between the 8th and 12th centuries, the art of calligraphy was chiefly in the hands of the sutradhars , sthapathis and gajadars , who were instrumental to temple-building in the medieval period. Then there was a great flowering of artistic and scholastic activities in the 12th and 14th centuries, when Jains were not only encouraged to build intricate temples and sanctuaries, but were also inspired to invest in wisdom. The book says, “The reverence for learning acted as the main inspiration in creating Shastra-Bandaras equipped with illustrated and unillustrated manuscripts.” Fascinatingly, a whole industry seems to have come into existence as a result of this need — there was a spike in the demand for pens, inks, engraving tools, paper, palm leaves and fine cotton textiles around this time. Parimoo is astute to position Brahmi as the “mother of all scripts”, even of Devanagari, which is the one commonly used in Jain manuscripts. There is a charming story about the sage Rishabadev, who taught his daughter the script that bears her name, Brahmi. Parimoo explains why the Devanagari script flourished — it was adept at accommodating changing intonations and polyphonic variations of words from other languages. Bhowmick and Nanavati’s perspective is a more eclectic one in the book. There are images of Ashokan edicts from the 2nd century BC on the walls of the Jain caves in Odisha’s Udayagiri and Khandagiri. The duo also focuses on the writing materials, inks and extraordinarily opulent manuscript covers, which are now a part of different museum collections. On display here are are beautiful book covers made of long strips of wood. Although meant to protect the fragile sheaves within, they are art objects in themselves. The influence of Persian art styles in the melting pot that was 15th-century India is evident in the pomegranate designs that proliferate in the folios of the time. One manuscript margin shows a crowd of monks with begging bowls walking across a Chinese-style river matrix. Gold leaf combined with etchings in indigo and red create dramatic contrasts. An expert on the textile wealth of the Indian subcontinent, Bhowmick is as skilled as the early masters of Jain calligraphy. With rare affinity, he has woven the collective wisdom of the Jain munis into a book that is a work of art in itself. The book, however, leaves out the equally interesting traces of Jain scholarship in the South. There is, for instance, the Jain script notations on the rockface of the Samanar hills in Madurai and exquisite paintings in the two Jain temples of Kanchipuram, besides images of the Tirthankaras. They remain sadly undocumented. That said, the research and rigour on display in this book can be an incentive for others to find out more about the Indian calligraphic tradition, which promises to offer rich rewards. The Chennai-based writer is a critic and cultural commentator.  The influence of Persian art styles in the melting pot that was 15th-century India is evident in the pomegranate designs that proliferate in the folios of the time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-legends-in-the-lettering/article34461981.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Red-letter days||In 1965, two filmmakers embarked on a war of words via the letters to the editor page of The Statesman , a Kolkata newspaper. They were Satyajit Ray, whose birth centenary falls this weekend, and Mrinal Sen. It started when Ray made some remarks about Sen’s film Akash Kusum . Soon it escalated into a back and forth between the two with references to Charlie Chaplin, Aesop, Jean-Luc Godard, and the common crow, which went on for almost a month till the newspaper decided to end it. In his book Mrinal Sen: Sixty Years in Search of Cinema , Dipankar Mukhopadhyay writes that Ray told Sen it was a pity it had ended because he could have written many more letters. Sen retorted that while he didn’t have Ray’s support base, “Rest assured, I would have replied to all your letters.” While it sounds like a cerebral Oxford-Cambridge debate, there was an uncomfortable personal undertone that led many to wonder why a filmmaker of Ray’s stature even felt the need to attack Sen publicly. But the letters, with references to everyone from Cervantes to Shakespeare (and there was no Google then), remain a masterclass in the epistolary art. In fact, Ray’s letters are a treasure trove that show off his intellect, his wit and his playful side. When Peter Sellers developed cold feet about playing a Marwari businessman in The Alien , a film meant to be Ray’s Hollywood debut, Ray sent him a note: Dear Peter, if you had wanted a bigger part Why, you should have told me right at the start, By disclosing it at this juncture You have surely punctured  The Alien -balloon Which I daresay will be grounded soon Causing a great deal of dismay To Satyajit Ray. That letter is reproduced in the book Travails with the Alien , which is a time machine into an epistolary world of ruled yellow notepads and formal letterheads. Even the envelopes tell stories. Stanley Kubrick’s letter came in an envelope with a 2001: A Space Odyssey seal. Aerogramme memories A few years ago, while emptying out my storage locker in the U.S., I found boxes of letters that friends and family had sent in the days before email. My mother’s handwriting fills every possible inch of the aerogramme letters, eventually crawling sideways along the margins to squeeze in the last bit of news from Kolkata. At the end, a tiny rectangle is left for my father, who I suspect wrote his bit under strict instructions from my mother. But any day a letter arrived was a red-letter day in our immigrant lives because despite its humble, even banal details, it smelled of home. I can still see myself sitting at my desk in my tiny studio apartment in the American Midwest, struggling to compose a response, trying to edit my American university life to make sense to my family in Kolkata. Unlike an email, it could not be one off-hand line — “Am fine, busy. Will call this weekend.” It had to be worth the price of the stamp. Perhaps it was the “Write a Letter To” exercises we had to do under the tutelage of doughty Wren and Martin grammar books that gave letters such ritualistic formality. I heard of an examinee who asked the invigilator what a cushion was. Later, it was discovered that they were meant to write a letter to a cousin! But we diligently practised writing those letters, whether to a cousin/ cushion, respected uncle or a bank manager named “Whoever it may concern.” Writing a letter felt like a grown-up thing to do. Email literature In an age of email, we often lament that letter-writing is a lost art, but one day there might be a book of email exchanges like the love letters between Virginia Woolf and Vita Sackville-West. Perhaps decades of emails will make up some 21st-century Tumhari Amrita . The days of a postman named Florentino delivering a telegram to Fermina and setting in motion Love in the Time of Cholera might be gone, but there could be a love story in emails between lovers separated by COVID-19. However, the art of writing letters also requires a grace that is in short supply, as we saw in the letter India’s health minister wrote to a former prime minister in response to the latter’s letter on the pandemic. Ray and Sen could duel via letters without shedding their dignity because of the respect in which they held each other. They did not mistake snark for style. While we may score petty political points, will future generations scour “letters” like the honourable minister’s for insight? The truth is while we think we can all write letters, not all of us can be men of letters.  The days of a postman named Florentino delivering a telegram to Fermina and setting in motionLove in the Time of Choleramight be gone, but there could be a love story in emails between lovers separated by COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/red-letter-days/article34462048.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Vaccines have to be equitable’||As this goes to print, the number of COVID-19 deaths in India has crossed 200,000 amid an acute shortage of oxygen. Jacob John, professor at the Department of Community Health, Christian Medical College, Vellore, says it is ironic that just when vaccine hesitancy is abating, the country may be running out of vaccines as we universalise inoculation for everyone who is 18 years and older. Excerpts from an interview: When vaccine manufacturers set the price of COVID-19 shots, and States are asked to take on the financial burden of inoculation, are we ignoring vital lessons from many parts of the world where the vaccines are universal and free? Absolutely. Vaccines have to be equitable. People have been hit by a pandemic and those who need these vaccines the most should not face barriers to receiving them. Vaccines by nature are expected to be equitable and supposed to reach people who cannot afford them. Now, the responsibility for vaccinating the 18-44 age group has been devolved to the States; some State governments have said they will provide the vaccine free but not all have committed to doing so. If the poor between 18 and 44 are not assured the vaccine for free, they will not take it. And that is an equity issue. I also feel it’s extremely unfair that companies are attempting to make such large profits. I have no idea how they justify a pricing of Rs. 300 or Rs. 600. It’s absolutely unacceptable because they have not had to bear the research costs. The government has enough leverage, and if it wants to, it can decrease the pricing to below the Rs. 200 threshold. You can’t have two companies holding the country to ransom. We run one of the world’s largest universal vaccination programmes involving millions of people. What are the lessons we can draw from our past experience? What are the unique challenges posed today? India’s Universal Immunisation Programme is about children, and it has a good system of delivering vaccines to them. We are not particularly good at vaccinating adults; we haven’t ever done it on a large-scale, except in some States. So I think drawing parallels is challenging. But I’ll explain what I’m worried about. Currently, there are three things that matter. One is the vaccine supply chain. Then, the physical infrastructure to deliver vaccines. And finally, the cost of trying to vaccinate the entire population. If resources permit, and infrastructure exists, you could vaccinate everybody at one go. But clearly, we don’t have enough vaccines. And vaccinating 700 million people is not something that’s going to be possible overnight. So, from our experience with vaccination as a programme, one, you should have a system by which you forecast how many vaccines you have, and prioritise people who have the largest burden of disease; these, clearly, are people older than 45 years. Scaling up vaccination is not easy because you don’t have the product and you also don’t have the capacity to deliver this at one go. We haven’t really thought through this process, and we are not going to be able to offer this vaccine to everybody. Under 2% of Indians have received both doses of the vaccine since the roll-out. How much of this can be attributed to vaccine hesitancy? How can this fear be combated and quickly? So, I think a lot of the initial problem was the way the vaccine was introduced; there was hesitancy because of how the vaccines were tested, how they were pushed. And there was also a temporary decline in the disease. So in India, on one hand, we had a message saying the country is special, we are not seeing fatality, this is a mild disease, nothing to worry about. And on the other, people were anxious about the vaccine’s efficacy and safety. But then at the beginning of this year, when the numbers started increasing, and the second wave came, a lot of these people turned around. The number of cases and deaths in the last few months have been so high that people who had refused vaccines earlier are now looking forward to it. Unfortunately, as this tide changes, the supply is going to crash. Why is India, the world’s largest producer of vaccines, facing such an acute shortage? Where did we go wrong? Clearly, all of us had a sense of complacency. We thought we were past the pandemic and didn’t move fast enough. So, we had two vaccines that were good and we started both those vaccines without a licensure programme (these two vaccines are still on emergency use authorisation). There were multiple other sources of vaccines we should have tapped into, and licensed quickly enough, knowing how large our population is. We did not move fast enough to tap into the global resources we have. And now, it’s a little too late. You can’t start planting trees in the middle of a forest fire. By the time we get the vaccines, it’s only going to help us for wave three and four, not for this particular wave, unfortunately. What are the challenges in systematically tracking the spread of the virus in real-time in a country as vast as this? Tracking viruses — both the trend in increase in infections as well as genomic variant tracking — costs resources. And we don’t have unlimited resources. When we talk about testing a proportion of the population, it’s only practical from a public health perspective if it’s going to result in public health action. For instance, if we are going to test, trace  and isolate people — and that’s not when you have this kind of community transmission going on — you won’t be able to invest enough. Do the math: if it costs Rs. 1,500 for a PCR test, think how much it will cost to test the majority in a population of a billion. The way to approach this would be to start sampling country-wide, look at sequence variations, trends in increase in disease, and increase in reinfections. Reinfections are the key. So, if we find evidence of multiple reinfections with a particular variant, that changes the entire dynamic of this pandemic. Our strategy should be to set up facilities across the country to look at sequences. We are interested in knowing if there is a dominant variant. And how that translates in terms of reinfection or severity of disease. We need to be able to understand that, not just in one geography, but across the country. What do we know about the many new variants that have emerged, their transmissibility and the potential vaccine-escape mutants? We know very little at this point, because we are so limited in the sequencing that we have done. However, we know broadly that there are certain variants in certain parts of the country ( there are different mutations that dominate in different geographies) that are now dominating. The point is, viruses mutate all the time. That is natural. These are random stochastic events, but they also are a response to a survival need. So, the variants that we are seeing may have been first identified elsewhere, but they have emerged here or have been imported here. We see the B.1.1.7 in the North, in Punjab and Delhi clearly, and in the West, we see the B.1.618, the B.1.617 clearly dominates in Maharashtra, and in the South, we are seeing multiple variants. The question is, what is the consequence of these? One thing seems clear: certain variants like the B.1.617 appear more infectious. What is not very clear is, having picked up an infection, is it more virulent? That is, is it causing more disease?  Reinfections are the key. So, if we find evidence of multiple reinfections with a particular variant, that changes the entire dynamic of this pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/vaccines-have-to-be-equitable/article34461976.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Scholar of global relevance||If Dr. Ambedkar were to be denoted by just one word that could as well be ‘justice’. As a graduate student at Columbia University, he postulated India’s central problem in a seminar paper in 1916, thus: caste splinters India’s ‘indubitable cultural unity’. He spent the subsequent four decades of his life to fight ‘the monster’ that renders any reform impossible, hurting the nation’s cause. His singular accomplishment? In India today there is not one mainstream publication that dares to carry a commentary in defence of caste. He was opposed to caste because he regarded it anti-national, not just because it hurt lower castes and Dalits. The five-volume set under review is an attempt by 59 scholars from across the globe to revisit the Ambedkarite conception of justice. Almost half are from abroad (26 writers, including some Indian expatriates), representing North America (Canada and the U.S.), Europe (Germany, Italy and the U.K.), Africa (South Africa), Asia (Hong Kong and Nepal) and the Caribbean (Guyana). They are a judicious mix of well-known scholars (Upendra Baxi, Meena Dhanda, Pradeep Gokhale, James Manor, Bhikhu Parekh, Vidhu Verma and Cosimo Zene), young and upcoming (Shauna Rodrigues and Jadumani Mahanand) and a couple of activists. The volume has had political context in that it is the outcome of a conference held in Bengaluru and sponsored by the then ‘Congress’ Government of Karnataka in 2017. But most of the contributors are scholars and apolitical with no party affiliation. Diverse thoughts The work is split into five volumes, viz., Political Justice, Social Justice, Legal & Economic Justice, Gender & Racial Justice, and Religious & Cultural Justice. As the authors look at justice through the above eight lenses, certain overlap or repetition is unavoidable. Given that the papers have been written by authors from diverse backgrounds, one can easily ‘grade’ them. However, these contributions are not to be treated as pieces of furniture, but as flowers in a bouquet offered in admiration. Some stars do disappoint, but some rookies have done a remarkable job. The past four decades witnessed the rightful emergence of Ambedkar as a pre-eminent national leader whose struggle in defence of the underclass and whose intellectual legacy of constitutional morality have proved to be guideposts in India’s journey towards a more perfect nation. It is the singular accomplishment of the current volume in establishing Ambedkar as a scholar of global relevance.  Citing Valerian Rodrigues, Debora Spini (Vol. V, p. 52) makes a crucial point that Ambedkar as a global thinker “can and must be considered as a full-fledged political theorist... and thus as a point of reference valid beyond” his national and historical context. Cosimo Zene, for one, takes forward the discourse of Ambedkar as a global thinker by pointing out the ‘rapprochement’ between Ambedkar and his contemporary Antonio Gramsci (though neither was aware of the other), especially their belief in education as, “not a mere acquisition of erudition,” but “as a gift to be shared with others, especially those less privileged” (Vol. I, pp. 32-3). Both thinkers believed in education as an antidote to hegemony. Ideas on education Zene rightly credits Shailaja Paik as the first scholar to invoke Gramsci’s ideas on education to support Ambedkar’s views (p. 45). Scholars like Paik and Zene must be complimented for repositioning Ambedkar where he truly belongs — beside his gurus Mahatma Jotirao Phule and John Dewey, contemporaries such as Gramsci and W.E.B. Du Bois, and generations of subsequent scholars who understand the potential of education to end internal (mental) as well as external (physical) slavery. Pradeep Gokhale recalls how Ambedkar “emphasised the importance of mind in bringing about social transformation” (Vol. I, p. 132). Gokhale unpacks Ambedkar’s justice as consisting of liberty, equality and fraternity, which is also the essence of democracy.  Ambedkar’s ideas and ideals are well-known. Most contributors are equanimous to the task; especially the volumes on political, social and legal aspects of justice are illuminating, but they mostly cover familiar ground. The rest of the volumes make original contributions in expanding Ambedkar’s justice, in addition to women, to other groups such as Pasmanda Muslims and post-apartheid South Africa. ‘Crowd psychology’ The outstanding contribution of these volumes is the insights (hitherto ignored, at least in India) of Deweyan conceptions of how, if culture and tradition get to condition human mind and behaviour, education could be the key to social transformation. In addition to Zene, Scott Strode and Shaunna Rodrigues engage with attendant issues like the concept of self-respect, communication, and the importance of ‘crowd psychology.’ Meena Dhanda’s chapter takes the next logical step of the challenge of turning on/off of cognitive switches for the benefit of Dalits, be they in India or the U.K. which is the focus of her chapter. The evocative title of her chapter, ‘Made to Think and Forced to Feel’ (Vol. II, pp. 71-90), is taken from Ambedkar’s 1932 letter to A.V. Thakkar, a Congress leader, wherein he writes, “the salvation of [Dalits] will come only when the Caste Hindu is made to think and forced to feel that he must alter his ways” (p. 78). To accomplish that, Dhanda proposes ‘counter-rituals’ that are ‘in non-argumentative modes’ to challenge the ‘entrenched practices’ of caste, which “necessarily require repeated performance” (pp. 86-7). That the caste Hindu has not been made to think, nor is he being made to feel has been the tragedy of India since Independence. This only increases our need to study Ambedkar more and to come up with creative interventions like counter-rituals. One would have loved to read chapters on Ambedkar’s thoughts on small holdings, or imperial finances, or foreign policy, etc. Obviously, even a five-volume set is not adequate to cover the Ambedkar oeuvre . If the good doctor were to be offered the set as a festschrift — limited as it is or imperfect as it might be — he would have accepted it. Having established beyond doubt that Ambedkar arbitrarily inserted ‘fraternity’ into the Preamble to the Constitution ( Ambedkar's Preamble , Vintage, 2020 ) , the editor of these volumes, Aakash Singh Rathore, has succeeded both in mainstreaming Ambedkar at the global level as well as establishing himself as an Ambedkar scholar of substance.  The reviewer is Senior Fellow, Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi. Views are personal.  B.R. Ambedkar: The Quest for Justice  Edited by Aakash Singh Rathore  Oxford University Press  Rs. 9,995||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/scholar-of-global-relevance/article34462036.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The road from Mandalay||Who can stop you?   There will be a future, very near   The bright stars did shine once    But who can stop you?    Today… today… change something   Today, today… let us change…!   Today is for everyone!  My partner recalls her exhilaration when she saw these words projected on the Town Hall in Yangon in December 2016 as part of a multi-disciplinary arts festival, Mingalabar! At once straddling the contours of a shifting urbanism — tradition, indigineity, cosmopolitanism — Yangon was on the cusp of change. This verse now rings with bitter irony, tainted by crushed dissent, ethno-nationalism, minority genocide and exodus. As a symbolic centre in Yangon, I now recall how the hall’s compound was once occupied by tanks under the Tatmadaw, a chilling image of which was shot by the award-winning photographer, Philip Blenkinsop, in the mid-90s. While looking at 19th-century images by Felice Beato in London with antiquarian book collector John Randall in the early 2000s, it was his Myanmarese partner and novelist, Wendy Law-Yone, who urged us towards a deeper discovery of the arts scene. At that point, my awareness of the country drew upon a few modern history books, novels and vintage images — the writings of U.N. envoy Thant Myint-U called The River of Lost Footsteps , Amitav Ghosh’s The Glass Palace and the exoticised photographs of Philip Adolphe Klier from the 19th century. I accompanied Wendy and John to Asia House in London in 2007 to see the works of Htein Lin, who had been imprisoned for almost seven years on suspicion of organising anti-government events on the 10th anniversary of the 1988 student-led uprising. The exhibition, titled Burma: Inside Out, showcased his prison paintings — a haunting, insider’s perspective, improvised on prison uniforms and stray pieces of cloth. It was a scathing reprisal against authoritarian rule through autobiography. Enduring spirit His paintings depicted a tortured existence but also sheer resilience as he made more than 200 renditions during his captivity, and even thanked the guards when acquitted. He later made a powerful installation at the Goethe Villa in 2015, titled A Show of Hands , arranging an array of plaster casts on shelves — moulded from the hands of those prisoners he managed to locate after being allowed back into the country after 2012. All these impressionistic, cathartic artworks make us acutely aware of their resonance in India, which has shamefully let itself down by refusing refugees. In 2016/17, as part of a PIX initiative, we applied for and received a grant from both the Goethe Insitut (Delhi and Yangon) and the India Council for Cultural Relations (Delhi) to compile a volume on young lens-based artists from the region, which was realised following short trips to the country. Wendy pointed us in the direction of her colleague in the city, Nance Cunningham, a Canadian working with Myanmarese artist Aung Soe Min, who in turn ran an extraordinary gallery called Pansodan. They introduced us to a new network of young thinkers and makers, including another gallery called New Zero Art Space, run by activist-artist Aye Ko. They were contemporaries of Htein Lin who helped us trace the marginalisation of “othered” ethnic and religious minorities, the complexities of the geo-political situation with China, the notion of partisan, ‘associate citizenship’ applied to Kachen, Karen, Chin and Rohingya since 1982. New generation But then we were to also meet a new generation of gallerists, writers and curators. Nathalie Johnston of Myanm/art, Matt Grace of Myanmar Deitta, Christophe Loviny of the Yangon Photo Festival and Lukas Birk of the Myanmar Photo Archive were working closely with artists such as Mayco Naing, Aung Myat Htay, Yadanar Win and Minzayar Oo, among others. Mayco Naing had staged images of her generation in a pool of water, suffocating, struggling to breathe while submerged, engulfed by the deafening static of censorship. Aung Myat Htay, who runs the School of Contemporary Art, is interested in new origin stories and had created silhouettes of figures — some taken from iconic 19th-century images — and composed them instead with images of other objects, lending them an alter-identity. Minzayar Oo had taken searing images of the conditions surrounding jade mining in Myanmar, the creation of inhumane camps and the depiction of the daunting scale of modern slave labour. And Yadanar Win was a performance artist who had taken images of herself in wedding regalia titled Random Marriage , with cutouts of men in different fatigues, highlighting forced nuptials, and the hidden identities of those in power. Thinking about the situation today in both countries — mired in incarcerations, disenfanchisements and majoritarian hubris — I am grateful to the transnational initiatives of so many art forums, one of which, the Serendipity Arts Festival, enabled further dialogues with artists from Myanmar in 2019. Travelling to the country then, one could view extraordinary exhibitions that presented brave new cartographies, such as Building Bridges ,  curated by artist Sai Htin Linn Htet; and meet Yu Yu Myint Than at the show Bridging the NAF (also a recent photobook). The festival brought many of these artists to Goa in the winter of 2019, ironically at a time when India’s own civil rights credibility hit a pathetic low. But the artists clearly showed us how to work across disciplines and calibrate work when responding to socio-political injustices, and in fact how to combat being disconnected from communities and their viewers. Imperial victims They can make us think again about those historical figures forced into cross-country exile by the imperial state — Bahadur Shah Zafar and King Thibaw — and perhaps make us circle back to the imperilled lives of Rohingya refugees in the country today, documented by young practitioners like Jesim Feroze and Anuj Arora in the capital, graduates from Sri Aurobindo Centre for Arts and Communication. Wendy at one time recalled how her father, U-Law Yone — a reputed editor of the Rangoon Nation — was treated as a political prisoner in the 60s. One night, he was taken away from his family for five years without any warning, and it was months before his family was given proof of life. But apart from how terrorising that moment was, she considers how it eventually made her stronger, enabled trans-national linkages, and gave her the courage to press on. In an article she later wrote about her past experiences, the headline read: Miracles do happen, even in police states . The writer is Curator, Alkazi Foundation for the Arts, and Founder, ASAP Connect App.  Htein Lin made an installation in 2015, titled A Show of Hands, arranging an array of plaster casts on shelves — moulded from the hands of prisoners||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-road-from-mandalay/article34462046.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||By the sweat of their brows||In her Bengali novels and short stories, Anita Agnihotri shines a light on areas of darkness. She gives voice to the dispossessed and the marginalised, describing their life in and outside Bengal. In a previous novel, Mahanadi (2015), she went up and down the river several times to find out how people survive on the banks from source to coast. Her 2019 novel Kaste , translated into English as The Sickle by Arunava Sinha, is about the migrant labourers of the dry Marathwada region who work in the sugarcane fields and mills of Satara in Maharashtra. It examines a host of other grim realities like patriarchy, female foeticide, sexual abuse, caste, migration, water crisis, the brunt of which are borne by women. Imperilled workers The story begins with a Banjari couple, Terna and her husband Datu, working in the fields and staying in the doorless shanties around the sakhar (sugar) factories of Satara. Things are doubly hard for Terna because the mukadam or sugar mill agent, and other men are always on the prowl. On top of that, “the payment was made at a ‘per sickle’ rate, with husband and wife adding up to one koyta , the local word for the sickle or knife used to harvest the sugarcane.” Agnihotri vividly describes the perils of the region: “The peculiar geographic location of Marathwada keeps it eternally anxious and distressed; delayed monsoon, scanty rains, drought, adversity — these are the variations on its fate.” Fiction meets fact Holding a mirror to society, Agnihotri also writes on the politics around farmers’ suicides in Vidarbha and the anxieties of tribal peasants. She peels layer after layer and delves into social evils. One of the characters, Daya Joshi, is a feisty lawyer who has taken up the fight against female foeticide, putting her life at risk. Joshi has built a team with women from 60 villages to take on the clinics which ensure that girls die long before they are born. The stories of Pari and Durga, snatched “from the arms of death”, are some of the few of hope in this cycle of despair. In the end, migrants, farmers, tribal peasants march from Nashik to Azad Maidan in Mumbai. Fiction meets fact and Agnihotri mentions Rukma Bai, whose photo (“her cracked soles with dried lines of blood on them”) made it to the newspapers. As the farmers’ agitation against the controversial farm laws continues on the Punjab border, The Sickle provides a backstory explaining what ails agriculture in India.  The Sickle Anita Agnihotri, trs Arunava Sinha Juggernaut  Rs. 599    Holding a mirror to society, Agnihotri also writes on the politics around farmers’ suicides in Vidarbha and the anxieties of tribal peasants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/by-the-sweat-of-their-brows/article34462019.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Melee of the macaques||Ishika Ramakrishna didn’t realise she’d spend a lot of time watching Nicobar long-tailed macaques as they slept. Worse, they occupied all the cool shady spots, leaving her exposed to roast in the sun or get drenched in the rain. She fought to stay awake in the sultry heat of the day in Great Nicobar Island while noting what each troop member did every five minutes. Ramakrishna discovered the macaques followed a feeding etiquette. While one ate a ripe pandanus fruit, the others waited in line for their turns. A single monkey couldn’t finish the pineapple-like fruit by itself. After it had eaten its fill and moved on, the next one took its place. But on occasion, the monkeys weren’t always so polite and could become violent. A skirmish broke out between two big males who shrieked and scratched each other. Other adults joined the melee. Ramakrishna stood still. Three females with infants walked purposefully towards the researcher, raising their eyebrows repeatedly and grunting. Having seen them threaten other members of their troop in this manner, she heeded their warning and backed away. Concerned for their babies, they were minimising any complications that could aggravate the fight. Most of the time, however, the monkeys didn’t react to this human who behaved like none of the others they had encountered. Before studying them, Ramakrishna spent 45 days getting them used to her. She followed them through the rainforest and mangroves, in the blazing heat and soaking rain. Only when they ignored her could she begin her study. Sometimes, she couldn’t help drawing their attention. Quietly amused On a rainy day, they walked in single file along a fallen log to cross a marsh. She too stepped on the trunk only to have it crumble under her weight. She plunged into the sticky mud with thousands of spines from the surrounding canebrake embedded in her clothes and skin. Although the muck held her fast, she managed to scramble onto solid ground. “All the monkeys were quietly watching me, transfixed and (I’m assuming) very amused,” recalls Ramakrishna. The Nicobar long-tailed macaques also frequented coconut groves, pandanus gardens, and areca nut plantations where they feasted on palm nuts and fruits. At first, Ramakrishna thought the indigenous Nicobarese people would be annoyed with the monkeys having a field day. But they were more than happy to share. Even though both people and monkeys ate pandanus fruit, the communities felt their produce belonged to the monkeys as well. Settlers from mainland India cursed the primates for being pests and threw stones to chase them away. But they also coochie coo-ed over the cute wrinkly-faced macaque babies. Since the monkeys looked like little humans, the residents expected them to behave similarly — respect private property and avoid trespassing. “Everybody has a monkey story, whether in the cities, villages, or on the ship to the Nicobars,” says Ramakrishna. Fruit for find A large male took her binoculars one evening when she had been distracted. Sitting a distance away on a large tombstone in a cemetery, he bit the rubber eyecups into pieces. If the desperate researcher were to approach, he might run away or climb up a tree with it. Soon three monkeys formed a line to patiently await their turns. Ramakrishna took her place as the fourth. When the male couldn’t peel the binoculars like a coconut, he banged it against a rock, hoping to find something edible inside. The researcher took a sharp breath at every whack, hoping the binoculars would stay in one piece. After the bored monkey abandoned it, the next one tried its hand at breaking the binoculars. By this time, Ramakrishna had an idea. About 500 metres away was one of the troop’s favourite wild jack trees. She brought its fruit and bartered it for the binoculars. Except for the bite marks and chewed eyecups, the pair of binoculars was miraculously still in shape. The researcher too had a story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/melee-of-the-macaques/article34462061.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||From farm to plate||One Sunday, accompanying my wife to the vegetable market, I was shocked to know that drumsticks cost 150 a kg. Giving me a disapproving look, she said, “Since you always got good reasons to avoid coming to the market, you don’t know what the prices are.” Of a few things which we had in abundance in our childhood were drumsticks as we had two trees in our backyard. Hence it was difficult to digest that they cost so much now. We had many fruit trees too — varieties of mango, papaya, passion fruit, jackfruit. Most of the times, my grandmother would be in the backyard exercising her green thumb. Every season, the family would grow beans and as children, we would happily engage in all activities from sowing to harvest on the small patch of land. The freshness and taste of home-grown vegetables still lingers in me. Every morning, it was my grandmother’s practice to go for a walk around the backyard and pick up ripe mangoes and other fruits that had freshly fallen to the ground. She would give it to us to cut and distribute, and mangoes never tasted better than that. The taste of home-grown fruits and vegetables was special. After we moved to a city, my wife filled the little available spaces in the veranda and the balconies with pots and plants. But my interest in growing fruits and vegetables lay dormant. Finally looking at the vacant site by the house, we decided to make use of it, helping also to keep it free of bushes and insects. Within weeks, we were happily harvesting leafy vegetables, beans, chillies, bottle gourds and tomatoes. It felt great to grow them and cut down on purchases from the market. It’s good to find a small patch to grow vegetables and have freshly grown produce in the kitchen, avoiding the need to go to the market and buy at high prices. Self-sufficiency should begin at home. ashokbbalakrishna@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/from-farm-to-plate/article34461999.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The begum and her beast||T he Begum and the Dastan could have been titled ‘The Begum & Her Bluebeard’. Bluebeard has many wives — Scheherazade, Jane Eyre, Rebecca — and their stories are a disjointed, inverted version of the classic fairy tale: a hasty marriage, then a wooing, curiosity, secrets, and finally, a husband who’s revealed to be a monster. The Bluebeard in Tarana Husain Khan’s story is Nawab Shams Ali Khan, ruler of the princely state of Sherpur. Like all the wives in the Bluebeard tales, the Nawab’s begum, Feroza, the beautiful blue-eyed daughter of Miya Jan Khan, a wealthy Rohilla Pathan, is an independent, curious soul. It is her curiosity that seals her doom. Strange adjustments At the start of the story, Feroza is happily married to Murtaza Khan, happily pregnant, and she’s at her natal home , happily anticipating the monsoon. A uniform happiness makes some people all the more restless. She’s curious about the Nawab, and against her father’s wishes, decides to attend the Sawani festival at the Benazir Palace. Her father is unhappy because the Nawab is a known debauch, an aiyaashi . We know what’s coming, but Feroza doesn’t. Khan skilfully evokes much more than suspense in the reader: exasperation, dread, followed by horrified pity, when the Nawab traps her in the palace. The first 100 pages of the book are utterly absorbing. Like the heroine in Charles Perrault’s original Bluebeard , initially Feroza finds the Nawab repulsive: “Up close, he had large pores from old acne and a bulbous nose with cavernous nostrils. There was a strange decaying smell on his breath, invading her face…” But when Feroza is abandoned by her father, her husband and her clan, all that she is left with is the will to survive. We tend to valorise this instinct, but perhaps it leads us only to value not-dying over freedom. The mind is led to strange adjustments. In Perrault’s fairy tale, the trapped heroine spends a week at her husband’s estate and is awed by the “dinner services of gold and silver, beautifully upholstered furniture, and carriages covered in gold leaf.” She comes to think that her husband’s beard “was not so blue after all”. So too with Feroza. She starts enjoying being Feroza Begum, second only to Sultanat Ara in the harem. She changes from victim to semi-willing participant. She overlooks the tortures he inflicts on other wives. She’s possessive about the Nawab’s attention. Had her father and siblings only reconciled with her, Feroza Begum might have fully enjoyed her changed circumstances. Dadi’s stories I would have preferred if she’d plunged an attar-bottle’s diamond cap through the Nawab’s throat. However, it is to the author’s credit that she keeps Feroza true to her times. The past’s greater tolerance for injustice presents historical fiction writers with a dilemma. If they depict the past in all its messy authenticity, they’ll probably offend modern sensibilities. But if they cater to the Woke then they’ll get a version of Macaulay’s puppets: a class of persons attired in ghararas and turbans but 21st century in taste, opinions, morals and intellect. Khan’s other choices are less felicitous. We learn of Feroza through “Dadi”, Feroza’s granddaughter, who narrates the story to her granddaughter, Ameera. Dadi is the quintessential Dadi, full of stories and ancient as snuff. Unfortunately, just as a painting can be ruined by the wrong frame, the frame story here introduces pointless filler material about Ameera’s quarrelling parents, their partiality towards Ameera’s brother, the decay of family wealth, Ameera’s boyfriend who’s not a boyfriend, and so on. Perhaps the intent was to strengthen the melancholic bridge between the past and the present. But Ameera is too thinly characterised for her present to be of interest. Allegorical version Indeed, not only are most characters thinly sketched, there are far too many of them. Khan is excellent at describing settings — at anything having to do with material facts. The problem arises when she has to turn history into a story. It’s not a new problem. In the first half of the 20th century, Hervey Allen, while discussing historical fiction, compared it to “a kind of mule-like animal begotten by the ass of fiction on the brood-mare of fact, and hence, a sterile monster.” The structural problems are compounded by a third storyline, in which dastangoi and afeem -addict Mirza Kallan tediously narrates an allegorical version of the events in earlier chapters, using elements from the Tilism-e-Hoshruba . I’ve always found the Tilism akin to a bad acid trip. I detest allegories. The author could not have found a better way to make me skip pages. However, since self-contradiction is sanity’s birthright, let me clarify that I am glad to have read the novel. I am glad the writer wrote it. I enjoyed the experience of immersing in a thoroughly Muslim world, one in which every conversation and concern wasn’t driven by Hindu majoritarian needs. I wanted to learn more about this world, not less, and perhaps that is enough of an achievement for any author and any story. Author ofHalf Of What I Say, the writer has a collection of short stories forthcoming from Hachette.  The Begum and the Dastan  Tarana Husain Khan  Tranquebar  Rs. 499    I would have preferred if Feroza had plunged an attar-bottle’s diamond cap through the Nawab’s throat. However, it is to the author’s credit that she keeps Feroza true to her times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-begum-and-her-beast/article34462014.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||‘There is caste in every corner of this country’||Dalit feminist writer Manasa Yendluri has won the Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar 2020 for her collection of Telugu short stories, Milinda . Bold and honest, the stories talk of being a minority in India, whether by virtue of gender, sexuality or religion. While Milinda is Yendluri’s debut fiction, she has also translated Sharan Kumar Limbale’s Marathi novel, O , into Telugu. Excerpts from an interview with the 34-year-old Hyderabad-based author who is changing the Telugu literary landscape. Both your parents are literary figures. Can you tell us something about them? My mother, late Dr. Putla Hemalatha, was a writer and thinker. Her first short story was published when she was 13. In 2011, she established India’s first women’s web magazine, Vihanga . Research was her biggest interest — she is known for her compilations of scholarly articles on Dalit women’s writings. We published some of her works posthumously after losing her in 2019. My father, Yendluri Sudhakar, is a well-known poet and short story writer. He is a professor of Telugu at University of Hyderabad. Since both my parents are writers and academicians, I have been reading books since childhood. But when I grew up, I realised there isn’t enough in Telugu literature on Dalits and Dalit Christians. That is when I thought of writing my life experiences and those of others like me. As an urban Dalit woman, I wanted, above all, to record these experiences and share them. You havebeen criticised for featuring LGBTQ+ characters in your fiction in spite of being an outsider to the community. How do you feel about that? As a person belonging to the minority in terms of gender, caste and religion, it is natural that I should also think about sexual minorities. I want to make a noise about LGBTQ+ people and to see a little acceptance from readers, to say it is okay, people can live their own lives. Even conservative thinkers have told me that they don’t feel uncomfortable about the way I write of same-sex people kissing or making love. I am happy that now we have the opportunity to talk of and discuss homosexuality openly. What roles do caste, gender and religion play in your writing? Being a minority in all these respects, my perception is always different from that of a mainstream Hindu writer. I write about how others look at me, how women have to constantly fight against male perceptions. When I write about caste discrimination, I have to write about gender differences simultaneously. Even among women, there is huge dissimilarity between Hindus and Christians. Life is a roller-coaster ride for a Dalit Christian woman, with her no- bottu  ( bindi or caste mark) face and the SC certificate in her records. Every minute of her life is filled with ambiguity and confusion about her identity and religious beliefs. I have four stories on the practice of wearing bottu among Telugu women and how my no- bottu face invites hate-filled looks. There have been incidents where people did not even respond to my namaskaram when they saw that there was no bottu on my face. All this makes me want to write my heart out, telling people how intolerant society is. I haven’t yet started writing about gender issues within my community, but will do soon. The way Dalit men look down upon Dalit women for being dark, for not having sharp features, should definitely be spoken about. Also, how they try to impress privileged women, sometimes getting brutally punished for trying to love or marry them. I don’t believe all women are the same. And I find it extremely funny when privileged-caste women say they are Dalits as well. What role does feminism play in your writing? I seek intersectionality. I choose Dalit feminism over mainstream feminism, which only focuses on patriarchy and male chauvinism, strategically ignoring caste and religion. I explain from my own perspective how we are neglected and exploited by fellow women in workplaces and educational institutions. People expect stories from Dalit ghettos where women are being raped or beaten up by privileged men. I have never seen a Dalit ghetto, but there is caste in every corner of this country, in a sophisticated form in urban centres. The interviewer is a Hyderabad-based poet, academic, translator and editor.  I don’t believe all women are the same. And I find it extremely funny when privileged-caste women say they are Dalits as well||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/there-is-caste-in-every-corner-of-this-country/article34462021.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A deadly pathogen and the difficult path to recovery||If we think of the people of India as one human body, what would constitute its immune system? The health infrastructure? Democracy? Public institutions such as the media and judiciary? Or is it the government of the day? Perhaps it’s a combination of all these elements. If this hypothetical ‘human’ dies of a disease that is preventable (through a vaccine) as well as curable (through timely emergency care), then it would mean not only that this person’s immunity was congenitally weak, but also that he was stupid enough not to strengthen his immunity. Has India been stupid in its response to the COVID-19 pandemic? Reading the 24 essays that comprise India and the Pandemic , it is difficult to conclude otherwise. The pieces, written during the course of 2020 for The India Forum , a digital journal, have aged rather well. In the Introduction, for instance, Faizi Ahmad, C.J. Kuncheria and C. Rammanohar Reddy warn of “more lockdowns” in the “second year of the virus”. In January, when the book was published, this may have sounded alarmist. Today, the warning sounds prescient — not least because it stems from an accurate assessment of the state’s orientation, which has consistently prioritised image management over crisis management. This orientation, evident in March 2020, has extended to the present, when India is reeling under a far more virulent ‘second wave’ of infections. Layered view This anthology brings to bear on the pandemic expert minds from different fields, including history, economics, sociology, political science, law, architecture, psychology, public health, and gender studies. The essays are grouped into eight thematic sections: ‘Early Stages of COVID-19 in India’, ‘Dealing with Pandemics in India’s History’, ‘COVID-19: The Initial Impact’, ‘The Law, the Judiciary, and COVID-19’, ‘The Lockdown and After’, ‘Impact on the Economy’, ‘Impact on Society’, and ‘The Future’. Taken together, they present a richly layered view of the multiple dimensions of India’s COVID-19 story up to December 2020. Even without the devastations of April 2021, it’s not a pretty picture. No matter where one looks — be it public health, the economy, education, migrant welfare, judiciary, human rights — the common thread running through the state’s response to the pandemic is summed up in two phrases: “absence of community” and “a lack of humanity”. The saving grace, in the first year, was the Herculean efforts by healthcare workers and citizens’ groups. But the magnitude of the second wave has been such that while frontline workers and activists were overwhelmed, public health infrastructure — degraded by years of neglect — has collapsed under the weight of an exponential rise in cases. In the context of the ‘first wave’ last year, the volume raises several questions, especially about the draconian lockdown: was it justified if we could not afford to compensate for lost incomes?  Lockdowns and income If the idea of a lockdown is to contain transmission while the state builds capacity, why didn’t India use this period to build capacity? If there was going to be no investment in expanding public health infrastructure, what purpose did the lockdown serve — other than postponing the inevitable while destroying livelihoods in the name of saving lives? Strangely, even the pessimism of the anthology editors seems understated. “It does seem doubtful,” they write, “whether human societies will learn from the first year of COVID-19 to organise a more conflict-free interaction with wildlife and nature.” Forget wildlife, in a nation currently gasping for oxygen, the most pressing challenge is a relatively modest one: subduing the raging epidemic of tribalistic fever, whose primary symptoms are loss of empathy for those who eat, dress or pray differently and impaired ability to seek accountability from those in power. Somehow, it’s difficult to shake off a nagging sense that India’s miseries right now have to do with more than one deadly pathogen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-deadly-pathogen-and-the-difficult-path-to-recovery/article34462031.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on May 2, 1972, this person is one of the most successful athletes in his sport and is also one of the few who have managed to make it big in Hollywood. Initially calling himself DJ, he was an American football player. He followed in the footsteps of his father and grandfather, who were all professional wrestlers. His more popular nickname started as a tribute to his dad — Rocky Johnson. Who is this athlete who is now one of the highest-paid actors in cinema? 2This person was born with the surname ‘Singh’ in 1905 and loved wrestling before he joined the army. Eventually he became a player of a field sport in which he led the country to three Olympic gold medals. He got his nickname from his habit of practising mostly at night when the light of the moon was the only source of illumination. Who is this person whose birthday is celebrated as National Sports Day? 3Kuppali Venkatappa Puttappa is one of the greatest Kannada poets and was the first writer from Karnataka to be bestowed the Jnanpith award. He was also a playwright and novelist, and penned the Karnataka State Anthem. Honoured with the title ‘Rashtrakavi’, he is more lovingly known by his nickname, which is an abbreviation of his full name in Kannada. How better do we know this gentleman? 4‘The Gooners’ is the nickname given to fans of a professional football team that completed the 20th century with the highest average league position. It’s a reference to the nickname of the team, which came about because the team was formed by a group of workers in an armament factory. Which football team is this? 5This person was born Marshall Bruce Mathers III and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time. Widely credited for breaking racial barriers in his genre of music, which is predominantly Afro-American, he became the first ever artist in his genre to win an Oscar in 2002. The nickname by which he is known is an evolution of his childhood nickname ‘M&M’. Who is this artist whose fans are known as ‘Stans’? 6Earvin Johnson is a basketball player who is widely regarded as the best point guard of all time. His time with the LA Lakers is considered by many to be one of the greatest contributions to the sport. He was given his nickname by a sports writer when in a high school game he recorded 36 points, 18 rebounds and 16 assists. What nickname was given to Earvin because of his supposedly supernatural ability to score baskets? 7Eldrick Tont is widely regarded as one of the greatest players of his sport. He was ranked number one for 683 weeks, including two runs of 264 and 281 consecutive weeks. He got his nickname from his father Earl Dennison Woods, who wanted to honour his friend, a Vietnamese colonel named after a jungle cat. The nickname and family name together gave this athlete a dominating name in his field. How better do we know Eldrick? 8Saul Hudson is an American musician who is the lead guitarist of one of the hard rock bands from the 90s. His mixed heritage of Black American and English parents, who were both heavily into the music scene, introduced him to rock and roll at a very early age. He got his nickname because as a kid he was ‘always in a hurry, zipping around’ and not anything to do with knives. Who is this artist whose trademark long hair, glasses and hat is a staple at every Guns N’ Roses concert? 9Joseph Vissarionovich Djugashvili was a Georgian communist revolutionary whose ruthlessness eventually led to him becoming the ruler of the Soviet Union. His reign is very controversial as he was a dictator and oversaw a totalitarian government whose direct actions led to the death of close to a million people. His nickname is derived from the Russian word for ‘Steel’, and can be translated as ‘Man of Steel’. How better do we know this leader? 10Ernesto was an Argentine revolutionary, who was a major figure of the Cuban Revolution. One particular picture of him, taken by Alberto Korda, has become a ubiquitous symbol of revolution and rebellion in popular culture. His nickname is actually an interjection in Spanish that is used like ‘hey!’ or ‘buddy!’. His frequent use of this word, and the fact that the Cubans had never heard it, earned him the word as a nickname. What word is this and what is Ernesto’s surname? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34462052.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Obligatory falsecard||Keith Hanson, of Boca Raton, Florida, has been one of America’s premier bridge teachers for more than three decades. He teaches bridge all over South Florida, but his center is Jourdan’s Bridge Club in Delray Beach, Florida. Jourdan’s has been one of North America’s largest bridge clubs for many years, thanks to Hanson’s teaching and the brilliant management. For those readers a little slow on the uptake, Ora Lourie and I have managed Jourdan’s since 1998. Despite that, the club has been successful. Hanson is also an outstanding bridge player. He was West in today’s deal. Hanson led the king of hearts and continued with a low heart after partner signaled with the 10. East won with the ace of hearts and continued with a third round of the suit, ruffed by South. Declarer led a low trump and Hanson was sure that a finesse was coming against his king. Hanson played his king in perfect tempo – a play known as an obligatory falsecard. There was no clear reason for making this play, but it couldn’t possibly hurt and it might create a losing option for declarer. South won with dummy’s ace, and after some thought, led a low spade to his nine. Hanson scooped up his 10 and the defense had a certain diamond trick to come for down one. Nice play!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/obligatory-falsecard/article34462055.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Ecology notes from the field||Commissioned to study the implementation of the National Agroforestry Policy of 2014 in Gujarat — the objective of which was to increase forest and tree cover by encouraging farmers to grow specific tree species alongside their crops by providing them subsidies and distributing saplings — Aditi Patil and her colleagues (Manya Singh, Praful Joshi and the driver Chetan Bhai) landed up in Anand district in the summer of 2017 for field work. While going about their research, the trio also came up against conservation issues, human-animal conflict, governmental action and inaction, and, of course, the patriarchal notions that beset the country among other things. All these interactions with farmers, “bureaucrats, forest guards, men with expansive moustaches and other living species that are never as aggressive or threatening” are recorded in Patil’s Patriarchy and the Pangolin . The connection, Patil points out in her Preface, is that just as humans are a threat to wildlife and the natural world in general, the patriarchal system is the oppressor when it comes to women. But all this is handled with a light touch.  As she puts it in the acknowledgements, the tone of the book is “light-hearted and lightly heated”. Different approaches Even as you chuckle at Manya’s adventures, Praful’s attempts to keep peace, Chetan Bhai’s love life, and Patil’s world-weariness, you cannot help but take notes. Finding a snake in a water canal leads the researchers to get two sets of Focussed Group Discussions; one all male and the other women only. The difference in approach to agroforestry couldn’t be more marked. Another time, while recounting a meeting with villagers near the Gir National Park, Patil shows how the atmosphere — and therefore the conversations — change when figures of authority show up. “This Universal Declaration of the Brotherhood of Man and Lion sounded like a speech to gathered delegates at the United Nations,” she writes. But the humour can’t hide the fact that “it was the cue for us to leave”. And then there’s the meeting with the woman farmer, Rani. When asked what she wanted conveyed to the Forest or any other government department, her reply is quite different from what the researchers had heard till then: “Need Narmada canal’s water, affordable electricity, loan waivers and access to new technology”. What Rani wanted was both simple and difficult: “The biggest help the government can do for us is to not be a problem.” Explaining that she speaks only for Chorwad, she outlines what the area has and adds, “What we need from the government is to not mess this up for us.” Amid all this, the three are busy spotting birds, snakes, squabbling, sight-seeing... all of which adds up to an entertaining read. Take time to note the chapter names as well: Patil’s sense of humour is on full display here. But, as Jean Dreze points out in his blurb, “Under the cover of irresistible humour, Patriarchy and the Pangolin ambushes the reader with unsettling questions about Indian society and the world of research.” In the light of all that is going on, I couldn’t help but wonder if Patil was using humour to stop herself from bursting into tears.  Patriarchy and the Pangolin Aditi Patil Black Kite/Hachette India  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ecology-notes-from-the-field/article34462033.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||No children, no cry||Dear Agony Akka,  I’m the mother of a six-year-old. As you know, since the pandemic, the classroom has shifted home. My child, who was in kindergarten last year, had one hour of online school every day. All these classes are saying parental supervision is compulsory so my husband would sit alongside our child and tell her, ‘Don’t fidget, don’t dig your nose, don’t make faces at your classmate, stay awake during school bhajan, etc, etc.’ Since this was only for one hour each day, it was bearable. Now, she has been promoted to Class I, and that means nearly three hours of school every day! My husband has refused to be the supervisor anymore. He wants me to attend class with my child. But this will eat into my precious ‘me time’ — that golden hour when I go to the toilet, drink chai , eat an idli or two, scroll Facebook. After that I have to log into work, make lunch, feed the kid, and on and on. How do I get out of this sticky situation? — Mother of Miseries   Dear MOM,  First of all, a kid? A six-year-old kid? I mean, why? It is quite unfathomable to me why someone who sounds fairly intelligent like you do — I mean you have a job and you’re talking of ‘me time’ — would make the major miscalculation of venturing into the business of procreation. Maybe you saw your neighbour’s cute baby and thought you also wanted to do goo-goo, gaa-gaa? Like giant gargling machine? Whenever people are talking about children to me, I remember one old sci-fi story I read many moons ago in which Future Man asks Present Man, whom he encounters in some time-machine glitch scene I can’t remember, ‘Is it true that in your era you voluntarily had little creatures in your home that grew and grew like fungi?’ Because you see in the enlightened era of 4021, Future Man has eliminated children. Everybody lives forever so there is no need to create fresh stock. No need for fresh stock means no need to feed, water and wipe bum of tiny creatures that are always crying and picking their nose and later growing up and picking at your savings with same steady focus. No kid means no online class means no loss of me-time. Now, of course, it is too late for you. I can clearly see that your husband is smart man. He volunteered when only one hour was needed, knowing full well that prison term would increase sharply soon. It is not humanly possible to sit with child doing online classes for three full hours. It can easily make you lose what little of your mind is left after procreation. You have to strategise urgently. Exactly 30 minutes after class begins, arrange to get one phone call. While pretending to talk on phone, make urgent sign to husband to take over class. Spend next 2.5 hours pacing on balcony and talking on phone. Make up story of office crisis. But you cannot get phone call every day. Husband might suspect. Use variations. Next day, pretend downstairs neighbour has broken ankle and needs help — this is good one. You can use it for long time till not-broken ankle is healed. One day you can also go into toilet and not emerge till class is over. Dysentery, UTI, lots of reasons can be given. Of course, straightforward method is also there. Take husband aside and tell him gently that if he does not share classroom duties, mariticide will happen then don’t go crying to your mother. And next time, get a kitten. — AA agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-children-no-cry/article34462050.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Stranded in the digital world||I am 89-plus living in Bengaluru. My troubles started after my husband passed away three months ago. Till then, he was somehow managing the computer, smartphone and all digital transactions, though with difficulty. I had to book a gas cylinder the other day. I dialled the number given. A voice at the other end said, “Press one”, but I could not find the number on the phone. The voice went on saying press this, press that. At my age with poor eyesight and shaking hands, I just could not keep up with the instructions. I gave up and had to take the help of my neighbour to book a cylinder. Is it not easier to just dial and book your cylinder, as of old? After my water purifier was serviced, I was told to look for an OTP to confirm that the service had been completed. The person concerned was right in front of me, but it became absolutely necessary to tell him the OTP. So helpless and flustered was I that I had to take the help of my neighbours. One day, I needed to visit the bank for some work. The official said (without even lifting his head from work), “Why do you take the trouble of coming to the bank, madam? You just have to download the app (what is an app?; is it an apple).” I was foxed! I do not know what download or app means. Moreover, important communication from the bank comes on the smartphone. I am totally ignorant of the risks in operating bank accounts through the digital mode; we read about so many frauds taking place, people’s bank accounts getting wiped out. Is it wise to allow people like me to handle financial or banking work digitally? The younger generation may find it convenient and easy to handle “complicated” business involving money matters; but for people of my generation, it is a cruel joke being played on us. There should be an option to do our work in the old conservative method. In these stressful COVID-19 days, when we do not have any social interactions, it is a pleasant change to visit a bank where you meet people, exchange pleasantries, say “hello” to the people behind the counters, and have a cup of coffee with friends you may meet there. It is a welcome and pleasant break in our otherwise dull existence. Isn’t it? There is also a larger point here. Be it banking transactions, online education, or booking a COVID-19 bed through the municipality, a lot depends on whether one has a smartphone or not. For those who don’t, life has become very difficult indeed. jeyamanantharaman@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/stranded-in-the-digital-world/article34462001.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3148||Across  1 US government dept wanting redesign, receives crest (6,7) 8 What’s seen next to delta? Sound (again) (4) 9 Historian, atrocious lecturer with hesitant expression (10) 10 Everyman eating starter of udon, followed by rieslings: essentially healthy meal (6) 11 Like blushing bride ... or wife in northern cathedral before midweek (5-3) 12 Water and transplant bergenias (6,3) 14 Gather ... and flow back (4) 15 Naked co-host returning to red-light district (4) 16 Kind of graph line displaying eroticism (9) 20 City accommodating national building’s elected representatives (representing Australia, primarily!) (8) 21 Bacon’s getting increasingly hotheaded (6) 23 Milliner: not ‘dealer in candle-making’ – that’s silly talk! (10) 24 Watched some of a play in the auditorium (4) 25 Funny (cutting) to include ‘magic powers’ alongside Freudian concept (4-9)  Down  1 Some vacuous blind at the end in clue for ‘cloister’ (7) 2 They benefit the workers (getting pounds) (2-3) 3 Cutting alien, replacing lead character in Chinese book (7) 4 Dog chewed slippers in anger (8,7) 5 ‘Literature’ now normally includes celebrity (6) 6 Desire to move on, abandoning bold, malicious poetry (5,4) 7 Most dangerous, heading off to mountain (7) 13 Shy, not going out, I hit bed, tossed and turned (9) 15 Causes injury with farm implements: end of agony? No, the beginning (7) 17 Husband material skipped a ceremony, they say (2,5) 18 Lettuce, rice (and giblet, oddly enough) in salad (7) 19 Demobbed soldier finally given firearms, regularly missing sources of heat? (6) 22 Dish, South American, hot chili – at last! (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3148/article34462058.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Priced out||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla announced that the price of the Covishield vaccine would be reduced from Rs. 400 to Rs. 300 per dose for States, in what he called a ‘philanthropic’ gesture that “will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward”. This came amid widespread outcry over the high prices announced for States and private hospitals (the latter remains at Rs. 600), while the Centre continues to procure the vaccine for Rs. 150.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/priced-out/article34461983.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Offensive action||As reports continued to come in from Uttar Pradesh of shortages of beds and oxygen, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath denied the shortage and went on the offensive. He told officials to use the National Security Act and Gangsters Act against anybody who “spread rumours” on social media. He also ordered a crackdown on hospitals that put up notices of shortages. Police filed a case against an Amethi youth who tweeted seeking oxygen for his grandfather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/offensive-action/article34461985.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Oscar history||Beijing-born filmmaker Chloe Zhao made history at the 93rd Academy Awards, in a bare-bones ceremony, by becoming the first woman of colour, and second woman ever, to win the Oscar for Best Director. Her film,Nomadland, a semi-fictional drama about a van-dwelling nomad in the U.S, also won Best Picture. In an upset, Anthony Hopkins won Best Actor for his role inThe Father, beating the late Chadwick Boseman inMa Rainey’s Black Bottom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/oscar-history/article34461987.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Cricket exodus||With IPL 2021 still being held, controversially, and 40 matches yet to be played in bio-bubbles across six Indian cities, all reeling under COVID-19, several cricketers announced their withdrawal from the competition. Citing “personal reasons,” Adam Zampa and Kane Richardson were the latest to fly home, following fellow Aussie Andrew Tye, Liam Livingstone and R. Ashwin (above). Two umpires, Nitin Menon and Paul Reiffel, also withdrew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cricket-exodus/article34461989.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Caged bird||Following government complaints, Twitter blocked more than 50 posts for viewing in India, most of them critical of the Centre’s handling of the pandemic, discussing shortages of beds and medicines, mass cremations, and the huge crowds at the Kumbh Mela. They included tweets by Congress Spokesperson Pawan Khera, Congress MP Revanth Reddy, West Bengal minister Moloy Ghatak,ABP Newseditor Pankaj Jha and filmmakers Avinash Das and Vinod Kapri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/caged-bird/article34461991.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Neutered capital||The controversial law passed by Parliament last month, which defines the “government” of Delhi as the lieutenant governor (L-G), was notified by the Ministry of Home Affairs and came into force. Passed in the face of opposition protests, the law — notified at a time when the Centre and Delhi are locking horns over the COVID-19 crisis — obliges the elected government to seek the L-G’s opinion before taking executive action. The L-G soon issued a list of matters that must be cleared with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/neutered-capital/article34461993.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Global aid||India’s COVID-19 crisis, with deaths crossing two lakh, has drawn global attention and aid is pouring in from around the world. Oxygen tankers, liquid oxygen and medical equipment arrived from several countries, while the U.S. promised to send raw material for vaccine production. Businesses pitched in, with Google CEO Sundar Pichai pledging Rs. 135 crore, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella promising aid, and Amazon donating 10,000 oxygen concentrators and BiPAP machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/global-aid/article34461995.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The Last Bookshop in London||Madeline Martin  Hanover Square Press $5.23 (Kindle price) Grace Bennett moves to the World War II London of bunkers and blackout curtains. Working at Primrose Hill, a dusty old bookshop in the heart of London, Grace discovers the power of storytelling in uniting her community, even in the dark days of the war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-last-bookshop-in-london/article34462016.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The Good Sister||Sally Hepworth  Hodder & Stoughton $14.99 (Kindle price) Fern Castle’s carefully ordered life as a single woman is upturned when she volunteers to have a baby for her twin sister Rose to express her gratitude. Fern’s mission to find a father for the baby stirs up dark secrets that she thought were long buried.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-good-sister/article34462023.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Manottama: Narrative of a Sorrowful Wife||Anonymous, trs Somdatta Mandal  Shambhabi Imprint Rs. 1,156 Published in 1868,Manottamais the first Bengali novel written by an unnamed Bengali woman. Written in the Puranic style of narration, it is the story of an educated 19th century wife who has to compromise with the worldview of an uneducated husband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/manottama-narrative-of-a-sorrowful-wife/article34462025.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||How Do You Live||Genzaburo Yoshino  Penguin Rs. 699 In this Japanese classic published in English for the first time, 15-year-old Copper gazes at Tokyo. Struck by the thought of the infinite people whose lives play out alongside his own, he begins to wonder, how do you live? The novel is the basis of a forthcoming film from Studio Ghibli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/how-do-you-live/article34462027.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||World Travel: An Irreverent Guide||Anthony Bourdain, with Laurie Woolever  Bloomsbury  Rs. 699 A life of experience is collected into a travel guide that gives readers an introduction to some of Bourdain’s favourite places. Supplementing the words of the best-selling author ofKitchen Confidential— he died in 2018 — are a handful of essays by friends and family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/world-travel-an-irreverent-guide/article34462029.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Print and the Urdu Public: Muslims, Newspapers, and Urban Life in Colonial India||Megan Eaton Robb  OUP  Rs. 1,595 Through an analysis ofMadinah, a newspaper published from Bijnor, the book explores how the paper delineated the boundaries of public conversation that emphasised rootedness to local politics and small urban spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/print-and-the-urdu-public-muslims-newspapers-and-urban-life-in-colonial-india/article34462038.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Renaissance State: The Unwritten Story of the Making of Maharashtra||Girish Kuber  HarperCollins  Rs. 699 Taking in its sweep the politics, society and history of Maharashtra, Kuber chronicles a number of lesser-known tales, including the lives of social reformers far ahead of their time, and the evolution of right, left and Dalit movements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/renaissance-state-the-unwritten-story-of-the-making-of-maharashtra/article34462040.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Places of Mind: A Life of Edward Said||Timothy Brennan  Bloomsbury  Rs. 384 (Kindle price) As someone who studied under Edward Said and remained a friend until his death in 2003, Brennan had unprecedented access to his ideas and legacy. In this work, Said, the pioneer of postcolonial studies, emerges as an advocate of literature’s dramatic effects on politics and life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/places-of-mind-a-life-of-edward-said/article34462042.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccine shortage will affect all eligible groups||From May 1, 595 million adults aged 18–44 years were officially eligible to receive a COVID-19 vaccine. The State governments and private hospitals are to vaccinate this group of adults. However, based on the number of vaccine doses that will become available in the following days and weeks, it is likely that only a very small percentage of adults aged 18–44 years will receive a vaccine, if at all. The two private vaccine manufacturers – Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech – are required to supply 50% of vaccine produced to the Central government and the balance to State governments and private hospitals. The Central government will be vaccinating for free the 300 million people belonging to three priority groups — healthcare workers, frontline workers and those above 45 years. With two doses to be administered per person, this would mean 600 million doses to be administered to 300 million people. But as on May 1, three-half-months after the mass vaccination programme began on January 16, only 160.37 million doses have been administered. Of these, over 120.5 million have received the first dose and the remaining have received the second dose as well. Only 2.7% of adults are fully vaccinated and 12.9% given a single dose. This would mean that another 450-odd million doses have to be administered for free to fully cover the three priority groups. As per a PIB release, as on May 1, nearly eight million doses are currently available with the States and Union Territories. With 1.2 million, Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of vaccine doses available, followed by Bihar (0.61 million), Maharashtra (0.14 million), Delhi (0.44 million), Karnataka (0.19 million), Assam (nearly 0.44 million), and Gujarat (0.34 million). Tamil Nadu has just 0.30 million doses, while Telangana has a meagre 90,480 doses. But these doses are to be used only in adults aged over 45 years. Distribution of doses Seven States will receive 1.7 million vaccine doses by May 4. With nearly 0.4 million, Bihar will receive the most doses followed by Uttar Pradesh (0.35 million), Haryana (0.3 million), Madhya Pradesh (0.28 million), Rajasthan (0.2 million), and Jammu & Kashmir and Goa (0.1 million each). These doses too are to be used only in adults aged over 45 years. While the mass vaccination programme began on January 16, the daily uptake of vaccines was low. At 0.8 million, February 25 recorded the most vaccinations before the third and fourth priority group of those above 60 years and those over 45 years with comorbidities began from March 1. The uptake of vaccines increased and touched a peak of 3.4 million doses on March 22. But with the government making anyone over 45 years immaterial of comorbidity status eligible for a vaccine, the uptake increased sharply touching 4.2 million on April 2. While daily vaccinations hovered around 4 million for several days, a sharp dip began since mid-April, coinciding with shortages in vaccine supplies. For the last 10 days, the daily vaccination numbers have been dropping further; it plummeted to reach 2.2 million on April 29. Supplying private hospitals While private hospitals too are allowed to vaccinate adults aged 18-44 years according to government policy, in a letter dated April 28, Serum Institute has told a Community Medicine specialist at Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences & Research, Delhi that it is constrained to supply vaccines to private hospitals. “Our current obligation to meet the Government’s existing requirements and to meet the additional demand emanating from State governments under liberated and accelerated vaccination, it is challenging to meet independently the requirement from large numbers of private hospitals,” the letter says. The letter adds: “We urge you to access the vaccine when it becomes available in the private market supply chain channels, which will take about five–six months from now. In the meantime, it is suggested to approach the State government for vaccine supplies, which was provided earlier for the category of citizens over 45 years of age.” However, Apollo and Max Hospitals had rolled out vaccines for the 18-44 age group on May 1. Only six States — Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and Odisha — have received small quantities of vaccines to immunise adults aged 18-44 years from May 1. As a result, the vaccination drive will be more of a token affair limited to a few districts in each of the six States. Serum Institute currently manufactures 60–65 million doses a month, and the production will be ramped up only by June-July when about 100 million doses will be produced a month. Bharat Biotech too is increasing capacity. According to the government release, Covaxin production will be increased from the current 10 million doses a month to 100 million doses by September. A six–seven-fold increase is expected by July-August. Overflowing registrations While expanding the eligibility to include adults 18–44 years is a welcome move, vaccine shortages are likely to persist for a few months. According to the government, 20.45 million beneficiaries have registered on CoWIN as on April 29. And with the Central government set to receive only 50% supplies and State governments to compete with one another for a share of the balance 50% supplies, vaccination of all priority/age groups is set to be affected for at least a few months. This when the daily new cases and deaths are scaling new peaks; new cases touched 4.01 lakh (0.4 million) on April 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/vaccine-shortage-will-affect-all-eligible-groups/article34461470.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus: What are variants of concern?||If manuscripts are copied by hand repeatedly, spelling errors are common. Similarly, when ‘genetic scripts’ encoded in DNA or RNA are copied repeatedly for virus replication, errors do occur. RNA viruses are more error-prone than DNA viruses. SARS-CoV-2 genome is single-stranded RNA, and errors — in biology, mutations — occur frequently. SARS-CoV-2 is new in humans and as it spreads, mutations are very frequent. Emerging variants with higher transmission efficiency become dominant, tending to replace others. Such frontrunners emerge in different geographic communities where the virus is epidemic, spreading widely. Variants were detected in the U.K. and South Africa because genetic studies were systematically done. Brazil variant was discovered in Japan, in travellers from Brazil, and its origin traced back. The ability to detect and track variants hinges on laboratory capacity for whole genome sequencing of viruses. Globally, over 1 million SARS CoV-2 genomes have been sequenced to-date, providing a high resolution, spatio-temporally granular readout of virus evolution. More importantly, this has allowed the identification and documentation of variant viruses with altered properties compared to the virus that started the pandemic. As the importance of ‘variants of concern’ (VOC) was appreciated, the Indian SARS CoV-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG), a network of ten competent public-sector laboratories for genomic surveillance, was established, and the genetic variant landscape is being surveyed in India. Nomenclature schemes There are three different schemes of nomenclature of SARS-CoV-2 variants. The widely used one is the ‘Phylogenetic Assignment of Global Outbreak Lineages’ (PANGOLIN) that uses a hierarchical system based on genetic relatedness – an invaluable tool for genomic surveillance. It uses alphabets (A, B, C, P) and numerals starting with 1. Variant lineages are at the emerging edge of the pandemic in different geographies. Lineage B is the most prolific. The variants in circulation are B.1; B.1.1; B.1.1.7; B.1.167; B.1.177; B.1.351, B.1.427 and B.1.429. Lineage P.1 has deviated from the original B. For convenience, the three most frequent ones are named by their geography of origin — ‘U.K. variant’ for B.1.1.7; ‘South Africa variant’ for B.1.351; and ‘Brazil variant’ for P.1. They had been detected in 2020 — September (U.K.), October (South Africa) and December (Brazil). Variants in India include the so-called double mutant B.1.617 spreading in Maharashtra and B.1.618 spreading in West Bengal. Mutations can be pinpointed using the nucleotide position on the genome and the switched amino acids consequent to mutation. The original pandemic virus (founder variant) was Wu.Hu.1 (Wuhan virus). In a few months, variant D614G emerged and became globally dominant. Matters of concern The ‘concern’ in VOC comprises three sinister properties – transmission efficiency, disease severity and escape from immunity cover of vaccination. In many countries, including India, the VOC, by virtue of increased transmissibility, have kicked off new wave(s) of epidemic transmission. Unfortunately, at that precise time, as case counts were low, there was widespread relaxation of COVID-appropriate behaviour. Together, this has contributed to a rapidly ascending second wave — daily numbers far exceeding those during the earlier wave. Regarding virulence (propensity to cause severe/life-threatening disease), the U.K. variant is worse. The South Africa and Brazil variants do not seem to have higher virulence. The third concern is regarding the immunity cover offered by vaccination using antigens made from D614G variant — which applies to most vaccines in current use. Lowered efficacy of vaccines was found more with the South African and less with the Brazil variant. Hence, reinfection can occur in spite of immunity by earlier D614G infection or vaccination. Vaccine efficacy may be lower now than what was determined in phase-3 trials as VOC were not then widely prevalent. Fortunately, mRNA (Pfizer and Moderna) vaccines have broader immunity for different reasons, and they protect better against these two variants. Karolinska Institute in Sweden created an antigen using new variant RBD peptide with adjuvant, and inoculated monkeys already primed with an older vaccine. The resultant booster response was not only high but also broad, covering new variants. This approach, called ‘hetero boosting’ by a different vaccine, offers a way to manage the ‘vaccine-escape’ variants until newer vaccines become available. Lessons learnt An important lesson the pandemic has taught us in India is the critical importance of biomedical research and capacity building – for saving lives and economic growth. We need a foundation of broad-based research, in universities, medical colleges and biotechnology companies, all of which must be funded, encouraged, appreciated, and talent rewarded. While some endeavours have been initiated, they must take off in a big way, and India must invest heavily in biosciences. After a decade, its products and profit will make us healthier and wealthier.  (T. Jacob John is retired professor, and Mahesh Moorthy currently professor, Department of Clinical Virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/coronavirus-what-are-variants-of-concern/article34461462.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Our COVID-19 connection with primitive cavemen||Viruses can only survive and multiply in host cells. Therefore, studying SARS-CoV-2 virus will require studying the host. As the viral genome takes the help of host machinery, understanding the host genome is paramount to studying both susceptibility and protection against the virus in a given population. This is the main aim of multiple groups and international consortia of researchers like the Severe Covid-19 genome-wide association study Group, the COVID-19 Host Genetics Initiative, and the Genetics of Mortality in Critical Care (GenOMICC). A series of published studies from these consortia shed light on the host genome’s role in viral infection. These studies, published in NEJM, Nature and MedRxiv provide cues on how certain host genome regions confer an increased risk of developing the severe disease while others protect against the virus. Thus, studying the genomes of individuals in a group (for example, a particular genetic population group in India) can make us predict whether the individuals in that group are more or less likely to develop severe disease. Crucial genes The recent papers pointed out that a region on host chromosome 3 acts as a significant genetic risk factor towards getting seriously ill and, at the same time, a group of genes on chromosomes 6,12,19, and 21 protect us against the virus. Enzymes coded by the OAS gene family on chromosome 12, a component of the interferon-induced antiviral system, are of particular importance as they can act as a drug target against the virus. An independent study from Canada in Nature Medicine corroborated this by showing that a protein from the same component in blood protects against getting severely ill among European ancestry people. Interestingly, evolutionary biologists in Sweden and Germany showed that the regions of host genomes that increase the risk of getting severely ill and protect against the virus were inherited from Neanderthals. How can Neanderthal genes both increase the risk of getting the severe disease and at the same time protect against the virus? Once, Neanderthals and modern humans came in contact with each other, and they interbred. As a result, genetic content between Neanderthals and humans got mixed in their offspring. In their first paper, published in Nature, the researchers showed that modern-day humans share a stretch of 50,000 nucleotides (nucleotides are the basic building blocks of DNA) in chromosome 3 with Neanderthals. It is this stretch that increases their risk of getting severe COVID-19. They predicted that having a copy of this region of chromosome 3 nearly doubles the risk of getting severe COVID-19. Push-pull effect The same researchers published a second paper in PNAS showing that a part of host chromosome 12, previously shown to protect against the virus, also was inherited from Neanderthal genomes. While specific genes from Neanderthals are working against the virus and protecting us from getting a severe disease, others are associated with an increased risk of getting critically ill. This push and pull effect may be one of the intriguing facts about how the selection of genes happens during evolution. These studies have special significance to India. About 50% of South Asians carry the region in chromosome 3 from Neanderthal genomes, the same region that make us more prone to getting severely sick with the virus. On the good Neanderthal gene front, nearly 30% of South Asians bear the chromosome 12 region that protects us from getting severely ill. As Indians are a diverse genetic group, the above risk was determined using samples used previously in an international consortium called the 1,000 genome project. The project is represented by Indian Gujaratis and Telugus, Pakistani Punjabis, and Bangladeshi Bengalis in the South Asian group. These recent studies only validate what the legendary evolutionary biologist Theodosius Dobzhansky wrote in his famous essay, “nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution,” and makes perfect sense when one thinks about the evolution of host genomes concerning SARS-CoV-2 infection.  (Binay Panda is a Professor of Biotechnology at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/our-covid-19-connection-with-primitive-cavemen/article34461463.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Herpetologist Deepak Veerappan has a snake named after him||In the first four months of 2021, the Western Ghats presented new butterflies, frogs, fruit flies, and even a freshwater crab. Joining the list is a tiny snake of just 20 cm length with iridescent scales - Xylophis deepaki, first stumbled upon in a coconut plantation in Kanyakumari, is now reported to be an endemic species of Tamil Nadu and has been sighted in a few locations in the southern part of the Western Ghats. The species is named in honour of Indian herpetologist Deepak Veerappan for his contribution in erecting a new subfamily Xylophiinae to accommodate wood snakes. The team suggests the common name Deepak’s wood snake. Wood snakes Wood snakes are harmless, sub-fossorial and often found while digging soil in farms and under the logs in the Western Ghat forests. They feed on earthworms and possibly other invertebrates. Interestingly, their close relatives are found in northeast India and Southeast Asia and are known to be arboreal. Drier habitat “This new species is found in the drier regions and in lower altitudes around Agasthyamalai hills. The other Xylophis were reported from cold higher altitudes, of 1,700 m and above, in the Nilgiris and the Anaimalai. Its close relative, Captain’s wood snake, is known from the western slopes of the Western Ghats in the Kerala,” explains Surya Narayanan, from Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment, Bengaluru, and first author of the paper recently published in Vertebrate Zoology.  The snake was previously confused with X. captaini, but detailed morphological studies showed that the it had a broader off-white collar and more ventral scales. Further, DNA studies indicated that it was indeed a new species and was a close relative to X. captaini.  The new find increases the total number of currently recognised wood snakes to five species. The paper adds that very little information is available on the precise distributions of each species, their natural history, population status, feeding and reproductive ecology, and conservation status. “These are burrowing snakes and we have planned to carry out more studies to understand its geographical distribution,” adds Pratyush P. Mohapatra, Scientist at the Zoological Survey of India, who is based in Jabalpur. He adds that as the snake was found from rubber, banana, and coconut farms, it seems to be well adapted to moderate habitat changes, but more studies are needed to ascertain its status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/herpetologist-deepak-veerappan-has-a-snake-named-after-him/article34461461.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The smell of chocolate||What makes chocolate smell musty and mouldy? Cocoa beans, when fermented correctly, have a pleasant smell with sweet and floral notes. But they can have an off-putting scent when fermentation goes wrong, or when storage conditions aren’t quite right and microorganisms grow on them. If these beans make their way into the manufacturing process, the final chocolate can smell unpleasant. Researchers had previously used molecular techniques to identify the compounds that contribute to undesirable smoky flavours. By using gas chromatography in combination with olfactometry and mass spectrometry, researchers at the Technical University of Munich, Germany identified 57 molecules that made up the scent profiles of both normal and musty/mouldy smelling cocoa beans. Of these compounds, four had higher concentrations in off-smelling samples. The researchers determined that geosmin — associated with mouldy and beetroot odours — and 3-methyl-1H-indole — associated with faecal and mothball odours — are the primary contributors to the musty and mouldy scents of cocoa beans. According to a release from American Chemical Society, they found that geosmin was mostly in the beans’ shells, which are removed during processing, while the latter was primarily in the bean nib that is manufactured into chocolate. The researchers say that measuring the amount of these compounds within cocoa beans could be an objective way to detect off-putting scents and flavours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-smell-of-chocolate/article34461464.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Course correcting kids||I always thought that the ‘kinder-’ in kindergarten had something to do with young tots being less judgemental and more accepting of the world around them. Alas, it was much later that I realised it was German for children. It is also possibly the softest word in that language I imagine, because given the general inflections, merely asking someone to pass the butter can easily be mistaken for Hitler’s self-delivered passages from the Nazi film, Triumph des Willens . It’s a language where, the minute you learn the future tense, you end up feeling peckish for power. But I digress, so back to the story. Recently, my friend Tushar, who in another life was an indefatigable Ironman but is now the father of two with a modest will to exist which only surfaces on weekends — yes, the same Tushar who had spoken of the “Jordan principle of social media posts” — enlightened me about how schools are doing things differently nowadays. Now both he and I, and some of you I imagine, grew up in that era where mobile phones were as absent as publicly beating your child wasn’t. For anything we did which was deemed unacceptable, it was a solid hiding followed by the whole, “We didn’t have shoes, or new clothes, and grew up studying under the street lights, you ingrates” spiel. And so I often wondered that when that glorious moment arrived in my adult life when I could rap my kids around, what demoralising stories would I recount to them. Alas, no such joy was to be mine (given how I am still not allowed to reproduce, mainly because nobody has consented yet), or our generation’s. Tushar recently told me that nursery rhymes were being reappropriated for political correctness. No more Baa Baa Black Sheep . Okay, I get that, I think. Another friend told me that lunchtime meals were ‘curated’ to be the same so that there’s no coveting another kid’s food, which could lead to disagreements of disparity. Hard pass on that. Let’s just say the rich kids used to love my impoverished, greasy, reheated leftover excuses of lunchtime snacks and happily bartered their precious sandwiches for a bite of my “rustic and adventurous”. Nobody died of food poisoning, so I guess it worked out fine. And then Tushar hit me with the worst of the lot, Three Little Pigs . No, nothing wrong with that, neither the taxonomic category of the porcine variety or their population density. But the story had been, well, erm, let’s just say, reappropriated. The Big Bad Wolf tries to blow down the houses made of… you know the story I am hoping… well, endgame, the pigs ask him if he had ever considered not eating pigs and trying a vegetarian diet. The wolf must have been possibly as surprised as Tushar, because at no point in any Attenborough documentary had a prey ever proffered an alternate lifestyle choice as a mercy plea to the predator. It was, how shall I put it softly for the Cancel Culture enthusiast generation, not the way of nature. Well, the story ends with the wolf turning vegan and befriending the three pigs. As if man wasn’t ruining the planet enough already, we are now building a new narrative which will ruin the next generation, too. Not because they won’t know how to appreciate grade 10 Kobe, but because they will imagine wolves and lions being herbivores and die very gory deaths at their paws on the first safari trip they take. It’s one thing to have medals for the kid who finishes last (I have a whole rant ready for that mind-mess of an act too, but will refrain) but it’s an unacceptable notion that by making nursery rhymes and fairy tales steeply politically aligned with the lowest common denominator of sensitivity we are rearing a generation of leaders and innovators. To finish, I’d like to quote the coolest nerd ever, Bill Gates, “Life isn’t fair, deal with it.”  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/course-correcting-kids/article34462231.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Oxygen deficit amid mounting COVID-19 cases||The story so far: A shortage of medical oxygen at hospitals in many parts of the country in the wake of the ongoing second wave of COVID-19 infections has caused multiple deaths, including in the capital city, and led to the Delhi High Court asking the Central government to explain its approach to the allocation of the critical resource to various States and Delhi. On Thursday, it questioned the Centre on why States like Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were allotted more oxygen than what they had asked for, while Delhi was not given even its projected requirement to treat COVID-19 patients. On Saturday, Batra Hospital in New Delhi reported that 12 patients had died as it ran out of oxygen. On April 30, India crossed the 4 lakh-mark for daily new COVID-19 cases.  How much oxygen does India produce? In a release on April 15, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare acknowledged at the outset that “medical oxygen is a critical component in the treatment of COVID affected patients” and said that India had a daily production capacity of 7,127 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, which it asserted was sufficient given that the countrywide medical oxygen consumption as of April 12 was 3,842 MT. While the 7,127 MT capacity that the Ministry referred to was the overall oxygen-producing capacity, including the volumes produced for industrial use, the fact that the Centre has restricted the supply of oxygen for all non-medical purposes, except a list of exempted industries that includes pharmaceuticals, food, oil refineries and oxygen cylinder makers, has meant that the major share of output has been earmarked for medical use. Subsequently, in a statement shared by the Press Information Bureau on its website on April 27, the Prime Minister’s Office said: “The production of LMO [liquid medical oxygen] in the country has increased from 5,700 MT/day in August 2020 to the present 8,922 MT (on April 25, 2021). The domestic production of LMO is expected to cross 9,250 MT/day by the end of April 2021.”  What led to the shortage? The demand for medical oxygen, which prior to the onset of the pandemic last year was at about 10% of overall output, or 700 MT/day, has skyrocketed in recent weeks with the incidence of patients suffering acute respiratory distress having sharply spiked during the current wave. While the Union government did constitute an inter-ministerial Empowered Group (EG2) of senior officers in March 2020 to ensure the availability of essential medical equipment, including medical oxygen, to the affected States, the group appears to have been caught off guard, along with most of the country’s health sector by the sheer scale and speed of the rise in infections. As a result, oxygen demand projections have woefully lagged behind actual requirements. For instance, in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court last month, the Union government pointed out that soon after it had passed an order for allocation of oxygen to 12 high-burden States on April 15, some of them promptly ended up considerably revising their projections for medical oxygen requirements for April 20. So, while Uttar Pradesh doubled its requirement forecast to 800 MT from 400 MT earlier, Delhi said it would need 700 MT as of April 20, a 133% increase from the 300 MT it had previously sought. Three other States, which had previously not been a part of the list, also sought allocations from the Centre, thus pushing up the demand forecast for April 20 to a total of 5,619 MT, from the 4,880 MT estimated earlier. The sharp revisions on the part of two States even prompted the government to remark in the affidavit that “it is also pertinent to note that the medical oxygen in any country cannot be unlimited”. Also, the preparation for a possible second wave in India and oxygen requirements appears to have been wholly inadequate. As a pointer, in August last year, the European Industrial Gases Association observed that its members such as Air Liquide and Linde were experiencing five to 10 times the usual demand for medical oxygen, and this at a time when some countries, including in Europe, were experiencing their second wave. Add to this the unique logistic challenges facing the distribution of medical oxygen to hospitals in India, and we had a perfect storm of supplies running out with replenishment not reaching on time and many seriously ill patients gasping to death.  Why are we facing supply challenges? Prior to the pandemic, a bulk of the health sector’s medical oxygen requirement had been met with supplies delivered either in form of oxygen cylinders containing the element as a high-purity gas or through dedicated cryogenic tankers that transport the oxygen in liquid form and deliver them to storage tanks at hospitals. The stand-alone facilities for the production of oxygen, including the medical variant, have so far been geographically concentrated mainly in clusters in the eastern, southern and western parts of the country, thus necessitating the transportation of the element over distances by road. With just 1,224 cryogenic tankers available for transporting LMO, according to the affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, there have not been enough vehicles to carry medical oxygen in quick time to critical locations. This despite the fact that some tanker fleet owners have deployed at least two drivers with each vehicle to improve on-road and turnaround times between each delivery. With cylinders and tankers scarce, the authorities are now eyeing other ways to urgently redress the situation.  What is being done to boost supply? The Centre is taking a multi-pronged approach to address the crisis. For one, it has decided to deploy surplus stocks of the element available with steel plants across the country, including Public Sector Units. Also, the movement of transport tankers for LMO is now being closely monitored and the Indian Railways and the Indian Air Force have been roped in to help ferry tankers by both rail and air (though aircraft are mainly transporting empty tankers as it is hazardous to transport filled cryogenic vessels). The PESO (Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation) has also issued directions to oversee the conversion of argon and nitrogen tankers for use as oxygen tankers. Production of additional cryogenic tankers is also underway to augment fleet capacity. Separately, industrial cylinders have been permitted to be used for medical oxygen after due purging, and the Health Ministry is placing orders for another one lakh oxygen cylinders. The Ministry is also expediting on “a war footing” the commissioning of 162 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants that can generate oxygen from the air at various hospitals across the country, according to its affidavit. And for now, the government is also accepting assistance from abroad with several countries, including Russia and Singapore, despatching oxygen equipment.  What lies ahead? The efforts to boost output and improve supplies notwithstanding, there are still multiple challenges. For the relatives of patients struggling to procure an assured supply of oxygen either at home or once admitted to a hospital, real-time information on availability has been hard to come by. Hence, they have mostly had to rely on volunteer networks disseminating data via social media platforms. Here again, the Supreme Court had to step in to warn authorities against initiating any punitive action against volunteers and those putting out appeals for help. Further, the allocation of oxygen to the States by the empowered group appears to be uneven, with the Delhi High Court pointing to the fact that against the local government’s request for 700 MT, it had only been allocated 490 MT, while Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra had been sanctioned more supply than they had sought. The wrinkles in matching supply and demand both at the institutional and individual level need to be ironed out without further delay.  With just 1,224 cryogenic tankers available for transporting LMO, there have not been enough vehicles to carry medical oxygen in quick time to the locations where it is urgently required||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/oxygen-deficit-amid-mounting-covid-19-cases/article34461390.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Public buildings and fire safety rules||The story so far: Fires occur in many public buildings in India every year, killing a large number of people and injuring many. Over the past year, there have been deadly fires in hospital buildings, including those treating COVID-19 patients. Recent infernos in hospitals at Bharuch in Gujarat, Virar, a suburb of Mumbai, and Mumbra near Thane, killed at least 37 people. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) says 330 people died in commercial building fires in 2019, while fatalities for residential or dwelling buildings were much higher at 6,329. Electrical faults are cited as the leading cause of fires but State governments are widely criticised for being lax with building safety laws and for failing to equip public buildings with modern technology. Hospital ICUs (intensive care units) are a great fire risk because they are oxygen-suffused, and need to meet high standards. What fire safety compliance is expected in public buildings, including hospitals? At the centre of all standard-setting is the National Building Code of India. Part 4 of the Code deals with Fire and Life Safety. The document provides specifications and guidelines for design and materials that reduce the threat of destructive fires. Under the Code, all existing and new buildings are classified by nature of use, such as residential, educational, institutional, assembly (like cinemas and auditoria), business, mercantile, industrial, storage and hazardous. Hospitals come under the institutional category. The Union Home Ministry’s Directorate-General for Fire Services, Civil Defence & Home Guards says on its website that the National Building Code (NBC), published by the Bureau of Indian Standards, is a “recommendatory document”, and States have been asked to incorporate it into their local building bylaws, making the recommendations a “mandatory requirement”. Evidently, fire safety rules exist in every State, but the provisions of the Code are ignored in practice, and even mandatory certifications do not reflect compliance. Queries on hospital fires prompted the Centre to announce in Parliament on March 23 this year that a Fire Safety Committee conducts periodical audits on fire installation, heating, ventilation and air-conditioning, electrical sub-stations and other electrical equipment in the Union government’s hospitals. The Health Ministry said it had circulated strict guidelines in September 2020 stipulating third-party accreditation for fire safety and that a fire response plan should be in place. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has also stipulated requirements for fire safety in public buildings, including hospitals, which incorporate elements of the NBC, besides design guidelines on maintaining minimum open safety space, protected exit mechanisms, dedicated staircases, and crucial drills to carry out evacuations. What does the Code specify? At the macro level, the NBC recommends the location of buildings by type of use in specific zones to ensure that industrial and hazardous structures do not coexist with residential, institutional, office and business buildings. It specifies, among other things, the technical requirements for special buildings, high rises, educational and institutional buildings higher than 9 metres, and those with an area of over 300 square metres. Next, the Code drills down into the specifics of fire resistance based on the materials used — exterior walls, interior bearing walls, floor, roof, fire check doors, fire enclosure exits, and so on. Technologies to sound alerts in case of a fire and also to fight it are expected to be incorporated into buildings. Examples given in the Code are automatic fire detection and alarm system, down-comer pipelines connected to a roof tank, dry riser pipelines that fire-fighters can use to douse upper floors, automatic sprinklers and water sprays, fireman’s lift, fire barriers, escape routes, markings, and so on. Incorporating these into a proper design and ensuring that certified fire-resistant materials are used in the construction can avert deadly fires, giving occupants sufficient time to exit safely. However, the NBC also says that for various types of buildings, “in case of practical difficulty or to avoid unnecessary hardship, without sacrificing reasonable safety, local head, fire services may consider exemptions from the Code”. Do State governments follow the Code? Maharashtra, which has been hit by a series of fires, has a Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act since 2008. Section 3 of the Act makes the provisions of the NBC mandatory and Schedule I of the State’s law is borrowed from the Code. However, reports in the wake of recent fire accidents indicate that the authorities have been unable to keep up with inspection requirements for thousands of buildings. A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report for the period 2010 to 2015 noted that in Maharashtra, after a “joint physical inspection by audit of 53 government buildings/hospitals/educational institutions/commercial establishments in eight selected MCs [municipal corporations] revealed that only fire extinguishers were installed in 11 of 53 buildings and the remaining 42 buildings were not equipped with any of the fire-fighting installations”. Fire department professionals had earlier demanded third-party audits by licensed professionals. In Kerala, obtaining an NOC [no-objection certificate] from the fire department, given in form H-3 for hospitals that are between 15 metres and 24 metres high, requires furnishing exhaustive information on design and infrastructure. The rules prescribe firefighting equipment and installations that meet “Indian Standards”, but do not contain a direct reference to the NBC. Tamil Nadu’s form for a fire licence, required under the Fire Service Act read with municipal law, is even broader, and no reference is found for compliance with the Code. What is the future course? In December last year, the Supreme Court directed all States to carry out fire safety audits of dedicated COVID-19 hospitals. It has become evident that State forces lack the manpower to inspect and ensure compliance with safety codes, including the NBC, where it is mandatory. One option is to make heavy fire liability insurance compulsory for all public buildings, which would offer protection to occupants and visitors and bring about external inspection of safety.  In December 2020, the Supreme Court directed all States to carry out a fire safety audit of dedicated COVID-19 hospitals. It is evident that State fire forces lack the manpower to ensure compliance with safety codes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/public-buildings-and-fire-safety-rules/article34461388.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance for ‘resilience’||Around this time last year, the entertainment world was just starting to learn to adapt to lockdowns and going digital. Fans caught Norah Jones and Aventura’s livestreams while lounging in their beds; large-scale music festivals, including NH7 and Sunburn, went wholly online; and as the pandemic dissolved the concept of ticket kiosks, people built their digital avatars for concerts such as the Zero Music Festival. The competition soon grew fierce: it wasn’t enough to cast events online, they had to be short, impactful, and engaging. It was a learning curve, admit London-based Odissi dancers Kripa Iyer and Neelambaree Prasad, organisers of the ongoing international dance festival, Aprajita. The three-day event — hosted by Nehru Centre, the cultural wing of the High Commission of India in the U.K. — has nine dancers from around the globe performing on the theme ‘resilience’.   Taking notes in 2020 Iyer and Prasad co-founded Madhuriya Art House, a dance company that works towards embedding Indian classical dance within London’s cultural scene, in 2018. The company was on the verge of organising a workshop with Indian classical dancers and ballet dancers early last year, when the pandemic threw a spanner in their plans. Following that disappointment, the two stayed home, watching and sometimes participating in virtual dance festivals, while always taking notes. “Where is the gap? What doesn’t work?,” Prasad recalls them asking each other. “It’s hard to engage with the audiences when it’s an online event, and we have sat through discussions that ran on for two hours,” says Iyer. Mindful of these points, they designed Aprajita such that each segment doesn’t exceed 50 minutes and the line-up has variety — punctuating dance sequences with talks on dance science and history, and scheduling performances that are both Indian classical and fusion. Rhythms cross borders The most challenging part was to set the mood, says Prasad. “As artistes, you feed off each others’ energy. That’s not happening because you are not together,” adds Iyer. So they had to find other ways to bring in the festival spirit. Artistes who hadn’t worked with each other before were paired together in the hope that they would “inspire and motivate each other”, says Iyer. For example, the event features a collaboration between Phil Scarff, who plays Hindustani classical music on saxophone, and Bharatanatyam dancer Neha Bhatnagar. If not for the online format, Iyer says, “we wouldn’t have naturally thought about an artiste in the U.S. collaborating with an artiste in Australia”. The online format has also helped them feature dancers from India. While they always had plans to do so, it never materialised, until now. Aprajita will include performances by Guru Debi Basu and Sanyuktam Arts, Mumbai; Rakesh Sai Babu and Trikayaa Dance Company, New Delhi; and Kapila Venu, Kerala.   The way forward   “The advantage of being a dancer who is now trying to curate is that you have seen the other side,” says Iyer, adding that when she first did a record, she was terrified — finding the experience of dancing in front of a camera quite strange. Though both Iyer and Prasad can’t wait to perform in front of a live audience again, they believe that virtual events are here to stay. Going forward, they believe that any big live event will have an online angle, the target audience won’t be restricted by their location, and there will be greater possibilities of collaborations across oceans. Aprajita is their way of initiating people into this new face of culture.   Aprajita is on till    May 2, 7.30 p.m. to   9 p.m. IST, on   Facebook Live @nehrucentrelondon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dance-for-resilience/article34462229.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Chef’s table: spices 101||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chefs-table-spices-101/article34462226.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccine crunch||The story so far: Despite a massive shortage of COVID-19 vaccines across the country, the Central government announced that vaccination for everyone above 18 years of age would begin from May 1. But several State governments expressed their inability to kick off the programme citing a shortage of vaccines. They have postponed the drive to when the required stocks arrive in each State. This could have a deep impact on the epidemiological health of a population seized by a deadly second wave of infections. What is the extent of the shortage? India is currently producing roughly 2 million vaccines a day, and according to data on the Co-WIN portal, the number of vaccines being administered daily is roughly 2.3 million to 2.5 million. The shortage is stark. Technically, the production capacity falls below even the daily requirement. As of April 29, 9.1 % of the population had received one dose of the vaccine, and only 1.9 % had been “fully vaccinated”. That leaves out a huge share of the population that is still not inoculated. Chandrakanth Lahariya, vaccinologist and epidemiologist, says the maths behind it is incontrovertible. “Even at the current production levels, the demand is higher. The vaccination has been opened to the additional population and the demand has increased three-fold, while supply remains the same.” He reasons that even with other manufacturers being allowed to produce vaccines and a few million doses of the Russian vaccine Sputnik expected shortly, increasing production will take time. The Serum Insititute of India, the maker of Covishield, looks to scale up production to 100 million doses per month soon, and Bharat Biotech, which manufactures Covaxin, is talking of producing 50-60 million doses a month. But even in the next few months, the production is unlikely to go far beyond 150 million doses a month. Can people prolong the interval for their second dose? Both vaccines available in India have a two-dose schedule. For Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine, T. Jacob John, renowned virologist, formerly with Christian Medical College, Vellore, said, “Phase 3 trials were conducted across many countries with varying intervals. They figured that a second dose 12 weeks later offered the best protection. Studies with a six to eight-week interval also found a linear relationship, with efficacy improving over time.” In times of no urgency, the best option is to take the second shot at 12 weeks, but in the face of the second wave, however, he cautions that patients should take the vaccine on time to reduce the risk to themselves. The second dose of Covaxin can be taken four to six weeks after the first. Dr. Lahariya says that India should increase the gap for Covishield to 12 weeks. Any immunisation schedule is based on technical and operational feasibility, he says. In routine immunisation for children, most vaccines are administered at a four-week gap in India, while in many countries abroad, they are given after an eight-week gap. “Here, the operational reason is that coverage is already low. If we increase the vaccine gap, it might unnecessarily delay vaccination, especially for DPT. So, we have to design our vaccination programme based on scientific evidence and operational needs.” In Covishield, the higher the gap, the greater is the proven efficacy. And several million doses will be saved to allow people to take at least one shot. However, this scenario cannot be extrapolated for Covaxin, adds Dr. Lahariya. At this point, the advice would be to encourage people to get doses whenever they can. “Irrespective of when the second dose is taken, it counts,” he says. Immunologically, it is understood that when a person has been given a vaccine (even one dose), the immune system is activated. This means the system can mount a better response than a naive immune system in someone who is not vaccinated, says Dr. Lahariya. If a person contracts COVID-19 after the first dose, when should they get the next shot? Dr. Lahariya says according to the broader principle, it is appropriate to delay vaccination. “Natural infection provides some protection for a few months. If a person has already received one shot within a month, then the natural infection becomes some sort of a booster infection. Given the operational challenges, delaying the second shot can be done fairly confidently. However, the decision should be left to people.” Dr. John points to the evolving guidelines released by the United States’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). “Originally, CDC came up with a three-month gap, and later changed it to a one-month gap, and finally, we have, I think, an advisory to take it any time after full recovery, or after the person becomes completely asymptomatic.”  Immunologically, it is understood that when a person has been given a vaccine (even one dose), the immune system is activated. This means the system can mount a better response than a naive immune system in someone who is not vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccine-crunch/article34461392.ece
02 May 2021||May 02 2021 00:00 IST,||No breathing space||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-breathing-space/article34461815.ece
