03 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP, allies set to retain power in Assam||The Bharatiya Janata Party and its regional allies looked set to retain power in Assam, staving off the challenge of a 10-party grand alliance, led by the Congress, and a new regional front sired by the 2019 protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The BJP and its allies, the Asom Gana Parishad and the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), won 46 of the 68 seats declared at the time ofgoing to the press, and were leading in 27 other seats. The Congress and its two major allies — the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), an estranged partner of the BJP — won the remaining 22 declared so far. The BJP’s development plank and sops for tea plantation workers, a deciding factor in at least 45 of Assam’s 126 Assembly constituencies, apparently overrode regionalism and perceived anti-CAA sentiments. Polarisation of voters — with AIUDF president and MP Badruddin Ajmal having been projected as the “future of Assam” in the event of a Mahajot victory — also played a role. Both the BJP and the Congress claimed their respective alliances would win more than 100 seats. But while the strategies of the saffron camp worked, the Congress-led group could not cash in on its set of guarantees, including the scrapping of the CAA if voted to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-allies-set-to-retain-power-in-assam/article34468621.ece
03 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||People rejected lies of Cong., BJP: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that people of the State have rejected the Congress and BJP’s defamatory campaign against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. They had returned the LDF to power with a bigger majority and for a better future, he told mediapersons on Sunday. Mr. Vijayan said he would tender his resignation to Governor Arif Muhammad Khan soon. The LDF would meet and stake claim to form a new government soon. When pressed, Mr. Vijayan said the Cabinet would have new faces. The new LDF government would focus on retarding the pandemic and reviving the economy. Welfarism was on the top of the LDF's agenda. In an oblique reference to Nair Service Society (NSS) general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair, Mr. Vijayan said a ‘particular person’ had early on the voting day called for a regime change. However, the last-minute effort to influence voters’ choice had failed. People voted based on their experience of life with the LDF government. Jose. K. Mani of the Kerala Congress (M) had lost in Pala because the BJP had cross voted to help the UDF candidate. The LDF would analyse the reasons for Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma's "one-off" defeat. ‘BJP account closed’ The LDF had "closed the BJP's account" in Kerala. The BJP had won in Nemom in the 2016 Assembly elections because the Congress had posed no real challenge. The BJP's victory was an aberration. The BJP brand of Hindu majoritarian politics would not gain traction in Kerala. The State had a secular mind. Moreover, its people trusted the LDF to keep communal forces at bay. The BJP had unleashed a recriminatory campaign against the LDF. It had roped in the Central law enforcement to target the State government. The right-wing media helped the BJP, and also the Congress, help spread lies about the government. It aired libellous allegations against LDF leaders. Indirectly referring to V.T. Balaram's defeat in Thrithala, Mr. Vijayan said voters had punished the candidate for denigrating the memory of communist leader A.K. Gopalan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-rejected-lies-of-cong-bjp-cm/article34468778.ece
03 May 2021||NELLORE,||YSRCP retains Tirupati Lok Sabha seat||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) retained the prestigious Tirupati Lok Sabha (SC) seat as its candidate M. Gurumoorthy, a political novice, logged an impressive margin of over 2,71,500 votes at the counting on Sunday for the April 17 byelection. Dr. Gurumoorthy, making his electoral debut following the demise of YSRCP MP B. Durgaprasad, polled more than 6.26 lakh votes to improve the victory margin of the party by 1.64%. Durgaprasad had won by a margin of 55.03% in 2019. Former Union Minister and TDP candidate Panabaka Lakshmi was the lone contestant to put up a semblance of fight as she polled 3,54,500 votes (32.09%). Ms, Lakshmi, who had unsuccessfully contested against Durgaprasad in 2019 after switching over from the Congress to the TDP ahead of the elections, polled 4.75% less number of votes this time. Dr. Gurumoorthy established a lead in the first round itself, and increased the margin in every round to poll 6,26,108 votes in 25 rounds of counting held amid tight security and strict adherence to COVID norms. Setback for BJP-JSP The result came as a big disappointment to the BJP - Jana Sena Party combine, which had considered the byelection as a springboard to catapult to power in the State by opening its account in the spiritual centre with its “Hindutva agenda,” as its candidate K. Ratnaprabha suffered an ignominious defeat by polling only a little over 57,000 votes (5.17%) in the wake of JSP president Pawan Kalyan withdrawing from campaign midway after contracting COVID-19. Ms. Ratnaprabha, a bureaucrat-turned-politician, lost deposit and so did 25 other candidates, who included another former Union Minister and Congress candidate Chinta Mohan, who polled 9,500 votes. CPI (M) candidate Nellore Yadagiri secured a little less than 6,000 votes as the party’s efforts to expose the regional parties alleged failure to fight against the BJP’s “communal agenda and perceived injustice to the State post bifurcation” failed to cut ice with the voters. Over 15,500 voters (1.41%) exercised the NOTA option as none of the Independent candidates polled more than 5,000 votes. The surging COVID-19 cases resulted in a reduced voter turnout of 64.42% against 79.76% in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-retains-tirupati-ls-seat/article34468579.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fix oxygen deficit by May 3, set up buffer stock: SC to govt.||The Supreme Court, in an order released late on Sunday, directed the Centre to ensure that the deficit of oxygen to treat COVID-19 patients in the national capital should be rectified on or before midnight of May 3 (Monday). A Special Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, ordered the Centre to act “in collaboration” with the States to “prepare a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency purposes and decentralise the location of the emergency stocks”. “The emergency stocks shall be created within the next four days and are to be replenished on a day-to-day basis, in addition to the existing allocation of oxygen supply to the States,” ordered the Supreme Court. The order was reserved on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fix-oxygen-deficit-by-may-3-set-up-buffer-stock-sc-to-govt/article34469056.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hospitals ring alarm bells over oxygen shortage||Several hospitals in the city had to hold their breath on Sunday as they made SOS calls urging authorities to replenish their oxygen supply that would run out within hours. The Delhi government responded by providing stock from their reserves and added that the situation had arisen again as the oxygen suppliers had not honoured their commitments. On Saturday, 12 more patients, including a doctor, died as a hospital in South Delhi ran out of liquid medical oxygen. Through the day, hospitals like Madhukar Rainbow Children’s Hospital, Sitaram Bhartia, HAHC Hospital and MD City Hospital among others sent out SOS messages on social media stating that they were running out of oxygen. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha commenting on the shortage of oxygen at Vimhans Niyati Hospital tweeted, “This is criminal abdication on part of those who were supposed to supply oxygen. However, we are in process of arranging 2MT of LMO for Vihmans from our reserves so that they get through the night. I urge Central Govt to deliver to us the allocated oxygen. We too are raising SOS”. Responded to tweets Mr. Chadha also responded to tweets from other hospitals saying that the Delhi government was rushing oxygen from its emergency supplies to replenish stocks as suppliers had yet again defaulted. Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka appealed to government authorities to shift patients to other facilities so that they could be saved as they were running out of oxygen. “CRY FOR HELP: Received only 5 #oxygen cylinders after running around the entire day, not more than 60 mins left to save lives of more than 250 patients,” the hospital said in a tweet. This past week, 20 COVID-19 patients died at Jaipur Golden Hospital and 25 at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital due to the irregular supply of oxygen.  I urge Central Govt to deliver to us the allocated oxygen. We too are raising SOS   Raghav Chadha   Aam Aadmi Party MLA tweeted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospitals-ring-alarm-bells-over-oxygen-shortage/article34469131.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Safety norms flouted during counting in T.N.||As the counting of votes polled in the Assembly election began across Tamil Nadu on Sunday, violation of the COVID-19 safety protocols became apparent at many counting centres. Booth agents and party representatives flouted the norms of physical distancing and masking at almost all centres. Agents also crowded into the booths or in the dining areas. Throwing party president M.K. Stalin’s request to the wind, DMK workers thronged Anna Arivalayam, the party headquarters, for celebrations and burst crackers. Only a few wore masks. By afternoon, an inspector attached to the Teynampet station was suspended for failure to control the crowd. At many centres, hand sanitisers, PPE kits, masks and shields were provided, but very few used them diligently. At Anna University in Chennai, booth agents and party representatives crowded in the counting room. With only one door left open in the counting room for the Saidapet constituency, party workers demanded that more windows and doors be kept open, which was later done. People loitered around the centres without masking up. PPE kits were given before counting began. However, within a few minutes of donning them, agents at most centres discarded them, citing hot weather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safety-norms-flouted-during-counting-in-tn/article34468678.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Don’t discriminate in vaccination process’||The Supreme Court has said that COVID-19 vaccinations being provided to citizens constitute a valuable public good and there should not be any discrimination in the process. “Discrimination cannot be made between different classes of citizens who are similarly circumstanced,” a Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, said in an order.Page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-discriminate-in-vaccination-process/article34469053.ece
03 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Intermediate examinations postponed||Education Minister A. Suresh on Sunday announced the postponement of Intermediate examinations, which was scheduled to begin on May 5, owing to the spurt in coronavirus infections in the State. “It has been decided to put the examinations on hold as advised by the High Court. A fresh schedule will be released once the pandemic situation improves,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/intermediate-examinations-postponed/article34468613.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Pinarayi set for a record second term||The electoral history of Kerala saw a watershed event on Sunday as the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), led by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, romped home in the Assembly election. The verdict dismantled the familiar pattern of the two major fronts led by rivals Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Congress alternately coming to power. The familiar arrangements in the bipolar order of electoral politics in the State were overturned with the LDF securing continuity of governance, a scenario captured by its campaign catchphrase ‘ Urappanu LDF’ (It’s LDF for sure). The LDF swept the election by winning 99 of the total 140 seats in the Assembly. The LDF’s historic victory even surpassed its own calculations.  Mr. Vijayan, projected as the brand icon of the LDF, will be credited with creating a history of sorts by breaking the accustomed pattern of the State alternately electing the UDF and the LDF every five years. The UDF’s rout came as a shock to its leadership, given its concerted campaign focusing on issues that put the LDF on the defensive. The UDF pegged its hopes on issues that embarrassed the ruling front, including the case of gold smuggling through diplomatic channels, allegations of nepotism and its stand on the issue of entry of women of all ages into the Sabarimala temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pinarayi-set-for-a-record-second-term/article34468616.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Stalin wins absolute majority in close contest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-wins-absolute-majority-in-close-fight/article34468624.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Rangasamy to return as Puducherry CM||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rangasamy-to-return-as-puducherry-cm/article34468627.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata wins West Bengal but loses in Nandigram||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-wins-west-bengal-but-loses-in-nandigram/article34468630.ece
03 May 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 56,647 fresh cases||Maharashtra reported 56,647 new COVID-19 cases against 51,356 recoveries on Sunday as the State’s active case tally rose to 6,68,353. A high fatality spike of 669 deaths pushed the death toll to 70,284. Mumbai recorded its lowest surge in days, adding just 3,629 new cases, taking its total tally to 6,55,997 of whom 61,436 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-adds-56647-fresh-cases/article34469289.ece
03 May 2021||Chennai,||T.N.’s daily tally crosses the 20,000-mark||Tamil Nadu recorded 20,768 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the State’s tally to 12,07,112. The toll touched 14,346 with 153 deaths, including 81 in private hospitals and 72 in government facilities. In Chennai, 6,078 new cases were reported on Sunday while 5,702 patients were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tns-daily-tally-crosses-the-20000-mark/article34468676.ece
03 May 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkatans borrow from Ray to celebrate win||People in Kolkata were on Sunday borrowing from the words of filmmaker Satyajit Ray — who would have turned 100 on this day — to celebrate the victory of Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress in the Assembly elections. Many of the city’s roads saw bike processions and people greeting each other with “Joy Bangla!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkatans-borrow-from-ray-to-celebrate-win/article34468801.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Commuting a struggle for staff in essential services||Employees attached to hospitals, government offices, pharmacies, and other essential services are finding the daily commute increasingly difficult, with many criticising the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) for running only limited buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/commuting-a-struggle-for-staff-in-essential-services/article34469055.ece
03 May 2021||KALABURAGI,||39 COVID-19 deaths in Kalyana Karnataka||The six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region reported 39 deaths and 3,481 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Ballari reported 18 deaths and 1,156 new cases, while Kalaburagi reported seven deaths and 427 new cases. Bidar recorded six deaths and 584 new cases, Koppal five deaths and 567 new cases, Raichur two deaths and 445 new cases and Yadgir reported one death and 302 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/39-covid-19-deaths-in-kalyana-karnataka/article34468750.ece
03 May 2021||MYSURU,||‘CFR lower now, but no time to be complacent’||Even though the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in the second wave of COVID-19 in Karnataka has remained lower than the first, experts are anticipating a rise in absolute numbers in the coming days. Monthly data suggests that the CFR – proportion of deaths out of the total individuals testing positive – has remained lower in the second wave so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cfr-lower-now-but-no-time-to-be-complacent/article34468865.ece
03 May 2021||Chennai,||Stalin’s long and patient wait for top seat ends||It has been a long haul for Muthuvel Karunanidhi Stalin. Indira Gandhi’s Emergency had catapulted him into active politics. It was baptism by fire, when, in his early twenties, the newly married Stalin was dragged away and jailed. His father, the late M. Karunanidhi, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) patriarch, once remarked that Mr. Stalin was arrested only because he was his father’s son. The son, however, has had to wait for over four decades to occupy his father’s seat, first in the party, and, now, in government. Karunanidhi had poignantly portrayed Mr. Stalin’s arrest and subsequent torture in prison. One of the imprisoned DMK leaders, Chittibabu, a former Chennai Mayor and former MP, tried to intervene when jail officials were thrashing him. Chittibabu was also severely beaten. “We met Stalin in prison. Surrounded by prison officials, he was wearing full sleeves, obviously, to cover up the wounds on his body. I asked whether he was beaten. Though he shook his head to say ‘no’, his eyes gave it away. If he revealed that he had been beaten, he would have been subjected to another round of beatings,” Karunanidhi recalled in his autobiography, Nenjukku Needhi . After Murasoli Maran, nephew of Karunanidhi, it was Mr. Stalin who showed keen interest in politics. Long before the party’s youth wing was launched, he mobilised the youth in Gopalapuram and requested then Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai to participate in their function. But Anna could not make it. Though he rose from being youth wing leader to legislator, Chennai Mayor, Minister and Deputy Chief Minister over the years, Mr. Stalin had to constantly prove his mettle. He was often compared adversely with his redoubtable father. Afraid of a backlash against being seen as promoting him in the party and government, Karunanidhi allowed him only a step-by-step elevation, lest his rise be seen as meteoric. Karunanidhi named him after Joseph Stalin, the Soviet Communist leader, who had died around the time of his birth. The name did not exactly help him in early life. The famous Presentation Convent in Chennai, the school attended by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, denied admission to him because he had a Communist name. “Even my sister was not given an admission because of me,” Mr. Stalin would say. Though the youth wing headed by him became one of the strongest units of the DMK, and he himself tasted electoral victory as early as in 1989 and entered the Assembly, he was not inducted into the Cabinet when the DMK returned to power that year after 13 years. Major break Even in 1996, after the DMK swept the polls, he remained just a party MLA. His major break came soon enough, when he became the first elected Mayor of the Chennai Corporation. The flyovers constructed in various parts of the city as part of his “Singara Chennai” scheme won him accolades. It was during this period that he started gaining importance and some level of control in the party. He decided the alliance partners for the 2001 Assembly election, which were mostly caste-based parties, a move that led to a difference of opinion with Murasoli Maran, who announced that he was quitting active politics. Mr. Stalin’s tenure as mayor gave him a foundation in administration. He was made Minister of Rural Development and Municipal Administration after the party was elected to power in 2006. He strengthened women self-help groups in the State and his growing influence in the administration and party led to his promotion as the State’s first Deputy Chief Minister in 2009. Meanwhile, he also became the DMK’s treasurer. Subsequent years witnessed his growing control over the party. He cut to size the powerful district secretaries of the party by bifurcating and trifurcating the district units they controlled as their fiefdoms. As the 2G scam gradually strained the relationship between the DMK and the Congress, Mr. Stalin finally persuaded his father to come out of the United Progressive Alliance government at the Centre. Though he started replacing his father, who could not travel due to old age, as the party’s star campaigner in the 2016 Assembly polls, he was not projected as the chief ministerial candidate. Mr. Stalin himself said in the campaign, “Kalaignar would be the Chief Minister.” The DMK’s failure to win the 2016 Assembly polls provided Mr. Stalin an opportunity to lead his party in the Assembly as his wheel-chair bound father could not attend Assembly on regular basis. The way he conducted himself, and the legal battle through which he secured a place on Chennai’s Marina beach for the burial of his father in 2018, saw the emergence of a leader who is going to occupy the seat of the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stalins-long-and-patient-wait-for-top-seat-ends/article34468539.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply’||Top Opposition leaders on Sunday, in a joint statement, asked the Central government to focus all its attention on ensuring uninterrupted oxygen supply to hospitals across the country and undertake a mass, free vaccination programme against COVID-19. The statement comes a day after at least 12 critical patients, including a doctor, died at Batra Hospital, a leading private hospital in Delhi, because of a shortage of medical oxygen. Signatories to the statement include former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam chief M.K. Stalin and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav. Other signatories include National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah, CPI-M general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India’s D. Raja and Tejashwi Yadav of Rashtriya Janata Dal In the wake of “uncontrollable” surge of the pandemic across the country, the statement said, “We call upon the Central government to focus all attention in ensuring the uninterrupted flow of oxygen supplies to all hospitals and health centres across the country.” “We call upon the Central government to immediately launch a free mass vaccination programme across the country. The budgetary allocation of Rs. 35,000 crore for the vaccination programme must be utilised for this,” the joint statement added. On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting on augmenting oxygen requirements from industrial units and adding more oxygen beds to meet the surge in demand. Apart from the deaths in the Batra Hospital on Saturday because of a shortage in oxygen supply, less than a fortnight ago, 20 COVID-19 patients at the Jaipur Golden Hospital and 25 at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in the national capital had died due to lack of oxygen. So severe has been the oxygen crisis in the capital that many hospitals have had to approach the High Court to ensure uninterrupted supply. The government had, however, denied that there was any shortage and put it down to a logistics issue in transporting oxygen to places that have seen increased demand for oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-uninterrupted-oxygen-supply/article34468571.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP’s electoral machine loses its bite in Bengal||The BJP’s failure to breach the fortress of Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal and win a seat in Kerala was in contrast to its return to power with a good majority in Assam and the victory of the National Democratic Alliance in Puducherry. Challenges for the BJP are, however, both organisational and existential. Who will be Assam CM? In Assam, for example, the BJP’s victory has thrown up the interesting conundrum of just who should be the new Chief Minister — sitting Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal or Health and Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is the BJP’s power house in Northeast India holding its alliances in several States together. He also managed to steer the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests away from politically harming the BJP in the State. Senior party leaders have been saying that the party’s parliamentary board will be taking a view on the matter. West Bengal lessons In West Bengal, it has become clear that the constituency that rose to give the BJP 18 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha election has somewhat shifted back to the Trinamool Congress. A consolidation of women and minority votes also seems to have helped Mamata Banerjee. As BJP general secretary in charge of West Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya said, “It seems Bengal wants Mamata Banerjee as Chief Minister.” He also added that the fear of contracting COVID-19 may have kept BJP voters at home. In the major reasons for its failure to win, BJP leaders point out that the lack of a local face as a chief ministerial candidate hurt the party, but most important, an overdependence on Trinamool Congress defectors for both organisational heft and as candidates did not go down well with the electorate. Many of the high-profile turncoats, including Former Ministers in the Mamata Banerjee government, lost the poll. Existential issue The big issue, however, is more deep, and has to do with the gigantic second wave of COVID-19 that is battering India. The BJP, which always sought the “party of governance” badge for itself, is now floundering on that score. The BJP has always pointed out that the old Congress slogan against the Jan Sangh (BJP’s earlier avatar), “ Shaasan karna koi khel nahin, Jan Sangh ke diyon main tel nahin (governance is not a game, these lamps of Jan Sangh have no oil — lamp being the Jan Sangh symbol)”, no longer applied to them as governments led by the party have been re-elected for multiple terms in the States and at the Centre. While the jury is still out on whether the second wave and the long-drawn out polling schedule had a bearing on the Trinamool victory and the BJP’s loss, next year’s electoral calendar is looming large. Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, two States that are being battered by the pandemic with health and governance infrastructure failing, are scheduled to go to the polls next year. Both are States that have sitting BJP governments, and the party’s own fortresses will be under siege. While the BJP has become a party of meticulous electoral planning and execution, the performance of its governments in these two States will be under the scanner, as of that of the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjps-electoral-machine-loses-its-bite-in-bengal/article34468529.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Several foreign embassies in Delhi face COVID-19 onslaught||A significant number of foreign diplomats in the national capital has been hit by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The situation was brought to light on Saturday evening with the Embassy of the Philippines seeking oxygen cylinders from the volunteers of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC). The health crisis in the capital’s diplomatic enclave has spread to several foreign missions, including the New Zealand High Commission which sought help from the IYC publicly on Sunday morning,  triggering an online exchange between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Congress Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh. “Could you please help with oxygen cylinder urgently at the New Zealand High Commission”, asked the High Commission to B.V. Srinivas, national president of the IYC. The Hindu has learnt that the High Commission has several cases of COVID-19, out of which two are serious and required oxygen support immediately. The mission deleted the tweet soon after it was noticed. However, the volunteers of the IYC delivered several oxygen cylinders to the mission within an hour of the public appeal. “New Zealand High Commission opened gates of the Embassy and accepted cylinders,” Mr. Srinivas tweeted. Some time later, Mr. Jaishankar took to social media to claim that the IYC had supplied oxygen in an “unsolicited” manner and that the mission had “no COVID cases”. “Clearly for cheap publicity by you know who. Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling,” Mr. Jaishankar tweeted. Earlier Mr. Ramesh had asked if the Ministry of External Affairs was “sleeping” while the Indian Youth Congress was attending to “SOS calls from foreign embassies”. The High Commission ostensibly went public after waiting for oxygen cylinders for many hours. The mission had set up a healthcare unit on the premises for ailing individuals and the support staff but the increasing number of cases has made it impossible for the unit to function without additional oxygen support, it has been learnt. Many missions hit A bulk of the foreign missions are located in the Chanakyapuri area, where many diplomats also have their residences. Other than the Philippines, several South East Asian nations have also been impacted by COVID-19, it has been learnt. Several staff members of the Royal Thai Embassy have been affected by COVID-19, and with critical shortage of oxygen and intensive care units in the national capital the Embassy arranged an air ambulance two days ago to repatriate their nationals, it has been learnt. The embassies of Singapore and Vietnam also had several cases. Some embassies have resorted to helping themselves with oxygen from whoever can give them, one diplomat said on condition of anonymity. The U.S. Embassy has also come out with a public statement saying they are unable to share information about the COVID-19 situation inside the mission because of “privacy concerns” but maintained that the health and safety of U.S. Government personnel and their dependents is among the Department’s highest priorities. The spokesperson of the U.S. Embassy said the mission will take “all necessary measures to safeguard health and well-being” of the employees. A diplomat from the Palestinian Embassy informed that both he and his wife had tested positive and are currently under medication. He said there are others too who might require help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/several-foreign-embassies-in-delhi-face-covid-19-onslaught/article34468550.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Between emphatic win and total loss||The Left’s electoral fortunes on Sunday swung between the euphoria of the Left Democratic Front’s victory in Kerala, where after a gap of nearly 40 years an incumbent government returned, and total annihilation in West Bengal, drawing a blank for the first time in Independent India. The Left is drawing solace from the BJP’s defeat in West Bengal. “The BJP suffered a severe setback despite its money power and manipulations in West Bengal. The people of Bengal have very clearly rejected the ideology of communal polarisation,” the CPI(M) Polit Bureau statement said. People’s urge to defeat the BJP led to a sharp polarisation squeezing out the Sanjukta Morcha, the party said. Explaining this further, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury told The Hindu , “In a first past the post system, if there is a polarisation then the third force often gets elbowed out.” CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, who was critical of the Left front’s political line in the election, said the Left was never a factor in this election. “This election was all about the BJP trying to capture Bengal and Bengal trying to stop the BJP. The Left, in fact, should celebrate the BJP’s defeat. This in many ways is a vindication of the Left’s inclusive legacy in Bengal,” he said. But this historic low is deeply worrying for many. Even in 2011, when Mamata Banerjee first routed the Left government after its 34-year spell in power, the Left Front had got nearly 35% of the vote share, just three percentage points behind the Trinamool. In 10 years, the combined strength of the Left parties together does not cross 2%. Mr. Bhattacharya said that the Left had been callous and would need to “re-orient and rebuild” itself. “The Left will have to do a serious review of its political line and assessment of its situation. How did we lose the grip? And how did the BJP gain a firm foothold in West Bengal, needs a serious review,” CPI general secretary D. Raja said. The CPI(M), meanwhile, is staring at the question whether these bipolar results will disrupt its internal balance and Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan overshadow the party itself. Just when, at the end of a long and tiring tussle on the question of allying with the Congress between the Kerala and West Bengal units was settled, the question itself became irrelevant. However, party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, said only those unaware of working of the CPI(M) would pose such a question.  Left should celebrate BJP’s defeat which is a vindication of its inclusive legacy in BengalDipankar Bhattacharya||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/between-emphatic-win-and-total-loss/article34468545.ece
03 May 2021||Kolkata,||Samyukta Morcha reduced to also-ran in Bengal battle||The experiment of the Samyukta Morcha, where the Left parties along with the Congress allied with a party headed by a Muslim peer, not only proved counter-productive but reduced the Left and the Congress to an also-ran in West Bengal politics. The trends and results of the West Bengal Assembly election indicate that the total vote share of all the constituents of the Samyukta Morcha has not even touched 8%. The CPI(M) vote share dropped below 5% as counting was under way. The Congress vote share slipped to less than 3% in the election. Prominent candidates of the CPI(M), like former Minister Asok Bhattacharya, came third in the electoral contest trailing behind the BJP and the Trinamool Congress candidates from Siliguri, a constituency he had represented several times. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Mohammad Salim, who contested from Chanditala in Hooghly, also suffered a similar fate trailing the Trinamool Congress candidate and the BJP nominee. For the Congress, the 2021 Assembly election in West Bengal ended its political clout over the districts of Murshidabad and Malda. Most of the candidates of the Left parties and the Congress lost their deposits. Even the young candidates of the CPI(M), who created a lot of media attention, failed to make a significant mark. The West Bengal Assembly election for 2021 was bipolar from the beginning. The Left and the Congress, which were the main Opposition till 2016, suffered a huge political setback in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, where the Left Front vote share dropped to 7% and the Congress’s to 5.61%. In the 2016 Assembly election, the Left Front had secured 25.69% of votes and the Congress 12.3% votes. The alliance had won 76 seats with the Congress winning 44 seats and the Left Front 32 seats. The Muslim voters, instead of putting their faith in the Samyukta Morcha, voted en masse for the Trinamool Congress. One of the major emphasis of the Samyukta Morcha campaign was reaching out to Muslims, but voters from the minority community backed the Trinamool Congress to keep the BJP away from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/samyukta-morcha-reduced-to-also-ran-in-bengal-battle/article34468532.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,||India sees over 3.69 lakh new cases||India reported as many as 3,53,254 new COVID-19 cases and 3,185 deaths as of 9.20 p.m. on Saturday. The country has so far reported a total of 1,99,03,197 cases and 2,18,639 deaths. Maharashtra saw 56,647 infections, accounting for more than 16% of the new cases, followed by Karnataka (37,773) and Kerala (31,959). Maharashtra also recorded the most number of casualties (669) on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh followed with 288 new deaths, while Karnataka registered 217 new deaths. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Ladakh. The data are sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily figures. As many as 18,04,954 samples were tested in the country on Saturday, the results of which were made available on Sunday. The number was a drop from the over 19 lakh samples t tested on the previous day. A total of 29.01 crore samples have been tested in the country since the beginning of the pandemic last year.  Daily vaccination Nearly 18.26 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the 24 hours ending at 7 a.m. on Sunday, which is nearly 9 lakh fewer than what was given in the previous 24 hours. A total of 15.68 crore doses have been administered thus far. The pace of vaccination in India has reduced significantly in the last 15 days. By April 15, around 32.69 lakh doses were administered in the country daily on an average. However, as of April 30, only around 23.72 lakh doses were given in the country daily on an average. India leads the world in the average daily reported infections and recorded deaths. It currently accounts for one in every 2 global cases each day. The country’s number of daily average deaths is 1.3 times that of Brazil, which recorded the second highest number of new fatalities, nearly 2,300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sees-over-353-lakh-new-cases/article34468565.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Centre faces questions over how it plans to use foreign aid||France delivered eight oxygen plants on Sunday, four of which, government sources said, would be used at hospitals in Delhi, as questions were put to the Centre on the use of foreign aid. The consignment of about 28 tonnes of equipment sent by the French government to India was delivered to the Indian Red Cross Society at the Delhi airport and then transferred to the Centre. The sources said each of the eight “hospital level” oxygen generators would provide oxygen for about 250 beds each. “Each of these oxygen generator plants will make an Indian hospital fully oxygen Aatmanirbhar for more than 10 years. I believe healthcare can be a new field to develop our strategic partnership, building on our respective strengths,” said France’s Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain in a statement. The French Embassy also confirmed that the oxygen generators had been earmarked for eight specific hospitals, and that six would go to the Delhi/NCR area, and one each to Telengana and Haryana. The statement is a major departure from the government’s policy of not accepting aid that is “tied” to specific donees, and comes in the wake of a number of calls for the government to be more transparent about how it plans to route the massive shipments of aid coming in from about 40 countries. Fund route Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) officials told The Hindu that the process on how to route the funding, which is handed over by foreign governments through the Indian Red Cross to the Ministry of Health, is being coordinated by an Empowered Group of Ministers and officials, which is fielding the requests from various State governments. “Whatever is coming in from abroad is going to the Ministry of Health and then, depending on need, will be processed. Only some of the countries who have offered aid have delivered so far; we are monitoring them on the basis of logistics and the time frame they are being sent,” said Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary of the Health Ministry, in a briefing. Transparent system On Friday, the U.S. State Department in Washington also fielded questions about the lack of a “website or transparent system”, as well as “accountability for the U.S. taxpayers’ money being sent”. Principal Deputy Spokesperson Jalina Porter replied that the U.S. had no response at the time, adding, “Rest assured that the United States is committed to making sure that our partners in India are taken care of in this crisis.” When asked, the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi’s spokesperson said that the U.S. is providing more than $100 million in assistance through the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and that three of six planeloads of equipment and relief supplies had already been delivered, and the remainder was “on its way” “We refer you to the Government of India for information about the deployment and use of these materials subsequent to their transfer,” the spokesperson added, in a statement to The Hindu.  On Sunday, the third U.S. aid shipment, containing 1,000 oxygen cylinders, was delivered at the Delhi airport. Overnight, Germany sent a shipment including 120 ventilators, and plans to send one mobile oxygen production and filling plant along with 13 German technical personnel later this week. Uzbekistan also delivered 100 oxygen concentrators, while Belgium delivered 1,000 vials of the medicine Remdesivir late on Saturday. Officials said that as several countries including the U.S., Germany and France are sending military and technical personnel to run some of the equipment being sent, the next logistical challenge will also involve ensuring that foreign personnel are assisted locally at the areas where the aid is sent to within the country.  (With inputs from Vijaita Singh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-faces-questions-over-how-it-plans-to-use-foreign-aid/article34468560.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Image can’t be better than reality||For the last two decades, I have been an ardent advocate of May 3 celebrations. I endorse the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization’s (UNESCO) affirmation that this day acts as a reminder to governments of the need to respect their commitment to press freedom; it is also a day of reflection among media professionals about issues of press freedom and professional ethics. The website of UNESCO on World Press Freedom Day points out how this day is an important symbol of support for media who are targets for the restraint, or abolition, of press freedom. One of the key acts on this day is to remember and honour journalists who lost their lives to bring us stories. From Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s famous declaration that journalism is the best job in the world to broadcaster Edward R. Murrow’s observation, “It is well to remember that freedom through the press is the thing that comes first. Most of us probably feel we couldn’t be free without newspapers, and that is the real reason we want the newspapers to be free”, I have cited several instances to support my advocacy for a free press. When the COVID-19 pandemic hit and altered our lives in more ways than one, I was reminded of Amartya Sen’s words. In his essay, ‘Speaking of freedom: Why media is important for economic development’ , he dealt with how a set of interrelated components of press freedom — its intrinsic value, its informational role, its protective role and its constructive contributions — become a bedrock for equitable development. While my world view about journalism has not changed, it is rather difficult to talk about the virtues of the profession when its professionals are paying an unusually high price for doing their job. I could not really come to terms with the vitriol that was directed at sections of the Indian press for pointing out the failure of the government in controlling and protecting people from the ongoing second wave of the pandemic in the country. I had to stop many times before I could finish reading a short statement by the Network of Women in Media, India (NWMI), which mourned the loss of more than a hundred journalists who have lost their lives in India over the past year. Apart from the anger and the grief in the statement, I also noticed that fear was an inescapable emotion that ran through it. The NWMI statement read, “Journalists are the unacknowledged and unsung messengers who have been bringing to light the reprehensible disintegration of basic health care facilities in the midst of a pandemic, often reporting from the field, standing outside hospitals, morgues and cremation grounds alongside scores of desperate patients and relatives.” While this seems to be a simple truth to realise, I am truly at a loss to understand why governments — both at the Centre and in States — are not extending all the facilities provided to frontline workers to these professionals. ‘One-sided narrative’ Instead of providing the necessary infrastructural support, the government of India is busy attacking international media. Major news outlets such as The New York Times , The Guardian , Le Monde and The Straits Times , and most TV channels, blamed the Modi government for ignoring warning signs, holding an extended election in West Bengal, and not cancelling the Kumbh Mela. Irked by the truth of these reports, instead of improving the delivery systems, the government wanted all its diplomatic stations to counter the “one-sided narrative”. It is time for news media to remind the government of an important recollection recorded by the scholar-diplomat and former National Security Advisor Shivshankar Menon. He recently said on Twitter, “A former Foreign Secretary Venkateswaran used to tell us that it is a law of optics that image cannot be better than reality. Best concentrate on dealing with the crisis. The world has a stake in our success. Image will follow deeds and success.” We must realise that misogyny is the first indicator for the shrinking of democratic spaces. Al Jazeera carried an extensive report on how there was, and is, a sharp surge in the online abuse of women during the pandemic. Human Rights organisation Amnesty International published a detailed study titled ‘Toxic Twitter’, which documented the traumatic experiences of many women on digital platforms. If journalism has to thrive as a public good, then it is important that journalists are alive to do their job. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/image-cant-be-better-than-reality/article34468569.ece
03 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Quitting this space, says Prashant Kishor||Election strategist Prashant Kishor, who had claimed back in December that the BJP will struggle to cross double digits in the West Bengal Assembly election and will quit if it did, announced on Sunday that he is “quitting this space”. He also came down hard on the Election Commission of India (ECI), accusing it of being an “extension of the BJP”. “I am quitting this space,” he told India Today TV after trends showed a landslide victory for the Trinamool Congress, whose election strategy for the Assembly poll he helped craft. “I have never seen a more partial Election Commission... It did everything to help the BJP... From allowing the use of religion to scheduling the poll and bending the rules, the ECI did everything to help the BJP,” he said, calling the poll panel an “extension” of the saffron party. ‘Formidable force’ Talking to NDTV , Mr. Kishor stuck to his stand that the BJP was a formidable force in West Bengal. He said he was confident about the Trinamool’s victory despite the BJP’s attempt to “build a massive propaganda” that it was winning. “The result may look one-sided, but it was a tough fight. The BJP is a formidable force and will be,” he said.  ‘Will struggle’ “...In reality BJP will struggle to cross double digits in #WestBengal,” he had tweeted as early as December last year, and his words proved prophetic. “If BJP does any better, I must quit this space!” he had said.  It [ECI] did everything to help the BJP... From allowing the use of religion to scheduling the poll and bending the rules Prashant Kishor Election strategist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quitting-this-space-says-prashant-kishor/article34468525.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t discriminate in vaccination: SC||The Supreme Court said in an order on Sunday that vaccinations being provided to citizens constitute a valuable public good, and there should be no discrimination in the process. A Special Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, also comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat, said, “Discrimination cannot be made between different classes of citizens who are similarly circumstanced on the ground that while the Central government will carry the burden of providing free vaccines for the 45 years and above population, the State governments will discharge the responsibility of the 18 to 44 age group on such commercial terms as they may negotiate.” “ Prima facie , the rational method of proceeding in a manner consistent with the right to life (which includes the right to health) under Article 21 would be for the Central government to procure all vaccines and to negotiate the price with vaccine manufacturers. Once quantities are allocated by it to each State government, the latter would lift the allocated quantities and carry out the distribution,” the court directed in its 64-page order dated April 30, but published on May 2.  The court recognised the work of healthcare professionals. “We hope their welfare is considered seriously by the Central and State governments. Further, we would wish to use this order to place on record our sincerest appreciation for all the public healthcare professionals — not just limited to the doctors, but also nurses, hospital staff, ambulance drivers, sanitation workers and crematorium workers. It is through their dedicated efforts that the effect of COVID-19 pandemic is being currently tackled in India,” the court said. ‘Create incentive’ The Bench noted that “infected healthcare personnel are left to fend for themselves without adequate availability of beds, oxygen or essential drugs. Further, some of them have also often been asked to report back to duty within 10 days of first testing positive (provided they are asymptomatic), even though a longer recuperation period is often recommended”. “There must be an effective policy to ensure that the nation truly acknowledges their effort and creates incentives for them. We hope it will be remedied soon by the Central and State governments through the introduction of appropriate guidelines and measures.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-discriminate-in-vaccination-sc/article34469033.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||We will study the results and do course correction: Cong.||The Congress on Sunday said it will be study the results of the Assembly polls “diligently” and undertake course correction, after the party lost in all the States, except Tamil Nadu, where it was part of the winning alliance. While former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar said the results are an SOS ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls and called for the continuance of the “unifying” leadership of party president Sonia Gandhi, prominent leaders who are part of the group of 23 dissenters or G-23 of the Congress chose not to articulate their views on the party’s performance. The party is scheduled to elected a new party chief by June and the latest setback is sure to restart Congress’ internal debate on leadership and organisational restructuring that the G-23 had demanded in a letter to Ms. Gandhi in August last year. A few G-23 leaders told this reporter the results were a ‘vindication’ of the organisational and strategic shortcomings they had pointed out but it was inappropriate to raise those concerns publicly at a time India is going through its worst health crisis in recent times. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, while congratulating Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee and DMK’s M.K. Stalin, tweeted, “We humbly accept the people’s mandate. Sincere gratitude to our workers & the millions of people who supported us on the ground.” The Congress’ loss is particularly significant in Kerala, a State from where Mr. Gandhi is a Lok Sabha member, and Assam, once a stronghold, where the alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) had been intensely debated within the party. “The Congress party will definitely study the results and all the reasons diligently and we are committed to correct our mistakes and do appropriate course correction. People’s mandate is the final word in democracy... We recognise that the election results are not as per our expectations, particularly those of Assam and Kerala,” chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters. “We shall fulfil our commitment of a responsible opposition in Assam and Kerala to raise people’s issues,” he added. The party’s complete decimation in Bengal will also being debated since senior G-23 leader Anand Sharma had objected to the party’s alliance with Indian Secular Front, founded by Furfura Sharief cleric Abbas Siddiqui, and had maintained that it went against Congress’ ideology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-study-the-results-and-do-course-correction-cong/article34468553.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||India receives aid from Taiwan||India on Sunday received assistance from Taiwan, including oxygen concentrators and cylinders, with more batches of medical equipment set to follow from Taipei. A first batch, consisting of 50 oxygen concentrators and 500 oxygen cylinders, landed in New Delhi on Sunday on a Boeing 747 of China Airlines, the government-owned airline of Taiwan. “Taiwan’s deployment of medical supplies is testament to the close collaboration and partnership across multiple agencies on both sides,” said a statement from the Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre (TECC), Taiwan’s representative office in India. India and Taiwan do not maintain formal diplomatic relations or embassies. “We’re working hard to send more,” said Taiwan’s Foreign Minister Joseph Wu on Twitter. “We’re closely monitoring developments and holding in-depth discussions aimed at providing requisite support to our Indian friends at a time of great need.” India, meanwhile, has not yet accepted Beijing’s offers of aid and assistance that were conveyed again on Friday both in a message from President Xi Jinping to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and in a phone call between Foreign Minister Wang Yi and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. Production underway India has preferred to source medical supplies from China on a commercial basis. A large number of such orders have been placed by Indian companies with Chinese firms, with the production “of at least 40,000 oxygen generators” currently under way, China’s Ambassador to India Sun Weidong told the Communist Party-run Global Times . “As far as I know, Chinese companies have been accelerating production of at least 40,000 oxygen generators — orders placed by the Indian side, and they are working around the clock to deliver them as soon as possible. Many Chinese firms and private organisations are also using their own channels to provide various forms of help to India,” he said. Mr. Sun said on Twitter the past two weeks “witnessed 61 freight flights from China to India in operation” and China had, since April, supplied “more than 5,000 ventilators, 21,569 oxygen generators, over 21 million masks and around 3,800 tons of medicine to India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-receives-aid-from-taiwan/article34468548.ece
03 May 2021||Mumbai,||Report Remdesivir output to State govt., HC tells pharma units||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Sunday directed pharmaceutical companies to send their figures of Remdesivir production to the State nodal officer and Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and upload the same on their website, warning of criminal prosecution if this was not followed. A division bench of justices S.B. Shukre and A.G. Gharote was hearing suo motu a public interest litigation petition on the shortage of medicines, oxygen, beds and other essentials for COVID-19 in Nagpur and other adjoining areas. State nodal officer Vijay Waghmare told the court that Nagpur had received 20,000 vials of Remdesivir after the court’s direction. The court, however, said it needed to ensure a steady supply and remarked that there is some issue at the level of pharma companies. The Bench directed pharma companies to supply Remdesivir to the State government and district authorities before providing it to private companies. It also noted that vials sent to different districts in the State were lower than the demand. The Bench directed the State FDA to upload the weekly production, distribution and supply of Remdesivir received from companies on their website along with the backlog on a daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/report-remdesivir-output-to-state-govt-hc-tells-pharma-units/article34468573.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||CPC social media account mocks deaths in India||A social media account linked to the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) top law enforcement body came under fire in China over the weekend for mocking India’s COVID-19 deaths in a social media post. The post was shared on Weibo, China’s Twitter-equivalent, by an account maintained by the CPC’s Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission, the powerful body that controls the courts and police. The account, which has 15 million followers, in a message on Saturday shared two images side-by-side of a rocket launch in China and a cremation ground in India, adding a message: “China lighting a fire, India lighting a fire”. Unusual step While the message initially went viral, it prompted widespread outrage on Chinese social media, leading the Party-linked account to take the unusual step of deleting the post. Dong Mengyu, a researcher, said on Twitter one blogger wrote an article in response saying, “I apologise to Indian people on my own behalf. The post by the [Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission’s] Weibo account doesn’t represent me. We live on the same planet ... We feel your sufferings.” That essay, Mr. Dong said, was later deleted. The original post, reported Manya Koetse of What’s on Weibo, a website that tracks social media trends in China, was shared 9,000 times before it was deleted. It was not the only such post from an official organ mocking India’s pandemic situation — another Weibo account linked to the Ministry of Public Security, the top police authority, shared a similar message. ‘Inappropriate’ Both posts prompted widespread derision, at a time when several Chinese social organisations have begun fundraising efforts to channel assistance towards India, including some prominent Buddhist organisations. One widely followed social media account maintained by lawyer Wang Peng, Ms. Koetse reported, posted a response describing the message as “such an inappropriate comparison”. “Every country encounters disasters! Not to mention that in times of the pandemic, every country is involved,” he was quoted as saying. “From the propaganda point of view this is a classic case of propaganda failure,” added another. “This is so inappropriate for an official account, it does not represent the people of China.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpc-social-media-account-mocks-deaths-in-india/article34468566.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST return deadlines extended; late fee waived||The Centre has extended the deadlines for routine Goods and Services Tax (GST) compliances, reduced the interest charged on delayed tax payments and offered late fee waiver for taxpayers, granting these concessions for a limited time window of a fortnight to a month, effective May 1. The Finance Ministry has said this is being done in view of the challenges faced by taxpayers in meeting the statutory and regulatory GST compliances due to the outbreak of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Instead of levying an 18% penal interest for delayed payments, the Ministry has lowered the rate to zero or 9% for different categories of taxpayers. Traders registered under the Composition Scheme will not have to pay interest for 15 days after the normal due dates for tax payments, 9% for the next 15 days and 18% thereafter. Similarly, late fee has been waived for 15 days for submitting returns in Form GSTR-3B for the months of March and April for firms with a turnover of more than Rs. 5 crore, and 30 days for those with a turnover of less than Rs. 5 crore. Submission dates Tax returns due this month for transactions undertaken in April have also been granted 15 more days and returns for the full financial year 2020-21 can now be submitted till May 31, instead of April 30. In April, several deadlines under the Income Tax Act of 1961 had also been extended due to the pandemic’s resurgence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-return-deadlines-extended-late-fee-waived/article34468575.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||A mixed bag for MPs in Assembly polls||It has been a bad run for nearly a dozen MPs who tried their luck in the Assembly election in four States and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Out of the seven BJP MPs who contested this election, only two won. In West Bengal, along with Union Minister Babul Supriyo who stood from Tollygunge, the BJP fielded two more Lok Sabha members — Locket Chatterjee from Chunchura and Nisith Pramanik from Dinhata. All three lost, with Mr. Supriyo losing by the largest margin of over 30,000 votes. Swapan Dasgupta, who contested on BJP ticket from the Tarkeshwar Assembly constituency, was forced to resign from the Rajya Sabha after the Trinamool Congress threatened to take legal recourse. He lost to his Trinamool opponent in the election. Assam Pradesh Congress Committee President Ripun Bora lost his seat of Gohpur in Assam. There was a widespread call to replace him ahead of the election from Congress cadres in the State, but it went unheeded. The BJP though can draw solace from Assam. Rajya Sabha member Biswajit Daimary, who quit just months before the Assembly election and switched from the Bodoland Front Party to join the BJP, had an emphatic victory in the Panery Assembly constituency. In Kerala, where the BJP drew a blank, losing even their sitting seat of Nemom, Rajya Sabha members K.J. Alphonse contesting from Kanjirapally and actor Suresh Gopi from Thrissur are third on the final tally. In Nemom, Congress MP K. Muraleedharan, who took on the challenge after many senior leaders baulked at the idea of fighting from a sitting BJP seat, lost, trailing behind the CPI(M)’s Sivankutty and the BJP’s Kummanam Rajasekhran. The CPI(M) won the seat. In Tamil Nadu, two Rajya Sabha members from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) — R. Vaithilingam and K.P. Munusamy — won with good margins in their respective seats of Orathanadu and Veppanahalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-mixed-bag-for-mps-in-assembly-polls/article34468534.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sri Lankan Tamil leaders congratulate Stalin||Sri Lanka’s Tamil leaders and parliamentarians took to Twitter to wish party president and chief ministerial candidate M.K. Stalin on the DMK victory in Tamil Nadu on Sunday. M.A. Sumanthiran, spokesman of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), which represents the Tamils in Sri Lanka’s north and east, said: “Congratulations to @arivalayam #DMK and @mkstalin on a decisive win in the #Tamil_Nadu assembly polls.” Mano Ganesan, Opposition legislator and Leader of the Tamil Progressive Alliance (TPA), which represents Malaiyaha Tamils in the island’s hill country and capital Colombo, said Mr. Stalin, in leading the DMK alliance to a big win, has drawn the attention of Tamils world over. “We must think about how to engage [with the new leadership] in ways that would help us,” he said in a statement. Angajan Ramanathan, Jaffna MP aligned to the Rajapaksa government, tweeted: “Advance Congratulations to Hon. Chief Minister of Tamilnadu Thalapathi @mkstalin and DMK @arivalayam.” Sri Lanka’s Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda conveyed his wishes to Mr. Stalin. “I hope he will give a solution to the problems faced by the fishermen living in Sri Lanka’s Northern Province,” he said, referring to the Palk Bay fisheries conflict in which Tamil Nadu fishermen are accused of poaching in Sri Lankan waters. Congratulating Mr. Stalin, Ceylon Workers’ Congress vice president Senthil Thondaman said: “Tamils across the world will stand by you.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sri-lankan-tamil-leaders-congratulate-stalin/article34468540.ece
03 May 2021||Lucknow,||Social distancing goes for a toss in U.P.||Social distancing norms to curb the COVID-19 infection appeared to go for a toss in Uttar Pradesh’s centres where votes for the panchayat polls were being counted on Sunday. Visuals from various districts such as Azamgarh, Siddharthnagar, Jaunpur, Sultanpur, Amethi, Jalaun, Fatehpur, Gonda and Sitapur showed a large number of people gathering outside or lining up at the gates of the counting centres in close physical proximity to each other. In some districts, supporters of the candidates also assembled near the centres in large numbers despite warnings by the State Election Commission (SEC). The State Election Commission said results for the UP Panchayat polls are expected late on Monday. Till Sunday evening, over 1.12 lakh gram panchayat members, 16510 pradhans, 35812 members of kshetra panchayats had been elected.  Police resorted to use of lathis at some places to manage the crowd. In Firozabad, police resorted to lathi charge after polling agents gathered in large numbers. The Uttar Pradesh Shikshak Mahasangh, a federation of teacher unions, on Saturday evening had called off its decision to boycott the counting process after assurances by the State government and the SEC that COVID-19 safety norms would be followed strictly. The federation had said that 700 teachers on polling duty during the panchayat elections had died after testing positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-up/article34468542.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Second term for Pinarayi||The adverse electoral verdict is expected to have serious implications for the UDF, especially for the Congress leadership. The verdict is also seen as a determinant of the outcome of pressure mounting within the Congress for Rahul Gandhi’s return as party president and the rebellion launched by the ‘G-23’ leaders within the party. The electoral outcome was a major embarrassment for the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance too as it drew a blank, despite the considerable money and manpower it marshalled for the sustained and visibly high profile campaign, including rallies addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Not only did it lose the Nemom seat it won in 2016, it also failed to secure Manjeswaram, Konni, Palakkad, Thrissur and Kazhakkuttam where it fielded heavyweights such as party State president K. Surendran, ‘Metroman’ E. Sreedharan, Suresh Gopi and Shobha Surendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/second-term-for-pinarayi/article34468547.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Field hospitals to come up near industrial units: govt.||Nearly 10,000 additional beds with oxygen can be added at temporary hospitals near industrial units that produce gaseous oxygen, the Centre said on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting to review the use of gaseous oxygen, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said. “Many industries like steel plants, refineries with petrochemical units, industries using rich combustion process and power plants have oxygen plants, which produce gaseous oxygen which is used in the process. This oxygen can be tapped for medical use,” it said. ‘Good progress’ Industrial units that produce oxygen would be identified and those that are near cities, dense areas and centres of high oxygen demand would be shortlisted for creation of COVID-19 Care Centres in the vicinity, the statement said. “A pilot for five such facilities had already been initiated and there is good progress on this. This is being accomplished through PSUs or private industries operating the plant and co-ordination of Centre and state governments. It is expected that around 10,000 oxygenated beds can be made available in a short period of time by making temporary hospitals near such plants,” the statement read. The State governments were being encouraged to set up such facilities with beds to deal with the pandemic, it said. The Prime Minister also reviewed the project to set up around 1,500 PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10000-oxygen-beds-can-be-added-near-industrial-units/article34468618.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||End oxygen deficit: SC||“The Central and State governments shall notify all Chief Secretaries/ Directors General of Police/ Commissioners of Police that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment caused to individuals seeking/ delivering help on any platform will attract a coercive exercise of jurisdiction by this Court. The Registrar (Judicial) is also directed to place a copy of this order before all District Magistrates in the country,” the Bench, also comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat, said in a 64-page order dated April 30, but published on May 2. It directed against any gag on the use of social media to voice grievances about short supply of life-saving oxygen, drugs and hospitalisation. The court gave the Centre 14 days to formulate a national policy on admissions to hospitals which shall be followed by all States. “Till the formulation of such a policy, no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in any State/UT for lack of local residential proof of that State/UT or even in the absence of identity proof,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/end-oxygen-deficit-sc/article34469032.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Rangasamy returns||Former Minister and AINRC nominee from Mangalam constituency C. Djeacoumar defeated his DMK rival Sunkumaravel by a margin of 2751 votes. Two defectors from Congress — K.S.P. Ramesh and V. Aroumougame — won the Kadirgamam and Indira Nagar constituencies respectively for the AINRC. While Mr. Ramesh defeated his Congress rival P. Selvanathan by a margin of 12,246 votes, Mr. Aroumougame defeated M. Kannan of Congress by a margin of 18531 votes. AINRC also retained Karaikal North and reserved constituency of Nedungadu in Karaikal region. P.R.N Thirumurugan contesting from Karaikal North defeated PCC chief A.V. Subramanian by a slender margin of 135 votes while Chandrapriyanga defeated Congress nominee A. Marimuthu by a margin of 2214 votes in Nedungadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rangasamy-returns/article34468551.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata wins Bengal||The Trinamool Congress was also leading in a majority of seats of South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. It was also leading or had emerged victorious in all the 11 seats in Kolkata. The BJP’s attempts at polarisation of the electorate were successfully countered by Trinamool, which invoked Bengali pride.  Speaking to mediapersons in the evening, Ms. Banerjee described the victory as a “landslide”, and said it had saved the country. Speaking about the “money power and muscle power” of the BJP, Ms. Banerjee said she did not expect such a scale of victory. The Chief Minister thanked the people of the State, particularly women, and said her first task would be to tackle the pandemic. Ms. Banerjee demanded free vaccination for all in the country and threatened to launch a dharna if the Centre did not concede the demand. On her defeat in Nandigram, Ms. Banerjee said she had accepted the verdict of the people but asked how in just one constituency the vote was against the trend prevalent across the entire State.  As the results came in, it also became clear that most of the defectors from the Trinamool who joined the BJP did not do well. West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh admitted that the people may not have taken the defections well. “It is a lesson for us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-wins-bengal/article34468554.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||BJP, allies retain Assam||To make it worse, State Congress president Ripun Bora lost the Gohpur seat. The vote share of the BJP and the Congress this time was almost the same as in 2016 but the combinations and alliances seemed to have made the difference for both. While the BJP ditched BPF for UPPL for seats across the Bodoland Territorial Council, the Congress-AIUDF alliance seemed to have damaged the Mahajot’s prospects in eastern, northern and parts of central Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-allies-retain-assam/article34468557.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Stalin wins absolute majority in close fight||All candidates fielded by the alliances led by Makkal Needhi Maiam of actor Kamal Haasan; Naam Tamilar Katchi, led by Seeman; and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, founded by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, were headed for defeat. This is a repeat of 2016 when only candidates of the AIADMK and DMK fronts won. The Congress, which is part of the DMK alliance, performed well, and as per trends is touted to increase its presence in the Assembly to 17 from a mere eight seats in 2016. It also won the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha seat, where a bypoll was held. What has, however, added to the strength of the DMK is the four seats that are likely to be won by the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam(MDMK), led by Vaiko, that contested on the DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. The Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi emerged victorious in two seats and was leading in an equal number. The CPI and CPI (M) had both won one seat each and were leading in one constituency each. Other alliance partners, including the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK), which also contested on the DMK’s symbol, were likely to win in four seats. The BJP, which went to the polls in league with the AIADMK, is entering the Assembly after 20 years. In 2001 the party won in four seats in the company of the DMK, which was part of the A.B. Vajapyee-led BJP government at the Centre. Now it won/established leads in four out of the 20 constituencies allotted to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stalin-wins-absolute-majority-in-close-fight/article34468558.ece
03 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to impose 14-day lockdown from May 5||Amidst growing concerns over the steep rise in COVID-19 cases, the Odisha government on Sunday announced a two-week lockdown in the State from May 5 to 19. Apart from the lockdown there will be a shutdown on weekends from 6 p.m. on Fridays to 5 a.m. on Mondays, said the notification. “The situation is extremely frightening. No one is able to predict where the second wave is going to stop. The patient load in the country has gone up by six times in April. Similarly, active cases in Odisha were around 2,500 at the beginning of April and now they are over 65,000. In last week alone, active cases have gone up by 50,000,” said Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra. He said, Though the State has not reached a critical stage as far as bed and oxygen availability are concerned, demand is rapidly rising. Despite several restrictive measures taken in past few weeks, the test positivity rate continued to rise and it was due to movement of working population, he said. “Many public health experts have urged an immediate lockdown. Keeping these factors in mind, we have announced a lockdown,” he said. “Movement of goods and goods carrier will not be affected by the lockdown,” the notification said. Vaccination and testing drives have been kept out of the purview of the lockdown. All buses under the public transport system will not ply, while intra-State movement of individuals, except for medical reasons or for activities permitted under guidelines, has been completely prohibited. Marriage and funerals with restricted participation will be allowed with prior approval from local authorities. People can get their essential needs between 6 a.m. and 12 noon. Vendors have, however, been asked to maintain physical distance. Restaurants and roadside eateries can function for takeaway and home delivery. All educational institutes will remain closed except authorised ones. All India exams which require physical presences of examinees can be allowed with formal authorisation. Newspaper delivery has been allowed between 5 a.m. and 8 a.m. Odisha on Sunday reported 8,015 fresh cases, taking the tally to 4,62,622.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-to-have-14-day-lockdown-from-may-5/article34468567.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Contempt not initiated, Delhi HC tells Centre||The Delhi High Court on Sunday remarked that it had not initiated any contempt proceedings against Central government officials while responding to the Centre’s fresh application to modify the contempt portion on its May 1 order. The High Court had on Saturday warned the Centre that it would consider initiating contempt proceedings against its officers if they failed to supply the allocated 490 metric tonnes of oxygen allocated to Delhi. “We have not initiated any contempt. That’s the last thing on our mind. We know how everyone is stressed. We know how officers are working,” a Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli remarked when Solicitor General Tushar Mehta pleaded to consider modifying the contempt part of the May 1 order. “We are concerned with the situation in Delhi. The situation in every State would be different. The problem that Delhi is facing in terms of oxygen shortage, no other State is facing,” the court said. “That’s exactly my question. Why other States are not facing the problem,” Mr. Mehta said. To this, the court said, “Because they are getting their oxygen.” “Your lordship’s impression is not correct. Let’s not go by rhetoric,” Mr. Mehta responded. He further said that the Delhi government had not made any serious attempt nor had it ever approached the Ministry of Road Transport for temporary help or assistance for transportation of oxygen.“There are a large number of non-industrial States arranging tankers. I am sure the Delhi government must be doing innovative thinking,” he said. The court, however, shot back saying, “You say that the Delhi government has not taken certain steps. They [the Delhi government] did not raised it with the [Central] war room. They did not make effort to get the tankers on their own.” “Mr. [Rahul] Mehra [the Delhi government’s counsel] has contested these. Beyond these allegations and counter allegations, the point is that we are dealing with a much larger question. We are dealing with the lives of many people,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/contempt-not-initiated-delhi-hc-tells-centre/article34468546.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘10,000 oxygen beds’||“A pilot for five such facilities had already been initiated and there is good progress on this. This is being accomplished through PSUs or private industries operating the plant and co-ordination of Centre and State governments. It is expected that around 10,000 oxygenated beds can be made available in a short period of time by making temporary hospitals near such plants,” the statement read. The State governments were being encouraged to set up such facilities with beds to deal with the pandemic, it said. Mr. Modi also reviewed the project to set up around 1,500 PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10000-oxygen-beds/article34468556.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||EC orders action on those violating norms||The Election Commission on Sunday ordered action against those gathering outside party offices and celebrating the results of the elections to five Assemblies in violation of the COVID-19-related protocols. EC secretary-general Umesh Sinha told presspersons that the counting process was smooth, however, it was taking longer to update the results on the EC’s website due to the server being overloaded. He said the EC had allowed the Returning Officers of the constituencies to declare the results with the consent of the observers as long as counting had been smooth. Mr. Sinha said there had been instances of political party supporters congregating and trying to take out victory processions, which the EC had banned due to the second wave of COVID-19. During the day, the EC had directed the Chief Secretaries to take action against those involved. In Tamil Nadu, an FIR had been filed in connection with an incident of supporters bursting firecrackers outside a party’s headquarters in Chennai. An inspector of the local police station had also been suspended, he said. Mr. Sinha said these elections had been one of the largest electoral exercises to have been conducted during the pandemic. Due to the COVID-19 situation, the number of polling booths, postal ballots and counting halls had increased. Postal ballots were offered to all above 80 years of age, persons with disabilities, those affected by COVID-19 and essential service workers, leading to an increase from 2.97 lakh postal ballots cast in the 2016 elections to 13.16 lakh this time. Violations of COVID protocols during the campaign led to 60 FIRs and 180 show-cause notices, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-orders-action-on-those-violating-norms/article34468536.ece
03 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha declares journalists frontline COVID warriors||The Odisha government has declared working journalists as frontline COVID-19 warriors by recognising the risks they undertake to cover the pandemic. Approving a proposal to this effect on Sunday, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said, “Working journalists are doing great service to the State by providing seamless news feed, making people aware of issues relating to COVID-19 during these very trying times and they are a great support for our war against COVID.” 2 lakh insurance cover According to the Chief Minister’s Office, the decision is likely to benefit 6,944 working journalists in the State. “These 6,944 working journalists have been covered under Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana. They get health insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh each,” it said. Besides, an ex gratia of Rs. 15 lakh is also being provided to the next of kin of the journalists who die of COVID-19 while performing their duty. As many as 17 journalists in Odisha have died of COVID-19 since March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-declares-journalists-frontline-covid-warriors/article34468808.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Pay heed to mandate, repeal laws’||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint coalition of farmers’ unions, on Sunday welcomed the mandate against the BJP in the West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala Assembly elections. The Morcha leaders said the results proved that the people had rejected the divisive communal politics of the BJP. In a press statement, they said the BJP tried to project its communal polarisation agenda as the main issue confronting voters, when the country was facing a severe crisis in terms of the healthcare infrastructure crumbling due to the lack of planning. “The protesting farmers have already proven convincingly that the BJP’s communal polarisation agenda is unacceptable; this is a unified struggle of citizens to protect their livelihoods but also the secular fabric of the country. Our campaign with the voters asking them to punish the BJP stands vindicated,” the SKM leaders said in a joint statement. The BJP should listen to the mandate of the people and should immediately repeal the farm laws, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pay-heed-to-mandate-repeal-laws/article34468526.ece
03 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Cong. wins two Assembly bypoll seats in Rajasthan||The ruling Congress won the byelections for the Sujangarh and Sahara seats in the Rajasthan Assembly on Sunday, while the BJP retained Rajsamand with a narrow margin. A total of 60.71% of the voters had exercised their franchise in the polling held on April 17. Congress candidate Gayatri Devi won from Sahara in Bhilwara district with the biggest margin of 42,200 votes, defeating the BJP’s Ratanlal Jat, while her party colleague, Manoj Meghwal, defeated the BJP’s Khemaram Meghwal in the Sujangarh constituency. However, the BJP’s new entrant, Deepti Maheshwari, defeated her Congress rival Tansukh Bohra in Rajsamand. The byelections were necessitated after the death of MLAs Bhanwar Lal Meghwal (Sujangarh), Kailash Trivedi (Sahara) and Kiran Maheshwari (Rajsamand).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-wins-two-assembly-byelections-in-rajasthan/article34468527.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Merchandise exports touch $30.21 billion||India’s merchandise exports in April 2021 were $30.21 billion, 197% higher than a year ago, when exports had collapsed to $10.17 billion in the middle of the national lockdown. April’s exports, however, constituted a 16% rise over April 2019. Merchandise imports rose 166% in April to $45.45 billion from a year ago, reflecting a 7.22% rise over the same month in 2019. Exporters’ bodies, however, said despite the rise, concerns remain about logistics and workers’ availability amidst the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/merchandise-exports-touch-3021-billion/article34468574.ece
03 May 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra bypoll: BJP trounces MVA||In a setback to the Uddhav Thackeray-led tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday snared the Pandharpur-Mangalvedha Assembly constituency in Solapur district. The BJP’s Samadhan Autade trounced the MVA’s Bhagirath Bhalke, whose candidature was put forth by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Mr. Autade won by 3,733 votes having secured a total of 1,09,450 votes (1,07,774 of them in EVM counting and the rest by postal ballot). The bypoll had been necessitated after Mr. Bhalke’s father, Bharat Bhalke — a three-time NCP MLA from Solapur — had passed away in November last year. With its candidate winning the byelection, the BJP’s tally in the 288-member House has gone up to 106, while the NCP’s strength is reduced to 53. Among other parties, the Shiv Sena has 56 MLAs and the Congress 44. BJP State president Chandrakant Patil said, “This [contest] was the litmus test for Uddhav Thackeray’s MVA. The BJP’s win proves just how angry the people are with the ruling government. Their poor response in ameliorating the common people’s plight during the COVID-19 crisis by not waiving power bills and giving cash packages on time has cost them this seat.” Notwithstanding Mr. Patil’s reasons for the BJP’s win, the campaigning was marked by sheer irresponsibility by both the ruling and opposition parties. Large crowds, in violation of pandemic norms, were present at rallies held by both the Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar of the NCP. Meanwhile, Solapur Collector Milind Shambharkar said all COVID-19 prevention protocols and guidelines had been followed during the counting process and that victory celebrations had been banned outside the counting centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-bypoll-bjp-trounces-mva/article34468543.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi gets one more ‘Oxygen Express’||The Indian Railways on Sunday said Delhi had received its second “Oxygen Express” with 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), while a third one, carrying 30.86 tonnes of oxygen, had left Angul in Odisha. The Railways said they had so far delivered 1,094 tonnes of LMO in 74 tankers across the country, including Maharashtra (174 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (430.51 tonnes), Madhya Pradesh (156.96 tonnes), Delhi (190 tonnes) and Haryana (79 tonnes). “Nineteen Oxygen Express have already completed their journey and two more loaded ones are on the run carrying about 61.46 tonnes of LMO in four tankers,” the Railways said.   “Isolation coaches are presently utilised in Delhi, Maharashtra [Ajni ICD, Nandurbar], Madhya Pradesh [Tihi near Indore]. The latest demand came from Nagaland...the Railways has deployed 10 isolation coaches in Dimapur,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-gets-one-more-oxygen-express/article34468555.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Holding the line||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/holding-the-line/article34468562.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Will return to India soon, says Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla, who has been in the United Kingdom on an extended stay to evade alleged threats in India over the ever-increasing demand for COVID-19 vaccines, said he will return to India in a few days. In an interview to The Times , Mr. Poonawalla had alleged that he had been receiving threats in India and that he and his family had left the country for London after unprecedented “pressure and aggression” over the demand of COVID-19 vaccines.  He, however, did not give a timeline for his return to India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-return-to-india-soon-says-poonawalla/article34468563.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Winning in the time of a pandemic||It was an election like no other, and the day of reckoning too was unlike any experienced by this city. An election during the pandemic is all kinds of new, unexpected experiences too. Falling on a Sunday, a day declared to be a complete lockdown, in the middle of a raging viral pandemic, the ongoing excitement went underground, and in its subterranean corridors, there was the mixture of triumph and loss, barely perceivable outside of a television screen. The day began with the unusual, now usual hush of a total lockdown day, the roads remained deserted, while those who had legitimate business at a counting centre were allowed in. As Sunday wore on, and the initial trends emerged, there was none of those ecstatic celebrations that this city is used to. Usually, celebrations will be held on either side of Cathedral Road, depending on whether the ‘Rising Sun’ and the DMK had a field day, or its rival across the road, ‘Two Leaves’. Revellers would make sure the reverberations of their celebrations reached the other side of the road, just to rub victory in the face of the party that failed to make the requisite numbers. There was no sign of the usual jubilance outside of counting centres, where crackers will be burst, and clumps of waiting party workers will break into dance and song, sweets being thrust into the mouths of anyone in the vicinity. None of that, this year. On counting day, the residents of this city are used to watching long convoys of SUVs zipping past on roads, party workers hanging out and cheering in joy. Maybe, they did not miss this automatic aggression, but there were hardly any vehicles on the road this Sunday. The ones that dared to be on the roads had to show cause, and they certainly could not be zipping around, as barricades had been erected by the police so they can carry out their checks. Of course, some manner of wild celebration did happen at Anna Arivalayam, the seat of the DMK, after all the party was coming back with a bang, after a decade. In peacetime, it would even be justified if they spilled over on to the roads. But, since this was the pandemic, one policeman was suspended for allowing the celebrations to go on. In these strange times we live in, there was not even the sound of crackers, loud, disruptive, and yet communicating victory, traditionally in this city. Party cadre possibly live for such moments — moments when they can set a 1000 wala off in the middle of the road, and watch in mirth as the world stops for this rambunctious sharing of joy over victory. Not this time, though. In a city that has elevated posters and hoardings to an art form, roads would have been lined with life-size cut outs of victorious leaders, once initial trends began to emerge, in violation of all civic rules. This year, a few posters made a lacklustre appearance, too few to count for anything. In these days of selfies, today might have offered the perfect opportunity for party cadre and fans of the leaders to whip out their phones and shoot. Even selfies in front of counting booths, short videos on social media of a largely asynchronous prancing, in front of party offices or outside counting centres. Not on Sunday though. A pandemic came in the way, this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/winning-in-the-time-of-a-pandemic/article34469093.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s daily tally of COVID-19 crosses the 20,000-mark||Tamil Nadu recorded 20,768 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the State’s tally to 12,07,112. The toll touched 14,346 with 153 deaths, including 81 in private hospitals and 72 in government facilities. An international passenger who arrived from the U.A.E. and 25 passengers who arrived from other States tested positive on Sunday. They included 11 from Andhra Pradesh, three each from Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha, besides two from Karnataka and one each from Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram, and Tripura. Across the State, 17,576 patients were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 10,72,322. The number of active cases across the State on Sunday stood at 1,20,444, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Chennai district reported 6,078 new cases on Sunday while 5,702 patients were discharged. The district recorded 29 deaths. The number of active cases in the district stood at 31,913. The tally in the district rose to 3,45,966 and 3,09,233 people have been discharged. Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu (16) and Kancheepuram (13) recorded the most number of deaths in a day. In Salem district, 12 persons died of infection. Chengalpattu with 1,582 new infections had the second highest number of cases followed by Coimbatore with 1,441 new cases and three more deaths. Among those who died of the infection, 40 had no pre-existing ailments while 113 persons died of complications due to co-morbidities. The oldest persons who died on Sunday were all aged 64 and none of them had any co-morbidities. A 29-year-old man from Salem, who tested positive on April 27, was diabetic. He was admitted on April 26 to a private hospital with fever for two days, cough and difficulty in breathing for a week. He died on May 1 and the hospital recorded it as death due to COVID-19 pneumonia.  Availability of beds As of May 1, in Chennai district, 33% of beds were vacant in hospitals, including private and government. As many as 1,927 beds (38%) were vacant in COVID Care Centres. On Sunday, 1,43,083 samples were tested. The State has so far tested 2,29,56,942 using the RT-PCR method. Vaccination drive On Sunday, the vaccination drive touched the lowest ever mark with just 6,436 people being vaccinated. In 3,101 sessions to administer Covishield and Covaxin, as many as 463 health workers; 497 front line workers; 3,331 people in the 45 to 59 years age group with pre-existing health conditions and 2,145 senior citizens were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tns-tally-crosses-the-20000-mark/article34468686.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No alternatives emerge as Dravidian parties retain their ground in T.N.||The space for the ‘third political alternative’ in Tamil politics has shrunk once again as two popular faces — Kamal Haasan, founder of Makkal Needhi Maiam, and Seeman, chief co-ordinator, Naam Tamilar Katchi, who challenged the duopoly of the Dravidian parties — lost in Coimbatore South and Tiruvottriyur. After running a strong campaign, Mr. Seeman trailed the second-placed AIADMK candidate, K. Kuppan, by 1,774 votes in Thiruvottriyur after round 18. Mr. Haasan, who campaigned in every ward, put up a tough fight until the end before being defeated by Vanathi Srinivasan of the BJP in a three-way contest. Congress candidate Mayura Jayakumar was placed third. T.T.V. Dhinakaran of the AMMK lost in Kovilpatti to Minister Kadambur Raju. Naam Tamilar Katchi spokesperson Packiarajan said the party’s performance showed that there was more work left to be done. “It would have been great had Mr. Seeman gone to the Assembly. We also expected to become a recognised party by polling over 8% of the votes. It didn’t happen...,” he said. Having positioned himself as the alternative, Mr. Haasan is staring at a difficult path ahead. MNM general secretary C.K. Kumaravel was confident that Mr. Haasan would put this loss behind him and emerge stronger. “Our leader put his heart and soul into the campaign and reached out to people despite a leg injury. We have to respect the people’s mandate. The party will overcome this loss and emerge stronger,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-alternatives-emerge-as-dravidian-parties-retain-their-ground-in-tn/article34469108.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami keeps AIADMK relevant||By leading the AIADMK to a decent performance in the Assembly election, party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami appears to have proved that he may have been an accidental Chief Minister but has emerged in his own right. Though the party had a dual leadership, with O. Panneerselvam acting as coordinator, Mr. Palaniswami almost single handedly shouldered the responsibility of campaigning for the AIADMK-led alliance. As it has emerged as a strong Opposition party, he has ensured that the AIADMK remains a dominant player in Tamil Nadu, contrary to the predictions that the ‘two leaves’ would wither in the absence of a tall leader like Jayalalithaa. For a party that was rooted in the film world charisma of its founder M.G. Ramachandran and his successor Jayalalithaa, the transition for Mr. Palaniswami was not easy. “He has institutionalised the party, which was always personality-centric. He has disproved that if Sasikala or anyone goes out, the party will disintegrate. He has proved the AIADMK will remain with or without any strong leader. The party structure remained intact even after some MLAs went with T.T.V. Dhinakaran after they were denied nomination,” says political analyst P. Ramajayam. Observers say the DMK’s campaign, though anchored by president M.K. Stalin, was shared by other leaders such as Lok Sabha members Kanimozhi and Dayanidhi Maran and youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin. The AIADMK’s comeback, with an estimated 66 seats, after its drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha election has been similar to its recovery under Jayalalithaa in 2006 after a rout in the 2004 Lok Sabha election. Mr. Palaniswami projecting himself as a farmer, waiving off farm loans from cooperative institutions and implementing 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical education and 10.5% reservation for the Vanniyars in education and employment, among other measures, persuaded several sections not to write the AIADMK off. This election has also shown that sections of the prominent caste groups such as Goundars, Mukkulathors and Vanniyars have not dumped the AIADMK yet. Mr. Palaniswami has also disproved that any party which has the BJP in its alliance would not secure the support of the people of Tamil Nadu. The feeble anti-incumbency sentiments apart, the AIADMK’s election promises such as provision of six free LPG cylinders a year to every ration card-holder and washing machines and the handling of COVID-19 appear to have helped to cushion the party’s defeat. Another factor is that in the western region, from where Mr. Palaniswami hails, the AIADMK has maintained its hold with all bigwigs retaining their seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-keeps-aiadmk-relevant/article34468681.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu will win hereafter, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday said the new government to be formed under him would actually be run by those who were aspiring for an ideal government for Tamil Nadu. “Tamil Nadu has announced the victory of the DMK. The State will win hereafter,” he said in a statement. Thanking the political leaders, Chief Ministers of various states, religious heads, film personalities and industrialists who had congratulated him on the victory, Mr. Stalin said the leaders of alliance parties, who ideologically stood shoulder-to-shoulder to fight the election, also deserved appreciation. “I will remain truthful to you and work for you. My thinking and action will always be for the betterment of the people,” he said. Mr. Stalin said people had given the DMK a sixth term to rule the State as they were confident that the country and people would be safe in the rule of the party, which had safeguarded Tamil language and the State. “We wanted to form the government when our leader Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) was alive. But time pre-empted us. We worked hard to fulfil the dream. The victory is a reward for our work,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-will-win-hereafter-stalin/article34468739.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EVM glitches trigger delay in counting of votes in a few seats||A number of constituencies in Chennai district reported a delay in counting because of glitches in EVMs on Sunday. The average time taken for counting was more than 45 minutes for each round in some constituencies. The Chennai District Election Office deployed several engineers to resolve issues reported during the counting process. Counting was delayed in Royapuram Assembly constituency, with just 20 rounds, because of glitches in the EVMs. Counting started at 8 a.m. and was completed in the constituency only after 11 p.m. The R.K. Nagar Assembly constituency also registered a delay in the 27 rounds of counting of votes in 373 booths. The results were declared only after 11 p.m. After a delay in the initial stages of counting in a few constituencies of the city, the Chennai District Election Office managed to complete the counting ahead of the original deadline set by officials on Sunday. Counting was completed earlier than the time set by the election officials in constituencies such as Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni. A senior official of Chennai Corporation said many rounds of counting were completed in 20 to 22 minutes instead of the 30 to 35 minutes allocated. As a result, counting in Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni was completed before 5 p.m.  Counting was completed earlier than the time set by the election officials in constituencies such as Chepauk - Thiruvallikeni Senior Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evm-glitches-trigger-delay-in-counting-of-votes-in-a-few-seats/article34469100.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Counting day goes by without incident||Counting in four centres, which come under the Greater Chennai City Police, was peaceful and smooth since Sunday morning as elaborate security arrangements were put in place at all important places and junctions. City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal told The Hindu , “We had made elaborate security arrangements as per guidelines of the Election Commission of India (ECI). About 5,000 police personnel were deployed to maintain law and order in the outer periphery of the counting centres. All those who entered the centres were thoroughly checked and parking for vehicles was arranged near the centres. Public gatherings were not allowed due to the lockdown being in effect.” Moreover, the complete lockdown was more advantageous for the police to ensure no public gatherings occurred near counting centres, which were guarded by a three-tier security arrangement. In order to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the government announced the complete lockdown from 10 p.m. on Saturday to Monday morning. Residents were requested to avoid venturing out unnecessarily. Vehicle would not be allowed to ply on roads, except those meant for milk distribution, medical purposes and other emergencies. As the complete lockdown was in place, arterial roads in the city were deserted. Uniformed police personnel took to the roads to inspect vehicles. Flyovers and bridges were closed.“Unlike previous elections, surrounding areas of counting centres were very peaceful,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counting-day-goes-by-without-incident/article34469090.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress springs surprise, improves its strike rate||The Congress in Tamil Nadu finally overcame the ‘strike rate’ hurdle faced by it in the past Assembly elections (2011 and 2016) by winning or establishing leads in about 16 of 25 seats allotted to it by the DMK (at the time of going for print). The party also retained the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha seat for which a bypoll was held. This works out to a success rate of 64%, the highest since 2006 and 2001, when it won over 50% of the seats allotted to it by the DMK and the AIADMK respectively. Coming on the back of tough negotiations with the DMK where the party wanted a ‘respectable’ number of seats, the Congress considered the victory a big step forward for it in the State. In 2011, the party got 63 seats from the DMK but won only five, and in 2016, it won just eight of the 41 seats allotted to it. Only in 2006, it managed to win more seats — 34 of the 48 contested — than its current tally. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri expressed happiness over the party’s performance. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Alagiri attributed the victory to the strength of the DMK alliance and unity among Congress workers.  Facing the BJP In the five seats where it was pitted against the BJP, the Congress managed to establish leads in four. The only seat it lost was in a three-cornered and close fight in Coimbatore-South, where actor Kamal Haasan and BJP’s Vanathi Srinivasan faced off against its candidate Mayura Jayakumar. The party was comfortably placed against the BJP in Colachel, Udhagamandalam, Vilavanocde and Karaikudi. At Vridhachalam, the party’s Radhakrishnan trounced the DMDK’s Premalatha Vijayakant by a big margin. It also won the lone seat given to it in Chennai — Velachery. It either lost or was trailing behind the AIADMK’s candidates in seven constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-springs-surprise-improves-its-strike-rate/article34468679.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Results put question mark on AMMK’s role||With the AMMK coming a cropper in the Assembly election with its leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran losing in Kovilpatti, the party’s future role in Tamil Nadu politics has come under question. Mr. Dhinakaran formed an alliance comprising the DMDK, the AIMIM and the SDPI with a mission to put up a creditable show and “retrieve the AIADMK”. However, with the AIADMK emerging as a decent Opposition party, there is a view that the cadre of the AMMK could return to the parent party in due course. The AMMK’s poor show, though its vote share is yet to be computed, has also shown that the AIADMK has remained untouched. The decision of V.K. Sasikala, former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide, to step aside from politics in the run-up to the election, appears to have taken the wind out of the AMMK’s sails.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/results-put-question-mark-on-ammks-role/article34469109.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After 5 years, Left set to enter Assembly||Candidates of the two Left parties — the CPI and the CPI(M) — are set to enter the Tamil Nadu Assembly after a gap of five years. They contested in six constituencies each and won two each. The CPI has been contesting in Assembly elections since 1952 and the CPI(M) after its creation in 1964, and the two parties always had a presence in the Assembly. It was only after the 2016 election that they could not enter the Assembly. The two parties contested the 2016 election as part of the People’s Welfare Front and came a cropper. Subsequently, they formed an alliance with the DMK and won two seats each in the Lok Sabha poll in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-5-years-left-set-to-enter-assembly/article34469110.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industry bodies congratulate Stalin||Industry bodies and chambers of commerce in Tamil Nadu congratulated DMK president M.K. Stalin on winning the Assembly election and promised to work with the government to uplift the State’s economy. On behalf of the Confederation of Indian Industry, C.K. Ranganathan, chairman, southern region, said, “CII looks forward to working closely with the Government of Tamil Nadu in making the State a leader in all spheres of development.” The CII would work closely with the new government in areas like manufacturing, MSMEs, skill development, entrepreneurship, infrastructure, renewable energy, ICT, agriculture & food processing, water conservation and women’s empowerment. It would also focus on youth and rural development, he said. Mr. Ranganathan said the CII was working closely with the government in the fight against the second wave of COVID-19. “CII and its members in Tamil Nadu are committed to working hand-in-hand with the State government to come out of the COVID-19 crisis soon,” he stated. Focus on investment S. Chandrakumar, chairman, CII-Tamil Nadu, extended his wishes to the DMK president and his party and said, “The new government’s primary focus should be the economic development of the State, generating more employment opportunities and increasing investments during these challenging times.” ‘Announcement a relief’ Ar Rm Arun, president of the Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said the recent announcement by Mr. Stalin that there won’t be a crippling total lockdown came as a relief. The chamber called for more vaccination, higher levels of awareness on the COVID-19 SOPs and stringent action against those violating the norms. The chamber commended the DMK leader’s support for reopening the Sterlite factory to facilitate production of oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-bodies-congratulate-stalin/article34468695.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Of symbols & victories||The results of this election have again thrown up the question on the significance of the symbol. In the run-up to the election, the seat-sharing talks in the DMK camp were held up over one count: what should be the symbol for the smaller allies to contest on. The DMK insisted that the smaller parties contest on its ‘rising sun’ symbol because it was popular. While the MDMK, the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi and a few other parties relented, the VCK and the IUML were firm on contesting on their own symbols. In the AIADMK camp, the Tamil Maanila Congress and a few smaller parties agreed to contest on the ‘two leaves’ symbol. The insistence of the major Dravidian parties on their allies contesting on the ‘borrowed’ symbols was based on the premise that the prospects would be brighter if candidates sought votes on a ‘familiar’ symbol. Furthermore, once a candidate was elected on a party’s symbol, he/she would be bound by the whip of that party during voting in the Assembly. However, the results have proved that the familiarity with a symbol may not matter for ever. The TMC has failed to win even one of the six seats where it had contested on the AIADMK’s symbol. On the contrary, the VCK, which contested on the ‘pot’ symbol allotted to it midway during the campaign, has managed to establish leads in four constituencies. Interestingly, the MDMK, which contested on the DMK symbol in six seats, has established leads in four constituencies. Four other candidates of smaller parties who contested on the ‘rising sun’ symbol are ahead of their nearest rivals. In the AIADMK camp too, one candidate of a small outfit contesting on the ‘two leaves’ symbol is set to win. Analysts say the issue of contesting on a ‘borrowed’ symbol has been in vogue for many decades, but it assumed significance in 2016 when the AIADMK, under Jayalalithaa, allotted seats only to allies that agreed to contest on its symbol. Thus, for the first time, the ‘two leaves’ symbol was seen in all 234 constituencies in that election. After a few candidates of other parties won in the last Lok Sabha election on the DMK symbol, a lawyer moved the Madras High Court challenging the practice. Party functionaries, however, say several factors are at play in deciding the winning probability of a candidate. The candidate’s reputation in the constituency, his rapport with the workers of the allies in the constituency, his work in the past in that area are among the factors which are likely to influence the result. And no known symbol can change his/her chances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/of-symbols-victories/article34469097.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot greets Stalin||Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali on Sunday extended his warm greetings to DMK president M.K. Stalin over his and his party’s victory in the State Assembly Elections - 2021. “You and your party should lead the destiny of the State of Tamil Nadu,” he said. The Prince expressed the hope that Mr. Stalin and his government to be sworn-in would play an important role for the preservation of secularism and democracy for peaceful co-existence of all fellow citizens. The Prince also congratulated Udhayanidhi Stalin for his huge victory and said that he would be a catalyst in the innovative ideas and opportunities for the uplift of the State and its people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prince-of-arcot-greets-dmk-president/article34468738.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK to send leaders to the Assembly after a gap||The Pattali Makkal Katchi, which fought the 2021 Assembly election in alliance with the AIADMK, reversed its electoral fortunes and established leads in Pennagaram (9,890 votes), Dharmapuri (15,852 votes), Salem West (13,218 votes) and Mailam (780 votes), while fighting a close contest in Jayamkondan and Vridhachalam in a see-saw battle on Sunday, at the time of going to print. According to the ECI website, till 8 p.m., the PMK polled 3.84% of the votes, contesting in 23 constituencies. The party’s founder, S. Ramadoss, and youth-wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss were yet to make a formal statement. The party’s key office-bearer, Vadivel Ravanan, went down in a fight in Kilvelur. The possible victories, even though as part of a losing alliance, will come as a huge relief for the party as its electoral fortunes have been dwindling. Sources in the party predictably attribute a good measure of the success to the 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyars within the Most Backward Classes quota, passed by the AIADMK government. Party leaders say the move galvanised the Vanniyars and made them vote as a bloc to the AIADMK-PMK alliance. While the PMK won three seats in the 2011 Assembly election, it did not win even a single seat in the 2016 poll. The party won the Dharmapuri Lok Sabha Parliamentary seat in 2014 as part of the NDA, but could not win a single Lok Sabha seat in 2019 in the same alliance. Party sources said the performance of the AIADMK in the northern and western districts was mainly due to the transfer of votes from the PMK. Though disappointed with the result, many in the party felt Dr. S. Ramadoss’ decision to demand reservation for Vanniyars elevated his image within the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-to-send-leaders-to-the-assembly-after-a-gap/article34468684.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK alliance looking to win big in nearby districts||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam alliance is expected to win 20 of the 21 Assembly constituencies in Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts, as on late Sunday. Only in Madurantakam, K. Maragatham of the AIADMK was leading over MDMK’s C.S. Sathya, contesting on the DMK symbol. As of 10 p.m. on Sunday, seven DMK and alliance candidates were declared winners in these three districts. The DMK alliance had won in Tiruvallur, Poonamallee (reserved), Tiruttani, Avadi, Alandur, Kancheepuram and Sriperumbudur (R) constituencies and was leading in others. Sitting DMK MLA A. Krishnaswamy won for the second time at Poonamallee (reserved) constituency by a whopping margin of 92,954 votes. While he got 1,48,383 votes, PMK’s S.X. Rajamannar secured 55,429 votes. Similarly, in Tiruvallur constituency, V.G. Rajendran of the DMK was declared the winner by a margin of 22,701 votes against AIADMK’s B.V. Ramana, a former minister. Mr. Rajendran, who secured a total of 1,07,709 votes, would be the MLA for a second consecutive term. Former Avadi municipal chairman S.M. Nasar of the DMK defeated AIADMK Minister ‘Mafoi’ K. Pandiarajan by a margin of 54,695 votes. He secured a total votes of 1,49,065 and was presented with the winning certificate. Mr. Pandiarajan came second with 94,370 votes. S. Chandran, the DMK candidate, received his certificate for winning in Tiruttani constituency. He secured 1,16,532 votes against AIADMK’s G. Hari, who got 88,668 votes. Candidates of seven other constituencies in Tiruvallur district, including Ambattur, Maduravoyal and Madhavaram, were leading with a high margin. DMK’s K. Ganapathy was leading with 1,20,182 votes at the end of round 31 at Maduravoyal constituency. Minister P. Benjamin trailed with 88,841 votes and MNM’s candidate Padma Priya secured 33,060 votes. Similarly, DMK’s sitting MLA S. Sudarsanam and DMK’s T.J. Govindarajan were also marching towards victory in Madhavaram and Gummidip-oondi. In Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts also, the DMK alliance was winning big. While incumbent DMK MLAs, T.M. Anbarasan of Alandur and C.V.M.P. Ezhilarasan of Kancheepuram, had regained their seats without breaking a sweat, S.R. Raja of Tambaram and E. Karunanidhi of Pallavaram were leading. In Kancheepuram district, the DMK alliance won in Alandur, Kancheepuram and Sriperumbudur. From the time counting started, sitting DMK candidates Mr. Ezhilarasan and Mr. Anbarasan started leading. In the Uthiramerur and Sriperumbudur constituencies, the opposite candidates were initially leading for a few rounds after which the tables turned. In Sriperumbudur (Reserved) constituency K. Selvaperunthagai of the Congress, who was pitted against sitting AIADMK candidate K. Palani, was trailing till round 10 after which he took the lead and won. In Chengalpattu district, where seven constituencies were at stake, the DMK alliance was leading in six seats with AIADMK candidate Maragatham Kumaravel was leading in one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-alliance-looking-to-win-big-in-nearby-districts/article34469099.ece
03 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK accepts verdict, says Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday said that although the AIADMK-PMK alliance did not achieve victory as expected, the results of the Assembly election has not made them tired. In a statement late on Sunday, he said the PMK had won five Assembly constituencies (ECI website as of midnight showed the PMK as having won one seat and leading in three seats) of the 23 constituencies it contested and said the party accepted the verdict of the people. Constructive criticism “I congratulate DMK president M.K. Stalin for winning the election. The PMK will do introspection on why it lost and improve its organisational infrastructure to win more seats next time. PMK will contribute constructively like before.” Dr. Ramadoss thanked outgoing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and other alliance parties for their cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-accepts-verdict-says-ramadoss/article34469103.ece
03 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK alliance sweeps Coimbatore district||The AIADMK alliance won nine of the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district as the result of Kinathukadavu Assembly constituency was not available at the time of filing the report. AIADMK candidates in Thondamuthur (S.P. Velumani), Singanallur (K.R. Jayaram), Coimbatore North (Amman K. Arjunan), Pollachi (V. Jayaraman), and Valparai (T.K. Amulkandasami) won and received certificates authorising their victory. In Mettupalayam AIADMK's A.K. Selvaraj was poised to win the seat as the last available data showed him with a lead of 3,181 votes over DMK's T.R. Shanmugasundaram. In Sulur, incumbent V.P. Kandasamy polled 1,17,509 votes, as per the last available data. With this, he maintained a lead of 32,106 votes over Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi candidate Premier Selvam, who contested with the Rising Sun symbol. He was all set to win the seat as the postal ballots was unlikely to determine the winner, given the lead. In Kavundampalayam Assembly constituency, AIADMK's P.R.G. Arunkumar had polled 1,34,981 votes to record a lead of 10,424 votes over DMK's Payya Gounder alias Krishnan. The final figure was unavailable at the time of filing the report. In Coimbatore South BJP's Vanathi Srinivasan won the seat defeating Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasaan. In Kinathukadavu Assembly constituency, the lead oscillated between AIADMK's S. Damodaran and DMK's Kurichi Prabhakaran. In the initial rounds, Mr. Damodaran had a comfortable lead over the DMK candidate. As almost half of the 35 rounds were complete, Mr. Prabhakaran secured more votes and at one point had 7,000 votes more. Towards the close of poll, Mr. Damodaran came from behind to take lead again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-alliance-sweeps-coimbatore-district/article34468724.ece
03 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Administration warns brick kilns against illegal operation||The district administration has warned operators of brick kilns/chambers in five village panchayats in Thadagam valley of taking legal action for illegal operation. The move comes a day after the Madras High Court set aside the order issued by the Coimbatore north tahsildar to close down brick kilns in the valley. The court on Friday held that the tahsildar was not empowered to order the closure of brick kilns and directed the District Collector to pass appropriate orders on the issue within four weeks after hearing the brick kiln owners. The court in its order had said that “It is open to the respondents to take any action against the brick kilns, including the petitioners, if it is found that the same has been operated without any licence/clearance in the manner known to law. This order would not preclude the authorities in exercising their powers in accordance with law. It is also made clear that the owners of the brick kilns can run the show, if they possess a valid licence and other documents to do so”. In response to the order, the district administration said that operation of all brick kilns/chambers in the five village panchayats, including the 186 units which had not obtained licence, was illegal. It said that operation of brick kilns in prohibited areas was an offence for violating the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of the Pollution Control Board. According to the district administration, a case will be registered against the owner of the vehicle and the driver if they are found mining of soil for brick kilns illegally. It further said that sale of bricks manufactured in brick kilns/chambers that operate illegally is also an offence. The district administration said that the public can report illegal operation of vehicles belonging to the brick kilns to the Assistant Director of Geology and Mining (9791900487), Revenue Divisional Officer, Coimbatore North (9445924164), Coimbatore North Tahsildar (9445000571) and Thadagam police station (0422-2658955).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-warns-brick-kilns-against-illegal-operation/article34468731.ece
03 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Liver check-up machine unveiled||A private hospital here recently unveiled a machine to help diagnose liver ailments in a non-invasive manner. ‘Fibroscan 430 Mini Plus’ could measure the stiffness and fat content of the liver through a non-invasive assessment and was launched at V.G.M. Gastro Centre, a press release said. The hospital’s chairman and gastroenterologist V.G. Mohan Prasad said those with obesity, high BP, diabetes, high cholesterol, moderate to severe alcohol consumption and a family history of liver disease are advised to undergo a master health check-up once a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advanced-machine-for-liver-check-up-unveiled/article34468734.ece
03 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||V. Jayaraman’s victory in Pollachi is AIADMK’s fifth in a row||AIADMK’s incumbent MLA and Deputy Speaker V. Jayaraman entered into the fray this time when the party and he were facing allegations of shielding the accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case. Mr. Jayaraman defeated DMK’s K. Varadarajan, registering his second consecutive win from the seat and fourth one since 2001. His victory has made the party hold the seat for the fifth consecutive term. ‘Spreading falsehood’ “This is the fitting reply to those who tried to divert the attention of voters by spreading falsehood and rumours during the election. I will continue to serve the people of Pollachi,” said Mr. Jayaraman after he was named the winner. Though the number of votes he secured increased from 78,553 in 2016 to 80,567 this time, the margin of victory reduced from 13,368 to 1,725. Mr. Varadarajan, who secured 78,842 votes, trailed behind Mr. Jayaraman in the counting. A resident of Thippampatty village, Mr. Jayaraman’s previous victories from Pollachi seat were in 2001, 2006 and 2016. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, AIADMK’s incumbent MP C. Mahendran had lost to DMK’s K. Shanmugasundaram in Pollachi parliamentary constituency, primarily due to the public outrage over the alleged mismanagement of Pollachi sexual assault case by the ruling party, and the DMK front had hoped that the trend might continue in the Assembly election, this time too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/v-jayaramans-victory-in-pollachi-is-aiadmks-fifth-in-a-row/article34468725.ece
03 May 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Resounding victory for AIADMK alliance in Dharmapuri district||Dharmapuri district handed out a resounding victory to the AIADMK alliance with the party winning all five seats. The constituencies also registered huge victory margin by the AIADMK victors adding a silver lining to the defeat faced by the party State-wide. Palacode’s sitting MLA and the outgoing Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan secured a victory margin of 28,100 votes, defeating the DMK’s P.K.Murugan. In Harur, the AIADMK’s sitting MLA V. Sampath Kumar registered a win against the CPI candidate A. Kumar by a margin of 30,362 votes. In Pennagaram, PMK candidate G.K.Mani won the seat by a margin of 21,186 votes defeating the sitting DMK MLA P.N.P.Inbasekaran. Mr.Mani was leading by significant margin right from round 1, not conceding a set back in any of the rounds to the DMK candidate. In Dharmapuri, PMK candidate S.P. Venkateshwaran, in a face-off with the DMK’s sitting MLA P.Subramani, secured a victory margin of over 16,760 votes. In Paapireddipatty, the sitting AIADMK MLA A.Govindasamy bagged the constituency with a record margin of 36,943 seats defeating DMK candidate M. Prabhu Rajasekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resounding-victory-for-aiadmk-alliance-in-dharmapuri-district/article34468722.ece
03 May 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||DMK wins 4, AIADMK 3 in Dindigul district||The results of the 2021 election to the Legislative Assembly, which were taken up for counting on Sunday, showed that the AIADMK had won in three out of the seven segments, while the DMK had registered a win in four Assembly segments in Dindigul district. Leading the victory, Athur DMK candidate I Periasami had polled 1,65,809 votes against his nearest rival Thilaga Bama of the PMK, who polled 30241 votes, thus securing a whopping margin of 1,35,568 votes. Apart from him, the DMK's senior party functionaries R Chakrapani from Oddanchatram secured 109970 votes against his nearest rival from the AIADMK who had polled 81228 votes. The DMK candidate, Gandhirajan from Vedasandur and I.P. Senthil Kumar from Palani have won comfortably. As for the AIADMK, it has won in Dindigul (Dindigul C Srinivasan), Natham (Natham R Viswanathan) and Nilakottai (Reserve) Thenmozhi Sekar. Mr. Viswanathan defeated the sitting DMK MLA Andi Ambalam by a margin of 13,010 votes. Thenmozhi Sekar polled 91461 votes defeating DMK candidate who polled 63843 votes. The NTK candidate polled 17509 votes and MNM got 3181 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-wins-4-aiadmk-3-in-dindigul-district/article34468701.ece
03 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK bags four, DMK three in Erode district||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) won four Assembly constituencies while the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and its partners bagged three seats in Erode district. When these results were declared, the counting of postal votes was, however, in progress for the Modakkurichi Assembly constituency where the DMK was pitted against the Bharatiya Janata Party. If the DMK takes this seat, the scores will be level between the arch rivals. AIADMK won the constituencies of Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani, Perundurai and Bhavanisagar and the DMK won Erode (West) and Anthiyur. The DMK’s ally, Indian National Congress (INC) won Erode (East). The AIADMK’s K.A. Sengottaiyan, who contested from Gobichettipalayam, secured 1,07,999 votes against G.V. Manimaran of DMK, who got 79,512 votes. Mr. Sengottaiyan won by a margin of 28,487 and is representing the constituency for the eighth time . In Bhavani, K.C. Karuppannan of the AIADMK bagged 1,00,285 votes and won against K.P. Durairaj of DMK, who got 77,079 votes. The victory margin was 23,206 votes. In Perundurai, J.K. alias Jayakumar of AIADMK, won against K.K.C. Balu of Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi (KMDK), who contested on the DMK’s symbol, the rising sun. Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam, former AIADMK minister and incumbent Perundurai MLA, who was removed from the party for contesting as an independent, secured 9,911 votes. In Bhavanisagar, A. Bannari of AIADMK won by a margin of 16,008 votes against P.L. Sundaram of the Communist Party of India (CPI). In Erode (West), S. Muthusamy of DMK secured 1,00,757 votes and won against K.V. Ramalingam of AIADMK (78,668 votes). The victory was by a margin of 22,089 votes. Three constituencies saw a neck-and-neck fight from the first round of counting, and the winners had only a slender margin of votes. In Anthiyur, A.G. Venkatachalam of DMK got 79,096 votes against A.S. Shanmugam of AIADMK, who got 77,821 votes. The victory margin was 1,275 votes. In Erode (East) constituency, E. Thirumagan Evera (Indian National Congress) secured 65,472 votes while M. Yuvaraja (AIADMK) got 57,391. The winning margin was 8,081 votes. C. Saraswathi (BJP) was battling it out against Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan (DMK) in Modakurichi, where the counting of postal votes was in progress. Winning contestants were given certificates by the returning officers concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-bags-four-dmk-three-in-erode-district/article34468727.ece
03 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||1,250 personnel deployed for security at counting centres in Erode||A total of 1,250 personnel were deployed at the two counting centres during the counting of votes for the eight Assembly constituencies in the district here on Sunday. Personnel from the departments of police, home guards and two companies of paramilitary personnel were posted at the Institute of Road and Transport Technology at Chithode where votes polled in the constituencies of Erode (East), Erode (West), Perundurai, Modakkurichi, Anthiyur were counted. Votes polled in the constituencies of Gobichettipalayam and Bhavanisagar were counted at the Gobi Arts and Science College at Gobichettipalayam. Three-tier security was in place at the centres to ensure no untoward incidents. Paramilitary personnel were deployed inside the counting centres, while the police and home guards were posted on the premises. Earlier in the day, only candidates and booth agents with COVID-19 negative certificate or both doses of vaccination report were allowed to enter the premises. They were frisked by the police at the entrance and mobile phones were banned inside the centres. Vehicles were not allowed inside the centres and agents were transported in buses and vehicles to the counting centres after frisking and they were provided food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1250-personnel-deployed-for-security-at-counting-centres-in-erode/article34468715.ece
03 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Counting stopped for an hour in Erode after agents allege discrepancies in Form 17 C||Counting of votes polled in the Perundurai Assembly constituency was stopped for an hour after the booth agents of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi (KMDK) alleged discrepancies in serial numbers in Form 17C (account of votes recorded) pasted on the control units and in the copy given to them. The booth agents told presspersons outside the counting hall that the Form also carries the identification number of the voting machine, including serial numbers. At the end of the polling, the Form would be pasted on the control units. While one copy of the Form would be pasted on the unit, second one would be with the Returning Officer and the third copy would be given to them, the booth agents said. “The serial number differed in 99 units and we wanted the counting of votes stopped,” the booth agents said. Independent candidate Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam also stressed the same. However, counting was not stopped. Agents raised the issue again and the counting was stopped for an hour. They submitted a petition to the election officials after which District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the counting hall. He said that counting would not be stopped, after which the process resumed.  Form 17 C has the account of votes recorded, and it will be pasted on the control units after the end of polling. A copy of the Form will also be given to the agents  Booth agents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counting-stopped-for-an-hour-in-erode-after-agents-allege-discrepancies-in-form-17-c/article34468718.ece
03 May 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK finishes second in most districts||The DMK reigned supreme by putting up a good performance in all four constituencies in Karur district. While the DMK candidates K. Sivagamasundari and R. Manickam established a clear lead in Krishnarayapuram and Kulithalai constituencies over their AIADMK rivals Muthukumar and N.R. Chandrasekar respectively, Karur and Aravakurichi constituencies witnessed an intense fight. As expected Karur constituency witnessed a tight contest between Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabaskar and V. Senthil Balaji of the DMK. It witnessed a see-saw battle right from the first round of counting. At the end of the tenth round, Mr. Senthil Balaji established a lead of 2,356 votes. In Krishnarayapuram constituency, at the end of the 17th round, Ms. Sivagamasundari established a big lead of 23,067 votes over her nearest rival Muthukumar. In Kulithalai constituency, Mr. Manickam won with a comfortable margin of 22,706 votes against his AIADMK nominee Chandrasekar. The fight was intense between R. Elango of the DMK and K. Annamalai of the BJP. in Aravakurichi constituency. At the end of the 19th round, Mr. Elango established a cumulative lead of 4,544 votes. Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts have turned DMK’s fortress. Vedaranyam constituency was the only saving grace for the ruling party as the sitting MLA and State Minister O.S. Manian was leading by 1,400 votes over his DMK rival S. K. Vetharathinam until late night on Sunday. In Nagapattinam constituency, Thanka. Kathiravan of AIADMK was defeated by J. Mohamed Shanavas of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi by a margin of 6,150 votes. Last time, M. Thamimun Ansari, the AIADMK candidate, won by a margin of 20,550 votes. In Mayiladuthurai constituency, S. Rajakumar of Indian National Congress had a comfortable victory over A. Palanichamy of Paatali Makkal Katchi. In Kilvelur constituency, V. P. Nagamalli of CPI (M) defeated PMK candidate S. Vadivel Ravanan by a margin of 4,449 votes. In Poompuhar constituency, DMK’s Nivedha M. Murugan had a slender lead of 521 votes over S. Pavunraj, the AIADMK sitting MLA. In Sirkazhi, Paneerselvam of DMK emerged victorious over P.V. Bharathi of AIADMK by a margin of 8,958 votes. The DMK's dominance in Perambalur and Ariyalur districts was in consonance with the trend in rest of the State. DMK won all the four segments: Perambalur reserved constituency, Kunnam, Ariyalur and Jayankondam. In Perambalur Assembly constituency, M. Prabaharan of the DMK polled 1,24,336 votes, while the AIADMK sitting MLA - R. Tamizhselvan polled 91,577 votes. In Kunnam, similar trends were reported with S. S. Sivasankar of the DMK recording a win against AIADMK's sitting MLA R. T. Ramachandran. Ariyalur also voted in favour of the DMK with Chinnappa K. defeating S. Rajendran of the AIADMK. In Jayankondam, Kannan Ka. So. Ka. of the DMK prevailed over K. Balu of the PMK. The DMK alliance put up a dominant show, winning 10 out of 12 Assembly segments in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts. DMK’s alliance partner CPI won the Thiruthuraipoondi seat in Tiruvarur district. Papanasam Assembly constituency was secured by Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M. H. Jawahirullah who had contested in the DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-see-saw-battle-in-karur/article34468688.ece
03 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||DMK secures three, AIADMK two seats in Krishnagiri district||Krishnagiri with its six Assembly constituencies saw Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) securing three seats and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) two seats on Sunday. Uthangarai was poised for AIADMK victory at the time of filing this report. While the DMK bagged Bargur and Hosur constituencies, Thally was won by its alliance partner Communist Party of India (CPI). The AIADMK secured Vepanapalli and Krishnagiri. In Thally, CPI candidate T. Ramachandran secured a whopping margin of over 55, 334 votes defeating Bharatiya Janata Party’s C. Nahesh Kumar. Hosur witnessed a tough contest for the DMK candidate Y. Prakash in the initial rounds even as he led by only a few hundred margin of votes against the AIADMK candidate Jyoti Balakrishna Reddy. However, as rounds progressed, Mr. Prakash widened the numbers winning the seat by 11,149 votes. Vepanapalli constituency defied projections handing out victory to the AIADMK candidate K. P. Munusamy against the DMK candidate P. Murugan, albeit with only a margin of 3262 votes. Bargur, seen as an AIADMK forte , was broken into by the DMK candidate D. Mathiazhagan. He fetched a thumping victory by a margin of 12,614 votes for the party and defeated the AIADMK candidate A. Krishnan. AIADMK was raced to a victory in Uthangarai right from the first round, only increasing the margin of votes by thousands after each round by its candidate T. M. Tamilselvam. DMK candidate S. Arumugam trailed behind after each round. As of round 19, the margin was wide with over 20,000 votes and above. Recounting Trouble brewed in the Krishnagiri constituency’s counting hall late Sunday night, after DMK contested the potential victory of AIADMK candidate K. Ashok Kumar with a margin of just 647 votes. The sitting MLA and the DMK candidate T. Senguttuvan demanded a recount following which VVPATs were taken out for counting. Finally, Ashok Kumar won the seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-secures-three-aiadmk-two-seats-in-krishnagiri-district/article34468720.ece
03 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||It’s 50:50 for DMK, AIADMK in Madurai||The DMK has significantly increased its voter base in Madurai district by winning five out of the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district. In the 2016 Assembly elections, the AIADMK won eight of the 10 constituencies. After the Tirupparankundram by-elections in 2019, the DMK’s tally increased to three constituencies in the district. The results declared on Sunday had shown that the DMK has changed the perception that Madurai district is an AIADMK stronghold. In all the five constituencies that the DMK alliance had won - Sholavandan, Madurai Central, Madurai North, Madurai East and Madurai South - the candidates had won with a comfortable margin of votes. In Madurai East constituency, DMK’s candidate P. Moorthy had a landslide victory with a margin of 49,604 votes. He defeated AIADMK candidate R. Gopalakrishnan by securing 51.59% of votes to continue his second term in the constituency. DMK candidate P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan had a huge victory in Madurai Central constituency to retain his seat. He defeated N. Jothi Muthuramalingam, the AIADMK alliance candidate, by a huge margin of 33,915 votes. While the initial rounds of counting in Madurai North constituency showed a tough contest between DMK’s G. Thalapathi and BJP’s P. Saravanan, in the end Mr. Thalapathi won the seat by securing 46.54% of votes. Mr. Saravanan, who was previously the DMK MLA for Tirupparankundram, shifted to BJP after the DMK denied him a ticket for the Assembly elections. Mr. Saravanan was given the ticket to contest in Madurai North constituency by the BJP within a few hours of joining the party. In Madurai South constituency, M. Boominathan of the MDMK - an ally of the DMK - won by defeating AIADMK’s S.S. Saravanan, who was the incumbent MLA, by a comfortable margin of votes. In Sholavandan (Reserved) constituency, A. Venkatesan of the DMK defeated incumbent AIADMK MLA K. Manickam. AIADMK gains Former Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju won in Madurai West assembly constituency by securing 41.50% votes. He defeated DMK’s C. Chinnammmal to become the MLA of Madurai West constituency for the third consecutive time. Initially, the margin between the candidates was slender. But as counting process continued, Mr. Raju polled more votes. In the Melur constituency, AIADMK'S Periyapullan alias P. Selvam won by securing 45.59% of votes. Indian National Congress’s T. Ravichandran secured the second position. In Melur, A. Selvaraj of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam polled a significant number of votes to secure the third place. Former Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar won in Tirumangalam constituency. Initially, the vote difference between Mr. Udhayakumar and DMK's M. Manimaran was very minimal. But, as the counting progressed, Mr. Udhayakumar won the seat for the second consecutive time. For around two hours voting was suspended for Tirumangalam constituency as agents pointed out that two EVMs had the same number. The confusion was cleared after the intervention of Collector T. Anbalagan. V.V. Rajan Chellappa, the former MLA of Madurai North constituency, had a comfortable win in Tirupparankundram. He defeated Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate Ponnuthai by a huge margin of votes. In a major surprise, AIADMK’S P. Ayyappan won Usilampatti by a comfortable margin, though it was anticipated that he had a tough contest with DMK’s alliance candidate P.V. Kathiravan and AMMK candidate I. Mahendran. There was a close fight for the second and third position. in the end Mr. kathiravan secured the second position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-5050-for-dmk-aiadmk-in-madurai/article34469256.ece
03 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin will spur growth of Tamil Nadu: forum||Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry has congratulated DMK president M.K. Stalin for the victory in the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. Mr. Stalin’s assurance of a corruption-free governance, surveillance over all departments and the stand against favouritism was the game changer, said its president S. Rethinavelu. Recollecting DMK Supremo M. Karunanidhi’s contribution to the welfare of farmers, particularly the concept of ‘uzhavar sandhai’ (farmers’ market), he said the Chamber was confident that Mr. Stalin would spur the growth of the agricultural, industrial and service sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-will-spur-growth-of-tamil-nadu-forum/article34469260.ece
03 May 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||VCK bags Nagapattinam seat||Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts have turned DMK’s fortress going by performance of its candidates in the six Assembly segments. Vedaranyam constituency in Nagapattinam district was the only saving grace for the ruling party as the sitting MLA and State Minister O.S. Manian was leading by 1,400 votes over his DMK rival S. K. Vetharathinam until late night on Sunday. It was a see-saw battle all through for the two contestants. Last time, Mr. Manian had won by a comfortable margin of 22,998 votes. In Nagapattinam constituency, Thanka. Kathiravan of AIADMK was defeated by J. Mohamed Shanavas of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi by a margin of 6,150 votes. Last time, M. Thamimun Ansari, the AIADMK candidate, won by a margin of 20,550 votes. In Mayiladuthurai constituency, S. Rajakumar of Indian National Congress had a comfortable victory over A. Palanichamy of Paatali Makkal Katchi. In the 2016 election, V. Rathakrishnan of AIADMK won by a margin of 4,778 votes In Kilvelur constituency, V.P. Nagamalli of CPI (M) defeated PMK candidate S. Vadivel Ravanan by a margin of 4,449 votes. Last time U. Mathivanan of DMK had won by a margin of 10,170 votes In Poompuhar constituency, DMK’s Nivedha M. Murugan had a slender lead of just 521 votes over S. Pavunraj, the AIADMK sitting MLA. Last time, Mr. Pavunraj had a victory margin of 19,935 votes. In Sirkazhi segment, Paneerselvam of DMK emerged victorious over P.V. Bharathi of AIADMK by a margin of 8,958 votes. Last time, Mr. Bharathi had won with a victory margin of 9,003 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-bags-nagapattinam-seat/article34468692.ece
03 May 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||BJP candidate defeats Suresh Rajan in Nagercoil||Kanniyakumari district, which denied a seat to AIADMK in 2016, has given a seat each to the party and its ally BJP as their candidates won the Kanniyakumari and Nagercoil constituencies respectively. The most surprising outcome is the defeat of DMK candidate and former Minister N. Suresh Rajan who lost the election to BJP candidate M.R. Gandhi, who lost the electoral battle to the same opponent in 2016 by a margin of 20,956 votes. Mr. Gandhi, who polled 88,804 votes defeated Mr. Suresh Rajan by a margin of 11,669. In Kanniyakumari Assembly segment, DMK candidate S. Austin lost the battle to former Minister and the Tamil Nadu Government’s Special Representative for Delhi N. Thalavai Sundaram by a margin of 16,299 votes. DMK candidate for Padmanabhapuram segment and sitting MLA T. Mano Thangaraj defeated AIADMK’s John Thankam by 26,093 votes. Congress candidates J.G. Prince of Colachal, S. Vijayadharani of Vilavancode and S. Rajesh Kumar of Killiyoor, the 234th Assembly segment of Tamil Nadu registered comfortable victory with attractive margins. While Mr. Rajesh Kumar retained his constituency by defeating Tamil Maanila Congress candidate Jude Dev, son of former MLA Kumaradoss, who contested the election with AIADMK’s ‘Two Leaves’ symbol, by the margin of 55,400 votes, Mr. Prince defeated BJP’s Ramesh by a margin of 24,832 votes. BJP’s Jayaseelan lost to Ms. Vijayadharani in Vilavancode segment by a margin of 28,669 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-candidate-defeats-suresh-rajan-in-nagercoil/article34469375.ece
03 May 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Vasanthakumar’s son leads in Kanniyakumari||After losing the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency by a whopping 2.59 lakh votes to Congress candidate H. Vasanthakumar two years ago, BJP leader and former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan is all set to lose the bypoll to Vijay Vasanth, son of Vasanthakumar. At 11.15 p.m., the 37-year-old first-timer was leading by a margin of 1,34,374 votes over the BJP veteran, who has been elected to the Lok Sabha twice. While the INC vote share was over 52%, the BJP was a shade lower than 40%. Even as Mr. Radhakrishnan, who got elected to the Lok Sabha from the then Nagercoil segment in 2009 and 2014, and BJP cadre were working overtime during electioneering in the Christian-dominant coastal areas to repair the damage caused by the Enayam International Container Transhipment Terminal proposal, the advertisement of Expression of Interest for executing the Kanniyakumari International Container Transhipment Terminal, on the eve of the poll, reopened wounds to cause an irreparable damage to his prospects, say analysts. Consequently, the fishermen community, with around 1.75 lakh votes in the district, must have solidly backed Mr. Vasanth, as they refused to accept the assurance given by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that his government would never allow the Kanniyakumari terminal. Though sustained attempts were made to drive a wedge between the Christian fishermen and Mr. Vasanth, a Hindu Nadar, the community, seems to have backed the Congress candidate again. The Hindu Nadar voters in Saamithoppu and its adjoining areas were also against the terminal proposal, as they felt the fertile land would turn barren due to pollution. “Despite having implemented development works in the district, our candidate is staring at a successive defeat. The margin haunts us. We hope our party will nominate him to the Rajya Sabha as a mark of recognition of his tireless work,” said a BJP office-bearer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vasanthakumars-son-leads-in-kanniyakumari/article34468682.ece
03 May 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal dt.: DMK bags four, ally KMDK one||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) won four of the six Assembly seats in Namakkal district. While the DMK contested from five seats -- Kumarapalayam, Rasipuram, Paramathi-Velur, Senthamangalam and Namakkal, its ally, the Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi contested from Tiruchengode. Electricity Minister P. Thangamani retained his seat, Kumarapalayam, and AIADMK candidate S. Sekar wrested Paramathi-Vellur from the DMK. Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja lost to R. Mathiventhan of DMK in Rasipuram. The presence of KMDK in DMK-led alliance has worked in favour of DMK. KMDK leader E.R. Eswaran won by a margin of 2,862 votes in Tiruchengode. Namakkal constituency, which was considered a winnable seat for the AIADMK, saw incumbent legislator K.P.P Bhaskar trailing behind the DMK candidate from the first round. The presence of rebel candidate in Senthamangalam affected the victory of the AIADMK candidate here. DMK candidate K. Ponnusamy won by a margin of 10,493 votes. Incumbent legislator C. Chandrashekaran polled 11,371 votes here. Counting for all six constituencies in Namakkal district happened at the same centre at a private college in Thiruchengode. Around 400 police personnel were deployed for security purposes, including Central Armed Forces. Agents were found crowding, violating the physical distancing norm. Agents and counting staff were frisked before entering the counting centre and were provided with hand sanitisers, gloves and masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-dt-dmk-bags-four-ally-kmdk-one/article34468729.ece
03 May 2021||Perambalur/Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||It’s a DMK show in Perambalur, Ariyalur||The DMK's dominance in Perambalur and Ariyalur districts, altogether consisting of four assembly constituencies, was in consonance with the trend in rest of the State. DMK won in all the four segments: Perambalur reserved constituency, Kunnam, Ariyalur and Jayankondam. The margin of victory in Perambalur segment was the highest at about 30,000 votes. In Perambalur assembly constituency, M. Prabaharan of the DMK polled 1,24,336 votes, including 2,4,54 postal votes, while the AIADMK sitting MLA - R. Tamizhselvan polled 91,577 votes including 731 postal votes. Anti-incumbency factor was in play in the constituency, as Mr. Tamizhselvan a two-time MLA who had won in both 2016 and 2011 had to taste defeat. In 2016, Mr. Tamizhselvan had won by a margin of 6,853 votes against the DMK's P. Sivakami. In Kunnam, similar trends were reported with S. S. Sivasankar of the DMK recording a win against AIADMK's sitting MLA R. T. Ramachandran. Ariyalur also voted in favour of the DMK. Chinnappa K. of the DMK was the winning candidate with S. Rajendran of the AIADMK, who had won in the 2016 elections, tasting defeat. In Jayankondam, Kannan Ka. So. Ka. of the DMK prevailed over K. Balu of the PMK after a see-saw battle in intervening rounds. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Ramajeyalingam. J.K.N of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam had won with a large margin of 22, 934 against Gurunathan. J, a PMK candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-a-dmk-show-in-perambalur-ariyalur/article34468690.ece
03 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Defectors prove a point to Congress leadership||The spate of defections of several heavyweights that triggered the fall of the Narayanasamy-led government before completing its term, is now scorching the electoral prospects of the Congress alliance with many former associates notching up crucial wins for the rival front as early results of the April 6 elections came in on Sunday. And in the zero-sum game that has benefited the NDA, the BJP appears to have gained the most in the 15th Legislative Assembly. Dramatic turnaround A rather dramatic turnaround in fortunes for the saffron party, which last had an MLA in the Puducherry Assembly in 2001 (A. M. Krishnamoorthy represented Reddiarpalayam) and all but one of its 30 candidates in the 2016 elections lost their deposits. Among a clutch of leaders who quit the Congress and joined the BJP were A. Namassivayam, former Minister and second-in-command in the Narayanasamy Cabinet, and A. John Kumar, with a reputation of massive victory margins. K. Lakshminarayanan, who served as Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister, also resigned from the Congress. Both Mr. Namassivayam and Mr. John Kumar chalked up wins in their respective constituencies. While Mr. John Kumar vanquished former Minister MOHF Shahjahan (Congress) by a margin of 7,229 votes, Mr. Namassivayam pocketed Mannadipet defeating A. Krishnan (DMK) by a margin of 2,750 votes. Mr. Krishnan lost to AINRC’s T.P.R. Selvame in 2016 by 419 votes. Mr. Kumar, who managed to wangle the Nellithope seat for his son and political novice Richards John Kumar, has shown his clout with voters by playing a hand in his son’s win from there and further add to the BJP's tally. Mr. Richards defeated V. Karthikeyan (DMK) by 496 votes. DMK’s loss In Raj Bhavan constituency, K. Lakshminarayanan, who left the Congress after serving as Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister and joined the AINRC, defeated DMK’s S.P. Sivakumar by 3,752 votes. K.S.P. Ramesh and A.K.D. Aroumougame, who quit the Congress and joined the AINRC, notched up wins. Among the other influential leaders who quit the Congress were former Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao and former Speaker V.P. Sivakolundhu, neither of whom contested the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defectors-prove-a-point-to-the-congress-leadership/article34468735.ece
03 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tally hits a new high in U.T. with 1,360 cases||The Union Territory has recorded a new second wave high in deaths and new cases with 16 fatalities and 1,360 new infections reported on Sunday. Puducherry reported 15 of the deaths and Yanam one. The patients, including six women, were in the 47-80 age group. Eight patients had no recorded co-morbidity. With this, the region-wise cumulative toll was 675 in Puducherry, 94 in Karaikal, 50 in Yanam and 14 in Mahe. Positivity rate The new cases, which were detected from 5,173 tests, were reported in Puducherry (1,075), Karaikal (116), Yanam (116) and Mahe (53). The test positivity rate touched 26.29%, case fatality rate 1.36% and recovery rate 81.34%. With 987 patients discharged on Sunday, the active cases crossed the 10,000 mark to stand at 10,620 cases. Of these, 1,842 were in hospitals and 8,778 in home isolation. The bed occupancy position in Puducherry is: Jipmer (329), IGMCRI (322) and Covid Care Centres (837). The aggregate caseload in the Union Territories stood at 61,361 and 49,908 patients recovered. Of an estimated 8.09 lakh tests carried out by the Health Department to date, about 7.42 lakh have returned negative. The vaccination details were only being compiled, a medical bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-tally-hits-a-new-high-in-ut-with-1360-new-cases/article34468744.ece
03 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Father-son duo create history in Puducherry||In a first, the 15th Legislative Assembly in Puducherry will have a father-son duo sworn in as MLAs. A. John Kumar, who moved from the Congress to the BJP and his eldest son Richards John Kumar (also on a BJP ticket) who made his electoral début, share a slice of history for being the first father and son to be elected to the House. Mr. John Kumar trounced former Minister M.O.H.F. Shahjahan of the Congress by 7,229 votes in Kamaraj Nagar. In fact, Mr. John Kumar, who has chalked up landslide in the past, including from Nellithope in 2016 (victory margin of 12,141) and in the 2019 bypoll in Kamaraj Nagar, had cited this track record to convince the NDA to field his son in Nellithope. “I feel vindicated now,” he said referring to Richards’ win over V. Karthikeyan (DMK) by a narrow margin of 496 votes. Mr. John Kumar vacated his Nellithope seat to help V. Narayanasamy contest and win after becoming Chief Minister in 2016. He stood from Kamaraj Nagar in 2019 byelection after V. Vaithilingam resigned as Speaker and won the Lok Sabha seat. Mr. John Kumar won by a handsome margin of 7,171 votes over S. Bouvanesvarane of the AINRC. “They are the first father and son legislator team in the history of the Puducherry House,” said A.M. Saleem, CPI Secretary. He said the Puducherry Assembly has had close relatives as legislators in AINRC supremo N. Rangasamy and A. Namassivayam, who is son-in-law to the former’s elder brother or P. Rajavelou (AINRC) who is the uncle of U. Lakshmikandhan (AINRC). In fact, in the interregnum between erstwhile Pondicherry turning independent (from the French) through a referendum and formal accession with the Indian Union in 1962 and the promulgation of the Union Territories Act, 1963, when French rules still prevailed, Communist leader, freedom fighter and trade union trail blazer V. Subbiah, and his wife Saraswathi Subbiah were simultaneously members of the then Representative Assembly of French India, Mr. Saleem said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-son-duo-create-history-in-puducherry/article34468696.ece
03 May 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Heated arguments break out in Viralimalai||In a keenly fought electoral battle, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led front emerged victorious in two out of six assembly constituencies. While the DMK retained the Alangudi assembly constituency, its alliance partner the Communist Party of India - Marxist won from the Gandarvakottai assembly constituency. Sitting DMK MLA and the party candidate for the Alangudi assembly constituency Siva V. Meyyanathan won comfortably for the second time in a row defeating his immediate AIADMK rival and ex-Congressman Dharma Thangavel by a margin of 25,847 votes. CPI-M candidate M. Chinnadurai bagged the Gandarvakottai (reserved) Assembly constituency beating his AIADMK rival S. Jayabharathi by a margin of over 12,721 votes. Congress candidate T. Ramachandran who tasted defeat in Aranthangi in 2016 elections and was given ticket to contest this time from the same seat was leading by over 26,000 votes after Round 22 at the time of going to the press. Counting of votes got suspended thrice for Viralimalai Assembly constituency where Health Minister is seeking a re-election for the third time in a row after DMK raised objections apparently over different serial numbers in the control unit and VVPAT earlier in the day and later on finding a coir thread strapped on a box containing EVMs. Heated arguments broke out between the agents of both parties leading to a tense situation and eventually resulting in suspension of voting thrice at different time intervals. After a long pause, counting was taken up following discussion with poll officials. When counting of votes was stopped for the third time in the evening after Round 6, Mr. Vijayabaskar was leading by 7,242 votes over his DMK rival M. Palaniappan. Counting of votes for Thirumayam Assembly constituency which witnessed a see-saw battle between sitting DMK MLA S. Regupathy and AIADMK's P.K. Vairamuthu and Pudukottai constituency where DMK candidate Muthuraja was pitted against AIADMK candidate Karthik Thondaiman was still on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keenly-fought-battle-in-pudukottai/article34468691.ece
03 May 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Victory for DMK alliance in Ramnad||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and its alliance (Congress) candidates have registered a comfortable victory from all the four Assembly seats from Ramanathapuram district. The results, which were declared on Sunday, came in as a morale booster as the DMK fielded its candidate in Ramanathapuram segment after nearly 25 years. The party's district secretary Kadarbatcha Muthuramalingam defeated his nearest rival Kuppuram of the BJP by a margin of 50478 votes. According to the latest figures, the DMK had polled 110884 votes, while the BJP secured 60406 votes, NTK candidate got 17021 votes and AMMK polled 6764 votes. The veteran politician R.S. Raja Kannappan won over his AIADMK candidate Keerthika Muniasami by a margin of 20,721 votes. According to the latest figures, he secured 101901 votes while the AIADMK's Keerthika Muniasamy polled 81180 votes. In Paramakudi, DMK's H Murugesan won by a margin of 14376 votes defeating his nearest rival and sitting MLA Sathan Prabakar. The DMK polled 84864 votes, AIADMK: 71579 and NTK bagged Sasikala secured 16430 votes. The Congress candidate KR Manikam won by a margin of 13316 votes from Tiruvadanai Assembly defeating his rival K C Animuthu (AIADMK). The Congress secured 77347 votes, AIADMK: 64031 votes, AMMK's V T Anand polled 32074 votes and NTKs Jawahar secured 16213 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/victory-for-dmk-alliance-in-ramnad/article34468705.ece
03 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM wins by record margin for the third time||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Joint Coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami recorded a hatrick win at the Assembly elections, polling 1,63,154 votes. Mr. Palaniswami, who became the Chief Minister following the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and who contested the elections as AIADMK’s Chief Ministerial candidate, defeated DMK’s T. Sampath Kumar by a margin of 93,802 votes. Huge margin The advantage of being a Chief Minister candidate and the coalition with Pattali Makkal Katchi helped him record such a huge margin over the rival candidate. In the 2011 and 2016 elections, Mr.Palaniswami won from the constituency with a margin of 42,022 votes and 34,738 votes respectively against candidates of PMK here. The coalition with PMK was important for him and providing 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyar community, though temporary, has worked in favour of Mr.Palaniswami. It looks like it ensured a consolidation of Vanniyar votes as calculated by him. Vanniyars form an important vote base in the Edappadi constituency. As claimed by Mr.Palaniswami, perhaps he must be the only Chief Minister who visited his native district and constituency at least once a month and the various development works carried out by him in the district also garnered votes for the AIADMK. Cadres across political parties agree to the fact that Mr.Palaniswami did bring in various development projects to the district using his power and the education institutions and at least half dozen flyovers constructed by him stand testimony to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-wins-by-record-margin-for-the-third-time/article34468733.ece
03 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem stays loyal to ‘Two Leaves’||Salem district with the highest number of constituencies in the western region has once again proved its loyalty to AIADMK, with the AIADMK-led front winning nine out of 11 seats. While DMK won Salem North, the results of Mettur constituency was awaited. Except for Mettur, Sankari and Salem North constituencies, AIADMK-led front maintained lead from the first round of counting. PMK contested in Salem West and Mettur constituencies. While PMK candidate S.Sadhasivam was leading in the morning, the lead changed in favour of DMK candidate S.Srinivasa Perumal from Round 8 and it again changed in favour of PMK in later rounds. Gengavalli, Salem North, Veerapandi, Mettur and Attur were some of the constituencies that DMK was hopeful of a win. Omlaur was the only place were Congress contested. Congress leader Rangarajan Mohan Kumaramangalam contested from Omalur and trailed from the initial rounds. Salem North contested by incumbent DMK legislator R. Rajendran maintained lead from initial rounds itself and was declared winner with a margin of 7,588 votes. Gengavalli constituency were DMK candidate Rekha Priyadarshini lost by a slender margin in 2016 was another constituency that DMK had high hopes. However, DMK trailed from Round 1 itself. Though DMK maintained lead in Sankari, things changed in favour of AIADMK from Round 14. Naam Tamilar Katchi finished third in most of the constituencies and it also affected the prospects of DMK. A minor quarrel erupted between the booth agents of AIADMK and DMK in the halls where votes polled in Edappadi and Sankari constituencies were counted. The AIADMK agents alleged that all seats in the front bench were occupied by DMK agents. Later, the returning officers resolved the issue. Physical distancing went for a toss in the counting halls. Agents and other staff entering the counting centres were checked for valid pass and body temperature. The agents and counting personnel were provided with masks and sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-stays-loyal-to-two-leaves/article34468730.ece
03 May 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||DMK combine wins 3 seats, AIADMK 1 in Sivaganga||From the beginning of the election campaign, the DMK and its allies were sure about emerging victorious in the district for two reasons. One, there was anger in the AIADMK as the high command did not give a ticket to its Minister G Baskaran, who hailed from the district. Second, the allocation of Karaikudi seat to the BJP led to ruckus in the AIADMK camp as the party's district secretary P.R. Senthilnathan had carried out numerous works during the covid-19 pandemic. The campaign touched its peak after leaders from the Centre descended here seeking votes for the BJP's senior leader H Raja, who contested from Karaikudi. While Mr Raja was popular in the constituency, the non-cooperation from the AIADMK and its absence at the field level was visible during campaign. Fielding S. Mangudi from the Congress, a staunch supporter and loyalist of senior Congress leader P Chidambaram, the fight became more personal. On many occasions, Mr. Chidambaram repeated that the BJP would not be allowed to win even one seat in Tamil Nadu and his physical presence played a key role. At one point, he even scolded his party men for showing slackness and encouraged them to campaign more vigorously. The victory of K.R. Periakaruppan, the strongman of the DMK from Tirupathur Assembly, was sure from the time his name was announced. He was HR&CE Minister in Karunanidhi's cabinet in the past. For his seniority and having won with a huge margin, the party cadres are expecting a cabinet berth for him. The Manamadurai (Reserve) constituency, from where the DMK had fielded R. Tamilarasi, has won defeating the sitting AIADMK MLA Nagarajan. Initially, the DMK candidate faced issues as the party men claimed that she had an "outsider" tag. However, her non-controversial attitude and approach kept her detractors low-key. Moreover, the AIADMK's candidate had neglected his party men after he became MLA in 2016. In Sivaganga, the AIADMK's district secretary Mr. Senthilnathan has won defeating CPI's Gunasekaran. The Communist candidate, who was popular in the constituency, had been an MLA earlier. He was confident of a win. However, the approach of Mr. Senthilnathan won the support of all the groups in the party and everyone, including Mr. Baskaran, worked hard, poll-watchers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-combine-wins-3-seats-aiadmk-1-in-sivaganga/article34468707.ece
03 May 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Minister loses to newcomer in Sankarankovil constituency||The ruling party, which had three MLAs in Tenkasi district including two reserved segments of Vasudevanallur and Sankarankovil, has lost both reserved seats in the newly formed district to DMK. The most interesting poll outcome from the district is the victory of a novice, E. Raja of DMK, in Sankarankovil (Reserved) constituency. He defeated Minister for Adi Dravida Welfare V.M. Rajalakshmi by a margin of 5,354 votes. With this victory, DMK wrested Sankarankovil, an AIADMK bastion, after 32 years. Sitting MLA of Kadayanallur K.A.M. Muhammed Abubacker of Indian Union Muslim League lost his seat to AIADMK candidate C. Krishna Murali, son of former minister Chendurpandian, who was elected from the seat in 2011. Though this segment has a sizable number of Muslim voters and Mr. Krishna Murali could not canvas votes in a few places due to AIADMK’s electoral alliance with the BJP, he managed to register the win in this backward segment. MDMK’s T. Sadan Thirumalaikumar, who contested in Vasudevanallur (Reserved) segment with DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol, defeated AIADMK’s A. Manoharan by a margin of 2,367 votes. In Alangulam, sitting MLA and former Minister Poongothai Aladi Aruna of DMK lost to AIADMK’s Paul Manoj Pandian by a margin of 3,539 votes. Besides failing to enjoy the wholehearted support of party office-bearers of this constituency as party’s Tenkasi south district secretary Sivapadmanathan was eying for this segment, Dr. Poogothai’s poll prospects were marred by Panankaattuppadai Katchi candidate Hari Nadar, who polled 37,727 votes. Congress candidate S. Palani Nadar, who lost the 2016 Assembly polls to AIADMK’s S. Selvamohandas Pandian by a thin margin of 462 votes, has avenged for his defeat this time with the winning margin of 370 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-loses-to-newcomer-in-sankarankovil-constituency/article34469377.ece
03 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||CPI wins Thiruthuraipoondi seat||The DMK alliance put up a dominant show, winning 10 out of 12 Assembly Segments in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts. It has bagged 10 constituencies – seven in Thanjavur and three in Tiruvarur districts. Sitting Orathanadu MLA, M. Ramachandran of DMK lost the race to former Minister, R.Vaithilingam of AIADMK though the sitting MLA and Food Minister, R. Kamaraj managed to retain the Nannilam Assembly Segment in Tiruvarur district. Other sitting MLAs who have retained their seats in Thanjavur district are Durai Chandrasekaran of Thiruvaiyaru, G. Anbalagan of Kumbakonam, Govi Chezhian of Thiruvidaimaruthur, and T. K. G.Neelamegam of Thanjavur. The victors in district are T. R. B. Raaja of Mannargudi and Poondi Kalaivanan of Tiruvarur, belonging to the DMK. While the DMK’s alliance partner, CPI has won the Thiruthuraipoondi seat in Tiruvarur district, it has won the Pattukottai and Peravurani Segments by fielding its own candidates. The other seat, Papanasam Assembly Constituency was secured by Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M.H. Jawahirullah who had contested in the DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-wins-thiruthuraipoondi-seat/article34468687.ece
03 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||OPS lone winner of AIADMK; three seats go to DMK in Theni||The AIADMK has emerged victorious from Bodinayakkanur Assembly leaving the remaining three constituencies to its rival DMK. The district has Periyakulam, Andipatti, Bodinayakkanur and Cumbum Assembly segments. Though the results have shown that it was a straight contest between the two Dravidan majors, the presence of Makkal Neethi Maiam, Naam Tamilar Katchi and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam among others seem to have not created any tangible changes in the victory of the Dravidian parties. The final figures were yet to be released in the most keenly watched Bodinayakkanur Assembly Constituency. At the time of going to press at 11 p.m., the official figures were unavailable. However, the round 20 figures showed that O. Panneerselvam had polled 70422 votes while his nearest rival Thanga Tamil Selvan had secured 62955 votes. In Cumbum, DMK's Ramakrishnan was declared elected by 40674 votes. He had polled 102652 votes while AIADMK's Syed Khan had secured 61978 votes, AMMK's Suresh bagged 14399 votes and NTK;s Anish Fatima secured 12123 votes. Postal votes were yet to be included, officials said. In Andipatti Constituency, DMK candidate A Maharajan won by defeating his own brother A Logirajan of the AIADMK by a margin of 5808 votes. At the final round, DMK had polled 91495 votes and the AIADMK secured 85687 votes. In Periakulam,Saravanakumar of the DMK polled 90223 votes at the end of round 29 while the AIADMK candidate Murugan had secured 70320 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-lone-winner-of-aiadmk-three-seats-go-to-dmk-in-theni/article34468709.ece
03 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Kadambur Raju scores ‘hat-trick’ win||Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju, who was elected from Kovilpatti Assembly segment in 2011 and 2016 on the AIADMK ticket, has realised his dream of a ‘hat-trick’ win by defeating Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran by a margin of 12,403 votes in 2021. Interestingly, AMMK, which was predicted to spoil AIADMK’s fortunes in southern districts, has miserably failed in its mission with Dhinakaran himself losing the electoral battle in an embarrassing fashion. Another interesting feature is the debacle of Puthiya Thamizhagam founder K. Krishnasamy, who has been pushed to the fourth spot in Ottapidaaram (Reserved) segment. He was elected from the seat in 1996 and 2011. Sitting DMK MLA M.C. Shanmugaiah has retained the seat defeating AIADMK’s P. Mohan by a margin of 8,510 votes. While Mr. Shanmugaiah polled 73,110 votes, Dr. Krishnasamy bagged 6,544 votes to forfeit his deposit. DMK candidate for Tiruchendur ‘Anita’ R. Radhakrishnan, who has been elected from the segment since 2001, defeated AIADMK’s M. Radhakrishnan by a margin of 25,263 votes. After being elected to the Assembly for the first time, Mr. ‘Anita’ Radhakrishnan left AIADMK to join DMK and was fielded in the by-poll by his new party. And he went on to win the seat. Former AIADMK MLA of Vilaathikulam A. Markandeyan, who defected to the DMK recently and got the ticket, defeated AIADMK candidate and sitting MLA P. Chinnappan by a margin of 38,549 votes. Former Minister and sitting MLA of Srivaikundam S.P. Shanmuganathan lost the election to Oorvasi S. Amirtharaj, Congress candidate and son of former Srivaikundam MLA Oorvasi Selvaraj, who defeated Mr. Shanmuganathan in the 2006 Assembly poll. With this defeat with margin of 17,372 votes, Mr. Shanmuganathan has created the dubious record of losing to both father and son. In Thoothukudi, DMK’s Geetha Jeevan defeated S.D.R. Vijayaseelan of Tamil Maanila Congress, who contested the election on the AIADMK ticket, by a margin of 50,310 votes. Intra-party feud in the ruling party and non-cooperation with the candidate led to the victory of Ms. Geetha The ruling party, which had three MLAs in the outgoing Assembly, lost five segments to the DMK and its allies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kadambur-raju-scores-hat-trick-win/article34469380.ece
03 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||DMK makes a clean sweep in Tiruchi||The DMK made a clean sweep in Tiruchi district, including in segments like Srirangam, Musiri, Manapparai and Mannachanallur that were considered traditional AIADMK bastions. The surprise factor was the wide margin of victory of the DMK candidates in most of the constituencies. DMK candidate for Tiruchi East K. N. Nehru won over AIADMK’s V. Padmanathan by a huge margin of 80,927 votes. Likewise, in Tiruchi West, sitting MLA and Minister Vellamandi Natarajan suffered a crushing defeat at the hands of DMK’s Inigo Irudayaraj by a margin of 53,797 votes. Strong indications of Tiruverumbur DMK candidate Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi winning emerged after the initial few rounds of counting. At the end of counting, he established a clear lead of close to 50,000 votes. The DMK wrested Srirangam, Musiri and Manachanallur Assembly constituencies from its arch rival AIADMK while retaining Lalgudi and Thuraiyur (reserved) Assembly segments. The DMK candidate and the party’s sitting MLA A. Soundarapandian got elected from the Lalgudi Assembly constituency by defeating Tamil Maanila Congress candidate D. R. Dharmaraj of the Tamil Maanila Congress. Mr. Soundarapandian won by a margin of 16,949 votes. M. Palaniyandi of the DMK won from the Srirangam Assembly constituency beating his AIADMK rival and former Minister Ku. Pa. Krishnan. In a stiff contest as it turned out to be where the DMK and the AIADMK candidates went ahead of each other in a slew of rounds, it was Palaniyandi who eventually emerged successful in the end beating Mr. Krishnan by a margin of 19,915 votes. Sitting DMK MLA Stalin Kumar successfully retained the Thuraiyur Assembly seat defeating the AIADMK candidate T. Indra Gandhi by a margin of 22,071 votes. In Musiri Assembly constituency, DMK candidate N. Thiagarajan won by a margin of 26,836 votes over his AIADMK candidate M. Selvaraj. In Manapparai Assembly constituency, Abdul Samad of the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi won by a margin of 12,243 votes. He defeated sitting AIADMK MLA Chandrasekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-makes-a-clean-sweep-in-tiruchi/article34469373.ece
03 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DMK regains supremacy in central region||The DMK regained its supremacy in the central region. Of the 41 seats in eight districts, the party and its allies were set for victory in 37, at the time of going to print. The DMK-led front that had lost its hold in some segments in 2016 tasted a stupendous success this time. A clear anti-incumbency sentiment, the discontent over the farm laws enacted by the BJP government at the Centre and poor rehabilitation measures after Cyclones Gaja and Nivar seem to be behind the defeat of the AIADMK, as the DMK-led alliance posted big wins in Tiruchi, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Karur districts. The delta districts of Thanjavur, Thiruvarur and Nagapattinam, the DMK citadel once, returned to the party with the majority of its candidates romping home. The DMK made a clean sweep in Tiruchi, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. The candidates of the DMK and its allies headed for victories in almost all 17 constituencies, including those touted as the AIADMK’s strongholds. The DMK headed for victory in all nine constituencies in Tiruchi district. Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan was dealt a crushing defeat in Tiruchi (East) by Inigo Irudhayaraj of the Christhuva Nallenna Iyakkam, who contested the election on the DMK symbol. The DMK candidate won in Srirangam that had sent Jayalalithaa to the Assembly in 2011. DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru defeated V. Padmanathan of the AIADMK by more than 80,000 votes in Tiruchi (West). Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, a confidant of DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin, won for the second consecutive term in Thiruverumbur, by about 50,000 votes. The DMK-led alliance won in 10 of the 12 constituencies in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur. While AIADMK deputy coordinator K. Vaithilingam won by a comfortable margin in Orathanadu in Thanjavur district, Food Minister S. Kamaraj and Textiles Minister O.S. Manian were set to retain Nannilam and Vedaranyam respectively, though with a slender margin. Health Minister leads In Pudukottai, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar was leading by 7,242 votes in Viralimalai at the end of the sixth round. However, the counting was stopped for more than three hours as DMK agents raised suspicion over the EVMs that were tied up with coir. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M.H. Jawahirullah won in Papanasam, having contested in the election on the DMK’s symbol. In Karur, DMK heavyweight V. Senthil Balaji and Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabaskar were locked in a see-saw battle. K. Annamalai, State vice-president of the BJP and the former IPS officer, trailed DMK nominee R. Elango by 4,544 votes in Aravakurichi at the end of the 19th round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-regains-supremacy-in-central-region/article34468698.ece
03 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts see a sharp increase in number of deaths||The central region reported 1,605 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The region reported 14 deaths, a sharp increase compared to the previous days. Of the eight patients who succumbed to COVID-19 in Tiruchi, four had no pre-existing ailments. Of the eight, four patients were between 38 and 45-years-old. Two women aged 56 and 65, and a 47-year-old man from Perambalur, and a 45-year-old woman and a 54-year-old man from Nagapattinam, all suffering from diabetes died of the virus. A 59-year-old woman from Karur and an 87-year-old man from Thanjavur also succumbed to COVID-19. Tiruchi district saw 505 patients test positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, Thanjavur reported a dip compared to the previous days with 265 fresh cases. Karur recorded a sharp spike in cases, nearly double the number reported on Saturday, with 241 patients testing positive while Tiruvarur reported 175 and Pudukottai, 170. Nagapattinam district reported a slight dip with 160 fresh cases. Ariyalur district reported a sudden increase in COVID-19 cases with 60 patients testing positive on Sunday, while Perambalur recorded 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-see-a-sharp-increase-in-number-of-deaths/article34468689.ece
03 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK alliance bags 2 seats in Tirunelveli||While the ruling AIADMK and its electoral ally BJP have managed to win Ambasamudram and Tirunelveli Assembly segments in the district, the DMK and its ally, Congress, have bagged remaining three constituencies – Palayamkottai, Nanguneri and Radhapuram. In the outgoing Assembly, the district had 3 AIADMK MLAs elected from Ambasamudram, Nanguneri and Radhapuram constituencies while the DMK had won Palayamkottai and Tirunelveli constituencies. AIADMK candidate for Ambasamudram segment, Esakki Subbaya, who defeated DMK’s R. Avudaiyappan in 2011 by a whopping margin of 24,609 votes in the same constituency to become the Law Minister for two months in the Jayalalithaa-led Cabinet, demonstrated his supremacy by winning the electorate’s confidence again. He has now defeated the former Speaker of Tamil Nadu Assembly by 16,915 votes. DMK’s M. Appavu, who took on AIADMK candidate and sitting MLA I.S. Inbadurai in the coastal segment of Radhapuram, poised to defeat the ruling party candidate by a margin of 4,451 votes polled in Electronic Voting Machine and the postal ballots are yet to be counted. Interestingly, Mr. Appavu is indefinitely fighting long-drawn legal battle against Mr. Inbadurai in the Supreme Court, which stayed the announcement of recounting of postal votes polled in 2016 Assembly, polls as directed by the Madras High Court. In the 2016 polls, Mr. Appavu lost the battle to Mr. Inbadurai by wafer thin margin of just 49 votes. Justice rendered “I am very much relieved as the Almighty has rendered justice to me… Now, I am waiting for the Supreme Court’s verdict on the declaration of the result of recounting of votes polled in the Assembly election held in 2016,” said Mr. Appavu, who had performed ‘hat-trick’ by getting elected to the Assembly from this constituency in 1996, 2001 and 2006. In Nanguneri constituency that witnessed the by-poll in 2019 after its MLA H. Vasanthakumar resigned on being elected to the Lok Sabha from Kanniyakumari parliamentary constituency, Congress candidate Ruby R. Manoharan is all set to defeat his nearest AIADMK candidate Thatchai N. Ganesa Raja, who is also the ruling party’s Tirunelveli district secretary. When Mr. Ganesa Raja had completed his preliminary election works in Tirunelveli constituency with the hope getting this seat, he was forced to contest from Nanguneri after the Tirunelveli constituency was taken away by the BJP even before the seat sharing talks and started the election campaign on its own. In Tirunelveli, AIADMK’s electoral ally BJP sprung a surprise as its candidate and party’s State vice-president Nainar Nagenthran is all set to outsmart DMK’s A.L.S. Lakshmanan. Interestingly, Mr. Lakshmanan, who had earned the distinction of ‘non-performing MLA’ over the past five years, had defeated Mr. Nagenthran by an insignificant margin of 601 votes in the 2016 Assembly polls in the same segment. As usual, Palayakottai, a bastion of DMK, went in favour of the Opposition party as its candidate Abdul Wahab defeated AIADMK’s K.J.C. Jerald by a margin of 52,141votes. DMK had denied ticket to former Minister and sitting MLA of this constituency T.P.M. Mohideen Khan, who was elected to the Assembly from the segment with high literacy rate for four successive tenure – from 2001 to 2016||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-alliance-bags-2-seats-in-tirunelveli/article34469378.ece
03 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur: AIADMK wins three seats, takes lead in two||Out of the eight Assembly constituencies in Tiruppur district, the AIADMK managed to win three and take the lead in two constituencies while the DMK managed to win two constituencies and take the lead in one constituency as of 10 p.m. The counting process took place at the counting centre in L.R.G Government Arts College for Women on Palladam Road in Tiruppur Corporation limits. Former Minister of Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan won for the second consecutive time from Udumalpet Assembly constituency. Securing 96,893 votes by the end of the final round of counting, he won against K. Thennarasu of the Congress, who was fielded by the DMK front, with a victory margin of 21,895 votes, officials said. The AIADMK also managed to wrest Madathukulam Assembly constituency from the DMK as the former’s candidate C. Mahendran defeated R. Jayaramakrishnan, who was the incumbent MLA from the DMK in the segment. A former Lok Sabha MP, Mr. Mahendran won 84,371 votes while his opponent won 77,668 votes, causing the victory margin to be 6,683 votes. At Avinashi (Reserved) constituency, former Speaker of Legislative Assembly P. Dhanapal garnered 1,17,284 votes by the end of the counting. He had a victory margin of 50,842 votes against his opponent Athiyamaan Raju of the Aathi Tamizhar Peravai, who was fielded by the DMK front. The incumbent MLA of Tiruppur North constituency K.N. Vijeyakumar was leading since the counting of votes commenced and had a margin of 34,406 votes by the end of the 32nd round. His opponent, M. Ravi aka Subramanian of the CPI, who was the candidate of the DMK front, secured 60,256 votes while he secured 94,662 votes. Former Minister and AIADMK candidate for Palladam constituency M.S.M. Anandan secured 62,376 votes against K. Muthurathinam from the MDMK, who contested in DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol and won 46,633 votes at the end of the 19th round of counting. While the final results were yet to be declared at the time of filing this report, these three candidates were poised to win following the completion of the counting process, the officials said. Meanwhile, the DMK candidates won in Kangeyam constituency and Tiruppur South and took the lead at Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency. The DMK’s candidate for Kangeyam and former Minister M.P. Saminathan got 94,197 votes against AIADMK’s A.S. Ramalingam , who got 86,866 votes in the final round of counting. Former Mayor of Tiruppur Corporation K. Selvaraj, who was the DMK’s candidate for Tiruppur South constituency, won 74,944 votes against incumbent MLA from AIADMK S. Gunasekaran who won 70,551 votes. The victory margin was 4,393 votes. In Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency, BJP State President L. Murugan was leading till the 13th round of counting. However, DMK’s N. Kayalvizhi took the lead from the 14th round and by the end of the 24th and penultimate round, she garnered 85,513 votes, which was 668 votes higher than Mr. Murugan’s. However, the polling officials reported a malfunctioning electronic voting machine(EVM) during the 25th and final round, which delayed the declaration of results. Following this, agents from the BJP petitioned the Returning Officer of Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar to halt the announcement of the final results as they raised suspicions on the allegedly faulty EVM and the counting of postal votes. Petition rejected Sources in the district administration told The Hindu that Mr. Giriyappanavar rejected the BJP’s petition late on Sunday. The final results were yet to be declared at the time of filing this report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-aiadmk-wins-three-seats-takes-lead-in-two/article34469126.ece
03 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Victory margin of winners a few thousands in the Nilgiris||All the three Assembly constituencies in the Nilgiris witnessed a close race, with only a few thousand votes separating the winning candidates from the losers. The AIADMK’s Pon Jeyaseelan won in Gudalur by a margin of less than 2,000 votes, while the Congress’ R. Ganesh, the incumbent MLA in Udhagamandalam, won by a margin of over 5,000 votes. In Coonoor, the DMK’s K. Ramachandran won by a margin of over 4,000 votes. Early rounds of counting had pointed to a clean sweep for the AIADMK and BJP candidates in the three Assembly constituencies in the district, with the BJP’s M. Bhojarajan, leading in Udhagamandalam, with a clear lead of over 6,000 votes till the completion of Round 8 of counting. Similarly, the AIADMK’s D. Vinoth, contesting in Coonoor, enjoyed a lead of a few thousand votes till Round 12 of counting, after which the DMK’s K. Ramachandran overhauled the early lead to emerge victorious. The Naam Tamilar Katchi candidates also put in a strong showing in all the three constituencies, emerging as the closest rivals to the DMK, AIADMK and the BJP candidates. In Gudalur, the party’s candidate R. Ketheeswaran garnered 7,317 votes, while in Udhagamandalam and Coonoor, the party’s candidates received 6,376 and 7,252 votes respectively. Speaking to reporters after he was declared the winner in Coonoor, K. Ramachandran of the DMK, termed the party’s performance a “victory for the people” and pledged to work for the welfare of the entire Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/victory-margin-of-winners-a-few-thousands-in-the-nilgiris/article34469124.ece
03 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Asiatic wild dogs surface in forests around Udhagamandalam town||In the last few months, Asiatic wild dogs have been seen with increasing frequency in the forests surrounding Marlimund Lake that borders Udhagamandalam town. Conservationists said the recent sightings highlighted the importance of these small forests bordering major towns in the Nilgiris, and the need to sensitise residents to preventing problematic human-animal interactions. In the last few weeks, residents have recorded a sloth bear making its way into the town from the lake. Also, a number of Sambar Deer carcasses, with signs of having been hunted by Asiatic wild dogs, were being seen around the lake. K. Saravanakumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests (Nilgiris division), said that while lake was under the control of the Udhagamandalam Municipality, forest staff had been informed of the presence of around 10-15 wild dogs in the area. “It is unclear if they are just passing through or if they have moved into the forests surrounding the lake permanently,” said Mr. Saravanakumar. The Forest Department would use camera traps to learn more about the behaviour of the wild dogs in the area. N. Sadiq Ali, an environmentalist and Founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT), said leopards too were seen in the area. “We are witnessing wildlife re-establishing in areas surrounding major towns in the Nilgiris, due to increased protection of animals such as deer and other herbivores. As a result, carnivores are also moving into these forests to prey on these animals,” he said. He also stressed on the need for sensitisation campaigns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asiatic-wild-dogs-surface-in-forests-around-udhagamandalam-town/article34469121.ece
03 May 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK leading in 16 seats in North Arcot||The DMK seems to be on a winning streak in the recently trifurcated districts — Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur — and Tiruvannamalai district in the Assembly election. The DMK and its alliance had won and leading in 16 out of the 21 Assembly constituencies in the four districts by 9 p.m. on Sunday. The counting began in a brisk manner on Sunday morning. Thousands of policemen were deployed in the four districts and tight security was in place. Candidates and agents were allowed to enter the counting centres after stringent security checks. The premises were sanitised at regular intervals and COVID-19 protocols were followed. In Katpadi assembly constituency, DMK cadres were dejected in the morning as their candidate and DMK general secretary Duraimurugan was trailing behind AIADMK candidate V. Ramu initially. However after noon, things turned around and Mr. Duraimurugan was leading. Eventually, he won the battle to be elected for the eleventh time to the Legislative Assembly. “In the evening, there was some confusion as five EVMs were not working due to a snag. The DMK cadres demanded that the postal ballots be counted first and the AIADMK wanted the EVMs to be counted. Senior police officers visited the counting centres to monitor the situation,” a police source said. Meanwhile V. Amulu of DMK won in Gudiyatham constituency and DMK candidates P. Karthikeyan and A.P. Nandakumar were leading in Vellore and Anaicut constituencies. In K.V. Kuppam, Puthiya Bharatham Katchi candidate M. Jagan Moorthy was leading. In Ranipet, DMK and Indian National Congress candidates were leading in three out of the four constituencies. While R. Gandhi of DMK had secured a comfortable lead in Ranipet, J.L. Easwarppan of DMK was leading in Arcot. In Sholinghur, A.M. Munirathnam of the Indian National Congress was leading since morning. In Arakkonam however, S. Ravi was way ahead of the VCK candidate Gowthama Sannah. In Tirupattur district, DMK won three seats and AIADMK one. In Jolarpet, K. Devaraji of DMK won the election against the AIADMK candidate and Minister K.C. Veeramani by a margin of 1,091 votes. In Vaniyambadi, AIADMK candidate G. Senthil Kumar won the polls by a margin of 4,904 votes. In Tirupattur, DMK's Nallathambi won by a margin of 28,240 votes, and in Ambur DMK candidate A. C. Vilvanathan was leading. In Tiruvannamalai district with eight assembly constituencies, the DMK was on course to win in six. DMK candidate E.V. Velu led by a margin of 92,151 votes in Tiruvannamalai over BJP candidate S. Thanigaivel. In Vandavasi, DMK candidate S. Ambethkumar led by 35,953 votes. DMK candidate T. Saravanan was leading in Kalasapakkam Assembly segment by a margin of 8,642 votes and DMK candidates K. Pichandi and O. Jothi were leading in Kilpennathur and Cheyyar. Meanwhile, AIADMK candidates Sevoor S. Ramachandran and Agri S.S. Krishnamoorthi were leading in Arni and Polur constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-continues-winning-streak-in-north-arcot-dists/article34468740.ece
03 May 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||DMK wins in Cuddalore and Villupuram||The DMK-led alliance has consolidated its position in the northern districts of Cuddalore, Villupuram and Kallakurichi by winning in three and leading comfortably in 11 more out of the 20 Assembly constituencies. While Industries Minister M.C. Sampath lost in Cuddalore, former Minister and DMK MLA M.R.K. Panneerselvam retained the Kurunjipadi seat. Tirukoilur Assembly segment in Villupuram district ushered in the first victory for the party with its MLA K. Ponmudi securing 1,10,980 votes against 51,300 votes polled by V.A.T. Kalivaradhan of the BJP. L. Venkatesan of the DMDK polled 13,997 votes while NOTA with 2,039 votes. It was a neck-to-neck battle between Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam and R. Lakshmanan in Villupuram Assembly constituency where the AIADMK had a slender lead before ceding ground to the DMK. At the end of Round 17, Mr. Lakshmanan established a comfortable lead of 13,374 votes. In Gingee, DMK MLA K.S. Masthan kept increasing his lead right from the word go. At the end of 26 rounds, he had polled 1,05,612 votes against P. Rajendiran of the PMK who secured 71,944 votes. In Vikravandi, N. Pugazhenthi of the DMK polled 82,598 votes against 73,578 polled by R. Muthamizhselvan of the AIADMK at the end of 21 rounds. The AIADMK was leading in Mailam, Tindivanam (Reserved) and Vanur (Reserved) Assembly constituencies. At the end of 24 rounds of counting in Tindivanam, P. Arjunan of the AIADMK polled 85,495 votes against 75,439 secured by MLA P. Seethapathy of the DMK. C. Sivakumar of the PMK, an ally of the AIADMK, polled 77,678 votes against R. Masilamani of the DMK who secured 73,930 votes at the end of 21 rounds in Mailam. In Cuddalore district, the DMK wrested the Cuddalore seat from the AIADMK. The DMK’s G. Iyappan polled 84,563 votes defeating Mr. Sampath by a margin of 5,151 votes. M.R.K. Panneerselvam of the DMK retained the Kurunjipadi seat defeating his nearest rival Selvi Ramajayam of the AIADMK by a margin of 17,861 votes. In Kattumannarkoil (Reserved), VCK’s Sinthanaiselvan polled 84,986 votes against MLA N. Murugumaran of the AIADMK who secured 74,608 votes. The DMK’s victory in Thittagudi (Reserved) and Panruti constituencies and the Congress’s victory in Virudhachalam Assembly segment looks certain. The AIADMK was leading in Chidambaram and Bhuvanagiri constituencies at the end of 27 and 25 rounds respectively. In Kallakurichi district, the DMK was leading in three Assembly constituencies of Ulundurpet, Rishivandhiyam and Sankarapuram barring Kallakurichi where the AIADMK candidate was leading by a margin of 6,181 votes at the end of 14 rounds of counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-wins-in-cuddalore-villupuram/article34468737.ece
03 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||DMK alliance bags six seats in Virudhunagar||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam alliance swept six out of seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district when counting of votes was taken up on Sunday. All four sitting MLAS of the DMK -- K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Thangam Thennarasu, A.R.R. Seenivasan, and S. Thangapandian -- retained their respective constituencies. Two other seats – Sivakasi and Sattur went to its allies Congress and Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. However, the AIADMK that had won three seats in 2016 had to be contended with winning only one seat after its candidate, E.M. Manraj defeated the deceased Congress candidate, P.S.W. Madhava Rao in Srivilliputtur Assembly Constituency. Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, who switched his seat from Sivakasi to Rajapalayam, went down in defeat to sitting MLA Mr. Thangapandian, who has now won the seat twice in three attempts. However, the other Congress candidate, G. Ashokan, pulled off a significant victory in Sivakasi Assembly constituency against the AIADMK candidate, Lakshmi Ganesan. Though he trailed in the first few rounds, he managed to snatch the seat that was held twice by Mr. Bhalaji. The DMK alliance is winning this seat after 1996 when its ally Tamil Manila Congress candidate R. Chokkar emerged victorious in 1996. MDMK district secretary A.R.R. Raghuraman, who contested on DMK symbol in Sattur Assembly constituency, won the seat comfortably in a real triangular contest in the district. He defeated R.K. Ravichandran of AIADMK and younger brother of former Assembly Speaker, K. Kalimuthu, by a margin of 11,179 votes. The lone Bharatiya Janata Party candidate of the district, G. Pandurangan who contested from Virudhunagar Assembly constituency lost to sitting MLA, Mr. Seenivasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-alliance-bags-six-seats-in-virudhunagar/article34468712.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Safety norms flouted during counting in T.N.||At the counting centre for Alandur, Sriperumbudur, Uthiramerur and Kancheepuram, officials frequently advised the booth agents to wear masks and face shields and maintain physical distance, but their pleas were largely ignored. In Tiruppur, hundreds of agents gathered in individual counting rooms for the eight Assembly constituencies in the district, at the dining place for their breakfast and lunch and outside the media centre to watch the live television news. Although 16 tables were arranged for each constituency with adequate space between them, the agents gathered in the space allocated for them in the counting rooms with scant regard for distancing norms. While officials said two PPE kits were provided per table for the agents, many wore them improperly. Compliance with mask-wearing was relatively high. But the advisory to wear face shields, along with the masks, was not followed. Very few used sanitisers made available at vantage points. Officials at the counting centre in Pudukottai did not appear to insist on the COVID-19-negative certificate or the vaccination certificate from the agents or media persons. Some police personnel wore masks on their chins and others put them in their pockets. “It is too hot. We are standing outside the centres, where there is no fan. The heat is unbearable and the mask makes breathing difficult,” said a policeman posted outside a centre. In the dining areas, people rushed to ply food onto their plates with little regard for personal distancing. In all the four counting centres in Madurai, the booth agents and the candidates crowded in the counting halls. In the counting hall at the Tamil Nadu Polytechnic College, there was hardly one foot distance between the tables. The agents and the candidates were sitting next to each other in a congested hall and compliance with the use of masks was poor. Media personnel, who entered the counting centres in large numbers, flouted physical distancing norms. Chennai police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal suspended the Teynampet inspector on the order of the Election Commission of India (ECI) for failure to ensure compliance with its instructions. The ECI had written to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories, which went to the polls, to prohibit victory celebrations in view of COVID-19. It had directed that the station house officers and others concerned be suspended immediately and criminal and disciplinary action initiated against them for failure to control crowds. ( With inputsfrom bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-norms-flouted-during-counting-in-tn/article34468694.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: further rise in cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Sunday registered a further rise in COVID-19 cases after 1,441 persons tested positive for the disease. The district had a total of 7,683 active cases and 1,051 persons recovered. The death toll increased to 726 after three persons died of COVID-19. The Health Department said that two women aged 58 and 38 died of COVID-19 at a private hospital and at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday. Another woman aged 70 succumbed to the disease at CMCH on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported two COVID-19 deaths and 382 new cases, taking the tally to 27,230 cases. The Health Department reported the deaths of a 58-year-old woman and a 78-year-old man, which took the toll to 241. As many as 3,134 patients were active cases. A total of 23,855 patients have recovered, so far. In the Nilgiris, 86 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 9,996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-further-rise-in-cases-in-coimbatore/article34469127.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Help at hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/help-at-hand/article34469096.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||12 deaths, 582 new cases in Salem||Salem district on Sunday reported 12 deaths and 582 fresh COVID-19 cases. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 288 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported two deaths and 307 fresh cases, all indigenous. Erode district reported 549 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 22,165. While 438 persons were discharged, 3,323 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 167. Coimbatore district on Sunday registered a further rise in COVID-19 cases after 1,441 persons tested positive for the disease. The district had 7,683 active cases as on Sunday. The district’s toll increased to 726 after three persons died of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-deaths-582-new-cases-in-salem/article34468717.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||During the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic, to boost the immunity against the virus, ‘kabasura kudineer’ and zinc and vitamin C tablets were widely distributed to the public by the district administration, corporation and voluntary organisations in Madurai. During the second wave, these efforts are missing. Though over two lakh people have been inoculated in the district , the rest are waiting to get vaccinated to fight the mutant virus. Till everyone is vaccinated and their immunity boosted to fight the new strain, the district administration should distribute the ‘kabasura kudineer’ and zinc and vitamin tablets by organising camps in urban and rural areas so that people can put a stiff resistance to contain the spread of the mutant virus.  Sainithii M, Sholavandan    Coconut trees in Tirupachethi area have been affected by white fly. But, since Tiruppuvanam agriculture office lacks the pesticide, farmers are advised to go to Tamil Nadu Agricultural University in Madurai. I request the authorities in Sivaganga Agriculture department to take steps in this regard. S. Saravanakumar, Tirupachethi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34469259.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||36||is the number of constituencies in Chennai and its three neighbouring districts, where the DMK alliance was winning or leading, as of 11 p.m. on Sunday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/36/article34469098.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||137||was the margin with which the DMK candidate won in T. Nagar seat, in a nail-biting finish (as of 11 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/137/article34469101.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||175||constituencies saw the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) trying to finish in the third place, as of 11 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/175/article34468685.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Health official tests positive||Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar has tested positive for COVID-19 here on Sunday. Dr. Arjun Kumar, who displayed symptoms of COVID-19, was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). A hospital source said his vital parameters were stable and that there was no lung involvement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-official-tests-positive/article34469254.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||1.35||lakh victory margin of the DMK's I. Periyasamy, in the Athoor constituency of Dindigul district, is among the highest victory margins in Tamil Nadu elections||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/135/article34468699.ece
03 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Mangala Angadi comes out on top in a close fight in Belagavi||The BJP won the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll by 5,240 votes. BJP candidate Mangala Angadi, wife of the former Union Minister Suresh Angadi, defeated Satish Jarkiholi, Congress nominee in a close fight. Ms. Angadi polled 4,40,327 votes, while the runner-up [Satish Jarkiholi] obtained 4,35,087 votes. The grand total includes postal votes, votes mailed in by service voters, those cast by officers on poll duty and the disabled and COVID-19 voters. With this, Ms. Angadi became the first woman to be a Lok Sabha member from Belagavi. She also became the first leader to defeat Mr. Satish Jarkiholi. The KPCC working president has never lost an election in his political life of nearly 30 years. The lead of 2,903 votes is the smallest in the five elections that the BJP has won in the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. The former Members of Parliament Babagouda Patil and late Suresh Angadi had larger margins. Ms. Angadi’s lead of 3,986 is nearly 10% of the lead obtained by her husband Suresh Angadi who had a victory margin of 3.91 lakh votes in 2019. The counting process seemed to be a thrill ride for those who were watching it on TV or on the social media. Particularly, the last hour saw votes swinging both sides. Ms. Angadi began by gaining a lead in the first few rounds. Her lead was maintained till the 40th round. From then on, the Congress maintained a lead till the 85th round. However, in the next four rounds, Ms. Angadi gained votes and won with a thin margin. There were glitches during counting in the 84th and 85th rounds. Officers complained that EVM machines in Bailhongal and Arabavi were slow and the aggregation of the results was delayed. Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer K. Harish Kumar said that these were minor issues and they were fixed immediately. Shiv Sena-supported MES candidate Shubham Shelke polled over 1.17 lakh votes. The 26-year-old candidate managed to get only 670 votes in 2019. Over 10 lakh votes were counted in 89 rounds in some of the Assembly segments while, in others, counting was completed in 74 rounds. On an average, around 11,300 votes were counted in each round. Rajya Sabha member Eeranna Kadadi said that there were different reasons, including hesitation among some voters to come out in the middle of an epidemic, for the lower margin. Ms. Angadi thanked the voters and the party workers for her victory. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who is related to Ms. Angadi, described it as the victory of the people. Suresh Angadi’s daughter Shraddha Shettar said that the people had paid a tribute to her father, by electing her mother.  The wife of the former Union Minister late Suresh Angadi polled 4,40,327 votes She is also the first political leader to defeat Satish Jarkiholi who hitherto had not lost an election  The counting process seemed to be a thrill ride for those who were watching it on TV or on the social media, particularly, in the last hour which saw votes swinging both sides||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangala-angadi-comes-out-on-top-in-a-close-fight-in-belagavi/article34468761.ece
03 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP squeezes out win in Belagavi||The BJP’s Mangala Angadi on Sunday won by a slender margin of 5,240 votes against Satish Jarkiholi of the Congress in Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency. This was in stark contrast to the late Suresh Angadi’s victory margin of 3.91 lakh votes two years ago. Political observers say multiple factors contributed to the close fight, first among them being the “Jarkiholi factor”. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president who has publicly shared his dream of “becoming the Chief Minister of Karnataka one day”, went out in full force. This was unlike the mild contenders that Suresh Angadi had to face in the past, including political greenhorn V.S. Sadhunavar, KLE director, in 2019. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi, during the campaign, kept referring to the “Jarkiholi family vote”. That seems to have remained intact, say observers. His supporters say he had turned it into a “personal fight”. Another reason is the near absence of Ramesh Jarkiholi, his brother and BJP leader, following his involvement in the CD scandal. And the reduced enthusiasm of another brother, Balachandra Jarkiholi, also with the BJP, in the campaign was obvious. However, Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi’s influence seems to have worked even in his absence, as the BJP got the highest lead of over 34,000 in Gokak. In fact, Gokak and Belagavi South are the only two constituencies where the BJP got a lead. The Congress led in the other six constituencies, including Arabavi that Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi represents. The MES factor The BJP’s vote share was significantly reduced by the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) entering the fray. Shubham Shelke, the MES candidate, got over 1.2 lakh votes. The 26-year-old Maratha leader had got only 670 votes in 2019. His wings were strengthened by the Shiv Sena joining his campaign. Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena leader, flew down from Mumbai and held a roadshow and a rally in support of Mr. Shelke. He said the Shiv Sena was not fielding a candidate as it wanted to support the MES in Belagavi. The MES got significant votes in Belagavi Rural, Belagavi South, and Belagavi North. It seemed as though the BJP was not confident from the start. When it nominated Ms. Mangala, it remained oblivious to its ideological opposition to dynasty politics and broke its rule of not nominating family members of deceased leaders in their place. The BJP’s nominee was announced a day after Mr. Satish Jarkiholi was named the Congress candidate. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa visited Belagavi three times and spent a total of seven days there. On the eve of polling, he spoke at a rally and took out two roadshows even though he was suffering from high fever. Some Congress leaders say the AHINDA factor also contributed to the fight. “Ms. Mangala Angadi was the lone Lingayat candidate and Mr. Satish Jarkiholi was the prominent non-Lingayat leader in the fray. It is possible that the SC/ST, OBC and minority votes tilted towards the Congress,” said another leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-squeezes-out-win-in-belagavi/article34469083.ece
03 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Five patients shifted from private hospital||Due to oxygen scarcity, five patients from Lotus Hospital were shifted to the BIMS Government Medical College Hospital in Belagavi on Sunday. The scarcity was reported to the district COVID response team that has government officers, doctors and NGO members. In a few hours, ambulances with oxygen supply were sent to Lotus Hospital and the patients were shifted. Spandan Multi Specialty Hospital said that its oxygen supply was depleting and that it could not admit any more patients. It asked patients to go to BIMS Hospital. Doctors in BIMS Hospital said that they only had five vacant beds with oxygen and by Sunday evening, they were all full. Similar problems were reported from Bhate Hospital and Metgud Hospital. There were reports that they refused to admit patients saying that they had no oxygen stocks. Bhate Hospital is managed by Amit Bhate, director of Jeevan Rekha Hospital that had obtained licence for medical trial and tests of two COVID-19 vaccines. Some patients complained to District Health Officer S.V. Muniyal that Metgud Hospital was asking patients to arrange for their own oxygen cylinders. Some hospitals complained to the district administration that empty cylinders sent to oxygen refilling plants were not returned in time, as they had run out of liquid oxygen. Deputy Commissioner K. Harish Kumar said that he would ask officers to address the problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-patients-shifted-from-private-hospital/article34468759.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Employees in essential services struggle with daily commute||Forty-five-year-old Eshwarappa, a casual labourer with Karnataka Milk Federation, travels every day from Katriguppe in south Bengaluru to a factory at Dairy Circle. As an essential worker, he is allowed to travel during the partial lockdown. But with limited bus services and no other form of public transport, he finds it hard to reach his place of work. He has borrowed a cycle from a friend for the commute to the factory. Employees attached to hospitals, government offices, pharmacies, and other essential services are finding the daily commute increasingly difficult, with many criticising the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) for running only limited buses. Sateesha K., who works as a pharmacist, complained of the long wait for a bus. “As the BMTC is operating only skeletal services, one has to wait for a long time. If they add more buses connecting hospitals, it will help people like us.” C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences told The Hindu that for the benefit of the staff, who do not have private vehicles, a bus has been arranged to ferry them from different routes depending on their shift timings. “Commuting is an issue during the lockdown. There is a need to provide city bus services for those carrying out essential services as listed by the Karnataka government.” Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi recently announced that all the four Road Transport Corporations have been instructed to run buses as required for the daily commute of people working in the health sector, police department and others. At present, BMTC is operating 156 buses while the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is running 50-odd buses. A BMTC official said that they were running ‘enough buses to meet the needs of those in essential services’. “We have also provided bus services connecting Victoria hospital, where hundreds of COVID-19 patients are getting treatment, to Bidadi, Taverekere, K.R. Puram, Bannerghatta and other locations,” the official said adding there is no proposal to increase the number of services. Long wait for autos People who were earlier depending on Namma Metro have to shell out more money to book auto or taxi for their commute. Rama Mohan who works in a private hospital on Bannerghatta Road, said, “There is hardly any bus plying on the road. Reaching the workplace on time has become a big task, and taking an auto is quite expensive. People who do not have private vehicles are finding it very difficult.” J. Vijayalakshmi, who works with the railways, relied on Namma Metro to commute from Yelachenahalli to Majestic. With no metro service, she has started booking autos on aggregator platforms, but said that the wait time is long. “Sometimes, I have to ask my husband to drop me,” she said. Family members and friends, who are willing to drop people to work, say that without ID proof, they are often pulled up by the police. “You need to show a railway ticket or identity card, which is fine when the person you’re dropping is in the car. But if the police stop you when you’re returning back alone, you don’t have any proof to explain why you’re out during the lockdown,” said a taxi driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/employees-in-essential-services-struggle-with-daily-commute/article34469061.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Urban forester S.G. Neginhal is no more||Urban forester and Indian Forest Service officer (retired) S.G. Neginhal, 93, who played a pioneering role in greening the city in the 1980s, succumbed to COVID-19 on Sunday morning. He passed away a day after his 93rd birthday on Saturday.  Most of the tree-lined avenues and boulevards in Bengaluru are the legacy of Mr. Neginhal. Unhappy at the loss of green cover due to growth of the city, then chief minister R. Gundu Rao had commissioned a greening campaign. The IFS officer was brought in to lead a special cell within the Forest Department to take up the assignment in 1981. In five years, he planted over 1.5 million trees. The campaign earned him so much fame that then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi got trees from Neginhal to plant in Shakti Sthal, the memorial for former prime minister Indira Gandhi. Harini Nagendra, ecologist and Professor of Sustainability at Azim Premji University, said Mr. Neginhal must be credited with pioneering citizen participation in urban forestry in the country. “He went from house to house, asking people what trees they wanted to be planted. This encouraged them to take up ownership of those trees, evident by how they have survived,” she said. Mr. Neginhal was also probably the last in the glorious tradition of tree planters in the city starting from colonial times. “For instance, his was the last campaign of such scale and also probably the last time such a wide variety of trees – from raintrees and bougainvilleas to akashamallige – were planted. Now, most of the trees planted are either neem or honge,” Ms. Nagendra said. Leo Saldanha, of the Environment Support Group, said the only true tribute to Neginhal would be to fight harder to save the trees he had planted. Many are at risk of getting axed due to several development projects. In his retirement years, Neginhal would voice his opposition to tree-felling in the city. Apart from greening the city, Mr. Neginhal is credited with spotting Kokkare Bellur and spearheading efforts to develop it as a bird sanctuary. He played a key role in Project Tiger and upgradation of Bandipur Reserve as a national park. In his later years, he took up wildlife photography and authored many books on urban forestry, wild trees of the Western Ghats, reserve forests and national parks in Karnataka. Mr. Neginhal is survived by four daughters and a son, and their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/urban-forester-sg-neginhal-is-no-more/article34469069.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 home isolation packages gain demand as number of cases increase||For the nearly 90% of people who are testing positive for COVID-19 and having either mild or no symptoms, home isolation is recommended. With the spurt in cases, several healthcare service providers have begun to offer ‘COVID-19 home isolation’ packages to these patients. These packages include a wide range of services, such as teleconsulting with specialists, the monitoring of vitals thrice a day, customised meals, and contactless delivery of medicines and other essentials. The service providers offer these packages for rates starting from Rs. 500 a day. RxDx Multispeciality Clinic, with five outlets in the city, is seeing an average of 20 COVID-19 patients being onboarded every day. Ashwani Sinha, chief impact officer of RxDx, said that since the outbreak of COVID-19, the clinic had helped over 1,500 people recover at home. “The other area of growth is in collection of home samples. In this alone, we have witnessed a huge demand and have begun servicing requests in a 15-km radius of all our five centres,” he said. Sakra World Hospital, Whitefield, is also witnessing a huge demand for home isolation packages. According to a hospital representative, through the hospital’s app, video consultation with doctors and teleconsultation with nurses, dieticians, and psychologists are conducted. The hospital also provides a complete medical equipment kit for a separate charge. Prashanth Patkar, founding team member and head of operations, Anvayaa Kin Care Pvt. Ltd., said the home quarantine care packages include remote consultation with pulmonologist/general physician, remote monitoring of vitals by trained healthcare staff, psychologist consultation, customised diet plan, home delivery of home quarantine kit, home delivery of medicines and essentials, and 24x7 ambulance for SOS support, among other things. “We have treated over 1,000 patients so far with 98% recovery rate. We also have an app-based service exclusively designed for senior citizens that allows one to keep tabs on the well-being of their loved ones,” he added. But not everyone is on board with this. When her father was tested positive, Deeksha Vasanth (name changed), a resident of Basavanagudi, got to know of one such service provider, who quoted Rs. 8,000 for 14 days. “This included video consultation with a doctor once a day and the monitoring of vitals, including oxygen level and blood pressure. Since we had all the necessary medical equipment, I decided against opting for the service,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-home-isolation-packages-gain-demand-as-number-of-cases-increase/article34468769.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Results a mixed bag for Yediyurappa||The results of the Assembly elections in five States and the three bypolls in Karnataka seem to be a mixed bag for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Failing to get defector Pratapgouda Patil re-elected despite the poll efforts being spearheaded by his son B.Y. Vijayendra is seen as a setback for him. The Belagavi contest going down to the wire and the Congress putting up an “unexpected” tough fight has exposed the party’s weakness on the ground, the Chief Minister’s detractors argue. “The COVID-19 crisis may have also had an impact on the government’s popularity,” a senior party leader said. However, Mr. Yediyurappa’s camp credits his leadership and the support of the Lingayat vote base for the party’s victories in Belagavi and Basavakalyan. “The Shiv Sena–Congress alliance in Maharashtra has had a fallout in Belagavi. The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, which polled over one lakh votes, played spoiler for the BJP. It was the Lingayat vote base that ensured the party won,” said a senior Minister. Meanwhile, the political fallout of the Assembly elections in the five States is also being closely watched for subtle indicators of the party high command’s inclination to effect a leadership change in the State. Dissenting BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal had recently predicted a leadership change after these polls. “The contrast of results in Assam and West Bengal leads to an inference on the key role played by strong regional leadership with a connect to the masses, or its lack thereof — a case we are also making to retain Mr. Yediyurappa. He remains the only mass leader of his stature for the party in the State,” said an associate of the CM.     Meanwhile, Mr. Vijayendra, who had acquired a reputation for successful election management with victories in difficult seats of K.R. Pet and Sira, has been denied a “hattrick” with the party’s defeat in Maski. Conceding defeat early in the day, he said, “Failure is the stepping stone to success.” He also assured party workers in Maski that he would stand by them. His success rate in turning around difficult seats had earned him political clout and it was believed that a victory here would have raised his stakes in the party as age caught up with his father. “A section of the party was not comfortable with his rise,” said a leader close to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/results-a-mixed-bag-for-yediyurappa/article34469072.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A win and a narrow loss for Congress||Retaining Maski Assembly seat and putting up an impressive fight in Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency seem to be the bypoll takeaways for the Congress, which only last week won six out of 10 ULBs that went to the polls in the State. Though partial, leaders believe that the success in these bypolls would boost the morale of party workers as despite a huge beeline of Ministers making it to the election arena, the Congress polled impressive numbers. The bypolls coming about two years before the next Assembly elections also meant they were being seen as a performance indicator of the B.S. Yediyurappa-led BJP government in COVID-19 times. They were also seen as a test of the leadership of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee chief D.K. Shivakumar. In the midst of rumours that he had a hand in the CD scandal involving BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi, brother of the Congress candidate in Belagavi, this election was particular watched. Congress Legislative Party leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday expressed happiness with the party’s victory in Maski and the close fight in Belagavi. He blamed the JD(S) for the party’s defeat in Basavakalyan. “The presence of the JD(S) candidate divided the votes in Basavakalyan. Had the JD(S) not fielded a candidate from a minority community, the Congress would have won,” he claimed. Party sources also said the Congress was hoping that Mallikarjun Khuba, the BJP rebel contesting as an Independent, would split the BJP votes, but this did not happen. According to Mr. Siddaramaiah, the nail-biting finish in Belagavi constituency brought much satisfaction to the party. “We have done well despite losing. The thin margins show that people are leaning towards the Congress,” he said. The win in Maski seems to have brought cheer to the leaders as it was a seats contested by the Congress deserter Pratapgouda Patil. “What Maski has proved is that the Congress votes have remained with the party, unlike in other places. The victory margin was huge despite the ruling party trying all the tricks,” a Congress source said. The victory is also seen as good since it came despite Mr. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra working for Mr. Patil, sources added. Mr. Siddaramaiah also said the Maski voters had rejected money power and ‘Operation Kamala’ politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-win-and-a-narrow-loss-for-congress/article34469084.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 37,733 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 217 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 37,733 new cases of COVID-19, a drop from the previous day’s tally of 40,990. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State stands at 16,01,865. With 217 people succumbing to the virus, 64 from Bengaluru Urban, the death toll has now risen to 16,011. This is apart from 20 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 2,1149 people were discharged on Sunday. Across Karnataka, there are currently 4,21,436 COVID-19 patients. The positivity rate for the day was 23.82%, while the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.57%. As many as 1,58,365 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,45,941 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests has risen to 2,59,33,338. As per the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 23,539 people were vaccinated on Sunday until 3 p.m., but no dose was administered to people in the 18-44 year age group in Bengaluru or any other part of Karnataka. The fourth phase took off to a slow start on Saturday in Bengaluru. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) Special Commissioner (Health) P. Rajendra Cholan admitted that there was no data readily available on the actual number of vaccinations administered to this age group in Bengaluru. He, however, stated that the civic body had just 12,000 doses of vaccine in stock. The State government has already placed an indent for 1 lakh doses of the vaccine. “We are also waiting for a directive from the government on the target group for the vaccine. Once there is clarity on that front, vaccination camps will be organised to cover slums and pockets where those belonging to lower socio-economic groups reside,” Mr. Cholan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-reports-37733-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-and-217-deaths/article34468774.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Passengers reach rail stations well in advance||The lack of public transport is inconveniencing rail passengers. As a precaution, hundreds of passengers who have train tickets to leave the city are arriving at stations hours in advance. Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Ashok Kumar Verma said, “Footfall at railway stations has not increased. However, people who have confirmed tickets are reaching stations in advance, sometimes even a day before. There are instances of people coming in the morning to board a train in the evening. On normal days, passengers would arrive 30 minutes prior to departure of their train.” South Western Railway is running trains as per demand. “If there are more passengers on the waiting list, additional services are introduced. On Monday, we are running an additional train from Mysuru to Danapur,” he added. BMTC is operating some ‘Vayu Vajra’ services connecting Kempegowda International Airport during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passengers-reach-rail-stations-well-in-advance/article34469065.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pharmacy employee held||The Talaghattapura police on Thursday arrested a 22-year-old employee of a pharmacy attached to Ritu Hospital for allegedly selling a vial of Remdesivir for Rs. 20,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pharmacy-employee-held/article34469066.ece
03 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Bear cost of COVID-19 treatment in pvt. hospitals’||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Working President Eshwar Khandre has demanded that the State government bear the treatment cost of coronavirus patients referred to private hospitals on the lines of the Andhra Pradesh government which took a similar decision a few days ago. Addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi on Sunday, Mr. Khandre said that due to a surge in COVID-19 cases in the State, patients are scrambling for ICU beds, oxygen and ventilators. Stating that private hospitals were looting patients in the name of COVID-19 treatment, he urged the government to improve the healthcare system. For high resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scan, private diagnostic centres and hospitals are charging between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 6,000 per scan, Remdesivir injection is being sold at rates ranging from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 per vial and oxygen cylinders and ventilators are provided at Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 25,000 for each patient. Mr. Khandre said that “family members of patients are forced to shell out around Rs. 8 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh for a week to provide treatment for COVID-19.” The government should bring COVID-19 treatment under the Arogya Karnataka scheme, the flagship free healthcare scheme of the State. The treatment cost of patients admitted in private hospitals should be borne by the government, he added. The Andhra Pradesh government has spent around Rs. 309 crore for paying bills of 1.33 lakh COVID-19 patients admitted in private hospitals, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bear-cost-of-covid-19-treatment-in-pvt-hospitals/article34468763.ece
03 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BJP wrests Basavakalyan from Congress in a spectacular win||BJP candidate Sharanu Salagar defeated his nearest rival Mala B. Narayanrao of the Congress by an impressive margin of 20,629 votes. The byelection to the constituency, which was necessitated by the demise of incumbent representative in the Assembly B. Narayanrao, was held on April 17 and counting was taken up on Sunday. Counting began at B.V. Bhumareddy College in Bidar at 8 a.m. as scheduled after the strongroom where the EVMs were kept was opened in the presence of candidates and election and security officers, including Bidar Deputy Commissioner R. Ramachandran and Superintendent of Police Nagesh D.L. Mr. Salagar registered a lead of 2,174 votes in the first round and continued to increase it after each round. Ms. Narayanrao trailed him till the end. When counting was completed by 1 p.m., Mr. Salagar had polled 71,012 votes, including postal ballot, against Ms. Narayanrao who polled 50,383 votes. Returning Officer Patil Bhuvanesh Devidas declared Mr. Salagar as the winner to fill the vacant seat after the counting process was completed. Janata Dal(S) candidate Sayed Yasrub Ali Quadri, who was expected to damage the prospects of the Congress by grabbing Muslim votes that were in considerable size in the constituency, polled only 11,402 votes to stand third. The former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba, a BJP leader who had, after he was denied party ticket, contested the election as an Independent candidate, appeared to be a major stumbling block for Mr. Salagar in the initial stages of poll campaigning. However, he could not prevent Mr. Salagar from winning the race as was pushed to the fourth place with 9,457 votes. Abdul Razzak Baba Chowdhary of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, who was expected to grab Muslim votes to inflict a serious damage on the Congress, did not make any impact on any contender with the 2,174 votes he polled. None of the other candidates, including Independents, could match or cross the votes polled under None Of The Above (NOTA) head which had 889. The constituency has 2,39,782 voters, of whom 1,47,234 people exercised their franchises (61.40%). As many as 198 votes were rejected. Mr. Salagar polled 48.23% of the total votes polled followed by Ms. Narayanrao with 34.21%. In the 2018 elections, 1,45,326 voters of the total 2,24,318 cast their votes (64.79%). B. Narayanrao of the Congress had won by polling 61,425 votes (42.27%) followed by Mr. Mallikarjun Khuba of the BJP who then polled 44,153 votes (30.38%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-wrests-basavakalyan-from-congress-in-a-spectacular-win/article34468758.ece
03 May 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Maski: A loss of prestige for the ruling BJP||For the BJP, Maski Assembly seat was prestigious because the battle here, unlike the ones in Belagavi and Maski, was necessitated because its candidate, earlier with the Congress, had defected to the party and later been disqualified. BJP candidate Pratapgouda Patil was among the 17 MLAs of the then ruling Congress-JD(S) coalition who defected to the BJP and helped it come to power in the State. However, the anti-incumbency wave sweeping across the constituency against Mr. Patil has resulted an impressive win for Congress candidate Basanagouda Turvihal, who was with the BJP back in 2018. Mr. Turvihal wonthe election by 30,606 votes against Mr. Patil, who polled 55,731 votes. Mr. Patil had won all the three elections held in Maski — in2008 as BJP candidate and in 2013 and 2018 as Congress candidate — after the Scheduled Tribe constituency came into existence following the delimitation of Assembly constituencies in 2008. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had deployed his son and BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra to ensure Mr. Patil’s victory. Mr. Vijayendra left no stone unturned to keep the pride and prestige of his father and party, but to no avail. The lack of visible development despite being in power for the last 13 years and Mr. Vijayendra’s alleged intervention in every matter created an “anti-Patil sentiment”, both in the constituency and the party, say observers. His homecoming had triggered dissent and resulted in Mr. Turvihal quitting the party to join the Congress. Mr. Patil’s consistent opposition to the NRBC 5A canal irrigation project also backfired. There was a strong anti-Patil campaign in 58 villages that would benefit from the irrigation project if implemented. Mr. Yediyurappa had also turned down the demand during his poll campaign in Maski. Mr. Turvihal losing in the 2018 election to Mr. Patil on a slender margin of just 213 votes had also created sympathy for him. The absence of a third strong candidate that could have split Congress votes was another advantage for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-maski-loss-of-prestige-for-the-ruling-bjp/article34469077.ece
03 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||In Basavakalyan, Salagar wins despite revolt||The choice of Sharanu Salagar, a Kalaburagi-based Lingayat leader, as BJP candidate in Basavakalyan had disappointed as many as 16 local aspirants. But despite the odds, he has managed an emphatic victory against his nearest rival, Mala B. Narayanarao of the Congress, with a margin of 20,629 votes. The byelection was necessitated by the death of her husband, but the sympathy factor does not appear to have worked for the Congress candidate. Mallikarjun Khuba, a former MLA and the strongest frontline contender for the BJP ticket, had contested the bypoll as an Independent candidate and called Mr. Salagar an “outsider”. But this too did not prove a deterrent. Senior BJP Ministers V. Somanna and Laxman Savadi, who did not manage to persuade Mr. Khuba to withdraw from the fray, did succeed in weaning away a chunk of his supporters back to the party fold to support Mr. Salagar. Mr. Khuba was pushed to fourth place with 9,457 votes. The solid support of Lingayats is seen as a major reason for Mr. Salagar’s victory. Laying the foundation stone for the new Anubhava Mantapa, a Rs. 600-crore project, and the formation of the Karnataka Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Board with a budgetary allocation of Rs. 500 crore contributed to the mobilisation of community votes for Mr. Salagar. Also in the fray was Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri of the JD(S), polling 11,402 votes. This was the only constituency where the JD(S) fielded a candidate, and it is believed this took away minority votes from the Congress. The Maratha votes appear to have been split between the Congress and BJP. The formation of a Maratha Development Corporation by the BJP government played its role here. The former MLA and Maratha leader M.G. Mule, who had filed nomination papers as Nationalist Congress Party candidate, withdrawing his candidature too avoided a further split in votes and helped the BJP. The deployment of P.G.R. Sindhia, a Maratha leader, in Basavakalyan by the Congress appears to have hardly helped Ms. Narayanarao in mobilising community votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-basavakalyan-salagar-wins-despite-revolt/article34469079.ece
03 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Congress wins Maski||Congress candidate Basanagowda Turvihal won the Maski Assembly byelection with an impressive margin of 30,606 votes against his nearest rival Pratapgouda Patil of the BJP. Mr. Turvihal bagged 86,337 votes of the total 1,45,459 (59.35%) to defeat Mr. Patil who obtained 55,731 votes (38.31%). Six other candidates, who did not even touch the four-digit mark, lost their deposits. As many as 1,075 people rejected all candidates in the fray by opting for None Of The Above (NOTA). Interestingly, there were no rejected votes. The byelection held on April 17 was necessitated by the disqualification of Mr. Patil. Counting was taken up at SRPS College in Raichur on Sunday. Mr. Turvihal opened his account with 3,182 votes with a lead of 579 over Mr. Patil who had secured 2,603 votes in the first round and continued to increase the margin in each round till the end. In the 2018 general elections, Mr. Patil, who had contested on Congress ticket, had polled 60,387 of the total 1,36,716 votes (44.17%) to defeat Mr. Turvihal, the then BJP candidate, who had polled 60,174 votes (44.01%), with a thin margin of just 213 votes. Mr. Patil was among 17 MLAs of the ruling Congress-Janata Dal(S) coalition who joined the BJP and helped it assume power in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-wins-maski/article34468764.ece
03 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. hospitals in Udupi to get more beds with oxygen supply||Home Minister and district in-charge Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday that government hospitals in Udupi district will be provided with 20 additional beds with oxygen supply. Speaking to presspersons after visiting the District Hospital in Udupi, he said that with COVID-19 cases, Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases are also on the rise not only in Udupi district but across the State. SARI cases are being reported from even among those who have tested negative for COVID-19 through RT-PCR test. These additional beds with oxygen supply will treat those with only SARI. Though at present there is no dearth of beds in the district, more beds might be required in future to treat patients with SARI. The Minister said that the laboratory in the District Hospital will be provided with an RNA extractor and two devices to conduct more RT-PCR tests. It is to increase the capacity of the laboratory to enhance sample tests. He said that testing, tracking and treatment will be given priority with the cooperation of private hospitals. Regarding the possible scarcity of operators of ventilators in the coming days, the Minister said that qualified operators will be recruited and deputed for duty soon. The Minister also visited the Taluk Hospital in Karkala and inspected the arrangements made there to treat COVID-19 patients. Supply of oxygen to the Taluk Hospital in Karkala has been regular and hassle-free, he said before admitting that there was scarcity of vaccine in the district. ‘‘Udupi district needs 10,000 doses on a daily basis, but at present only 4,500 doses are being made available,” he said and assured that steps will be taken to increase the supply of vaccine. Members of Legislative Assembly K. Raghupati Bhat and V. Sunil Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-hospitals-in-udupi-to-get-more-beds-with-oxygen-supply/article34469274.ece
03 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Leopard found dead in Udupi||A leopard with injuries was found dead at Kadambala under Durgamale Reserve Forest area in Karkala taluk, Udupi district, on Sunday. A Forest Department official said that it is suspected that it might have suffered injuries due to territorial fight with any other leopard some time ago. It appears to have died due to starvation unable to hunt due to injuries. The number of leopards has increased in the region. The department has rescued about 10 leopards in a little over a month under different circumstances, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-found-dead-in-udupi/article34469280.ece
03 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Barke Police Station gets steam inhalation facility||The Barke Police Station in the city has introduced steam inhalation facility for its personnel and visitors. As many as three persons can use the steam inhalation facility at a time. A steel pipe with four openings has been tied to a wooden frame. Visitors and police personnel can inhale steam from the three vents or openings. A fourth opening is connected by a rubber pipe to a pressure cooker which supplies steam to the steel pipeline. Police Inspector Jyotirling Honakatti, who conceptualised this idea, said that he practised steam inhalation at his house during his stint in Belagavi last year. “When Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar asked us to take steps to prevent COVID-19 infection, I took his permission to have this facility installed at the police station,” Mr. Honakatti told The Hindu . Being a yoga trainer himself, Mr. Honakatti has taken inputs from Ayurveda and Naturopathy therapists before getting the steam inhalation facility installed at the police station. A pressure cooker is filled with water, Tulsi leaves and cloves and placed on the stove. Once the stove is switched on, personnel inhale steam for about two minutes each before entering the police station and also before they leave for their houses at the end of the day. As many as 40 personnel in the Barke Police Station are making use of this facility. While this is the first police station in the city to have steam inhalation facility, there are a good number of police stations in Chitradurga, Shivamogga and Haveri districts that have this facility for their personnel. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that he would see the results of this new facility and consider having it in other police stations too. All 20 police buildings in the city, housing police stations and other police offices, have set up kiosks outside the buildings to address complaints of people. All precautions, including hand sanitisers, masks, hand gloves and UV reader machine, are used at these kiosks. Some police stations have made arrangements to provide warm drinking water and Kashaya to their personnel, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/barke-police-station-gets-steam-inhalation-facility/article34469284.ece
03 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Samithi says no cooperation to land acquisition||The Bhoomalakara Horata Samithi of National Highway 169 (Mangaluru-Solapur) has decided not to extend any cooperation to acquisition of land for widening the highway between Mangaluru and Karkala on the ground that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is interfering in the process of providing fair compensation to land losers. In a statement here, samithi president Mariyamma Thomas and convener Prakashchandra urged land losers not to provide any document to officials when they visit the land. This is as per the resolution adopted in the April 18 meeting of land owners that decided not to extend cooperation to land acquisition. The meeting had also sought the intervention of the Lok Sabha member to ensure that his promise of getting fair compensation to land losers is honoured, the statement said. It said that the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways issued a Gazette notification to commence land acquisition for widening NH 169 passing through Padavu, Badaga Padavu, Kudupu, Kandavara, Mulur, Addur, Tiruvail, Moodu Perara, Thenka Ulipadi, Badaga Ulipadi, Thenka Edapadavu, Mijar, Todar, Puttige, Marpadi, Padu Marnad and Beluvai villages in Dakshina Kannada and Kanthavara and Sanur villages of Udupi district in 2014 through NHAI. The State government has appointed a special land acquisition officer who is authorised to function independently in his domain. It said that when the special land acquisition officer has independent authority to execute land acquisition, NHAI officials issuing directions to the officer is illegal. Despite the officer having authority to carry out the acquisition process independently under the National Highways Act 1956, intervention in his work by NHAI officials is intended to deprive land losers of fair compensation, the samithi said. Consequently, they are being denied the right to fair compensation. The samithi noted that the project director of NHAI did not impose any conditions for land acquisition for widening NH 66 between Surathkal and Kundapur in 2016. Imposing 16 conditions now for acquiring land for NH 169 is opposed to law, it said. The samithi has opposed such interventions. It will resort to legal fight to get fair compensation under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samithi-says-no-cooperation-to-land-acquisition/article34469272.ece
03 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two held in assault case||A special team of the Dakshina Kannada Police on Sunday arrested two men said to be involved in the grievous assault on Manoj, a resident of Brahamarakotlu, in April this year. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Mohammed Imran (38) and Mohammed Safwan (21), both from B.Mooda village. The two men, who came on a scooter, assaulted Manoj with sharp weapons at Ajjibettu Cross of B.Mooda village on the night of April 4. Apart from Bantwal Town Police Inspector Cheluvaraju, personnel from Bantwal Town, Bantwal Rural, Bantwal Traffic and Vitla police stations were part of the special team, headed by Bantwal Deputy Superintendent of Police Valentine D’Souza Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that investigation is on to establish the reason for the attack. Mr. Sonawane announced reward for the police team members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-in-assault-case/article34469282.ece
03 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SKDRDP free vehicle service for COVID-19 patients||Shree Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project, a non-governmental organisation, will introduce on Monday 350 vehicles across the State to enable COVID-19 patients in rural areas to reach hospitals, COVID care centres and to return home after treatment. This free service will be available for the next two weeks, project Executive Director L.H. Manjunath said in a release on Sunday. The service will be available only in taluks served by SKDRDP. There will be two vehicles in each such taluk. The service is not available for patients in Bengaluru Urban district. Those who want to avail themselves of the service will have to call the project directors of the respective taluks. The vehicles will be sent on first booked first served basis and on priority. The vehicles are not ambulances and hence, they will not have facilities of an ambulance. They are meant purely for travel purpose. The service is being introduced on an instruction from president of SKDRDP D. Veerendra Heggade, he said. Mr. Manjunath said that SKDRDP grahaka seva kendras in villages in the State will remain closed from May 3 to May 13. The premises of these centres will be allotted to the government to enable it to vaccinate people against COVID-19. The SKDRDP has written a letter to the government to this effect. The NGO will depute its volunteers for assisting the government in such centres during vaccination. The government has also been told that SKDRDP is ready to transport vaccines to rural areas, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/skdrdp-free-vehicle-service-for-covid-19-patients/article34469281.ece
03 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to rely on TAC report on lockdown||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the government will take a call on extending the lockdown in the State beyond May 12, based on the report by the State’s Technical Advisory Committee on COVID-19. Speaking to presspersons in Udupi late on Saturday the Minister said that the committee most likely will meet on May 10 to review the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-rely-on-tac-report-on-lockdown/article34468768.ece
03 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Register for oxygen, Remdesivir’||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has said that private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients will have to place their daily demand for medical oxygen and Remdesivir injection through KPME portal. The hospitals will have to register on the portal first to place the daily demand. The link to register ishttps://kpme.karnat- aka.go.in. The demand will have to be placed by mentioning the SRF id of each COVID-19 patient. Unless the hospitals registered themselves on the portal, no demand can be placed on-line. No oxygen and the injection will be supplied to such hospitals which do not register on the portal. The direct demand for the injection and oxygen by patients and organisations will not be considered. The demand will have to come through hospitals. Then, they will be directly supplied to hospitals concerned, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/register-for-oxygen-remdesivir/article34469278.ece
03 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three caught in rip current in stream, die||Three youths were drowned in a stream where they had gone for swimming in Pamburu Kabedi of Moodubelle village of Udupi district on Sunday. The Shirva Police gave the names of the deceased as Kelvin Castelino (21), Jabir (18) and Rizwan (28), all from Subash Nagar of Shankarapura. The police said that because of lockdown the three had come in a vehicle to swim in the stream, which was about five kilometres away from Shankarapura. The three entered the water and got caught in the rip current. Local swimmers and Fire and Emergency Services personnel retrieved the bodies after a two-hour search operation, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-caught-in-rip-current-in-stream-die/article34469285.ece
03 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||People have reposed faith in the BJP, says Kateel||State president of the BJP Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Sunday that the by-election results in the State have proved that the people are in favour of the BJP. The BJP winning the by-polls to the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency and the Basavakalyan Assembly segment has showed that people have reposed their faith in the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Mr. Kateel said that people have recognised the development activities of the government by making the party win in two of the three constituencies. It will only help strengthen the party further in the State. The party has made good progress in Assam, Puducherry and West Bengal Assembly elections. People have rejected the Congress in five States which went to the polls in the country, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-have-reposed-faith-in-the-bjp-says-kateel/article34469275.ece
03 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Community radio station is a ray of hope for rural populace||A community radio station broadcasting from the hinterlands of H.D. Kote-Saragur belt since the last few years has come as a ray of hope for the rural populace desperate for hospital beds during the pandemic. This is apart from creating public awareness on the vaccination and removing vaccine hesitancy among people. Jana Dhwani can be tuned at 90.8 MHz and covers a radius of 10 km reaching nearly 40 villages in and around H.D. Kote and Saragur towns. Functioning since 2012, Jana Dhwani was established to disseminate information on rural issues relevant to the local community with focus on water, health, sanitation, hygiene, education, agriculture, governance, and tribal development. “We have opened a helpline and are disseminating information on availability of hospital beds in the district to the local community in H.D. Kote and Saragur,” said G.S. Kumar, CEO, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement (SVYM). Apart from updates pertaining to beds, the station also broadcasts information on case load and any other news relevant to the public. People are regularly calling Jana Dhwani, which broadcasts for 14 hours daily. The initiative has helped bridge a major information gap as people tend to be deprived of reliable news given the remoteness of the region and where fake and unverified information tends to get circulated as news. SVYM has been involved in healthcare of tribal and rural populace in and around H.D. Kote since its inception in 1984 and has hands-on experience in dealing with issues germane to the tribal and rural population. It has a 100-bed multi-specialty hospital in Saragur, where 20 beds are now reserved for COVID-19 patients. Mr. Kumar said if need be, additional beds will be reserved. Though the case load in the rural hinterland is currently manageable, the hysteria being generated is such that anybody who tests positive wants to be hospitalised in Mysuru. Hence, SVYM is trying to develop home care management. “Most cases can be managed at home and do not require hospital admission. At home. patients will require some psychological support and monitoring and this is where SYVM intends to work, so that hospital beds can be made available to those who really need it,” said Mr. Kumar. The outreach activities and awareness programme through Jana Dhwani has also helped vaccinate about 7,000 people. On the anvil, is an oxygen-generating plant to meet the requirements of local healthcare facilities, but this is still in the conceptual stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/community-radio-station-is-a-ray-of-hope-for-rural-populace/article34469305.ece
03 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CFR lower in 2nd wave, but no time to be complacent: Experts||Even though the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in the second wave of COVID-19 in Karnataka has remained lower than the first, experts are anticipating a rise in absolute numbers in the coming days. Monthly data suggests that the CFR – proportion of deaths out of the total individuals testing positive – has remained lower in the second wave so far. While the second wave has seen a sharp rise in positive cases, particularly this April when 5.26 lakh cases were reported, the number of deaths for the month were 2,956. This is lower than the 3,388 reported in August, 2020 and also resulted in a lower CFR for this April [0.56%] compared to August 2020 [1.55%]. Health Minister K. Sudhakar, during his recent visit to Kalaburagi, also said the second wave’s CFR was lower than the first wave. Experts, however, have warned against complacency. C.N. Manjunath, Director of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, Bengaluru, who is also the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the dynamics can change, when the absolute number of deaths could increase. “Probably, the best time to assess the CFR is after tw o more weeks. It is bit too early now,” he said. Anticipating the absolute numbers to rise, Dr. Manjunath said what matters was the number of deaths and not necessarily the proportion. Lag time Another member of the State COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee pointed to a lag time of 14 to 17 days between the surge in cases and deaths. “COVID-19 patients admitted to the ICU after a surge in cases will die only after 10 to 15 days so the surge in deaths will be reflected on that day,” he said. Also, many severely sick patients will not get ICU beds when there is a strain on the medical infrastructure. A patient admitted to an ICU will remain there 14 to 15 days. “As ICUs cannot be created overnight, newer admissions will not be possible. Hence, patients, who have to wait for a longer time, turn critical and die. It is like a cycle,” the expert said. Besides, the CFR has been calculated on the basis of the reported deaths, leaving out the unaccounted deaths. Referring to the difference between the reported COVID-19 deaths and the deaths reported from crematoriums and burial grounds, the expert said a lot of reconciliation of data will take place later. In view of the high number of positive cases being reported daily, experts sau that the absolute number of deaths will be more the coming days even if their proportion to the confirmed cases is less. Dr. Manjunath added that the second wave has begun peaking in the State and expects the surge to begin its decline by the May-end or beginning of June.  “The best time to assess the CFR is after two more weeks. It is a bit too early now. We can anticipate the absolute numbers to rise in the coming days.” -- Dr C N Manjunath||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cfr-lower-in-2nd-wave-but-no-time-to-be-complacent-experts/article34468773.ece
03 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers across Mysuru district set to swap ginger cultivation for tobacco||Over the last three to four years, farmers across Mysuru district had been swapping tobacco for ginger cultivation. But, the crash in the price of ginger last year has sparked a return to tobacco cultivation this year. Area under tobacco cultivation in the district reduced from 85,000 hectares about four years ago to 64,000 hectares last year, said officials in the Agriculture Department. “Many farmers had suffered huge losses owing to the crash in ginger prices. They are returning to tobacco this year and many have already started plantation”, claimed Javare Gowda, president of Federation of VFC Tobacco Growers Associations’ of Karnataka. For farmers, ginger held promise last year when the prices ranged fromRs. 2,500 to Rs. 2,750 for every 60 kg bag. But, the prices reduced to less than Rs. 1,000 last year. Similarly, those farmers who had opted for maize were also disappointed with the prices. The return to tobacco cultivation is a huge setback to the hopes of anti-tobacco crusaders against the growing the crop, which is held responsible for ailments such as cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Confirming the crash in prices of ginger, Deputy Director of Horticulture, Mysuru, Rudresh Kumar, said the crop is unlikely to attract many farmers this year. Against the Rs. 2,500 for a 60-kg bag, ginger is now sold between Rs. 900 and Rs. 1,200, he said. He attributed the slump to the dip in demand from overseas companies. The demand from the hotel industry had also come down to a large extent owing to COVID-19. Also, many ginger farmers do not grow the crop on the same soil for at least two to three years as it is considered to be a nutrient-exhaustive crop. Joint Director of Agriculture, Mysuru, Mahanteshappa said many farmers in Mysuru had shifted to ginger during the last three to four years, leading to area under tobacco cultivation in Mysuru shrinking to 64,000 hectares from 85,000 hectares four years ago. Many farmers in Hunsur and Periyapatna who cultivated maize were also not receiving a good market price. Though the minimum support price is Rs. 1,850 per quintal, the government cannot purchase maize as it cannot be distributed through the Public Distribution System (PDS). The market price is barely Rs. 1,300 to Rs. 1,400 per quintal which is not profitable. Though the price of tobacco was also not good, many farmers would prefer to cultivate tobacco as they would stand to benefit from the Tobacco Board’s schemes that include not only credit facility and distribution of fertilizer, but also guaranteed buy back at its auction platforms, Mr. Mahanteshappa observed. However, he said all farmers may not return to tobacco as the Tobacco Board will impose a ceiling on the crop size. The farmers may have to explore other options including vegetable crops, he said. But, in view of the return of large number of farmers to tobacco cultivation, Mr. Javare Gowda said he had already written to the Tobacco Board to enhance the crop size of tobacco in Karnataka to 99 million kg for the year 2021-22 from 88 million kg last year (2020-21).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-across-mysuru-district-set-to-swap-ginger-cultivation-for-tobacco/article34469307.ece
03 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Railway freight operations keep supply chain intact||Loading and movement of essential commodities, medical supplies and perishables in the Mysuru division of the South Western Railway reached a new high in April ensuing that supply chain of the market was not disrupted due to the virulence of second wave of COVID-19. This contributed to ensuring stability in the market situation with regard to availability of the essential commodities and other perishables and ensured that there was no scarcity. The authorities said the seamless operation of freight services by the railways in the face of the severe crisis brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic has been largely responsible for maintaining the supply chains intact. Not only did it help stabilise the market situation but in the process the division was able to click a higher freight revenue to meet the operational expenditure of running passenger services even with very low occupancy. The Business Development Unit (BDU) devised in the division to revitalise the freight segment in this critical situation is delivering admirably not only in bridging the deficit in revenue and to further enable ease of doing business, according to Manjunath Kanamadi, senior divisional commercial manager, Mysuru. He said with sustainable marketing efforts of the BDU the division has achieved a record loading in April 2021. The division loaded 0.703 million tonnes of freight as against 0.094 million tonnes in the corresponding period of last year - an increase of 648% amid the pandemic exerting enormous pressure in safe operations. Dr. Manjunath said the freight revenue was Rs. 59.21 crore as against 5.9 crore last year, a growth of 903%. Similarly, the parcel revenue has also witnessed an upward trend with the division grossing revenue Rs. 0.47 crore for April 2021 in comparison to Rs. 0.03 crore in April 2020. The division loaded its traditional commodities like iron-ore, petroleum products, cement, food grains like maize and sugar, etc. from various stations like Nanjangud, Sasalu, Ranibennur, Amravati Colony, Ammasandra Siding, Minerals Enterprises Ltd. siding. Rahul Agarwal, divisional railway manager, said the railway employees are striving to scale new heights in contribution to the efforts of the government in providing succour to the needy. All necessary measures were in place for sustaining the pace in freight operations in the coming months, he added. The BDUs were constituted in April 2020 so as to double the freight loading in the absence of passenger traffic owing to the COVID-19 restrictions and suspension of passenger trains. Similar gains were achieved by the Hubballi division and there was growth in freight revenue from all the major commodities of the division i.e. iron ore, sugar, cement, fertilizers, steel etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-freight-operations-keep-supply-chain-intact/article34469309.ece
03 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru city sees 1,481 new cases||Mysuru city accounted for 1,481 out of the total 2,750 new cases of COVID-19 reported on Sunday. While 134 cases were reported from H.D. Kote taluk, 240 each were reported from Hunsur taluk and K.R. Nagar taluk. Mysuru taluk accounted for 195 while Nanjangud and Periyapatna taluks reported 139 and 155 cases, respectively. T. Narsipura reported another 166 cases on Sunday. Meanwhile, eight persons died due to COVID-19, taking the toll to 1,220. As many as 1,126 people were discharged, taking the total recoveries in the district to 67,345. The total positive cases in Mysuru has touched 82,054.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-city-sees-1481-new-cases/article34468870.ece
03 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Police crack down on violators||The Mysuru district police has cracked down on violations of COVID-19 guidelines by penalising people not wearing masks and violating social distancing as well as riding their vehicles in contravention of the lockdown. In a statement here on Sunday, the district police said 151 vehicles were seized on Saturday for violating the lockdown, 250 people were booked for not wearing masks and another four penalised for not maintaining social distance. A total of Rs. 25,000 was collected for violating the mask rule and Rs. 400 for not maintaining social distance.  According to statistics provided by the police, 4,762 cases had been booked by the Mysuru district police for violating the mask rule and a fine of Rs. 4,76,200 was collected since April 17. Also, 30 cases against social distancing were booked and a fine of Rs. 3,000 was collected form violators. The police also seized 269 vehicles since April 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-crack-down-on-violators/article34468871.ece
03 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tahsildar served notice over shifting patient||Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Rohini Sindhuri has served a show-cause notice to K.R. Nagar tahsildar Manjula M. for shifting a COVID-19 patient from K.R. Nagar taluk to a hospital in Mysuru city instead of providing treatment in a health facility in K.R. Nagar. The tahsildar has been asked to give a written reply within 24 hours after receiving the notice dated May 1, failing which action will be taken against her. The Deputy Commissioner pointed out that tahsildars in the district had been informed during a recent videoconference that COVID-19 positive patients should be provided treatment at medical facilities at taluk-level hospitals. The videoconference had been held on April 26. Directions had also been issued to the tahsildar against shifting patients to hospitals in Mysuru and to take proper measures to provide adequate treatment at taluk health facilities, Ms. Sindhuri said. Yet, a COVID-19 patient from K.R. Nagar taluk was shifted in a private ambulance to a hospital in Mysuru, where the patient died without receiving medical care, the show-cause notice said. Hence, the tahsildar has been served a notice under Section 56 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, for alleged negligence of duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tahsildar-served-notice-over-shifting-patient/article34469302.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP stops random testing||The positivity rate leapfrogging to 14.35% in April from 2.31% in March is undeniable proof of the extent of community transmission in Bengaluru. In an effort to better utilise existing resources, the BBMP has decided to stop random testing for COVID-19, a tool to help identify community transmission. Instead, it will focus on testing people with symptoms, those with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), and primary and secondary contacts. BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) P. Rajendra Cholan said they will focus on qualitative testing. “Earlier, we would test people in railway stations and bus stands. But now that community spread has been confirmed, we decided to stop random testing,” he said. The civic body’s static teams and 687 mobile teams have been directed to accord priority to testing those with symptoms, ILI/SARI and primary and secondary contacts of those who have already tested positive, even if they are asymptomatic. The mobile teams have been directed to focus on testing of contacts. The BBMP is also increasing the percentage of Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) from the current 5% to around 20%. “This will help us identify cases quicker, which will help with immediate triaging and hospitalisation,” Mr. Cholan added. Dr. Giridhar R. Babu, epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Bengaluru and member of the Technical Advisory Committee on COVID-19, said that when a person has symptoms, the sensitivity of RAT is high, up to 50% in many cases. “After the first round of the sero survey, we recommended that in the presence of symptoms, the RAT may be performed. If the RAT is negative, then RT-PCR has to be conducted,” he said and added that given the high positivity rate, many laboratories are burdened and not able to give results on time. “Conducting RAT on those with symptoms and immediately isolating those who test positive will help. The number of RAT can be increased further, as the test results are available in less than 30 minutes, which will also help reduce load on labs,” he added. This will give a boost to the number of tests conducted every day, which has seen a drop since April 25, even while positive cases are on the rise. Data from the war room from April 17 to May 1 show that the number of tests were above one lakh a day only on six days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-stops-random-testing/article34469067.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dalits stage protest||Dalits of Ganguru in Arkalgud taluk on Sunday staged a protest against the Forest Department and succeeded in sending back staff members without planting trees in the reserved forest land, which they cultivated for decades. The protesters, who were freed as bonded labourers in 1994, have been demanding a grant of land for cultivation. They cultivated a part of Gubbali Reserve Forest near Goruru, despite opposition from the department. The department took over the forest land amidst protest by them on April 1. As the department had planned to take plantation work in the land on Sunday, the families staged a dharna. They maintained that they would not allow the department to plant trees arguing that they had cultivated the land for decades. The staff members returned without taking up any work. As many as 91 people were freed as bonded labourers in 1994. They had been demanding land since then. The government allowed them to cultivate a portion of the reserved forest land all these years. As the Forest Department took back the land, the district administration assured the families that alternative land would be granted to them. M.G. Pruthvi, district convener of Dalit Hakkugala Samiti, said the State government had not yet rehabilitated the people. “Now with the lockdown, they are in distress with no job,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dalits-stage-protest/article34468867.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Advisory on domestic workers discriminatory’||The BBMP advisory to Residents’ Welfare Associations, which states that domestic help have to undergo RT-PCR testing every fortnight, has been criticised by activists as discriminatory. Geetha Menon from the Domestic Workers’ Union described the protocol as regressive, humiliating and arbitrary in nature. “Last year, following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, nearly 90% of domestic workers did not get paid for two months, as per our survey. They are being economically and socially attacked,” she said. She pointed out that there is no clarity on who should pay for the tests. Vinay Sreenivasa, advocate and civil rights’ activist, said the protocol was reflective of the COVID-19 management, where the urban poor are largely ignored. “The government seems to be catering only to the middle and upper classes. The BBMP routinely interacts with RWAs and corporate bodies. Not one interaction with workers’ unions. This is just callous management of the pandemic,” he said. Bangalore Apartments’ Federation, an umbrella organisation of over 900 apartments in the city, has also termed the BBMP’s protocol as regressive. Responding to the criticism, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) P. Rajendra Cholan said he would look into the issue.  On the one hand, the BBMP says testing will be prioritised for symptomatic cases and primary/secondary contacts, and on the other, asks RWAs to test domestic workers. We have sought revised guidelines from the BBMP: Vikram Rai, general secretary, Bangalore Apartments’ Federation The government and the BBMP seems to be catering only to the middle and upper classes. This is just callous management of the pandemic Vinay Sreenivasa, advocate and civil rights’ activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advisory-on-domestic-workers-discriminatory/article34469070.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man booked for making a killing from selling cylinders||An employee of Peenya Industrial Gases Private in Dobbspet was caught by officials from the Drug Control Department for selling oxygen cylinders at more than five times the rate set by the Karnataka government. Based on a complaint by Harish S.R., an officer with the intelligence unit of the Drug Control Department, the police have charged the assistant manager for cheating and also under the Essential Commodities Act. The company, too, has been booked. In his complaint, Harish said that he had approached the assistant manager, Sunil Kumar, seeking oxygen cylinders. Sunil allegedly charged him Rs. 1,233 per cylinder. “The government has fixed the rate of oxygen at Rs. 25.71 per cubic metre. The cylinder has a capacity of 7.1 cubic metres. As per the government rate, each cylinder should cost Rs. 182.54. An additional Rs. 21.9 towards GST takes the total amount to Rs. 204 per cylinder,” he said in the complaint. He alleged that the factory is making an illegal profit of Rs. 1,028 per cylinder. The police have taken up a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-booked-for-making-a-killing-from-selling-cylinders/article34469062.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Revanna demands medicine, vaccination for Hassan dist.||Former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has said he will stage a dharna in front of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s residence in Bengaluru demanding essential medicine, vaccination and other facilities to combat COVID-19 in Hassan. In a press conference on Sunday, Mr. Revanna said patients were dying as they were not getting oxygenated beds and ICU facilities. “Patients are not getting Remdesivir injection. I have written to Mr. Yediyurappa. Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda has also written. There are positive patients in every village. The administration has failed in the district,” he said. Eligible people were not getting vaccination. Many aged people were forced to stand in queue for hours. “The government is not taking care of the people,” he alleged. Further, he said he tried to call Health Minister K. Sudhakar but was not successful. Only the rich and influential had been getting beds in Bengaluru. There were none to listen to problems of the poor,” he said. Regarding the latest changes in lockdown guidelines closing markets, but allowing pushcarts, Mr. Revanna wanted to know how could vegetable sellers get pushcarts now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revanna-demands-medicine-vaccination-for-hassan-dist/article34468868.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hassan sees 1,495 cases||Hassan reported highest ever 1,495 new cases of COVID-19 and 11 deaths on Sunday. With that, the total number of cases reached 41,036 and the death toll rose to 601. Five people of Hassan taluk, two from Channarayapatna, one each in Alur, Arsikere and two more from other districts are the deceased. Among the new cases, Hassan taluk reported the highest of 583. As many as 210 are from Arkalgud, 196 from Channarayapatna, 169 from Arsikere, 100 from Sakaleshpur, 83 from Alur, 89 from Belur, 57 from Holenarasipur taluk, and eight from other districts. So far, 33,362 have recovered and 7,073 are undergoing treatment. Doctors treating COVID-19 patients are facing shortage of Remdesivir injection in Hassan. According to statistics from the Health and Family Welfare Department, there is a demand of 320 vials of the injection a day in government hospitals. However, the supply is zero. Similarly, private hospitals require another 350 vials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-sees-1495-cases/article34468866.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mass cremation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mass-cremation/article34469060.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hard to find customers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hard-to-find-customers/article34469287.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sunday scene||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sunday-scene/article34468767.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Loading facility for oxygen tankers||South Western Railway (SWR) built a loading facility at Satellite Goods Terminal, Whitefield to facilitate movement of tanker-trucks carrying oxygen. On Saturday, the State government had written to the Railway Board seeking such a facility at Whitefield and Doddaballapur. Within 24 hours, SWR built a ramp at Whitefield to load oxygen tankers on flat wagons. Aneesh Hegde, Chief PRO of SWR, said that the required infrastructure is in place at Doddaballapur. “The SWR has been transporting automobiles from Doddaballapur,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/loading-facility-for-oxygen-tankers/article34469063.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||The State government has refused to officially call the ongoing 14-day restriction on the movement of people and economic activity a “lockdown”. It has been given many names such as “janata curfew” and “COVID curfew”, while Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has called it a “close down”. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar has kept on revising the guidelines “to break the chain of COVID-19 transmission”. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has chosen the ‘what’s in a name’ approach, saying that notwithstanding what it was called, containing the spread of the pandemic was the top priority. It might be a moot question, but did the government refrain from calling it a lockdown to abdicate its responsibility of giving sops to people in the unorganised sector who are affected the most by the restrictions?   As the number of COVID-19 cases is surging in Karnataka, Health Minister K. Sudhakar(in picture)is back to holding one press conference a day, if not more. It turns out that he is rather fond of mythology and often draws from them to illustrate a point. On the day the lockdown was declared, he told reporters that it was like the Lakshman Rekha, transgressing which got Sita into many problems and eventually led to a grand battle. He said that people should be wary of the consequences of violating the lockdown rules, lest they land in trouble like Sita. It is another matter that he had no mythological parallels for all those election rallies in which politicians of all hues exhibited a complete disregard for any Lakshman Rekha.   It seems the often heard, but less understood, North Karnataka dialect is used as an excuse by politicians to escape from the consequences of their irresponsible statements. A recent example is the controversy over the remarks of Umesh Katti(in picture), Food and Civil Supplies Minister, during a conversation with a farmer. When the farmer asked if people who get less rice than earlier now should “live or die”, the Minister advised they choose the latter. At first, Mr. Katti was reluctant to apologise. But when there was increased media pressure, he said that he should not have said it and that he would like to “apologise to anyone who might have been offended”. The next day, a few BJP Raitha Morcha leaders in Hukkeri, the Minister’s constituency, defended him by saying that some people in Bengaluru had “misunderstood” the usage of Mr. Katti’s North Karnataka dialect. “Our dialect is laden with abusive words. It is so common that we feel bad if the Minister does not use them while talking to us,” one of them said. It is not the first time that dialect has been used as a shield for politicians. Ramesh Jarkiholi, former Minister, has often used abusive words and then said that it was just the nature of his dialect.  Nagesh Prabhu   Afshan Yasmeen   Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article34469075.ece
03 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No major surprises in Alappuzha||The results of the 2021 Assembly elections offered no major surprises in Alappuzha. In a repeat of the 2016 Assembly polls, the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) has almost swept the district by winning eight out of the nine Assembly constituencies. LDF candidates have emerged victorious in Aroor, Cherthala, Alappuzha, Ambalappuzha, Kuttanad, Kayamkulam, Chengannur, and Mavelikara constituencies. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), which took a real pasting, has to settle for the Haripad constituency, where Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala tasted victory by a margin of 13,666 votes. In a seesaw battle, Daleema Jojo of the CPI (M) wrested the Aroor constituency by defeating sitting MLA Shanimol Usman of the Congress by a margin of 7,013 votes. Ms. Usman had wrested the seat from the LDF in the 2019 bypoll after a gap of 13 years. However, she could not repeat the performance of 2019 and failed to retain the seat. Saji Cherian of the CPI (M) registered a thumping victory in Chengannur, where a triangular contest was on the offing, by overcoming the challenge of M. Murali of the Congress and M.V. Gopakumar of the BJP. Mr. Cherian’s victory margin of 31,984 votes is the biggest in the district. Despite facing a tough challenge, U.Prathibha of the CPI (M) retained the Kayamkulam segment with relative ease. She defeated her nearest rival Aritha Babu of the Congress by 6,298 votes. P.P. Chitharanjan of the CPI (M) won from the Alappuzha constituency by defeating Congress's K.S. Manoj by a margin of 11,644 votes. In Ambalappuzha, H. Salam of the CPI (M) defeated his nearest rival M. Liju of the Congress by a margin of 11,125 votes. The LDF retained the Cherthala constituency through P. Prasad of the Communist Party of India (CPI). He defeated his nearest rival S. Sarath of the Congress by 6,148 votes. Thomas K. Thomas of the Nationalist Congress Party trumped Jacob Abraham of the Kerala Congress led by P.J. Joseph in Kuttanad. Mr. Thomas won by 5,516 votes. In Mavelikara, M.S. Arun Kumar, a young face of the CPI (M) defeated K.K. Shaju of the Congress by 24,717 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-major-surprises-in-alappuzha/article34468826.ece
03 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||LDF relieved at repeating victory||When the CPI(M) decided not to field two veterans- Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran and the CPI opting to keep Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman away from the poll fray in the 2021 Assembly polls, there was some anxiety among the Left front workers. Some of them, especially in Alappuzha and Ambalappuzha expressed their feelings through social media posts, while a few posters also appeared in these constituencies against the party’s choices to replace Dr. Isaac and Mr. Sudhakaran respectively. On the other hand, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), which got trounced in the 2016 Assembly polls in the district, thought it their best chance for glory in some of the left citadels in the district. However, the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) thumping win, which saw the exact repeat of 2016 Assembly polls when it won eight of the nine constituencies in Alappuzha, has quashed all that apprehensions and is seen as a successful generational shift. Hopes dashed It also dashed hopes of a revival for the UDF, which had faced major setbacks in recent electoral battles including in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in the Alappuzha Lok Sabha constituency and 2020 local body polls. The election results have also not gone well for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which was hoping to reduce its gap with both the LDF and UDF. Almost all the NDA candidates have finished a distant third in the nine constituencies. The victory of CPI (M) candidates- P.P. Chitharanjan, H. Salam, and U.Prathibha in Alappuzha, Ambalappuzha, and Kayamkulam, by lesser margins compared to victory margins of LDF candidates in these constituencies in 2016, is seen as a major relief for the CPI (M) district leadership. Debacle in any of these seats would have put the party leadership in a predicament. The victory especially that of Mr. Salam would quell allegations of a rift, at least for the time being, in the CPI (M) district leadership. Earlier it had been alleged that Mr. Sudhakaran, unhappy over being denied a ticket, remained inactive during the LDF’s campaigning in Ambalappuzha. Successful Tipped as one of the contests to watch out for, Daleema Jojo’s successful electoral battle in Aroor is a great deal for the CPI (M). After a thumping victory in the 2016 Assembly polls, the CPI (M) had lost Aroor to Congress in the 2019 bypoll. Saji Cherian’s landslide victory in Chengannur along with a victory for LDF candidates M.S. Arun Kumar {CPI (M)} in Mavelikara and P. Prasad (CPI) in Cherthala and Thomas K.. Thomas (NCP) in Kuttanad will give the Left front a new vigour and enthusiasm in the district.  The victory has quashed all apprehensions and is seen as a successful generational shift||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-relieved-at-repeating-victory/article34468827.ece
03 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||LDF bags 4 out of five in Idukki||The voters in the district favoured the LDF (Left Democratic Front) giving a verdict in its favour in the four assembly constituencies while the UDF retained one seat as the results were announced on Sunday. The three sitting MLAs from the district won the elections with M. M. Mani of CPI (M) in the LDF bagging the highest margin. He defeated E M Augusty of Congress in Udumbanchola with a margin of 38,305 votes. P.J. Joseph of Kerala Congress (Joseph) retained the lone seat of Thodupuzha for the UDF. Sitting MLA, Roshy Augustine who switched over to the LDF also won the elections. In Devikulam, LDF candidate A Raja defeated UDF candidate D. Kumar with a margin of 7,848 votes. The constituency was won by S.Rajendran of CPI(M) in the last elections. In Peerumade assembly constituency High Range Estate Labour Union (AITUC) president and senior CPI leader Vazhoor Soman defeated UDF candidate Cyriac Thomas with a margin of 1,835 votes. E. S. Bijimol of CPI had won the last elections defeating Mr. Thomas. In Thodupuzha, P. J. Joseph defeated LDF candidate K. I. Antony with a margin of 20,259 votes. In the last assembly election Mr. Joseph had won with a record margin of 45,587 votes. His opponent represented the Kerala Congress (M) this time. In Idukki constituency, LDF candidate Roshy Augustine won with a margin of 5,573 votes. He defeated UDF candidate K. Francis George. In the last assembly election Roshy had defeated Francis George with a margin of 9,333 votes. The district is inhabited by mostly settled farmers while in Udumbanchola, Peerumade and Devikulam the majority of voters belong to the plantation sector. The three plantation constituencies supported the LDF in addition to the settled farmer constituency of Idukki in the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-bags-4-out-of-five-in-idukki/article34468816.ece
03 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Big win for M.M. Mani in Udumbanchola||LDF candidate and Electricity Minister M. M. Mani was re-elected from Udumbanchola constituency with a huge margin. He defeated E.M. Augusty of the Congress by a margin of 38,305 votes. In the last Assembly elections, he had defeated Senapathi Venu of Congress by a margin of 1,109 votes. His wide and personal contact with the electorate helped him in a constituency known for cardamom plantations. A large number of voters are estate workers where trade unions play a pivotal role. From 2001 onwards the CPI(M) had consecutively won the assembly elections. Mr Mani had campaigned on the development projects of the LDF government and the works done in the constituency. After winning the elections, Mr. Mani said that it was a verdict for the LDF. “Together we can move forward,” he said. He said that his rival had put up a good contest. He said the the LDF government had stood with the people during the crisis situations such as the 2018 floods and when Nipah and COVID virus spread. The verdict has increased responsibilities of the representatives. The next LDF government will fullfil all the promises given in the election manifesto, he said.  M.M.Mani’s wide and personal contact with the electorate helped him in a constituency known for cardamom plantations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/big-win-for-mm-mani-in-udumbanchola/article34468817.ece
03 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||UDF wins two seats in Wayanad; LDF retains one||After aggressively campaigning against the Pinarayi Vijayan government, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (LDF) put up a convincing performance by winning two of the three seats in Wayanad district in the Assembly elections. In the 2016 polls, the Left parties had won two seats and the UDF one, while the UDF had swept all the three seats in the 2011 Assembly polls. But this time, the UDF captured Kalpetta and Sulthan Bathery, leaving the Mananthavady segment to the LDF. T T. Siddique of the Congress won the Kalpetta seat by defeating M.V. Shreyamskumar of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) by a margin of 5,470 votes. Mr. Siddique secured 70,252 votes and Mr. Kumar got 64,782 votes. One of the prominent victories was that of sitting MLA, I.C. Balakrishnan, of Congress from Sulthan Bathery for the third consecutive time. Mr. Balakrishnan won by a margin of 11,822, votes against M.S. Viswnathan of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Mr. Balakrishnan had defeated Rugmini Subrahmanian of the CPI(M) with a margin of 11,198 in the 2016 Assembly polls. The NDA-supported tribal leader C.K. Janu got 27, 920 votes in the 2016 poll from the constituency but this time she got only 15,198 votes. The Mananthavady seat was retained by sitting MLA, O.R. Kelu of the CPI(M). Mr. Kelu won with a margin of 9,282 votes over his rival P.K. Jayalakshmi. Mr. Kelu had defeated Ms. Jayalakshmi with a margin of 7,959 votes in 2016. Shreyamskumar loses The Kalpetta constituency had favoured the UDF in the Assembly and Lok Sabha polls in the past few elections, except in the Assembly polls in 2016. Mr. Shreyamskumar of the Janata Dal (Secular) had been representing Kalpetta since 2006. However in 2016, Mr. Shreyamskumar, who was then part of the Janata Dal (United) and was with the UDF, was defeated by C.K. Saseendaran of the CPI(M) by a margin of 13,083 votes. This time, it was a do-or-die battle for the LDF as sitting MLA, C.K. Saseendran, had stayed away from the fray to make way for Mr. Shreyamskumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-wins-two-seats-in-wayanad-ldf-retains-one/article34468788.ece
03 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||LDF bags nine of 11 constituencies in Kannur||Kannur district turned red on Sunday as the Left Democratic Front swept the Assembly elections by winning nine of the 11 constituencies. The LDF managed a comfortable win in Payyanur, Kaliyassery, Taliparamba, Kannur, Azhikode, Mattanur, Dharmadam, Koothuparamba, and Thalassery constituencies. The United Democratic Front managed to retain its sitting seats in Irrikur and Peravoor while losing the Azhikode constituency to the LDF. The UDF has been consecutively winning the Azhikode constituency. However, it received a major blow in the constituency, where the sitting MLA and Indian Union of Muslim League leader, K.M. Shaji, lost the election to the LDF candidate, K.V. Sumesh, by a margin of 5,405 votes. After the delimitation, the constituency, which was an LDF bastion, was won by UDF in the last two Assembly elections. However, now the LDF wrested back the constituency by fielding Mr. Sumesh. As expected, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan won the election in Dharmadam constituency by a comfortable margin, defeating the UDF candidate C. Ragunathan. Mr. Vijayan, who received 95,522 votes defeated the UDF candidate with a huge margin of 50,123 votes. In Mattanur, Health Minister K.K. Shailaja defeated her close rival, Illikkal Agasthy of the UDF by a margin of 60,963 votes. It was no different in Koothaparamba, where LDF candidate K.P. Mohanan of Loktantrik Janatha Dal defeated the UDF candidate Pottankandi Abdulla by a margin of 9,541 votes. In Thalassery, A.N. Shamsheer continued his winning streak by defeating the UDF candidate, M.P. Arvindakshan, by a margin of 36,801 votes. While in the LDF stronghold of Kalliassery, 30-year-old LDF candidate M.Vijin, who was contesting for the first time, won the election by a whopping margin of 44,393 votes to defeat the UDF candidate Brijesh Kumar. In Payyanur, LDF candidate T.I. Madhusoodanan won the election by defeating his nearest rival of UDF M. Pradeep Kumar by a margin of 49,780. LDF candidate Kadannappally Ramachandran once again ensured his victory in Kannur constituency, where he defeated UDF candidate Satheeshan Pacheni by 1,745 votes. In Taliparamba constituency, senior CPI(M) leader and LDF candidate M.V. Govindan won the election. Despite a win in Taliparamba, which is a LDF stronghold, there was huge dip in the vote share and Mr. Govindan won the election by a margin of 22,689 votes. This is in contrast with the 2016 elections when the LDF candidate won the election by 40,617 votes. For the UDF, sitting MLA, Sunny Joseph, retained the seat in Peravoor by defeating the LDF candidate Zakhi Hussain by a margin of 3,352 votes. The Irrikkur seat was won by Sajeev Joseph, who defeated LDF candidate Saji Kuttiyanimattom by a margin of 10,010 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-bags-nine-of-11-constituencies-in-kannur/article34468786.ece
03 May 2021||KASARGOD,KERALA||LDF, UDF retain their seats in Kasaragod||Both the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Fronts retained their Assembly seats in Kasaragod on Sunday. While the LDF won the Kanhangad, Thrikkaripur, and Uduma constituencies, the UDF retained the Kasaragod and Manjeswaram seats. However, there were anxious moments for the LDF when Balakrishnan Periya, contesting for the UDF, was in the lead of more than 4,000 votes in the Uduma constituency from the beginning of the counting. It was expected that the UDF might pose a strong challenge to the LDF in the wake of the the Periya twin murder case and other factors. However, by the end of the 10th round of counting, the LDF shifted the gears and took the lead against the UDF and retained the seat. In another two LDF strongholds of Thrikkaripur and Kanhangad, the sitting MLAs M. Rajagopalan and Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan, who were leading from the beginning of the counting, won the election with comfortable margins. The BJP had a total wash-out in the district. It had high hopes of winning a seat, especially in Manjeshwaram, where party president K. Surendran contested again for the third time. However, he lost the election to the UDF candidate A.K.M. Ashraf, who defeated him by a margin of 745 votes. Mr. Surendran had lost the previous elections with a narrow margin of 89 votes in the 2016 election to the UDF candidate P.B. Abdul Razak. Meanwhile, in Kasaragod constituency, N.A. Nellikkunu continued his winning streak for the third consecutive time. He defeated the BJP district president K. Shreekanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-udf-retain-their-seats-in-kasaragod/article34468787.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF stems the ‘red’ tide in Ernakulam, wins nine seats||The 2021 Assembly polls will go down in the annals of the political history of Ernakulam district as the one that presented a consolation victory to the United Democratic Front (UDF), as it braved the red tide which swept the State. While almost all UDF citadels in the State fell, the front stood strong in Ernakulam. It retained its tally of nine out of 14 seats in the district. While the Congress wrested back Thripunithura from the CPI(M), it lost Kunnathunad and Kalamassery to the party, thus ending the supremacy it had maintained in the constituencies for long. In Thripunithura, the beleaguered K. Babu of the Congress staged a comeback in a thrilling competition which lasted till the final rounds of counting. Besides a stiff competition from his nearest rival M. Swaraj, the former Excise Minister had to overcome resistance from his own party workers to emerge victorious. P. Rajeev, the State secretariat member of the CPI(M), began a new innings in his political career by posting his first-ever win in an electoral battle. He trounced V.E. Abdul Gafoor of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), who too had faced an internal revolt, by an impressive margin of 15,336 votes in Kalamassery. The defeat of the League candidate will reignite the ember of organisational issues in the district unit of the party, as a section of local leaders had earlier made an open revolt against the candidature of Mr. Gafoor, son of former Minister V.K. Ibrahim Kunju, who was arrested in the Palarivattom flyover case. After two Assembly polls, Kunnathunad took a turn to the Left, as P.V. Sreenijin defeated two-time legislator and Congress leader V.P. Sajeendran. The contest had attracted wide attention, as Twenty 20, a non-political formation, too was in the fray in the constituency. The CPI suffered a setback in the district, as it lost Muvattupuzha to the Congress. Mathew Kuzhalnadan won the seat for the Congress, defeating Eldho Abraham of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) by a margin of over 6,000 votes. V.D. Satheesan (Paravur), T.J. Vinod (Ernakulam), and Eldhose Kunnappilly (Perumbavoor) continued their winning streak, much to the relief of the UDF. The reduced victory margin of K.N. Unnikrishnan of the LDF in Vypeen may force the CPI(M) to review the political situation, as he managed to win by only 8,201 votes in the constituency which gave S. Sarma, his predecessor, an impressive winning margin of 19,353 votes in the last elections. K.J. Maxy of the LDF will go to the State Assembly with his head held high, as he could increase his margin by nearly 12 times in Kochi constituency. Mr. Maxy defeated former Kochi Mayor and UDF candidate Tony Chammany by a margin of 14,079 votes, thus improving his performance in the process. In 2016, he had won by a wafer-thin margin of 1,086 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-stems-the-red-tide-in-ernakulam-wins-nine-seats/article34469249.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Warhorses forced to face new equations||The Biblical saying, “For, what profits a man if he gains the whole world but loses his own soul” was in the air on Sunday when Kerala Congress (M), an ally of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) did reasonably well in the elections, but its supremo Jose K. Mani received a trouncing at the hands of Mani C. Kappan, sitting MLA, in Pala. The defeat was made even more bitter by the fact that the Left front cruised to a second term and had Mr. Mani won, he would certainly have got a Cabinet berth. A shift in about 10,000 votes from the BJP’s kitty from 2016 was cited by him as the reason for his defeat. The party also failed to make the cut in Kaduthuruthy, its de facto capital. But Congress veteran Oommen Chandy was given a scare by young Left leader Jaick Thomas, who put up a good fight reducing the former’s margin by a third from 2016. Among the wins of the Left in Kottayam district, the one in Poonjar stood out. Strongman P.C. George, who’s held it as his fief, had openly challenged the Muslims of Erattupetta to vote against him. This seems to have resulted in a consolidation of Muslim votes in favour of LDF candidate Sebastian Kulathunkal. Only Ernakulam district in the central Kerala region bucked the Left wave that swept across the State. While the UDF was able to retain its 2016 tally of nine seats, it lost two much-talked about seats, Kalamassery where it had fielded ex-Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju’s son and Kunnathunad, where the Anna Kitex-backed Twenty20 played a key role in sealing the UDF’s fate. But it was able to wrest Muvattupuzha, a sitting CPI seat, and Tripunithura from the Left. The Pala phenomenon of ‘BJP underperforming to the benefit of the UDF’ was cited by CPI(M) cadres for the defeat of M. Swaraj by a slender margin of 992 votes. Comfy in Alappuzha Alappuzha, where the Left was believed to have made a mistake by not fielding its veteran leaders T.M. Thomas Isaac and G. Sudhakaran, however, gave a comfortable win to the Left front in all constituencies except Haripad, won by Congress’s Ramesh Chennithala. Singer and Left leader Daleema wrested the Aroor constituency from Shanimol Usman. Mani’s margin In Idukki district, the Left secured all except the Thodupuzha seat. Some channels had predicted a tough run for M.M. Mani. If his win in 2016 was by a slender margin, he won by over 38,000 votes this time around. The Left wave was stronger in Thrissur district where except for Chalakudy, the UDF failed to win any seat. But the Thrissur constituency saw a fight down to the wire in which CPI’s P. Balachandran scraped through.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/warhorses-forced-to-face-new-equations/article34468845.ece
03 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kalamassery shifts track, picks LDF||The CPI(M)’s P. Rajeev, a former Rajya Sabha member, wrested the Kalamassery Assembly constituency from the United Democratic Front (UDF) by a convincing margin of 15,336 votes. He bagged 77,141 votes to defeat V.E. Abdul Gafoor, son of incumbent MLA V.K. Ebrahim Kunju of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), which is part of the UDF. Mr. Gafoor bagged 61,805 votes and P.S. Jayaraj of the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena, part of the NDA, bagged 11,179 votes in the seven-cornered contest. The contest in Kalamassery constituency was keenly watched because Mr. Kunju had withdrawn from the election scene after being named in a major scandal involving the building of the Palarivattom flyover in Kochi. His son’s candidature was opposed by a section of the UDF supporters and IUML workers. That the constituency had returned Mr. Ebrahim Kunju to the Assembly on both occasions after its formation in 2011 adds glitter to Mr. Rajeev’s victory. Mr. Ebrahim Kunju had won the seat in the last election with a margin of over 12,000 votes. ‘Victory of democracy’ Mr. Rajeev said the people of Kerala had wanted a continuation of the LDF rule and he was grateful to the people for the faith they reposed in the government. He also said that the people had rejected the politics of corruption and that his was a victory of democracy. “People have defeated the culture of corruption through democratic means,” he told The Hindu . The outcome attracted much interest also because Kalamassery houses a host of industries. The voting percentage in 2016 was 81.29 while it came down to 75.81 in 2021, which had worried the incumbent political front. In 2016, a total of 1,54,882 votes were polled and Mr. Kunju bagged 44.37% of the votes. A.M. Yusuf of the CPI(M) bagged 37.55% and the BDJS’s V. Gopakumar, 15.65%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalamassery-shifts-track-picks-ldf/article34469370.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF wins in a nail-biting finish in Thripunithura||In a nail-biting contest that went right down to the wire, K. Babu of the United Democratic Front (UDF) defeated incumbent MLA and Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate M. Swaraj who put up a valiant fight by a whisker of 992 votes. While Mr. Babu secured 65,875 votes, Mr. Swaraj ended up with 64,883 votes. K.S. Radhakrishnan of the BJP performed way below par and managed to win only 23,756 votes. The contest promised to be a see-saw battle right from the outset and lived up to that billing. Though Mr. Babu led, albeit marginally, almost right through except at the end of round four of the 16 rounds when he conceded a lead of a mere nine votes. While he restored the lead in the following rounds, he never succeeded in securing a runaway lead, as Mr. Swaraj always kept him in sight and even managed to bring it down to as little as 203 at the end of the 14th round. However, Mr. Babu eventually managed to cross the line and wrest the seat back from Mr. Swaraj who had defeated him by 4,467 votes five years ago when he was under the cloud of the bar bribery scam. The UDF had fielded Mr. Babu, a five-time MLA whose maiden victory is dated back to 1991, as an afterthought only in the wake of protest by local Congress leaders. Though the party had fleetingly considered former Mayor Soumini Jain, he eventually managed to pull his weight and force himself into the contest. He had run a campaign banking on his perceived accessibility to Mr. Swaraj’s alleged aloofness. The latter was undaunted as he exuded confidence of winning people’s mandate by the sheer weight of the development work he claimed to have brought to the constituency. Eventually, that was not to be the case, and he lost out to a seasoned campaigner who has now made a resounding comeback after being relegated to the periphery and was largely ignored even by his own party during the last five years. Meanwhile, his status as an academician and the financial and organisational heft of the BJP did not help Mr. Radhakrishnan even match the party’s performance in the previous election, despite the organisation’s perceived clout in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-wins-in-a-nail-biting-finish-in-thripunithura/article34469247.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF walks away with Muvattupuzha||Mathew Kuzhalnadan of the UDF walked away with the Muvattupuzha seat, confronting the pro-incumbency wave, the vote share of sitting MLA, Eldho Abraham of the LDF, and a robust candidate fielded by Twenty20, who had the potential to woo the traditional vote base of both the UDF and LDF. Mr. Kuzhalnadan won by a margin of 6,161 votes, garnering a total of 64,425 votes. Mr. Abraham won 58,264 votes, while C.N. Prakash of Twenty20 came third with 13,535 votes. Both Mr. Kuzhalnadan and Mr. Prakash did an impressive ground-level campaign in their bid to wrest the seat from the LDF. The BJP’s Jiji Joseph, who came fourth, bagged 7,527 votes. In 2016, Mr. Abraham had won by a margin of 9,402 votes. Poll issues Among the poll issues were widespread unemployment, steep fall in prices of agricultural commodities and pineapple (which is cultivated aplenty in the region), gross under-utilisation of Muvattupuzha’s potential for food storage and processing, traffic hold-ups in the town, and the demand to carve out Muvattupuzha as a district, to get more State and Central funds. Muvattupuzha has swayed in favour of both the fronts since 1957 and this kept the contestants on tenterhooks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-walks-away-with-muvattupuzha/article34469240.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sreenijin wrests Kunnathunad in tight race||LDF candidate P.V. Sreenijin wrested Kunnathunad from the UDF, in what was a close contest complicated by the presence of Anna-Kitex-sponsored Twenty20. Mr. Sreenijin won by a margin of 2,715 votes, defeating his closest rival V.P. Sajeendran of the UDF, who had been elected from the constituency for two consecutive terms. While Mr. Sreenijin bagged 52,351 votes, Mr. Sajeendran secured 49,636 votes. Twenty20 candidate Sujith P. Surendran finished third with 42,701 votes, followed by the BJP’s Renu Suresh with 7,218 votes. It was a nail-biting finish, with the UDF taking the lead initially, while the LDF caught up quickly, albeit by a slender margin. Even in round eight of the 13 rounds of counting, Mr. Sajeendran was ahead, before the lead was snatched away by the LDF in the last few rounds. The constituency had seen a high voter turnout of 80.99%, the highest in the district. “It was a tough contest,” admitted Mr. Sreenijin, 45, who is the president of the District Sports Council. To land a victory for a third time, Mr. Sajeendran had been banking on 10 years of having represented the constituency. But a combination of support for Twenty20 in parts of the constituency, and most parts of the State riding an LDF wave might have contributed to an LDF victory, going by those who were part of the campaigns of the top three candidates. On his victory, Mr. Sreenijin leans towards the explanation of the LDF government’s work over the past five years. “It is a victory over the corporate system, and people have voted for a government that is pro-development,” he said, dismissing the impact that Twenty20 might have had. C.P. Joy, chairman of the UDF in Kunnathunad, maintains that the UDF’s loss in the constituency can be attributed to the impact of Twenty20. “In some booths, Twenty20 appears to have taken away UDF votes,” he said.  It is a victory over the corporate system, and people have voted for a government that is pro-development P.V. Sreenijin LDF candidate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sreenijin-wrests-kunnathunad-in-tight-race/article34469239.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vinod puts up impressive show||T. J. Vinod, District Congress Committee president and Ernakulam MLA, can heave a sigh of relief. While ensuring that the UDF performed well in the district, Mr. Vinod could also post an impressive win for himself in Ernakulam Assembly constituency, which he had been representing for the past one and a half years. Though Mr. Vinod, who came in as a replacement for Hibi Eden in 2019, could not match the winning margin of his predecessor, he successfully improved his own personal record. This time, Mr. Vinod posted a victory margin of 10,970 votes, which is more than double the number of votes he garnered during the 2019 by-election. The improved victory margin would come as handy for the legislator to silence his detractors within the party. The LDF-backed independent candidate, Shaji George. bagged 34,960 votes while the BJP candidate Padmaja S. Menon failed to impress the voters and ended up a poor third with the support of 16,043 votes. Leslie Pallath, who was fielded by Twenty20, won 10,634 votes. Ernakulam was one of the three districts in the State which stood up to the LDF wave that ensured a second term for the Pinarayi Vijayan government. Though Mr. Vinod gave up the post of the DCC president to placate a senior leader, who was denied a ticket to contest, he was instrumental in coordinating the election campaign for the UDF candidates in the district. It is to be seen whether he will hold on to the two posts in the post-poll scenario.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vinod-puts-up-impressive-show/article34469242.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maxy raises margin manyfold in Kochi||K.J. Maxy, LDF candidate in Kochi, registered one of the most impressive victories in Ernakulam district, romping home with a margin of 14,079 votes against his immediate UDF rival Tony Chammany. That he increased his margin by almost 14-fold from a slender margin of 1,086 votes against the UDF’s Dominic Presentation in 2016 puts his victory in perspective. He secured 54,632 votes against 40,553 votes won by Mr. Chammany. Mr. Maxy held on to his lead from the very outset and did not concede it at any point. Shiny Antony of Twenty20 emerged third with 19,676 votes, relegating C.G. Rajagopal of the BJP to a distant fourth position with 10,991 votes. The result has almost vindicated the prognosis that Twenty20 would eat into the vote base of the UDF. It was widely perceived that the votes garnered by the apolitical outfit, especially in the coastal panchayat of Chellanam where they performed admirably in the local body polls, would drain from the UDF. That Ms. Antony’s vote share exceeded the lead conceded by Mr. Chammany gives the impression that it could indeed be the case. Nipun Cherian, the top-most leader of V4 Kochi, another apolitical outfit that burst on to the scene during the last local body polls, fared badly and managed just 2,149 votes. Mr. Maxy’s victory five years ago was mostly attributed to the rebel menace in the UDF camp and Mr. Presentation’s candidature that evoked less than enthusiastic response among the UDF cadre. That Mr. Maxy managed just a slender lead despite these favourable factors led analysts to describe his victory as fortuitous. This time, however, Mr. Chammany’s candidature was universally accepted, and the UDF projected a united front. Despite that, Mr. Maxy notched up an impressive margin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maxy-raises-margin-manyfold-in-kochi/article34469245.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF retains Thrikkakara||The United Democratic Front (UDF) retained the Thrikkakara Assembly constituency with P.T. Thomas, incumbent MLA, winning with a margin of 14,329 votes after bagging a total of 59,839 votes. J. Jacob, the Left Democratic Front-backed Independent bagged 45,510 votes and T.S. Saji of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bagged 15,483 votes. Terry Thomas of Twenty20 bagged 13,897 votes and Riyaz Yusuf, an Independent, bagged 298 votes. A total of 1,36,846 votes were polled. The Thrikkakara constituency has returned Congress party candidates to the Assembly on both the earlier occasions after it came into existence in 2011. The constituency also includes some parts of the Kochi Corporation. Mr. Thomas said his victory was the result of a collective effort and support from UDF constituents. He expressed unhappiness over the failure of the UDF, but promised to continue to fight the wrong policies of the government as part of the Opposition in the Assembly. Mr. Thomas had won the election to the Assembly in 2016 with a vote share of more than 45%. He bagged more than 61,000 votes against his nearest rival, Sebastian Paul of the CPI(M), who got 49,455 votes. The BJP’s N. Saji had bagged 21,247 votes last time. The constituency went to polls for the first time in 2011 and the major contest was between Benny Behanan of the Congress and M.E. Hassainar of the CPI(M). Mr. Behanan won nearly 56% of votes (65,854 votes) to beat Mr. Hassainar, who bagged 43,448 votes. The constituency saw 69.20% polling in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-retains-thrikkakara/article34469251.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Drop in BJP vote share kicks up row||The drop in the BJP’s vote share in Thripunithura by over 6,000 votes from the previous polls has triggered a political controversy in the wake of the UDF’s victory by a thin margin. While the BJP’s Thuravur Vishwambaran garnered 29,843 votes in 2016, it dropped by 6,087 votes to 23,756 this time despite the party fielding a reputed academic like K.S. Radhakrishnan. Mr. Radhakrishnan had predicted 60,000 votes and victory, but ended up far from it. That the difference in the BJP’s vote share is nearly five times more than the slender lead of 992 votes by which the UDF’s K. Babu defeated the LDF’s M. Swaraj has triggered allegations of vote trading between the BJP and the UDF. Mr. Swaraj said the result had vindicated his observations before the election of “an unholy nexus between the BJP and the UDF”. “In our post-election analysis, we had anticipated a vote trade in excess of 5,000 votes but had hoped to overcome it. This trading of votes will be debated in the State politically, and people will realise the truth of the matter,” said Mr. Swaraj. Soon after his candidature was announced, Mr. Babu had openly declared that he would get BJP votes. That statement was used to target Mr. Babu by rival A.B. Sabu of the Congress ‘I’ faction, who said it would lead to polarisation of minority votes against the UDF in the election. On the eve of the election, posters in the name of Sabarimala Karma Samiti had appeared across the constituency that exhorted people not to vote for the BJP to defeat the LDF. The Samiti denied it and Mr. Swaraj alleged it to be the handiwork of Mr. Babu. BJP sources said it was premature to comment on the drop in vote share. However, other BJP and RSS sources said the drop in vote share could be an indication of vote trading. They accused the newly inducted workers of indulging in “Facebook politics” rather than working among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drop-in-bjp-vote-share-kicks-up-row/article34469243.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kunnappilly wins in Perumbavoor||Fears that the apolitical Twenty20 may foil the chances of the United Democratic Front (UDF) in Perumbavoor faded after Eldhose Kunnappilly of the Congress won the electoral battle by 2,899 votes. Mr. Kunnappilly will represent the constituency for the second consecutive time after he topped the list with 53,484 votes. In 2016, he had defeated Saju Paul of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) by a margin of 7,088 votes. However, Mr. Kunnappilly’s overall lead went down to 2,899 votes this time. Chitra Sukumaran, the Twenty20 candidate, seems to have taken a share of the traditional Congress votes after she won 20,536 votes to come third in the race. T.P. Sindhumol of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ended up fourth, with 15,135 votes. The Left’s decision to hand over the seat to its ally Kerala Congress (M) did not yield results as its candidate Babu Joseph emerged runner-up with 50,585 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kunnappilly-wins-in-perumbavoor/article34468833.ece
03 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Thayil Kandathil Mammen Varghese dead||Thayil Kandathil Mammen Varghese, chief editor of the Manorama Weekly and printer and publisher of Malayala Manorama , died in Kottayam. He was 91. He was the grandson of K.C. Mammen Mappilai, former chief editor of Malayala Manorama , and son of K.M. Varghese Mappilai and Thaandamma. He did automobile engineering before taking over the family estates in Malabar. Mammen Varghese was appointed manager in Malayala Manorama in 1955 and was elevated to the position of general manager in 1965. He took over as its chief editor in 1973. He received training in newspaper management, journalism, printing and business management overseas and became a member of the Kerala government’s language committee. Mammen Varghese served as president of the Indian and Eastern Newspaper Society and chairman of the Audit Bureau of Circulation. He also functioned as a member of the managing committee and working committee of the Orthodox Church. His wife Annamma predeceased him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thayil-kandathil-mammen-varghese-dead/article34468852.ece
03 May 2021||kochi,KERALA||Catholicos congratulates Pinarayi||Catholicos Baselios Thomas I, head of the Jacobite Syritan Orthodox Church in Kerala, has congratulated Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for the massive victory of the Left Democratic Front in the Assembly elections. In a statement, the Catholicos said the victory was the recognition of a government that stood by its people in the time of a major crisis. The LDF government had worked for the welfare of the people during these difficult times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/catholicos-congratulates-pinarayi/article34468860.ece
03 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KCBC lauds LDF on victory||The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) has congratulated the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and candidates who won the Assembly elections. In a statement here on Sunday, the KCBC said the democratic process brought out the will of the people through the elections. The party and the political front should, therefore, work for the people and according to people’s desire. It was for the first time in 40 years that there was a continuation in power of the same political front and it was the result of the firm leadership of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, it said. He worked strongly against communal polarisation and for the welfare of the people, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcbc-lauds-ldf-on-poll-victory/article34468861.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Marginal dip in COVID-19 cases in district||Ernakulam saw a dip in new cases on Sunday, when 3,502 people tested positive. Testing also fell on Sunday when 11,734 samples were collected, compared with the figures over the past four days when over 16,000 samples were sent for testing on each day (17,397 on Saturday and 16,662 on Friday). Consequently, the test positivity rate on Sunday remained high at 29.84%. The district’s active caseload is at 54,053. Thrikkakara recorded 145 new cases, Palluruthy 118, Thripunithura 97, Pallipuram 90, and Koothattukulam 76, Kadungalloor 72, Mulavukad 69, and North Paravur 64. A health worker and a police officer tested positive, and the source of infection could not be ascertained in 40 cases. As many as 2,279 people recovered on Sunday, and 202 people were discharged from hospitals and other centres. A total of 1,00,622 people remain in quarantine. While 47,114 people are recovering from the infection at home, 35 are at FLTCs, 437 are at SLTCs and 360 are at domiciliary care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marginal-dip-in-covid-19-cases-in-district/article34469238.ece
03 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||LDF bags 9 out of 11 seats in Kollam||Despite the strong pro-Left wave, LDF failed to repeat the clean sweep of 2016 in Kollam by losing two out of the total 11 seats to UDF. While J.Mercykutty Amma became the only member of the Pinaryi Vijayan Cabinet to lose the electoral battle after P.C.Vishnunath of the Congress defeated her by a margin of 4,454 in Kundara, C.R.Mahesh set a record by becoming the first Congress MLA from the district after 2006. In 2016 R.Ramachandran had defeated him by a mere margin of 1,759 votes and this time Mr.Mahesh bagged an impressive majority of 29,208 votes, the biggest in the district. Though CPI had retained Karungappally since 2006, Mr.Mahesh's victory was much anticipated due to his consistent presence and popularity in the constituency. The LDF had fielded sitting MLAs in seven constituencies and five of them except J.Mercykutty Amma and R.Ramachandran emerged victorious. The victory of M.Naushad, who won by 28,121 votes in Eravipuram by defeating former Minister and veteran RSP leader Babu Divakaran, was the first to be officially declared in the district. M.Mukesh won Kollam constituency by a margin of 2,072 votes in a close fight in which he defeated DCC president Bindu Krihsna. Though K.B.Ganesh Kumar couldn’t retain his last margin of 24,562, UDF candidate and KPCC general secretary Jyothikumar Chamakkala turned out to be no serious threat for him as he managed a margin of 14,336 votes While CPI’s G.S.Jayalal won the closely-watched Chathannur seat by a margin of 17,206 votes, Kovoor Kunjumon, who has been representing Kunnathur assembly segment for last two decades, retained the seat by defeating UDF candidate Ullas Kovoor with a majority of 2,790 votes. While CPI(M) State secretariat member and former Rajya Sabha MP, K.N.Balagopal who won the Kottarakara constituency by a margin of 10,814 votes is expected to gain a ministerial berth in next cabinet, Dr.Sujith Vijyayan defeating RSP stalwart Shibu Baby John in Chavara is a major gain for LDF. CPI’s P.S.Supal and J.Chinju Rani defeated IUML leader Abdurahiman Randathani and M.M.Nazeer of Congress respectively. Mr. Supal, who had replaced Forest Minister K.Raju in Punalur, has a margin of 37,057 votes. Majority The majority of Ms Chinju Rani, who had replaced Mullakkara Retnakaran in Chadayamangalam, is 13,678.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-bags-9-out-of-11-seats-in-kollam/article34468829.ece
03 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Blow to LDF in Kundara||Amidst jubilation over the splendid victory, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma's defeat has become a major blow to the Left Democratic Front (LDF). The only Minister to taste defeat, she was overthrown by UDF candidate P.C. Vishnunath of the Congress. One of the two women ministers in the last Cabinet, Ms. Mercykutty Amma was fighting for a second consecutive term from Kundara, her home turf in which she had defeated Rajmohan Unnithan of the Congress in 2016 by a margin of 30,460 votes. The senior CPI(M) leader had represented the segment a total of three times. While Mr. Vishnunath's entry into the fray was not considered a serious threat in the initial phase, the picture started changing towards the last lap of the campaign. Mr. Vishnunath, who was reported to be quite reluctant to contest in Kundara, also had to face some opposition within his party. His name was first considered for the Kollam constituency which finally went to DCC president Bindu Krishna and he was also one of the candidates who started campaigning a little late. His candidature had triggered a factional war within the Congress . While a faction in the Congress called him a 'migratory bird' who stood hardly any chance in Kundara, some others thought he was made a scapegoat by handing over a segment where winnability is very low. Fishing row As per reports, the deep-sea fishing controversy which rocked the State contributed to the electoral outcome in Kundara as the Minister could not gain any lead over her rival in any stage apart from the counting of postal ballots. It is said that the alleged contract with EMCC International Private Limited giving permission to a U.S.-based MNC to conduct trawling off Kerala coast posing a serious threat to the livelihood of traditional fishers could create a blot on her image. Though there are reports about the resentment among local cadres about her candidature, the party leadership believes that she is the victim of a treacherous conspiracy and vote trading.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blow-to-ldf-in-kundara/article34468857.ece
03 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kappan underscores his clout in Pala||In elections, once is a surprise; twice is a pattern. Two years ago, when Mani C. Kappan won Pala, a seat held by the late KC(M) leader K.M. Mani for 54 years since its formation in 1965, poll pundits treated it an ‘improbable win.’ But Mr. Kappan, who was earlier defeated by Mr. Mani thrice on the trot, was playing a longer game. Mr. Kappan, who had readily seized on a fracture within the KC(M) to win the seat, always kept his claim for a re-election from the seat alive through systematic work. When a reshuffle of the coalition equations, triggered by the KC(M)’s decision to ally with the LDF, cast a shadow over his claim, he responded by joining the rival camp and floating a new outfit – the Nationalist Congress Kerala. And now, the performance of Mr. Kappan over the last 16 months as a legislator, with immense support from the LDF government, has served the UDF’s purpose. The crucial factors To have a shot at winning, Mr. Kappan required more than the traditional Congress votes that went against him in 2019. In a region where the Catholic church and pro-farmer politics hold a considerable sway, he always needed to motivate the middle of the road voters, who may have voted for the LDF in the previous election. But everything went right for him ahead of the election. Even before Mr. Kappan made up his mind to exit the LDF, the UDF leadership offered a ticket for re-election. The entire coalition machinery lined up behind him and quietly ran a campaign focusing on development. He eschewed the spotlight, but the inherent anti-Left sentiment of the rubber heartland and the personal charisma were enough to help him notch up another victory. “It is a victory of people’s power over money power,” remarked Mr. Kappan, soon after the results came out. The LDF has been forced to concede that its victory last time was an aberration. The loss was especially brutal for the KC(M), as it has been unsuccessful in retaining Pala — a name synonymous with its founder leader K.M. Mani —for the second consecutive election. “The result clearly points to a trading of the BJP votes in favour of the UDF as the former’s vote share came down to 10,466 from 26,533 in the 2019 bypolls. Nonetheless, it is the people’s mandate and should be honoured,” said Mr. Mani.  A quiet campaign focussing on development helps him defeat KC(M)’s Jose K. Mani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kappan-underscores-his-clout-in-pala/article34468846.ece
03 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mixed results for Kerala Congress parties||For the Left Democratic Front, the defeat of the Kerala Congress (M) chairman Jose K. Mani is easily the most embarrassing moment in this Assembly elections. The scion of the late KC(M) leader K.M. Mani, he had nursed Pala with fervour, but was engulfed by its anti-Left character. Even the CPI(M)'s bid to save its confidant in the prestige battle against arch rival Mani C. Kappan failed to check the defeat. But even as the captain lost his game, his team has almost won the battle as the regional party won five out of the 12 seats allotted to it. But the predicament that it has caught in also gave rise to confusion within the ranks on whether to celebrate the victory or to grieve the loss of Pala. The defeat has now put Mr. Mani in a strange situation of leading his party without any parliamentary positions at a time when the political front his party belongs to comes to power. Test of character Considering that it is a situation that none of the Kerala Congress leaders had to confront in its more than five decades, the task comes as a real test of character to Mr. Mani as he will have to control the party legislators, especially those holding the ministerial berth. “It is a delicate situation as the possibility of more power centres emerging within the party is much higher. This is a challenge that his father K.M. Mani, who led the party for five long decades, never had to encounter,” said a senior Kerala Congress leader. The LDF, at the same time, appears content with the new-found association as the experiment has helped it improve the seat tally in Kottayam from two to five. The victory, meanwhile, also presents an opportunity for Mr. Mani to act as a bridge between the LDF and the Christian community and always maintain an upper hand in central Travancore. The performance of Kerala Congress led by P.J. Joseph, at the same time, too has been below par. Of the 10 seats allotted to it by the United Democratic Front (UDF), the party won just two seats in the form of Kaduthurthy and Thodupuzha. While it conceded the sitting seat of Changanassery to KC(M), the party's hope of wresting the Idukki seat from Roshy Augustine too went awry. “The Joseph group too will have to face some tough questions on the special position accorded to it in the agrarian core of Idukki and Kottayam, besides dealing with the dissident voices within over the party revamp,” the leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mixed-results-for-kerala-congress-parties/article34468853.ece
03 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||LDF makes durable gains in UDF bastion of Kottayam||A shock defeat in Pala notwithstanding, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has shown that the gains that it made in Kottayam- a United Democratic Front bastion for long, are far more durable than just a local body election. The CPI(M)-led coalition, emboldened by recent inclusion of the Kerala Congress (M) in its fold, on Sunday won five out of the nine assembly segments in the district. The coalition had won just two seats – Vaikom and Ettumanur, in Kottayam during the Assembly elections five years ago though it went on to win Pala later during the 2019 byelection. While C.K.Asha, a candidate fielded by the Communist Party of India (CPI), trounced P.R.Sona of the UDF by a margin of 29,122 votes to retain the Vaikom seat, CPI(M) district secretary V.N.Vasavan defeated Prince Lukose of the Kerala Congress by a thumping majority of 14,040 votes. Kerala Congress leader Mons Joseph, who bagged 33,359 votes, edged out Stephen George of KC(M) by a margin of 4,256 votes. Senior Congress leaders Oommen Chandy and Thiruvanchur Radhakrishnan retained their seats of Puthuppally and Kottayam, though at a reduced margin. In Puthuppally, CPI(M) leader Jaick C. Thomas could put up a stiff fight and bring down the victory margin of the former Chief Minister to 9,044 votes. Mr.Radhakrishnan, who bagged 61,648 votes against 43,846 votes by K.Anil Kumar, too witnessed a fall in his margin of votes to 18,743 from 33,632 in 2016. In Changanassery, KC(M) leader Job Michael defeated V.J. Laly of the UDF by 6,059 votes to wrest the seat from the UDF. Despite a switching of sides to the LDF, N.Jayaraj of the KC(M) retained the Kanjirappally seat by a convincing margin of 13,703 votes. In Poonjar, which witnessed its most tumultuous election ever following an open conflict between the sitting legislator and Kerala Janapaksham stalwart P.C. George and Muslim voters, former District panchayat president and KC(M) leader Sebastain Kulanthungal sailed through by a margin of 16,817 votes. Mr.Kulathungal bagged 41.94 percent of the total 1,28,624 votes polled to defeat Mr.George, who received just 29.92 percent votes. The most significant among these was the outcome in Pala, where Mani C. Kappan handed a humiliating defeat to the KC(M) chairman Jose K. Mani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-makes-durable-gains-in-udf-bastion-of-kottayam/article34468823.ece
03 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Near-sweep for LDF in Kozhikode||Riding on pro-incumbency, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has emerged victorious in 11 out of the 13 Assembly constituencies in Kozhikode district. The CPI(M)-led coalition not only retained many of its sitting seats but the front also wrested Kuttiyadi and Kozhikode South segments. However, it lost Vadakara and Koduvally to Congress-backed Revolutionary Marxist Party of India’s K.K. Rema and IUML’s M.K. Muneer respectively. Ms. Rema, widow of slain RMP leader T.P. Chandrasekharan, won by a margin of 7,491 votes against her nearest rival Manayath Chandran of the Loktantrik Janata Dal. Dr. Muneer defeated incumbent LDF-backed Independent legislator Karat Razak by a margin of 6,344 votes. In a keenly-watched contest, CPI(M) leader K.P. Kunhammed Kutty recaptured the Kuttiyadi seat, defeating sitting IUML legislator Parakkal Abdulla by a slender margin of 333 votes. Minister for Excise T.P. Ramakrishnan [(CPI(M)] and Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran (NCP) retained Perambra and Elathur seats respectively. Mr. Ramakrishnan won by a margin of 22,592 votes while Mr. Saseendran won by 38,503 votes. The urban segment of Kozhikode North, which witnessed a three-pronged contest, was won by two-time Mayor Thottathil Raveendran of the CPI(M) by a margin of 12,928 votes. He secured 59,124 votes while his nearest rival of the Congress K.M. Abhijith bagged 46,196 votes. BJP State general secretary M.T. Ramesh received 30,952 votes in this constituency. In Kozhikode South segment, Indian National League candidate Ahamed Devarkovil captured the sitting seat from IUML which Dr. Muneer had won consecutively in 2011 and 2016 polls. He trounced Noorbina Rasheed, the party’s first woman candidate in 25 years. In another keen contest, P.A. Mohammed Riyas vanquished his nearest rival P.M. Niyas of the Congress by a margin of 28,747 votes. BJP State secretary K.P. Prakash Babu secured only 26, 267 votes in this segment. LDF-backed Independent candidate P.T.A. Rahim retained the Kunnamangalam segment by a margin of 10,276 votes. Here, UDF-backed Independent candidate Dinesh Perumanna garnered 74,862 votes while BJP district president V.K. Sajeevan got 27,672 votes. In Thiruvambady, CPI(M)’s Linto Joseph emerged victorious overcoming IUML’s C.P. Cheriya Mohammed by a margin of 4,643 votes. CPI leader E.K. Vijayan retained the Nadapuram seat also in a tight contest. He defeated K. Praveen Kumar of the Congress. Likewise, Kozhikode District Panchayat president Kanathil Jameela of the CPI(M) won the Koyilandy segment. She defeated KPCC general secretary N. Subramanian by a margin of 8,472 votes. In the reserved constituency of Balussery, SFI leader K.M. Sachin Dev romped home by a margin of 20,372 votes Actor Dharmajan Bolgatty, who entered the fray on the Congress ticket, failed to churn the electorate in his favour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/near-sweep-for-ldf-in-kozhikode/article34468791.ece
03 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A repeat of the familiar pattern for LDF||The Assembly elections in north Kerala usually witness a repeat of a familiar pattern with the dominance of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) whichever coalition comes to power in the State. This time the pro-incumbency wave seems to have helped the LDF win almost the same number of seats it bagged in the 2016 polls. By sweeping the elections, the LDF gained from the positive attitude of the voters towards the Pinarayi Vijayan government. Lose some, gain some Out of the 60 seats in Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Palakkad districts, the LDF emerged victorious in 36 segments. The front has lost a few seats but it also captured others. The LDF not only retained the three seats in Kasaragod but gained an additional seat, Azhikode in Kannur district. The huge victory margins of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Dharmadam and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja in Mattannur is an endorsement and acceptance from the electorate. But the vote-share of LDF candidates in many segments dwindled in its traditional belts. However in Wayanad, the LDF lost its sitting Kalpetta seat, which was offered to the Loktantrik Janata Dal this time. Here party State president M.V. Shreyams Kumar was humbled by KPCC vice president T. Siddique. But the front retained the Mananthavady seat in the hill region. Similarly in Kozhikode, the front lost the Vadakara seat to Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) nominee K.K. Rema, who was backed by the UDF. Here also the LJD contested under the seat-sharing pact of the LDF. While the CPI(M) captured the Kuttiyadi seat from Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in a keen contest, the Left-backed Independent legislator Karat Razak lost to IUML’s M.K. Muneer, who was shifted to the Koduvally seat. At the same time, the IUML lost its sitting seat in Kozhikode South where the party has fielded a woman candidate – Noorbina Rasheed – after a gap of 25 years. Despite fielding a number of Independent Muslim candidates, the LDF failed to breach the bastions of the IUML in Malappuram district. Former Minister K.T. Jaleel, who resigned a week ago in the wake of the Lok Ayukta finding him guilty of abuse of power and favouritism, just managed to scrape through in Thavanur. Palakkad’s photo-finish Palakkad which saw some exciting photo-finish moments in some constituencies also gave an upper hand to the LDF. However, the victory of CPI(M) leader M.B. Rajesh over Congress legislator V.T. Balaram would be remembered by the party for a long time to come in electoral politics. The BJP saw its major defeats in Manjeswaram and Palakkad after its State president K. Surendran and technocrat E. Sreedharan lost the race.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-repeat-of-the-familiar-pattern-for-ldf/article34468836.ece
03 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||LDF captures Kuttiyadi; thin victory margin shocks UDF||Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate K.P. Kunhammad Kutty has captured the Kuttiyadi Assembly constituency with a thin victory margin of 333 votes from sitting MLA and United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate Parakkal Abdulla. Mr. Kutty won 80,143 votes after a close fight with the sitting MLA. Mr. Abdulla secured 79,810 votes. It was one of the key constituencies in the State where the LDF took into account the sentiments of ground-level party workers for shortlisting candidates. The sacrifice made by the Kerala Congress (M) by giving up its allotted seat for the Communist Party of India (Marxist) nominee was also found contributing to the Left front’s victory. LDF campaigners were very confident to stage a comeback in the constituency with the candidature of Mr. Kutty , a seasoned politician who had earlier proved his mettle as an approachable leader and Kozhikode District Panchayat president. According to LDF campaigners, their last term defeat was just a slip between the cup and the lip. In the last election, Kuttiyadi, the erstwhile Meppayur constituency, was a shocker for the LDF as it failed to overcome the UDF’s challenge. With a thin victory margin of 1,157 votes, Mr. Abdulla trounced LDF opponent K.K. Lathika then. It was the end of a 25-year-long LDF dominance within the constituency. However, the Left front’s victory this time has given a shocker to the UDF, which hoped to retain the seat at least by a small margin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-captures-kuttiyadi-thin-victory-margin-shocks-udf/article34468784.ece
03 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ramakrishnan romps home with thumping majority||Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate and Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan trounced his United Democratic Front (UDF) opponent and NRI businessman C.H. Ebrahim Kutty in Perambra Assembly constituency with a thumping majority of 22,592 votes on Sunday. While Mr. Ramakrishnan secured 86,023 votes out of the 1,63,663 votes polled, Mr. Ebrahim finished second with 63,431 votes. In the third position, it was K.V. Sudheer of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who secured 11,165 votes. For the LDF, Perambra was one of their sure seats considering the previous victories and the front’s unbeatable hold in all the 10 grama panchayats under the constituency.  The erstwhile Payyarmalanadu having 10 panchayats namely Arikkulam, Chakkittappara, Changaroth, Cheruvannur, Keezhariyur, Koothali, Meppayur, Nochad, Perambra and Thurayur stood by Mr. Ramakrishnan to give him a second innings. Meanwhile, IUML sources said it was some of the internal issues in the party which spoiled their hopes in the electoral battle. Though there were other local candidates to take on Mr. Ramakrishnan, the party denied them ticket, they claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ramakrishnan-romps-home-with-thumping-majority/article34468783.ece
03 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hat-trick victory for Vijayan||E.K. Vijayan, incumbent Communist Party of India (CPI) MLA from Nadapuram Assembly seat in Kozhikode district, continued his winning streak, though with a reduced margin of votes, when the final results were announced on Sunday evening. Of the total 1,75,671 votes polled, Mr. Vijayan, the Left Democratic Front candidate, got 80,287 votes while his United Democratic Front rival and Congress leader K. Praveen Kumar bagged 76,902 votes, thus getting a majority of 3,385 votes. M.P. Rajan of the National Democratic Alliance won 10,290 votes. In the 2016 polls, Mr. Vijayan’s margin of victory against Mr. Kumar was 4,749 votes. Since 1970, only CPI candidates have won from here and this is the third time Mr. Vijayan, a former district secretary of the party, is getting elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hat-trick-victory-for-vijayan/article34468789.ece
03 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||A mixed bag for tinsel town||If Kerala’s new Assembly wants to conduct a cultural programme, it may not have to look outside for artistes. Among its members are two seasoned actors and a playback singer. While this is the first term as an MLA for Daleema, who shot to fame for having a voice resembling that of the legendary S. Janaki, Mukesh and K.B. Ganesh Kumar have been elected before. Of course, Ganesh’s electoral victories owe more to his political lineage. When Mukesh won from Kollam five years ago on a Communist Party of India (Marxist) ticket, he had become the first film star to win an Assembly election in Kerala without a political background to boast of. Unlike other southern States such as Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, film stars here had been showing little interest in electoral politics. The trend changes But, these elections saw a change in the trend. A significant number of stars – big as well as not so big – were fielded by all the three fronts. The biggest of them was Suresh Gopi, who contested from Thrissur. Though the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajya Sabha MP managed to take the lead during the early stage of counting, he had to settle for the third place in a tight contest, behind winner P. Balachandran of the Communist Party of India and Padmaja Venugopal of Congress. At Balussery, Dharmajan Bolgatty came second, but a rather distant one at that. The popular comedian lost to K.M. Sachin Dev of the CPI(M). In Kollam, Mukesh faced a tougher challenge this time around, but defeated Congress’s Bindu Krishna. Elsewhere in the district, Ganesh Kumar scored a much more convincing win, against Jyothikumar Chamakkala; it is his fifth straight victory from Pathanapuram. In Thiruvananthapuram, Krishnakumar, could not spring a surprise. The BJP candidate and television-anchor-turned actor could only finish third, behind winner Antony Raju of the Janadhipathya Kerala Congress and V.S. Sivakumar of the Congress. Priyanka Anoop, a familiar voice through her comic roles, and television serial actor Vivek Gopan contested from Aroor and Chavara respectively. While Vivek, a BJP candidate, came third behind winner Sujith Vijayan Pillai of the LDF and Shibu Baby John of the Revolutionary Socialist Party, Priyanka, who represented Democratic Social Justice Party, failed to make any impact at Aroor, where Daleema, on a CPI(M) ticket, defeated Congress veteran Shanimol Usman. “I am glad that Daleema has won,” Mukesh told The Hindu shortly after he himself was declared the winner. “It is good to see more artistes contesting and winning elections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-mixed-bag-for-tinsel-town/article34468840.ece
04 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rema scripts historic victory in Vadakara||Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) leader K.K. Rema’s victory from the Vadakara Assembly segment against her Left Democratic Front (LDF) rival and Loktantrik Janata Dal leader Manayath Chandran by a margin of 7,491 votes is historic on many counts. First, the constituency in Kozhikode district bucked the general trend in the State in favour of the LDF by electing a United Democratic Front (UDF)-backed candidate. Second, this is only the second time a non-socialist nominee is being chosen by the electorate here except in 1957, when the undivided Communist Party of India’s M.K. Kelu won from here. Third, this is the first time a woman is getting elected as MLA from the segment. And this is also the second electoral victory for any UDF-backed candidate from Vadakara. Of the total 1,36,673 votes polled, Ms. Rema bagged 65,093 against Mr. Chandran who got 57,602. M. Rajesh Kumar of the National Democratic Alliance won 10,225 votes. The constituency is spread over Azhiyur, Eramala, Chorod, and Onchiyam grama panchayats and the Vadakara Muncipality and Ms. Rema had maintained her lead throughout the counting process. It was a kind of déjà vu for Mr. Chandran, who had lost the 2016 polls to Janata Dal (Secular) leader C.K. Nanu of the LDF. Mr. Chandran’s party, the Janata Dal (United), was part of the UDF then. Ms. Rema had contested as an Independent, bagging 20,504 votes. Mr. Nanu had polled 49,211 votes and Mr. Chandran 39,700 votes. Mr. Rajesh Kumar had got 13,937 votes. It is significant that Mr. Kumar failed to retain the number of votes that he bagged last time in this election. Morale booster The victory will be a morale booster for the RMPI who is now an unofficial ally of the UDF in most local bodies in the constituency. The RMPI had made political violence a major campaign theme in the election, accusing the CPI(M) of conspiring to murder its founder T.P. Chandrasekharan in 2012, after he had broken away from that party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rema-scripts-historic-victory-in-vadakara/article34468837.ece
03 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||TPR declines marginally in Kozhikode||As many as 4,238 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Sunday. According to the District Medical Officer, the daily test positivity rate (TPR) was 28.76% when lab results of 15,207 samples were made available. On Saturday, the daily TPR was 30.98%. There were 4,137 cases of local transmission of the infection, while the source of infection of 87 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 939 locally acquired infections, Vadakara 132, Unnikulam 130, Chemanchery 118, Thiruvallur 105, and Atholi 104.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-declines-marginally-in-kozhikode/article34468782.ece
03 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Balussery sends Dev to Assembly||K.M. Sachin Dev of the Left Democratic Front, one of the youngest candidates in the fray, has retained Balussery, with a whopping margin of 20,372 votes. The State secretary of the Students’ Federation of India scored 91,839 votes of the total 1,82,253 polled in the constituency while his nearest opponent Dharmajan Bolgatty of the Indian National Congress scored 71,467 votes. Libin Bhaskar, the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate, scored 16,490 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/balussery-sends-dev-to-assembly/article34468781.ece
03 May 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Both fronts safeguard seats in Malappuram||The United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) retained their positions in Malappuram district by putting up fierce fights, especially in Thavanur, Perinthalmanna, Nilambur, and Tanur constituencies. The UDF went to the polls with 12 out of the 16 seats in its position, and it came out unbruised by safeguarding all the 12. The UDF made valiant attempts to wrest Nilambur, Tanur and Thavanur from the LDF, but failed. Nilambur had got much attention when UDF candidate V.V. Prakash died of a heart attack on Thursday last. His death just three days before the counting of votes had saddened the UDF camp across the State. Although Prakash had put up a brave fight in Nilambur, he fell short of 2,700 votes in wresting the constituency from LDF incumbent P.V. Anvar. With Mr. Anvar’s victory, a potential by-election was avoided in Nilambur. In Thavanur, where former Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel had attracted much attention, the excitement continued till the last moments of counting. Mr. Jaleel defeated UDF’s Firos Kunnamparambil by 2,564 votes. In Tanur, where the Muslim Youth League (MYL)’s State general secretary P.K. Firos took on LDF’s incumbent V. Abdurahiman, the LDF retained its position by a narrow margin of 985 votes. Although Mr. Firos gained lead in the early rounds, he conceded defeat when the counting entered the final stage. Perinthalmanna witnessed one of the closest fights in the State. IUML’s Najeeb Kanthapuram emerged victorious by 38 votes over LDF Independent K.P.M. Musthafa. Confusion and excitement continued throughout the counting as neither of the candidate establish a clear lead in Perinthalmanna. The LDF had a comfortable margin only in Ponnani. LDF’s P. Nandakumar defeated UDF candidate A.M. Rohit by 17,043 votes in Ponnani. The UDF had easy triumphs in Eranad, Kondotty, Wandoor, Manjeri, Malappuram, Vengara, Vallikkunnu, and Kottakkal. In Vengara, IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty defeated LDF’s P. Jiji by 30,522 votes. In Malappuram, IUML’s P. Ubaidullah defeated LDF’s Paloli Abdurahiman by 35,208 votes. In Kottakkal, IUML’s Abid Hussain Thangal defeated LDF’s N.A. Mohammed Kutty by 16,588 votes. In Eranad, IUML’s P.K. Basheer defeated LDF’s K.T. Abdurahman by 22,546 votes. In Kondotty, IUML’s V.T. Ibrahim defeated LDF’s Sulaiman Haji by 17,713 votes. In Wandoor, Congress’s A.P. Anil Kumar defeated LDF’s P. Midhuna by 15,563 votes. In Manjeri, IUML’s U.A. Latheef defeated LDF’s Nasar Debona by 14,573 votes. In Mankada, IUML’s Manjalamkuzhi Ali defeated LDF’s T.K. Rasheedali by 6,246 votes. In Tirurangadi, IUML State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed defeated LDF’s Niyas Pulikkalakath by 9,578 votes. In Vallikkunnu, IUML’s P. Abdul Hameed defeated LDF’s A.P. Abdul Wahab by 14,116 votes. In Tirur, IUML’s Kurukkoli Moideen defeated LDF’s Gafoor P. Lillis by 7,212 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/both-fronts-safeguard-seats-in-malappuram/article34468792.ece
03 May 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Jaleel wins a cliffhanger in Thavanur||In a keenly fought contest, LDF incumbent and former Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel defeated Firos Kunnamparambil of the Congress in the Thavanur constituency. Dr. Jaleel had trailed Mr. Kunnamparambil until the last few rounds of counting, giving jitters to the LDF camps in the district. Dr. Jaleel has been widely considered a trump card of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Malappuram district. There was excitement throughout the counting as Mr. Kunnamparambil’s thin lead wobbled. The last few rounds of counting favoured Dr. Jaleel giving him a victory margin of 3,066 votes. Dr. Jaleel polled 68,935 votes when Mr. Kunnamparambil’s 66,750 votes on electronic voting machines. The Election Commission has not included the postal ballots in them. Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) candidate Ramesh Kottayapurath secured 9,756 votes, and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) candidate Hassan Chiyanoor polled 1,738 votes. In the 2016 Assembly election, Dr. Jaleel had defeated UDF’s Ifthiqaruddin by 17,064 votes in Thavanur. In 2011, Dr. Jaleel had defeated UDF’s V.V. Prakash by 6,854 votes in Thavanur, a constituency made up of Purathur, Thriprangode, Mangalam, Edappal, Vattamkulam, Kalady, and Thavanur grama panchayats. From 2006 Dr. Jaleel had begun his victory streak in 2006 by defeating Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) heavyweight P.K. Kunhalikutty in Kuttippuram by 8,781votes. That was the last election held in Kuttippuram constituency, which ceased to exist in the 2008 delimitation. Dr. Jaleel said that it was a triumph of people’s resolve against the UDF’s unholy nexus with communal forces. “This is the verdict of the people. The people have stood with the LDF. They have given their go-ahead for the policies of the LDF,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jaleel-wins-a-cliffhanger-in-thavanur/article34468849.ece
03 May 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||LDF improves tally in Palakkad||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) improved its strength by winning 10 out of the 12 constituencies in Palakkad district. It had nine seats in the district in the 2016 election. Among the LDF winners was Minister for Water Resources K. Krishnankutty. The United Democratic Front (UDF) did a face-saving act by defeating the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate E. Sreedharan through a nail-biter in Palakkad constituency. UDF candidate Shafi Parambil’s last-minute victory over the much-hyped Metroman enlivened the UDF camps in Palakkad. The UDF lost Thrithala to the LDF when M.B. Rajesh defeated V.T. Balram in a neck-and-neck battle. Rajesh won by 3,173 votes. LDF’s A. Prabhakaran defeated BJP candidate C. Krishnakumar by 25,735 votes in Malampuzha. In the 2016 election, former Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan had won Malampuzha seat by 27,142 votes. LDF’s K. Krishnankutty (Minister for Water Resources) retained Chittur by defeating UDF’s Sumesh Achuthan by 33,878 votes. 2016 count In 2016, Mr. Krishnankutty had won from Chittur by 7,285 votes. When the LDF retained Pattambi, Shoranur, Ottapalam, Kongad, Tarur, Nemmara and Alathur, the UDF retained Mannarkkad. In Mannarkkad, UDF incumbent N. Shamsuddin defeated LDF’s K.P. Suresh Raj by 5,870 votes. Mr. Shamsuddin’s margin of victory in 2016 was 12,325. In Pattambi, LDF incumbent Mohammed Muhsin defeated UDF’s Riyas Mukkoli by 17,974 votes. In Kongad, LDF’s K. Santhakumari defeated UDF’s U.C. Raman by 27,219 votes. In Shoranur, LDF’s P. Mammikutty defeated UDF’s T.H. Firos Babu by 36,674 votes. In Ottapalam, LDF’s K. Premkumar defeated UDF’s P. Sarin by 15,152 votes. In Tarur, LDF’s P.P. Sumod defeated UDF’s K.A. Sheeba by 24,531 votes. In Nemmara, LDF incumbent K. Babu defeated UDF’s C.N. Vijayakrishnan by 28,704 votes. Mr. Babu had won the Nenmara seat in 2016 by 7,408 votes. In Alathur, LDF incumbent K.D. Prasenan defeated UDF’s Palayam Pradeep by 34,118 votes. Mr. Prasenan’s margin of victory in 2016 was 36,060.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-improves-tally-in-palakkad/article34469347.ece
03 May 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Rajesh wrests Thrithala from Balram||In one of the fiercest electoral fights between two young candidates, LDF’s M.B. Rajesh defeated UDF incumbent V.T. Balram in Thrithala. Mr. Rajesh stalled the attempt of Mr. Balram for a third term from Thrithala when he beat him by 3,173 votes. Mr. Balram conceded defeat through a social media posts even before the counting was over. Mr. Balram, seeking a third term from Thrithala, faced a tough challenge in Thrithala as the CPI(M) fielded Mr. Rajesh against him. Mr. Balram had taken early leads as the counting progressed slowly. However, the tides turned against him when the counting entered the final rounds. Thrithala had captured wide attention when the CPI(M) fielded its former Lok Sabha member M.B. Rajesh against Mr. Balram. He was more than an adversary for the CPI(M) in Thrithala. He has been treated as an enemy since he started attacking the CPI(M), its ideology and its leaders a few years ago. The face-off between the CPI(M) and Mr. Balram had led to many showdowns, both on social media and in physical mode. The CPI(M) has been boycotting Mr. Balram in Thrithala for the last several years. Mr. Balram had reportedly become used to insults from the CPI(M). On many occasions, the CPI(M) local leaders had insulted him by walking away from stages of even official programmes whenever he mounted the podium. For about two decades until 2011, the CPI(M) had represented Thrithala in the Assembly. It was Mr. Balram who checked the CPI(M) juggernaut in Thrithala. In 2011, he beat CPI(M)’s P. Mammikutty by 3,197 votes. In 2016, he defeated the CPI(M)’s Subaida Ishac by 10,547 votes. Mr. Rajesh is being elected for the first time to the Assembly. A State committee member of the CPI(M), Mr. Rajesh is a postgraduate in economics and also has a law degree. He was SFI State secretary, DYFI State and national president.  Though BAlaram was leading initially, the tides turned against him when the counting entered the final rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rajesh-wrests-thrithala-from-balram/article34469348.ece
03 May 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||Shafi’s hat-trick dashes BJP’s hopes in Palakkad||The United Democratic Front (UDF)’s incumbent MLA Shafi Parambil dashed the hopes of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to wrest Palakkad through technocrat E. Sreedharan. Mr. Sreedharan had gained a clear lead over Mr. Parambil and the LDF’s C.P. Pramod in the initial hours of counting. His lead even went up to 8,000 votes at one time. While Mr. Sreedharan got his lead mainly from the Palakkad municipality, where the BJP is in power, Mr. Parambil began to make gains when the counting moved to the neighbouring panchayats. How they voted The Palakkad constituency is made up of Palakkad municipality and Kannadi, Pirayiri and Mathur grama panchayats. While the town supported Mr. Sreedharan, the grama panchayats stood by Mr. Parambil. When counting reached the last rounds, Mr. Sreedharan’s lead began to plummet and Mr. Parambil soon gained an edge. Mr. Parambil, who was seeking a re-election from Palakkad for a third term, defeated Mr. Sreedharan by 3,840 votes. Mr. Sreedharan had expressed confidence of a victory soon after the election and said that he had got help from some Congress quarters. He even announced the opening of an office in Palakkad to carry out development activities he promised to the people. Mr. Sreedharan had assured the people of Palakkad that he would convert the town into the best in the country in five years. Last two polls Mr. Parambil was elected from Palakkad with a comfortable margin in the last two elections. In 2016, he had defeated BJP’s Sobha Surendran by 17,483 votes, and in 2011, he triumphed over CPI(M)’s K.K. Divakaran by 7,403 votes. Mr. Parambil said his victory was that of secularism. Thanking the people of Palakkad, he said that the voters reposed faith in him even at a time when the UDF faced bad prospects in the State. “It’s not my victory. They chose me,” said Mr. Parambil.  While Palakkad municipalitt supported Sreedharan, the grama panchayats stood by Shafi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shafis-hat-trick-dashes-bjps-hopes/article34468850.ece
03 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Frustrating defeat for BJP State president in Konni once again||Led by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several top leaders campaigned for the Bharatiya Janata Party in Konni that witnessed major shakeup in electoral dynamics post the Sabarimala protests of 2018. That, however, was not enough for the BJP State president K.Surendran to break the jinx of a consecutive electoral defeat here. As the results of the assembly election was announced, Mr. Surendran was once again relegated to the third position even as the sitting legislator and CPI(M) leader K.U.Janeesh Kumar consolidated his position by margin of victory to 8,058 votes. The presence of Mr. Surendran, who was handpicked by the BJP national leadership, in the fray and the high- flying election campaign that it had unleashed here, catapulted the assembly election in Konni to the status of a keenly watched contest. Expectations were high from Mr.Surendran, who had bagged 46,506 votes in the Parliament elections of 2019 and also emerged as a strong contender in the bypolls that followed . The BJP leader, however, appears to have done in by the pressure of contesting in two seats simultaneously and failed to consolidate the party’s gains in the region over the years. Of the total votes polled, the LDF candidate bagged 62,318 while the UDF candidate Robin Peter improved on the coalition's previous performance of 44,146 votes by bagging 53,810 votes. The total votes bagged by Mr.Surendran, meanwhile, fell from 39,786 in 2019 to 32,811 this time. A seat that alternated between the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front, Konni has always stood as a safe bet for Adoor Prakash, a Congress stalwart, since 1996. Its electoral dynamics, however, went for a major shake-up in the aftermath of the Sabarimala protests in 2018. In the Parliament elections of 2019, the BJP made significant gains from the segment though it was the Congress that held a lead of 2,721 votes. In the byelections that followed, Konni witnessed a close three-cornered fight with the BJP consolidating its gains in the Parliament elections. But it was the LDF, which finally emerged the winner, also completing a clean sweep of the Pathanamthitta district in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/frustrating-defeat-for-bjp-state-president-in-konni-once-again/article34468821.ece
03 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||LDF makes a clean sweep in Pathanamthitta||Riding on the momentum it gained during the recent local body elections, the Left Democratic Front has once against struck deep into the United Democratic Front bastions of Pathanamthitta to make a clean sweep of the district. Of the five assembly seats, four seats were retained by their respective sitting legislators while the lone remaining seat went to the Kerala Congess (M). In Thiruvalla, Janata Dal (Secular) leader Mathew T Thomas , who bagged 62,178 votes, defeated Kunju Koshy Paul of the Kerala Congress by 11,421 votes, as per figures put out by the Election Commission. In Ranni, which witnessed a neck and neck fight between the UDF and the LDF till the last moment, Pramod Narayan of the KC(M) edged out Rinku Cherian of the Congress by a slender margin of 1,285 votes. Konni, which witnessed a tight three-way fight, once against swayed to the left as K.U.Jenish Kumar of the CPI(M) won by a margin of 8,508 votes. Aranmula, meanwhile, once again stood by the LDF as Veena George of the CPI(M) improved her margin of votes to 19,003 from 7,646 votes in 2016. Meanwhile, the CPI retained its lone seat-Adoor, through the sitting legislator Chittayam Gopakumar with a margin of 2,919 votes. Of the total 1,46,311 votes polled, Mr.Gopakumar won 62,182 while the UDF candidate M.G.Kannan came second with 60,039 votes. Having scored five out of five, the LDF has also bucked the trend of the leading coalitions taking turns to win majority in the district during the elections over the years. Riding on the left wave that lashed the State, the coalition could also stop the distinctive rise of the BJP in the district post the Sabarimala protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-makes-a-clean-sweep-in-pathanamthitta/article34468819.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP loses its sole Assembly seat||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has lost its sole seat in the Assembly when Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPI(M) candidate V. Sivankutty defeated Kummanam Rajasekharan of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by 3,949 votes. Congress leader and K. Muraleedharan, MP, who had a much-hyped campaign launch, turned up a distant third. In the constituency, which the BJP had dubbed as the “Gujarat of Kerala”, Mr. Sivankutty polled 55,837 votes, Mr. Rajasekharan 51,888 votes, and Mr. Muraleedharan 36,524 votes. Upstaged mid-way In the initial phases of counting, it appeared to be a close fight between the LDF and the BJP. Though Mr. Rajasekharan had gained an early lead, Mr. Sivankutty upstaged him towards the halfway mark and slowly pulled away a comfortable lead as the votes polled from the coastal booths began to be counted. Reacting to mediapersons after sealing his victory, Mr. Sivankutty said the victory was an answer to BJP's electoral campaign claim that it would turn Nemom into Kerala's Gujarat. “During the campaign, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said that the LDF will close BJP's account in Kerala. We have now implemented that promise. Muraleedharan should resign from his MP post if he has any respect for democracy,” said Mr. Sivankutty. In 2016, BJP's O. Rajagopal had won by a margin of 8,671 votes over Mr. Sivankutty.  Mr. Sivankutty polled 55,837 votes, Mr. Rajasekharan 51,888 votes, and Mr. Muraleedharan 36,524||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-loses-its-sole-assembly-seat/article34469360.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district rolls out the ‘red’ carpet for LDF||Scripting a massive victory in the district, the CPI(M)-led LDF has claimed 13 of the 14 Assembly segments, reducing the UDF tally from three seats to one and ''closing'' the BJP account in Nemom. Retaining its 10 seats, the LDF wrested Aruvikkara and Thiruvananthapuram constituencies from the UDF and the Nemom seat from the BJP to take its tally to 13. The LDF has won the following constituencies: Varkala, Attingal, Chirayinkeezhu, Nedumangad, Vamanapuram, Kazhakuttam, Vattiyurkavu, Thiruvananthapuram, Nemom, Aruvikkara, Parassala, Kattakada and Neyyattinkara. Two sitting MLAs lose Much to the dismay of the UDF, two of its sitting MLAs — K.S. Sabarinadhan in Aruvikkara and V. S. Sivakumar in Thiruvananthapuram — were decimated by the red wave that swept through the southern district. Sitting Congress MLA M. Vincent defeated Neelalohitadasan Nadar of the Janata Dal (Secular) in Kovalam to win the UDF its lone seat. Kazhakuttam gifted a second term to sitting MLA and Minister Kadakampally Surendran who defeated his nearest rival Sobha Surendran of the BJP by a margin of 23,497 votes. Mr. Surendran won 63,690 votes, Ms. Surendran 40,193 and the Congress candidate, S. S. Lal, 32,995 votes in Kazhakuttam. The BJP lost its lone seat Nemom, with V. Sivankutty of the CPI(M) defeating BJP’s Kummanam Rajasekharan by 3,949 votes. Mr. Sivankutty won 55,837 votes and Mr. Rajasekharan 51,888 votes. K. Muraleedharan MP of the Congress was pushed to third place with 36,524 votes. In Varkala, sitting MLA V. Joy of the CPI(M) trounced B.R.M. Shafeer of the Congress by 17,821 votes. Mr. Joy polled 68,816 votes and Mr. Shafeer 50,995. CPI(M) candidate O.S. Ambika, who replaced B. Sathyan in Attingal, defeated nearest rival P. Sudheer of the BJP by 31,636 votes. Ms. Ambika, who has also become the lone woman MLA in the district, won 69,898 votes against Mr. Sudheer's 38,262. Sitting CPI(M) MLA K. Ansalan defeated Selvaraj R. of the UDF by 14,262 votes to retain Neyyattinkara. Mr. Ansalan won 65,497 votes and Mr. Selvaraj 51,235. CPI(M)'s V. K. Prasanth, a former Mayor, successfully defended Vattiyurkavu, defeating V.V. Rajesh of the BJP by 21,515 votes. Mr. Prasanth won 61,111 votes and Mr. Rajesh 39,596. Veena S. Nair of the Congress was pushed to third place with 35,455 votes. UDF shocked In Aruvikkara, newcomer G. Stephen shocked the UDF, defeating sitting MLA K. Sabarinadhan by 5,046 votes. Mr. Stephen won 66,776 votes, Mr. Sabarinadhan 61,370 votes. D. K. Murali, the sitting CPI(M) MLA in Vamanapuram, defeated Anad Jayan by 10,242 votes. Mr. Murali won 73,137 votes, and Mr. Jayan, 62,895. Meanwhile, Parassala re-elected C.K. Hareendran who won 78,548 votes to defeat A.N. Sajitha Ressal of the Congress party (52,720) by a margin of 25,828 votes. LDF's Antony Raju of the Janadhipathya Kerala Congress shocked sitting Congress MLA V. S. Sivakumar in Thiruvananthapuram. Mr. Raju won 48,748 votes, defeating two-time MLA Mr. Sivakumar (41,659) by a margin of 7,089 votes. Actor Krishnakumar G., the BJP candidate, finished third, winning 34,996 votes. In Kattakada, sitting CPI(M) MLA I.B. Satheesh (66,293) defeated Malayinkeezhu Venugopal of the Congress (43,062) by a margin of 23,231 votes. P.K. Krishnadas of the BJP (34,642) was pushed to third spot. CPI's G.R. Anil defeated P.S. Prasanth of the Congress by a margin of 23,309 votes in Nedumangad. Mr. Anil won 72,742 votes and Mr. Prasanth 49,433. BJP's J.R. Padmakumar won 26,861 votes. In Chirayinkeezhu, Sitting MLA V. Sasi of the CPI defeated B.S. Anoop of the Congress by 14,017 votes. Mr. Sasi won 62,634 votes and Mr. Anoop 48,617. In Kovalam, Congress's M. Vincent defeated Neelalohitadasan Nadar of the JD(S) by a margin of 11,562 votes. Mr. Vincent won 74,868 votes and Mr. Nadar 63306 votes.  Retaining its 10 seats, the LDF this time wrests Aruvikkara, Nemom and Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-rolls-out-the-red-carpet-for-ldf/article34469366.ece
03 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Surprise wins, unexpected losses in south Kerala||Few upset victories and some unexpected losses marked the counting of votes in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta districts. Energetic campaigning, the government's pro-active welfarism, electorates hesitation to change guard mid-pandemic, motivated voting, and an optimistic election manifesto had aided the LDF in South Kerala. The BJP had emerged as a decisive third force during the early phase of the campaigning. However, the last-minute consolidation of minority votes favouring the ruling front had blunted the party's edge at the hustings. BJP falters So had intra-party feuding between leaders. The BJP did not lack campaign funds, crowd pullers, national leaders and party workers. However, it failed to make an impact in the region despite being resource-rich. A Congress insider attributed the relatively poor showing of the UDF to intra-party feuding, factionalism, inadequate funding and lacklustre campaigning. The Congress suspected the BJP had cross voted in some pockets to aid the LDF. Moreover, some sections of the Congress base had abandoned broad-based party loyalty and opted for identity politics led voting, he said. Emotive topics such as Sabarimala had a relatively low impact on voters. BJP State president K. Surendran was relegated to a far third position in the Ranni constituency in Pathanamthitta. Illustratively, Kazhakuttam was at the epicentre of a bitter ideological battle over the right of women to worship at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. Sobha Surendran of the BJP had emerged as the face of the party's campaign against the entry of women into the temple. Her prime rival Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, characterised by the right as the "government's atheist enabler", defeated Ms. Sobha by a margin of over 20,000 votes. South Kerala was also swept up in the pro-LDF wave that swamped the State. Most ruling front legislators retained their seats. The LDF dominated Thiruvananthapuram, bagging 13 out of the 14 Assembly seats. The gold smuggling scandal made no dent in the LDF's prospects. Titans fall At least two titans fell in Thiruvananthapuram district. Congress had pitted K. Muraleedharan, MP, as its standard-bearer to defeat V. Sivankutty of the CPI(M) and Kummanam Rajasekharan of the BJP in Nemom. However, voters aided Mr. Sivankutty and relegated Mr. Muraleedharan to a far third position. In the Thiruvananthapuram constituency, Antony Raju of the Kerala Congress (Secular) defeated former Health Minister V.S. Sivakumar. Surprises in Kollam In Kollam, the LDF retained nine out of the 11 seats. The results sprung two surprises. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma lost to P.C. Vishnunath of the Congress amidst speculation that the NDA ally, the BDJS, had shifted votes in the latter's favour. Ms. Mercykutty was at the receiving end of an Opposition campaign that accused her of opening the door to foreign trawlers. The allegation had caused traditional fishers, a crucial demographic in the State, to arguably develop disaffection with the Minister. C.R. Mahesh set a record of sorts by opening an account for the Congress in Kollam after a hiatus of 15 years. The LDF made a clean haul of the five seats in the Pathanamthitta district, the Sabarimala heartland.  Emotive topics such as Sabarimala had a relatively low impact on voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surprise-wins-unexpected-losses-in-south-kerala/article34468855.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kovalam lends UDF soothing breeze amid headwinds||Kovalam became the sole refuge for the UDF in the capital district when the front’s M. Vincent bucked a popular wave to retain the Assembly seat on Sunday. Despite facing veteran Janata Dal (Secular) leader Neelalohithadasan Nadar, Mr. Vincent garnered 74,868 votes to win by a margin of 11,562 votes. Dr. Nadar, who has represented the region five times, polled 63,306 votes, while the NDA candidate Vishnupuram Chandrasekharan secured 18,664. Mr. Vincent had become legislator for the first time when he defeated the then incumbent MLA and Dr. Nadar’s wife Jameela Prakasam in the 2016 Assembly elections by 2,615 votes. A host of issues, ranging from the Cyclone Ockhi relief efforts and the progress of the Vizhinjam international seaport project to the controversy surrounding the deep-sea fishing agreement, had figured in the parties’ campaigns. However, Mr. Vincent attributed his victory to the personal connect he has with the electorate. “I have interacted with large sections of the public here on various occasions during the last five years. While certain issues could have also contributed to my victory, nothing could be compared to the personal bond I share with the people in Kovalam,” he said. Unsparing in criticism The Congress leader, however, was unsparing in his criticism of the party machinery’s failure in reaching out to the public and creating awareness on the failures of the LDF government. “We have suffered a massive defeat in the State, despite there being no dearth in issues against the ruling front. Our organisational problems resulted in our failure to put our extensive network of party workers to good use,” he conceded. Being the lone Opposition legislator in the district, Mr. Vincent has his task cut out in highlighting issues. Despite viewing it as a challenge, he expressed optimism that he will be able to spearhead the party’s representation from Thiruvananthapuram in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kovalam-gives-refuge-to-udf/article34468825.ece
03 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Attingal keeps its status as Left citadel||Attingal retained its status as a Left citadel, with the LDF candidate O.S. Ambika winning by a thumping majority of 31,636 votes against the NDA’s P. Sudheer. The UDF will have much soul-searching to do after being pushed to the third place in a constituency they have won in the past. Sole woman candidate Ms. Ambika polled 69,898 votes, while Mr. Sudheer polled 38,262 and the UDF candidate A. Sreedharan of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) receieved 36,938. Ms. Ambika (54) is the sole woman candidate of the LDF in Thiruvananthapuram. A member of the CPI(M)'s Attingal area committee, Ms. Ambika is now in her second term as the president of the Chirayinkeezh block panchayat. Ms. Ambika had also served two terms as the president of Mudakkal grama panchayat. Unexpected margin Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Ambika said that she did expect to win, but was not anticipating such a huge majority. She said that the BJP had attempted to communalise the election and had even raised fake allegations against her, which were all trashed by the people. "Everyone from the grass-root level workers to the booth conveners and the mandalam committee members worked tirelessly for this victory. We had an inkling of the voter choices when we saw large groups of women waiting for campaign rallies even late into the night. It is the LDF government's record of the past five years and the measures it took during the various crises that paved the way for our victory. The BJP workers had during the campaign released fake Facebook posts on the Sabarimala issue attributed to me. All that did not work," she said. Since 1957, the Left has now won eight times in this constituency, while the Congress six times, with the Congress's breakaway factions of INC(U) and IC(S) winning twice. Making inroads The BJP, however, has been making inroads here, especially since the Lok Sabha elections of 2019. In the recent local body elections, it had secured seven seats in the Attingal municipality, pushing the UDF to the third spot. This trend appears to have continued in the Assembly elections as well.  It is the LDF government's record of the past five years that paved the way for our victoryO.S. Ambika||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attingal-keeps-its-status-as-left-citadel/article34469361.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Antony Raju spoils UDF’s hat-trick party||Congress' sitting MLA V. S. Sivakumar's hopes of scoring a hat-trick in Thiruvananthapuram have been dashed, with LDF candidate Antony Raju of the Janadhipathya Kerala Congress emerging victorious in the urban Assembly segment. Has his revenge Mr. Raju, who had finished second behind Mr. Sivakumar in the 2016 elections, took his revenge by defeating the latter by a margin of 7,089 votes. Mr. Raju claimed 48,748 votes, and Mr. Sivakumar 41,659. The BJP candidate, actor Krishnakumar G., put up a valiant fight, but had to settle for the third spot with 34,996 votes. Mr. Sivakumar said in a Facebook message that he accepted the verdict with humility. Mr. Raju expressed his heartfelt gratitude to the electorate and sought their continued support. In 2016, Mr. Raju had lost to Mr. Sivakumar by a margin of 10,905 votes. A former Health Minister, Mr. Sivakumar represented the segment in 2011 and 2016. Looking for a third term, he had banked on his development initiatives and strong personal connections in the segment to see him through. Capital city development, in fact, had featured high on the list of promises of all the three candidates. Coastal votes key The pro-LDF wave in the State and his success in wooing the coastal voters have benefited Mr. Raju, who had represented the erstwhile Thiruvananthapuram West constituency during 1996-2001. On his part, Mr. Krishnakumar had succeeded in giving a three-cornered dimension to the battle. His tally is slightly higher than the 34,764 votes secured by cricketer S. Sreesanth, whom the BJP had fielded in the segment in 2016.  Mr. Sivakumar says in Facebook message that he accepts the verdict with humility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/antony-raju-spoils-udfs-hat-trick-party/article34469368.ece
03 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reports 31,959 new cases||Kerala reported 31,959 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, when 1,12,635 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The average test positivity rate, which had stabilised around 25%, rose to 28.37% . The active case pool of the State now has 3,39,441 patients. ICU admissions  Hospital and ICU admissions are rising steadily in the State. The number of COVID patients currently being treated in hospitals in the State has risen to 26,169, with 3,371 patients getting newly admitted to hospitals on Sunday. ICU admissions rose again on Sunday, with the addition of 99 more critically ill persons. The State now has 1,907 persons in ICUs now, with 672 of them requiring ventilator assistance. At present, a total of 6,98,442 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Sunday, 16,296 patients were declared to have recovered from COVID and let off from hospitals/institutions. The total recoveries till date is 12,93,590. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began stands at 16,38,778 cases now. 49 deaths On Sunday, the State added 49 new deaths which had occurred over the past few days to its official COVID toll, taking the cumulative toll of fatalities in the State to 5,405. This included 13 deaths reported from Thrissur, 16 from Kozhikode, eight from Thiruvananthapuram, four each from Kannur and Malappuram, and two deaths from Kollam. Ernakulam tops Ernakulam continues to have the highest number of 54,053 active cases. Kozhikode (48,019), Malappuram (37,999), Thrissur (36,965), and Thiruvananthapuram (27,833) account for a chunk of the State’s active cases. Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam have over 3,500 hospitalised patients. Except for three, all other districts have at least 1000-1,500 hospitalised patients. Kozhikode has the highest number of new cases at 4,238, Thrissur 3,942, Ernakulam 3,502, Thiruvananthapuram 3,424, Malappuram 3,085, Kottayam 2,815, Alappuzha 2,442, Palakkad 1,936, Kollam 1,597, Kannur 1,525, Pathanamthitta 1,082, Idukki 1,036, Wayanad 769, and Kasaragod 566 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-31959-new-cases/article34468859.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prasanth retains Vattiyurkavu with comfortable margin||CPI(M)’s V.K. Prasanth romped to victory in the Vattiyurkavu Assembly constituency on Sunday with a handsome margin of 21,515 votes. The LDF candidate garnered 61,111 votes while managing to retain the seat that had remained a UDF bastion for over a decade since the delimitation of 2008. He bettered his performance during the 2019 byelection when he had won by a margin of 14,465 votes to defeat Congress’ K. Mohankumar. Mr. Prasanth also managed to marginally increase his vote share from 44.25% to 44.4% in the process. NDA candidate V.V. Rajesh managed to win 39,596 votes, while UDF candidate Veena S. Nair was consigned to the third position with 35,455 votes. Public acceptance Mr. Prasanth saw his victory as public acceptance of the efforts undertaken in the constituency during the last one-and-a-half years. He added that the electorate had rejected the diversionary tactics of both the UDF and the NDA, which have been involved in a tacit deal. A third-place finish for the UDF is bound to be damaging for the Congress, which has struggled to fend off allegations of vote-trading levelled by the LDF. The coalition, which has been witnessing a steady erosion of its vote base of late, saw its vote share falling to 25.76% from 32.58% in 2019 and 37.81% in 2016. Ms. Nair had found the going tough at times during her campaign. After managing to emerge from teething troubles, the discovery of unused posters from a scrap shop and later in a plantation had triggered discontentment within the party’s ranks. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Mullappally Ramachandran, who himself voiced the possibility of efforts to undermine the party’s chances from within, subsequently ordered an enquiry. Soul-searching Despite its loss, the NDA came close to replicating its best performance in 2016 when it had won 43,700 with a vote share 32.19%, higher than 28.77% this time. However, the BJP will have much soul-searching to do, considering that the party pulled out all stops in its campaign by roping in a horde of star campaigners, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Besides, it could not capitalise on the Sabarimala women entry issue, which was the party’s key poll plank across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prasanth-retains-vattiyurkavu/article34468824.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||But for one, it’s a cakewalk for Kerala Ministers this time||Except for Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma, all Ministers of the outgoing Cabinet who contested the Assembly elections emerged victorious again. Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja who contested from Mattannur in Kannur got the highest margin of 60,963 votes. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who contested again from Dharmadam won with a margin of 50,123 votes. Minister for Electricity M.M. Mani was elected again from Udumbanchola in Idukki with a margin of 38,305 votes. Revenue Minister, E. Chandrasekharan was elected again from Kanhangad in Kasargod district by a margin of 22,692 votes. Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan got elected again from Perambara by a margin of 22,592 votes, Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen by 26,631 votes from Kunnamkulam, and Minister for Devaswom Kadakampally Surendran 23,497 votes from Kazhakuttam in the capital. Staying the course Transport Minister A. K. Saseendran was re-elected from Elathur again by a margin of 38,502 votes, Minister for Ports Kadanappally Ramachandran from Kannur by 496 votes, and Minister for Water Resources K. Krishnankutty from Chittoor in Palakkad by 33,878 votes. Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel, who resigned from the Ministry after the election following strictures by the Kerala LokAyukta, was re-elected from Thavanur by a margin of 2,564 votes. Luck did not favour Mercykutty Amma of the CPI(M) and she lost to P.C. Vishnunath of the Congress in Kundara. Minister for Industries E. P. Jayarajan, Minister for Finance T. M. Thomas Issac, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran, Minister for Law and Welfare of SC/ST A. K. Balan, Minister for Education C. Raveendranath (all of CPI(M), Minister for Forests K. Raju, Minister for Agriculture V. S. Sunil Kumar and Minister for Civil Supplies P. Thilothoman (all of CPI) and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan (CPI-M) did not contest.  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wins with a margin of 50,123 votes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/but-for-one-its-a-cakewalk-for-kerala-ministers-this-time/article34468834.ece
03 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR jumps to 31.35%||The COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Thiruvananthapuram jumped to 31.35% as the district recorded 3,424 fresh cases on Sunday. This took the number of active cases in the district to 27,833, even as 1,899 people recovered from the illness on the day. The high prevalence of the outbreak was detected when 10,919 people were subjected to COVID-19 testing during the last 24 hours. The district health authorities had been unable to trace the source of the infection in 231 cases. Four health care workers were among those who tested positive. Eight more deaths were attributed to the disease in the district. The deceased included six men, aged 83, 73, 65, 58, 57, and 47, and two women, aged 73 and 56. With this, the death toll rose to 999. The district administration placed 5,370 people under quarantine on the day, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 74,024. As many as 1,827 people were permitted to conclude quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-jumps-to-3135/article34469358.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF pulls off major upset in Aruvikkara||Aruvikkara, a Congress stronghold where it has never lost since 1991, witnessed a major upset with LDF candidate G. Stephen defeating sitting MLA K.S. Sabarinathan by a margin of 5,046 votes. For Mr. Sabarinathan, who was widely tipped to win following two consecutive electoral victories and his prominent presence in the UDF's protests, the defeat comes as a shocker. Mr. Stephen polled 66,776 votes, while Mr. Sabarinathan 61,730. NDA candidate C. Sivankutty was a distant third with just 15,379 votes to his kitty despite the massive campaign he had mounted. The LDF candidate gained an early lead and continued to maintain it till the end, upsetting all projections. Works his way up Stephen (51), who grew up in party offices after being orphaned at a young age, worked his way up from the grass-roots. The incumbent area secretary of the CPI(M) in Kattakada, he had become the president of the Kattakada grama panchayat at the age of 22. He had also served as the chairperson of the development standing committee in the Vellanad block panchayat and as a senate and academic council member of the Kerala University. Speaking to The Hindu after his victory on Sunday, Mr. Stephen said that the win was never a surprise for him. "I had expected this victory because I was sure that the people would vote for the developmental achievements of the LDF government over the past five years. The secular politics that the front stands for also appealed to the people, who were wishing for a change in the constituency," he said. Bigger margin The UDF has been winning from Aruvikkara since 1991, when Congress leader G. Karthikeyan wrested the seat from the LDF. He went on to hold the seat till 2015. After he passed away that year, his son Sabarinathan won the byelection and retained the seat by a bigger margin in the Assembly election the following year. The CPI(M) had expected the LDF government's decision to include Nadars in the OBC category to pay dividends for its candidate from the community. Bread-and-butter issues that have had an impact on this largely rural economy, also seem to have gone a long way in ensuring Mr. Stephen’s victory.  The secular politics that the front (LDF)stands for appealed to the peopleG. Stephen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-pulls-off-major-upset-in-aruvikkara/article34469369.ece
03 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CEO directed to pay for disfigured classrooms||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) to make arrangements for bearing the expenses incurred for restoration of school walls and classrooms disfigured during the recent Assembly elections in the State. Acting on a complaint from a Class IV student from Kollam that the beautifully decorated walls of her school classroom and many other schools in the State were spoilt by sticking posters on them and a media report that poll officers in charge of school buildings had damaged school walls, a full bench of the commission on Friday directed the Director of General Education (DGE) to inspect schools where the paintings were destroyed and schools walls and classrooms disfigured, prepare a report regarding the expenses for their restoration, and submit it to the CEO for compliance. The restoration work will be undertaken by the DGE. The CEO will be free to recover the responsible amount from the polling officers responsible, the commission said.  Violation of child rights The commission, comprising chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar and members K. Nazeer and Reni Antony, said its inquiry detected serious violation of child rights of the complainant and other affected children studying in various schools as the painted walls of classrooms supported learning through activity and exploration as part of child-centred learning. The actions of polling officials under the control of the CEO were a challenge to children’s right. The CEO was thus legally responsible for the actions of the poll officials and liable to compensate for the loss. Though election officials were protected under Section 146 C of the Representation of People Act, 1951, for an act in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of the Act, damaging pictures in a classroom and devastating the child-friendly atmosphere of a school could not be termed as an act of good faith, the panel averred. No written statement Even though notices were served on the CEO, the official neither responded nor appeared before the commission. The CEO did not file a written statement either, the panel said. The DGE and the State Coordinator of the General Education Rejuvenation Mission had submitted a detailed report along with photographs and district-wise list of 359 schools to the commission. In his report, the DGE said notices and posters related to the poll had spoilt the classrooms and walls, and election officials could have given necessary instructions in this regard. The State Coordinator of the General Education Rejuvenation Mission urged the commission to pass orders so that such activities were not repeated. Many pictures drawn by children as part of learning activities had been destroyed.  The restoration work will be undertaken by the Director of General Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ceo-directed-to-pay-for-disfigured-classrooms/article34469362.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sabarimala factor fails to help BJP in Kazhakuttam||A perceived 'Sabarimala factor' did not work the expected magic for the BJP in Kazhakuttam, with Minister and LDF candidate Kadakampally Surendran scripting a resounding victory in the segment. The sitting MLA of the CPI(M), who maintained his lead throughout on counting day, enhanced his victory margin from 7,347 votes in the 2016 Assembly elections to 23,497 this time, claiming 63,690 votes (50,079 in 2016). Arch-rival Sobha Surendran of the BJP had to be content as runner-up with 40,193 votes. Her tally is lower than what party colleague and present Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan (42,372) had won in the constituency five years ago. The UDF candidate, public health expert S. S. Lal, was pushed to the third spot, with 32,995 votes. Kazhakuttam had ranked among the constituencies where the Sabarimala issue was expected to play a role in the outcome. Ms. Surendran had, in fact, termed it her ''destiny'' to be pitted against Kadakampally Surendran, whom the BJP has been targeting for ''insulting the customs of Sabarimala'' in his capacity as the Devaswom Minister. Poll weapon Talking to reporters, Mr. Surendran said the outcome was a blow to forces that sought to whip up public sentiment using the Sabarimala temple as a poll weapon. This will be the third time Mr. Surendran represents the segment in the Legislative Assembly. Dr. Lal said in a message that he respected the decision of the electorate. Ms. Sobha Surendran's candidature itself had been the topic of speculation. Her reportedly strained relations with the BJP State leadership and the initial uncertainty over the choice of candidate in Kazhakuttam had grabbed headlines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-issue-fails-to-help-bjp-in-kazhakuttam/article34468820.ece
03 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Did not expect defeat: Chandy, Chennithala||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Sunday said the United Democratic Front’s (UDF) defeat at the hustings was unexpected. However, triumph and defeat were twins, and he treated them equally. The UDF respected the will of the people. When pressed that his lead in Puthuppally had dwindled significantly, Mr Chandy said his lead was lesser when he contested the Assembly for the first time from his home turf 50 years back. Mr. Chandy said he had not dissected the voting pattern at the village level. The Congress and the UDF would analyse the poll results. “I am not saying that we have done everything optimally. The UDF and the Congress would identify the mistakes and rectify them,” he said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the outcome of the polls had caught the UDF by surprise. “We did not foresee failure and expected to form the next government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/did-not-expect-defeat-chandy-chennithala/article34468841.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Record victory margin for Shylaja||Communist Party of India (Marxist) Central Committee member and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has secured the highest margin of victory in the history of Assembly polls in the State. The 64-year-old leader won from Mattannur in Kannur district with a margin of 60,963 votes. “Thank you, Mattanur, for giving me victory in the election fight. Thank you for standing by the State to outlive,” she wrote on Facebook on Sunday. Ms. Shylaja had won the 2016 Assembly elections from Koothuparamba with a margin of 12,291 votes. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who was elected again from Dharmadom, is behind her in the margin of victory. Mr. Vijayan, who was the star campaigner for the Left Democratic Front, has emerged victorious by a margin of 50,123 votes. The highest victory margin in the State so far has been 47,671 votes secured by M. Chandran of the CPI(M) in the 2006 elections from Alathur. Earlier, the record was held by the CPI(M)’s P. Jayarajan who won by 45,865 votes in the 2005 byelection in the Koothuparamba constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/record-victory-margin-for-shylaja/article34468856.ece
03 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Red wave trounces UDF in Thrissur||Repeating the 2016 verdict, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) bulldozed the UDF in Thrissur district by winning 12 out of 13 constituencies. The UDF had to satisfy with the lone seat of Chalakudy. Changing hues of political loyalty has made the electorate in Thrissur always complex. But the district has been standing with the LDF for the fourth consecutive Assembly elections now. Even this time, the UDF lost many of its bastions like Thrissur, Irinjalakuda and Ollur. Tight competition was expected in at least five of the constituencies in the district such as Thrissur, Wadakkanchery, Irinjalakuda, Guruvayur, and Chalakudy. But the UDF defence collapsed like a house of cards when the results were announced on Sunday. Except in Thrissur and Chalakudy, there was not even a scope for competition. Setback In a setback to the UDF and sitting MLA Anil Akkara in the LIFE ((Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment) Mission) controversy, the front lost the only sitting seat in the district at Wadakkanchery. The constituency gave lifeline to Xavier Chittilappilly of the LDF with a thumping margin of 15,168 votes. In a photo finish in Thrissur, P. Balachandran of the LDF won with a slender margin of 946 votes against Padmaja Venugopal of the UDF. In fact, even the LDF camp was not very optimistic about the verdict in Thrissur. The lead position was changing in each round in the constituency. However, LDF’s P. Balachandran, who was trailing in the initial rounds of counting, took the lead in the last lap to win. The victory in the lone seat of Chalakudy provided a great solace for the UDF. Thrissur DCC general secretary Saneeshkumar Joseph defeated Kerala Congress (M)’s Dennies K. Antony with a margin of 1,057 votes. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) failed to survive the red wave in Guruvayur. N.K. Akbar of the CPI(M) won in the constituency for 18,268 votes against IUML candidate K.N.A. Khader at Guruvyaur. At Kunnamkulam, Minister A.C. Moideen of the LDF had an easy victory against Congress candidate K. Jayashankar with a margin of 26,631 votes. Mr. Moideen improved his own victory margin of 7,782 in the 2016 election. Impressive win Former Speaker K. Radhakrishnan (LDF) won an impressive victory against C.C. Sreekumar of the UDF for a lead of 39,400 votes in Chelakkara. In Manalur, incumbent MLA Murali Perunnelly (LDF) won against Vijay Hari of the UDF by 29,732 votes. He too improved his own majority of 19,325,in the last election. Chief whip in the LDF Ministry K. Rajan defeated Jose Vallur of the UDF for 21,506 votes in Ollur. He improved his majority of 13,248 of 2016. At Nattika, C.C. Mukundan of the LDF won by 28,431 votes against UDF’s Sunil Lalur. E.T. Tyson Master of the LDF defeated Sobha Subhin of the UDF for 22,698 votes at Kaipamangalam. Prof R. Bindu, wife of CPI(M) acting state secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, defeated veteran Kerala Congress leader and three time MLA Thomas Unniyadan for a majority of 5,949 votes in Irinjalakuda constituency. At Puthukkad, LDF’s K.K. Ramachandran won for 27,353 against UDF’s Sunil Anthikkad. Incumbent LDF MLA V.R. Sunil Kumar won by 23,893 votes against M.P. Jackson (UDF) at Kodungallur.  This time too, the UDF lost many of its bastions like Thrissur, Irinjalakuda and Ollur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/red-wave-trounces-udf-in-thrissur/article34469342.ece
03 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Photo finish for LDF in Thrissur||In a nail-biting finish, P. Balachandran of the LDF won in the Thrissur constituency with a slender margin of 946 votes. The lead position was changing in each round in the constituency, where high profile candidates were in the fray. Though UDF’s Padmaja Venugopal won a slender lead initially, she was soon pushed to third position when NDA’s Suresh Gopi managed to maintain a lead. Mr. Gopi even gave an impression of winning the seat for some time. However, LDF’s P. Balachandran, who was trailing behind in the initial rounds of counting, gave a shudder to both the UDF and the NDA camp in the final lap to win, though with a small margin. In fact, even the LDF camp was not very optimistic about Thrissur, even during the last round of calculations. It was predicted that the fight will be between UDF’s Padmaja Venugopal and NDA’S Suresh Gopi. A silent fighter, fondly called as Balsi by his friends, has been a familiar face in the socio-cultural sector in the district. “Thrissur, considered as a traditional bastion of the UDF has become a LDF stronghold now,” said the jubilant Balachandran. Unexpected entry Mr. Suresh Gopi’s unexpected entry to the election fray and his dramatic campaign style had actually created ripples in Thrissur. Mr. Gopi, who was reluctant to contest from Thrissur, later succumbed to the pressure from the central leadership. Thrissur was one of the constituencies where the NDA pinned their hopes on. Thrissur constituency, which stood firm with UDF’s Therambil Ramakrishnan for a quarter century, turned to the left in 2016. Balachandran himself had tasted failure from Therambil Ramakrishnan in 2011. In 2016 Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar defeated UDF’s Padmaja Venugopal in the 2016 election by 6,987 votes. Throughout the campaign, Mr. Sunil Kumar was with Balsi as his shadow. “It is the response of the voters for the people-friendly policies implemented by the LDF in the last five years,” said V.S. Sunil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/photo-finish-for-ldf-in-thrissur/article34469338.ece
03 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Lifeline for Xavier Chittilappailly in Wadakkanchery seat||The United Democratic Front (UDF) lost its sitting seat in Wadakkanchery constituency in a tough battle fought between two young leaders over the controversial LIFE ((Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment) Mission project. When the battle cost Anil Akkara, the UDF candidate, his sitting seat, the constituency gave lifeline to Xavier Chittilappilly of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), a first timer in Assembly elections. Mr. Chittilappilly won with a majority of 15,168 votes. The controversial LIFE Mission Project was the key political issue highlighted by both the UDF and the LDF throughout the election campaign. As epicenter of the LIFE Mission housing project controversy, the election here was a mercury test for both the UDF and the LDF. Corruption When the UDF alleged huge corruption in the project, the LDF accused the opposition, especially sitting MLA Anil Akkara, of scuttling the housing project for the poor. Mr. Akkara has been the arch rival of the entire LDF camp in the State ever since he raised corruption allegations against the LIFE Mission project. This must have consolidated the LDF vote share. “The verdict was a fitting reply to the UDF by the people for scuttling the development projects allotted to the constituency by creating unnecessary controversies,” said Mr. Chittilappilly. How can you expect people to support the UDF, when it openly declared to suspend the development projects, including LIFE Mission that offers safe shelter for hundreds, if it comes into power? he asked. It was a narrow escape for the UDF at Wadakkanchery in the 2016 Assembly election, when Anil Akkara won the seat for 43 votes against Mary Thomas of the CPI(M). The constituency is known for giving shock for many big wigs even earlier. In the 2004 by-election, constituency drew attention when the then Electricity Minister K. Muraleedharan lost to A.C. Moideen of the CPI(M), then a newcomer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lifeline-for-xavier-chittilappailly-in-wadakkanchery-seat/article34469340.ece
03 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||IUML succumbs to the CPI(M) in Guruvayur||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) failed to survive the red wave in Guruvayur. N.K. Akbar of the CPI(M) won in the constituency for 18,268 votes against IUML candidate K.N.A. Khader at Guruvayur. As the lone seat allotted to the IUML in Thrissur district, Guruvayur was a prestigious seat for the IUML. In 2016, CPI(M)’s K.V. Abdul Khader won for 15,098 votes against P.M. Saddiq Ali of the IUML. The Guruvayur constituency, known for the presence of the famous Sreekrishna Temple, drew attention in this election when the nomination paper of the NDA candidate was rejected during scrutiny. Without a candidate, the BJP decided to back Dileep Nair of the Democratic Social Justice Party. Both the LDF and the UDF were curious about the 25,000-odd votes the BJP secured in the last Assembly election. Once considered as an IUML bastion, filmmaker P.T. Kunjumohammed, an Independent candidate with the LDF support, stopped the winning march of the IUML at Guruvayur in 1994. Since then, the constituency had stood with the IUML only once in 2001. K.V. Abdul Khader of the CPI(M) won thrice from the constituency. It had sent the league leaders such as B.V. Seethi Thangal, P.K.K. Bava, and P.M. Abubacker to the Assembly. Eyeing on the sizeable Muslim votes in the constituency, especially in the coastal belt, both fronts used to field Muslim candidates in Guruvayur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-succumbs-to-the-cpim-in-guruvayur/article34469341.ece
03 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||3,942 COVID-19 cases reported in Thrissur||The district recorded 3,942 positive cases on Sunday and 1,242 people recovered from the disease. Test positivity rate of the district is 33.01%. Most parts of the district remained as containment zones. Active cases in the district is 32,879 and 111 people from the district are undergoing treatment in various other districts. So far, 1,56,005 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 1,18,684 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 3,916 people, including 15 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact. Of them, 498 people are above the age of 60 and 251 children are below the age of 10. In all, 26,401 people are under home care. As many as 11,943 samples were taken for the test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3942-covid-19-cases-reported-in-thrissur/article34469344.ece
03 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Chalakudy proves lucky for UDF||The victory in the lone seat of Chalakudy provided a great solace for the UDF in Thrissur district. UDF candidate Saneeshkumar Joseph won the seat for 1,057 votes against LDF’s Dennies K. Antony. When Saneeshkumar Joseph won 61,888 votes, Dennies K. Antony secured 60,831 votes. The LDF won 12 out of 13 seats in the Thrissur district. Traditionally a UDF belt, Chalakudy however stood with the LDF for the last three times. The constituency has a sizeable vote of high-range farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chalakudy-proves-lucky-for-udf/article34469343.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Embracing red||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/embracing-red/article34468848.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||New chapter begins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/victory-lap/article34468863.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Time for celebrations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/time-for-celebrations/article34468832.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Results and ripples||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/results-and-ripples/article34468843.ece
03 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Show-cause notices served on NREGS field assistants||The district administration has issued show-cause notices to 171 field assistants for their failure to provide work to wage seekers. Collector Gandham Chandrudu, in a release, said these field assistants could not assign more than 10% of the quantum of work allocated to their village under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The Collector has warned field assistants of action the if their performance did not improve within a week (by Monday). The NREGS work was launched in 1,002 out of the 1,003 gram panchayats in the district, and the total number of wage seekers’ groups registered is 53,179, but only 41,490 groups worked. Anantapur could generate 29,24,147 mandays in April against a target of 34,07,000, employing 3,57,008 persons.Anantapur had a target of employing 1,36,261 labourers per day under the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/show-cause-notices-served-on-nregs-field-assistants/article34468631.ece
03 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGO chips in for COVID relief||Vadaanya Janaa Society, an NGO founded by a group of youngsters, donated money to the Rural Development Trust (RDT) for buying 20 oxygen cylinders following an appeal by the organisation “Spandinchu - Oxygen Andinchu”. The NGO representative, Ashok, said that they had handed over a cheque for Rs. 1.5 lakh to the Trust’s managing trustee on Sunday. Citizens too are coming forward to contribute their mite. Two days ago, an APSRTC bus driver from Kadiri Depot had donated Rs. 5,116 for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngo-chips-in-for-covid-relief/article34468639.ece
03 May 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not all COVID patients need hospitalisation, say doctors||There is no need for COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms to run around hospitals for a bed. They should better isolate themselves at home, if they have a separate bedroom with an attached toilet. This will enable those with severe symptoms to get admission in hospitals, say doctors. “I feel sorry when people call me seeking my help for getting a hospital bed. Not everyone needs a hospital bed. Those with mild symptoms should avoid rushing to hospitals, isolate themselves at home and take the prescribed medicines,” says Dr. Sreehari, a physician and Member of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). He appealed to the public to call him on his WhatsApp no. 628137420 for free consultation or if they have any doubts regarding their test reports. “Those with mild symptoms should isolate themselves at home and take the prescribed drugs. They should consume plenty of fluids and inhale steam twice or thrice a day to kill the virus, present in the airways. They should also check their oxygen saturation levels at frequent intervals with a pulse oximeter at home. They should consult a doctor, if the pulse levels drops below 90 for two/three consecutive readings, and get admitted to a hospital for ventilator support,” Dr. B. Ramachandra Rao, an Associate Professor at the Government ENT Hospital, told The Hindu .  ‘Be positive’ “They should be in a positive frame of mind, as a vast majority of COVID-19 positive persons are getting cured. A negative attitude will weaken their immunity,” he added.  Meanwhile, the COVID medical kit, which should be present in all homes is being circulated on WhatsApp groups by doctors and others. The kit includes: Dolo 650 mg, Azithromycin 500 mg, Montek LC, Betadine for mouthwash and gargles, Vitamin C and D 3, B Complex and Zincovit tablets. A visit to some of the drugstores, including the pharmacy chain stores, revealed that most of these medicines, including the common Vitamin C and Dolo 650 tablets, are not available. “You will not get any of these medicines not only at our stores but at any of the other chain stores. We have run out of stocks two weeks ago and ordered fresh stocks but we are yet to get them,” said a big pharmacy chain store dealer at Madhavadhara. A check at the other big stores in Murali Nagar and nearby areas revealed that he was telling the truth. A few of the drugs were, however, available at a small store. This was due to panic buying and keeping the ‘COVID medical kits’ handy in anticipation of a crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-all-patients-need-hospitalisation-doctors/article34468643.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narrow win for BJP in Belagavi LS bypoll||The byelections to the three seats in Karnataka have thrown up a mixed result, with the BJP winning the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat by a narrow margin and wresting the Basavakalyan Assembly seat, while the Congress retained the Maski Assembly seat. In a closely fought contest in Belagavi, Mangala Angadi, the wife of the late Union Minister Suresh Angadi, won with a wafer-thin margin of 5,240 votes, defeating KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi. It was a nail-biting finish as the margins kept fluctuating through the counting. The contest had threatened to upset the BJP prospects with the MES putting up a strong performance and polling over one lakh votes. Another victory for the BJP came from Basavakalyan, which it snatched from the Congress. The BJP nominee Sharanu Salagar defeated his Congress opponent Mala Narayanarao, wife of the late Narayanarao, Congress legislator, by a margin of 20,629 votes. This was also the only seat in which the Janata Dal (S) contested, but came a cropper with its candidate polling 11,402 votes. The BJP’s setback came at Maski where B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, had actively campaigned for Prathapgouda Patil, a Congress legislator who was disqualified. Mr. Patil was among the 17 legislators, who resigned to bring down the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led JD (S)-Congress coalition in July 2019. Mr. Patil lost to Basanagouda Turvihal by a margin of 30,606 votes. It was a role reversal of sorts in Maski as Mr. Turvihal contesting on a BJP ticket had lost to Mr. Patil in 2018 by a wafer-thin margin. Since coming to power in July 2019, the BJP has done well in the byelections by winning 12 out of 15 Assembly seats in December 2019 and winning two Assembly seats in December 2020.   While the bypoll results announced on Monday are not of numerical significance to the BJP in power, it was seen as a poll that gauges the mood of the electorate towards the government amidst the pandemic and amidst speculation of a possible leadership change in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narrow-win-for-bjp-in-belagavi-ls-bypoll/article34468584.ece
03 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka cases dip, yet exceed 37,000||Kerala reported 31,959 new cases on Sunday, testing 1,12,635 samples. The average test positivity rate (TPR), which had stabilised around 25%, rose to 28.37% and the active case pool had 3,39,441 patients. Hospital and ICU admissions rose and there were 26,169 patients in hospitals, with 3,371 newly admitted on Sunday. There were 99 more ICU admissions making up a total of 1,907 patients in intensive care. A total of 6,98,442 people were in home or institutional isolation. On Sunday, the State added 49 new deaths. They included 13 from Thrissur, 16 from Kozhikode, eight from Thiruvananthapuram, four each from Kannur and Malappuram, and two from Kollam. Ernakulam had the highest number of 54,053 active cases.  Fewer tests Telangana recorded 7,430 new infections on Saturday with testing levels remaining at around 77,000 samples. The daily TPR showed that cases stayed within a range due to fewer tests conducted. It was hovering around the 10%-mark for the past five days. Of 7,430 cases, the Greater Hyderabad region accounted for the most, at 1,546. A total of 56 COVID-19 patients succumbed to the virus on Saturday. Single-day infections hit a new high in Andhra Pradesh at 23,920 on Sunday. Also on the same day, 83 more patients succumbed to the infection. Over a 24-hour period, 1.14 lakh samples were tested, the highest so far, and the TPR was 20.93%. East Godavari district reported 12 deaths, Anantapur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam eight deaths each, Prakasam and Vizianagaram seven each and Chittoor, Nellore, Srikakulam, West Godavari six each. Guntur had five and Kurnool four deaths.  In Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu recorded 20,768 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the State’s tally to 12,07,112. The toll touched 14,346 with 153 deaths, including 81 in private hospitals and 72 in government facilities. Across the State, 17,576 patients were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 10,72,322. The number of active cases across the State on Sunday stood at 1,20,444, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Chennai district reported 6,078 new cases on Sunday while 5,702 patients were discharged. The district recorded 29 deaths. The number of active cases in the district stood at 31,913. The tally in the district rose to 3,45,966 and 3,09,233 persons have been discharged.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-cases-dip-yet-exceed-37000/article34468593.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruling TRS retains Nagarjunasagar||The ruling TRS has wrested the Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency with its candidate Nomula Bhagat winning the by-election with a comfortable majority of over 18,000 votes. The TRS nominee maintained his lead in all the 25 rounds, barring one round in which he trailed by a slender margin during the counting which commenced early Sunday morning. The bypoll was necessitated following the death of sitting TRS MLA Nomula Narsimhaiah in December last year. While the TRS fielded Mr. Bhagat as its nominee, veteran leader K. Jana Reddy represented the Congress and P. Ravi Kumar was the BJP’s candidate in the election. Though it was expected that the BJP would put up a reasonable performance, its nominee forfeited the security deposit at the end of the day as the contest turned out to be between the TRS and the Congress as the counting progressed. The constituency witnessed huge voter turnout exceeding 86 per cent on the polling day with 1.89 lakh of the 2.2 lakh votes cast in the bypoll. The huge turnout left leaders of all the sides guessing as to which side the majority of electors cast their preference. But the TRS nominee who started leading in the early rounds maintained the leads till the last round. The TRS secured 89,804 votes and the Congress 70,932 votes while the BJP remained a distant third with 7,676 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trs-retains-nagarjunasagar-with-a-comfortable-majority/article34468586.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Report cites illegal occupation of 66 acres by former Minister||The State government on Sunday released a six page preliminary report of Medak Collector A. Harish highlighting the illegal occupation of 66 acres and one gunta of assigned land for weaker sections by Eatala Rajender for his mega hatchery at Atchampet village of Masaipet mandal in Medak. The confidential report was based on field surveys conducted by revenue teams headed by Mr. Harish on Saturday on orders of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao the previous day. Signboards erected The officials erected signboards on the land allegedly encroached on Sunday. About 15 signboards were erected in the last two days. It disclosed that Mr. Rajender enjoyed 121.27 acres of land, including 66 acres and one gunta of assigned land and 55 acres and 26 guntas of patta land, in 18 survey numbers of Atchampet village and three survey numbers of the adjoining Hakimpet village. The patta land was under examination. ‘Serious lapses’ On action to be taken following the detection of ‘serious lapses’, the Collector said that the 66 acres and one gunta of assigned land will be resumed under Telangana Assigned Land (Prevention of Transfer) Act. Further action as deemed fit will also be taken. Since many trees were felled for construction of a road, action will be initiated under Conservation of Forest Act as per a report of forest department. It was observed that some patta land were converted into non-agricultural land without obtaining permission as required under Telangana Agricultural Land (Conversion for non-agricultural purpose) Act. Roads and some buildings/sheds were raised on the said land. The loss of exchequer to the government on account of not taking permission will be assessed and suitable action taken under the Act. Besides, the officials went through the records at Masaipet mandal revenue office and looked into when the land changed hands and what other ‘manipulation’ took place. In the course of inquiry at Atchampet and Hakimpet villages, the report said 20 villagers complained about their assigned land being encroached by the Minister by threatening them with dire consequences. The inquiry officers diligently noted their complaint that the Minister’s brother-in-law Suresh alias Suri did not pay them money after taking possession of their land under threat. Gravel excavated? In two holdings, Mr. Rajender and others had excavated gravel to a depth of 20 feet each. Lifting of gravel in three other plots was also detected. They filed a police complaint against a pattadar who resisted. Some sheds, buildings, a huge wall and a road were laid through the encroachments. An area of 10 acres and 25 guntas of ceiling land at Hakimpet was blocked for use by the Minister after taking up constructions. A compound wall blocked 3 acres and 11 guntas of patta and ceiling land at Atchampet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/report-cites-illegal-occupation-of-66-acres-by-former-minister/article34468587.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus second wave affects trial of new drugs||The surging second wave of COVID-19 pandemic has been putting tremendous strain on the healthcare facilities in both the public and private sector with scores of patients lining up for admission. This has also had an effect on the ongoing clinical trials for various drugs and vaccine candidates even as hospitals and staff remain busy with patient care. CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) has lined up at least three potential repurposed drugs — Niclosamide, Colchicine and Chlorpromazine — in association with other CSIR labs for clinical trials. “While this is the time to initiate clinical trials with many patients being admitted in hospitals, we are conscious that it will also put pressure on doctors partnering for clinical trials because, they have to monitor these patients much more closely and record many more parameters,” pointed out IICT director S. Chandrasekhar. The institute has pioneered the process technology of Favipiravir and Remdesivir, repurposed for treatment of COVID-19 and is also working closely with indigenous pharmaceutical industries for development of the next generation of antivirals and other drugs. “CSIR is open to providing non-exclusive licence to the processes we develop so that drugs are available in quantities at affordable cost. A challenge with Favipiravir and Remdesivir long storage is the shelf life. Currently, companies have data for less than one year and if more data is available, the production can be ramped up,” he explained. Drug firms had to shed the production lines by December last year due to reduced demand and now the sudden increase has led to panic-buying and shortage. “We expect the firms to ramp up production during these months and the situation could ease up in the coming days once the regulatory approvals come in for infrastructure upgrade of the existing facilities for more production,” he added. IICT has also been instrumental in developing a crucial adjuvant for Bharat Biotech International Limited for bringing out Covaxin in association with Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology. “We are further improving the process so that the scale up is easier to provide more adjuvants to Bharat Biotech as they enhance the vaccine production to meet the demand within the country and internationally in a more cost-effective manner,” he said.  We are conscious that it will put pressure on doctors partnering for clinical trials because, they have to monitor the patients much more closely. S. Chandrasekhar, IICT Director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-wave-hits-trial-of-new-drugs/article34468775.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eatala dropped from Cabinet||The axe fell on former Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender finally as he was dropped from the Cabinet on Sunday in the wake of the controversy surrounding him over land issues. A press communique from Raj Bhavan said Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has dropped Mr. Rajender from the Council of Ministers with immediate effect on the advice of the Chief Minister. The removal of Mr. Rajender followed the submission of a survey report by Medak Collector A. Harish. The removal of Mr. Rajender paved way for either induction of a new Minister or reshuffle of the entire Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eatala-dropped-from-cabinet/article34468588.ece
03 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRDO supplies oxygen cylinders to hospital||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy handed over 50 oxygen cylinders supplied by the Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) to Gandhi Hospital Superintendent M. Raja Rao here on Sunday. Mr. Reddy thanked Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and DRDO chairman G. Satheesh Reddy for immediately responding to his request and converting the nitrogen cylinders used for missile development into oxygen cylinders. Another 50 cylinders will be coming in tomorrow, he said and urged citizens to help the governments break the transmission chain by practising social vaccine of wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hang hygiene. Dr. Raja Rao thanked the Minister for the equipment would go a long way in saving more people coming to the hospital for treatment. Mr. Reddy pointed out that with a 650-bed capacity, Gandhi Hospital is among the biggest healthcare centres treating COVID patients across the country. Apart from patients from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, it was also providing treatment to people from neighbouring States. “The Centre will assist the government here in pandemic management. I have also requested the Chief Secretary to provide a report on the oxygen and other requirements so that I can take it up further,” the Union Minister said. He also assured to hold discussions with his Cabinet colleague Piyush Goel on the supply of drugs like Remdisivir to Telangana. He appealed to the people not to step out of home unless necessary and those who tested positive to remain in isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drdo-supplies-oxygen-cylinders-to-hospital/article34468576.ece
03 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Peddapuram MLA succumbs to virus||Former Peddapuram MLA and senior TDP leader Boddu Bhaskara Ramarao (72) died of COVID-19 at a private hospital in Visakhapatnam on Sunday morning. A native of Peddada village in Peddapuram mandal of East Godavari district, Bhaskara Rao had held various positions including MLA (Peddapuram, 1994), Member of Legislative Council and East Godavari Zilla Parishad Chairman in 1984. Former Kakinada city MLA V. Kondababu and TDP Kakinada Parliament Constituency in-charge Jyothula Naveen expressed condolences over his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-peddapuram-mla-succumbs-to-virus/article34469318.ece
03 May 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies at COVID-19 testing centre||An elderly person died while waiting in a long queue at the COVID-19 testing centre on the premises of the old bus stand here on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Ananda Chary of the neighbouring Mahabubabad district. Sources said that Chary reportedly collapsed while standing in the queue waiting for his turn to undergo the COVID-19 test in front of the old bus stand. He died on the spot, sources added. When contacted, the District Medical and Health Officer Dr Malathi said Ananda Chary fell unconscious while standing in the queue and died of suspected heart attack. He tested negative in the RAT, she added. Khammam town has been witnessing a fresh spurt in coronavirus cases particularly in the aftermath of the electioneering of the just concluded Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections. Many people have been thronging the COVID-19 testing centres in the wake of resurgence of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-at-covid-19-testing-centre/article34468776.ece
03 May 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP draws a blank, fails to retain Nemom seat in Kerala||Just when you thought that the emergence of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will challenge the State’s traditionally bipolar polity, the party failed even to retain its lone Nemom segment in the Assembly elections. Despite working out a Nair-Ezhava binary and securing the confidence of a section of Christian community, the BJP could not hold on. This apart, the electioneering of the party heavily bolstered by the Central leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, failed to impress the electorate. Multiple factors Like before, multiple factors led to the poor performance of the party in these polls too. Unable to match the social-base of the CPI(M) or the Congress, its State leadership failed to get across the message of the Central schemes to its core vote bank. That its State president K. Surendran contesting from two Assembly segments, the hullabaloo over the candidature of Shobha Surendran and RSS ideologue R. Balasankar's outburst against the party State leadership all led to a negative image in the minds of voters. Further, the party messed up with the filing of nominations in the Thalassery and Guruvayur constituencies. Helicopter show Besides, the campaign of the BJP in key segments which the party had hoped to win in a triangular contest was rooted in extravaganza and indulgence. The helicopter show of Mr. Surendran was received with sarcasm. The diatribe of the State leadership against leaders of other political parties without any gravitas had the opposite of the desired effect.  Muslim consolidation The candidacy of technocrat E. Sreedharan in Palakkad and Suresh Gopi in Thrissur has given a fillip to the sagging portrayal of the faction-ridden party to garner votes from different sections of the community, but the vehement Hindutva approach of other candidates resulted in Muslim consolidation against them. However, the BJP leadership can take solace in the fact that the party increased its popular vote in several constituencies across the State thereby making a dent in the vote-share of both the CPI(M) and the Congress. For the Central leadership, the Assembly polls is a time for introspection to put an end to bitter rivalry among its State leaders, stop leaders of north Kerala contesting from segments in southern districts and chalk out a political strategy for the party in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-draws-a-blank-fails-to-retain-nemom-seat-in-kerala/article34468581.ece
03 May 2021||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shops to close by 2 p.m. in Anantapur||The Chamber of Commerce in Anantapur announced on Sunday that all the shops will remain open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m., a release from the community said. Per the release, the businessmen have voluntarily decided to keep the shops open for fewer hours in view of the large number of positive cases emerging by the day. The district recorded 1,303 cases and 8 deaths on Sunday. The number of patients getting treatment has risen to 9,920 in the district. Also, the COVID sample collection process in the district has been stopped for the past two days due to overburdening of the facility. Meanwhile, volunteers in Kurnool district have been tasked with monitoring COVID-safe behaviour in public places and penalties will be levied for not wearing a mask, District Collector G. Veerapandian announced on Sunday. The district recorded the highest-ever single day tally of 2,516 cases on Sunday, pushing up the active case tally to 9,595. People should not gather in groups of more than five persons anywhere in the district, the Collector said. There was no lockdown in the district, he clarified, but said the task force was considering imposing curbs in places where cases were high. In Kurnool city, shops would remain closed from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. everyday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shops-to-close-by-2-pm-in-anantapur/article34468632.ece
03 May 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exclusive 30-bed COVID hospital inaugurated for frontline workers||Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkataramaiah inaugurated a 30-bedded COVID-19 hospital exclusively for frontline workers, here on Sunday. Police personnel, their family members, and employees of the health, revenue and sanitation departments will be given treatment for COVID-19 at the hospital, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said. “Many frontline warriors are fighting against coronavirus and have been serving the people for the last one year. The COVID hospital will treat only frontline staff of police and other departments,” said Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, who participated in the programme. Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP-Administration) Mallika Garg and ASP (SEB) Vakul Jindal said that with cases on the rise and many frontline staff falling sick, the Police Function Hall was altered into a hospital within a short span of time. The Minister praised Mr. Ravindranath Babu and other police officers for taking an initiative to set up the COVID hospital. “It is unfortunate that many frontline workers and their family members are making rounds of the hospitals for admission and beds. We will increase the capacity of the COVID hospital if necessary,” the SP said, thanking the Minister and the Collector for sanctioning the hospital. The Collector said three government doctors, 15 staff nurses and other staff will be on duty round-the-clock at the newly-inaugurated hospital. Machilipatnam Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) Khajavali said 25 beds were provided with life support systems at the hospital. Additional Superintendent of Police (Armed Reserve) Satyanarayana, DSPs Ramesh Reddy, Azeez and Masoom Basha and MRO Sunil Kumar took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exclusive-30-bed-covid-hospital-inaugurated-for-frontline-workers/article34469317.ece
03 May 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Samadani wins bypoll in Malappuram||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) candidate M.P. Abdussamad Samadani defeated the Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s V.P. Sanu by 1,14,615 votes in the by-election to the Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency. When Mr. Samadani polled 5,38,248 votes, Mr. Sanu got 4,23,633 votes. Mr. Samadani’s vote share was 48.96%, and Mr. Sanu’s, 38.53%. BJP candidate A.P. Abdullakutty put up an abysmal show by polling only 68,935 (6.27%) votes. In the 2019 general election, BJP candidate Unnikrishnan had secured 82,332 votes (7.96 %) in Malappuram. BJP vote share falls The fall in the number of BJP votes for Mr. Abdullakutty in Malappuram is a matter of discussion for BJP watchers. SDPI candidate Thasleem Rahmani polled 46,758 votes (4.25%). The by-election in Malappuram was necessitated when IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty resigned from the Lok Sabha to contest to the Assembly. Mr. Kunhalikutty has been elected to the Assembly from Vengara with a comfortable margin. In the general election held in 2019, Mr. Kunhalikutty was elected from Malappuram with a record margin of 2,60,153 votes. He defeated Mr. Sanu in that election. In a by-election held in 2017 following the death of sitting MP and IUML national president E. Ahamed, Mr. Kunhalikutty had defeated LDF’s M.B. Faisal by 1,71,023 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/malappuram-ls-bypoll-samadani-wins/article34468864.ece
03 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 13 lives in South Coastal Andhra||Thirteen more patients succumbed to the virus in South Coastal Andhra, which registered over 2,300 cases in a span of 24 hours. The number of active cases crossed the 22,000-mark in the region as 2,389 persons got infected in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday, a health bulletin released by the State government said on Sunday night. Prakasam accounted for 1,378 of the new cases, while Nellore accounted for 1,011. The casualties continued unabated as seven patients in Prakasam and six in SPSR Nellore district died during the period, taking the toll to 1,262 in the region so far. With the Sunday’s figures, the toll stands at 622 in SPSR Nellore district and 640 in Prakasam. As many as 701 patients in SPSR Nellore district and another 410 patients in Prakasam district recovered in the last 24 hours, providing some reprieve for the health professionals struggling to treat the ever-growing number of patients. High positivity rate Though recoveries improved in the two districts with 1,111 patients getting discharged from hospitals, the positivity rate continued to remain high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-13-lives-in-south-coastal-andhra/article34468634.ece
03 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Activists perform skit to spread the message on COVID-safe behaviour||Posing themselves as mythological characters, activists of a Dalit outfit staged a novel campaign to raise awareness on COVID-appropriate behaviour. The activists led by Billa Vasantha Rao, leader of Mala Mahanadu, performed a skit at the Church Centre to impress upon the motorcyclists to compulsorily wear facemasks while stepping out of their homes. An activist, dressed like Yama Dharma, educated the public on the importance of washing hands with sanitizers frequently. It is important for us to maintain social distance to break the chain of infection spread in the State, which is seeing a surge in the cases, said a person dressed up as coronavirus. The activists gave masks to some road users to stress the importance of COVID-safe behaviour in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/activists-perform-skit-to-spread-the-message-on-covid-safe-behaviour/article34468636.ece
03 May 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI veteran passes away||Former Communist Party of India (CPI) MLA of Rajahmundry Assembly constituency Chitturi Prabhakar Choudary died of age-related ailments while undergoing treatment at a private hospital on Sunday. He was 99. Mr. Prabhakar had served as Rajahmundry MLA for two times. CPI East Godavari district secretary Thatipaka Madhu said that the last rites would be performed on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-veteran-passes-away/article34469319.ece
03 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Encourage retail sector to provide jobs to youth’||The Centre must encourage the retail sector to provide more jobs to youth in the backdrop of an unprecedented financial crisis brought about by the second wave of COVID-19, former Vice-Chancellor of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University and economist Hanumanthu Lajipathirai said on Sunday. “Retail companies should focus on operational improvement instead of going in for expansion. India will be able to overcome the unemployment crisis if the retail sector is encouraged to create more job opportunities for the youth in tier-II and tier-III cities and emerging cities such as Srikakulam and Vizianagaram,” Mr. Lajipathirai told The Hindu .  Working capital “Banks can extend a helping hand to such companies to meet their operational and working capital requirements. The banks can also be assured of repayment of their loans as the retail retail sector would continue to do decent business in the current bleak scenario,” Mr. Lajipathirai said. The retail sector was contributing around 22% of the country’s GDP, which might record a growth of 5.5% in the 2021-22 fiscal year, he said. Liberal credit policy “The Indian economy has been facing an unprecedented recession with the impact of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Such a situation has never emerged in the last 70 years. The Union government can direct the Reserve Bank of India to adopt a liberal credit policy to instill confidence in medium and small-scale industries which provide more jobs in rural and semi-urban areas. The packages announced by the Union government should be implemented earnestly at the ground-level. State governments should be taken into confidence to achieve the goals of the Central government,” said Mr. Lajipathirai, who was earlier associated with the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, New Delhi. He also sought a helping hand for agriculture, horticulture and food processing industries for quick revival of the economy in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/economy-facing-unprecedented-recession/article34468638.ece
03 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pinarayi is first Kerala CM to win successive terms||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has been able to break the jinx of rotating power between the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the State for the last 44 years and ensure continuity for the CPI(M)-led LDF. It is the first time since the formation of the State that the electorate has given the mandate of a second term for a Chief Minister. Mr. Vijayan, a CPI(M) Politburo member, could achieve this continuity in power which his predecessors and CPI(M) veterans like E.M.S. Namboodiripad, E.K. Nayanar and V.S. Achuthanandan could not do. Mr. Vijayan, who became the 12th Chief Minister of the State on May 25, 2016, thus gets the rare privilege of the mandate till 2026 by bagging the ‘fruit of continuity’ that remained elusive to both the LDF and the UDF. Some of the governments rejected by the voters over the last 64 years had performed reasonably well, but faced ouster nonetheless. Luck also did not favour Pattom A. Thanu Pillai, R. Sankar, C. Achutha Menon, K. Karunakaran, A.K. Antony, P.K. Vasudevan Nair, C.H. Muhammad Koya and Oommen Chandy, who were Chief Ministers of the State. “Present mandate is a second instance of continuity in power in Kerala and that too after a gap of 44 years. The earlier one was in 1977 when the same coalition was returned to power. Mr. Vijayan can take the credit of being the first Chief Minister elected for a second term,” says G. Gopakumar, noted political scientist and former Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Kerala. Kerala has the routine habit of changing the regime, be it the Communist or the Congress in the beginning, the LDF or the UDF subsequently. “It is a typical approach of the electorate to change the coalition government after every election. Bipolar competition became very keen and close. However, this time with the active participation of three fronts, the continuity of power was mandated by the people,” Dr. Gopakumar said. Six factors The effective management of crises like the pandemic, the floods and viral diseases, which shook the body politics of Kerala in the last five years, was the main factor. Secondly, Dr. Gopakumar says the effective distribution of welfare doles, including free food kits, to all sections and old age pension for the poor. The unity and consolidation of the LDF compared to the UDF also helped to get another term. He says split in anti-incumbency votes between the UDF and the NDA-led BJP, and consolidation of 45% vote was easily translated to 99 seats in a triangular contest. Unlike in the past, Dr. Gopakumar says minorities were not behind the UDF and a sizable set of Christian and Muslim votes had flown to the LDF. The strong anti-BJP posture of the LDF might have attracted Muslim votes and the presence of KC(M) attracted Christian votes in central Travancore and elsewhere. The political scientist does not suspect any danger in the continuity of power. “Given Kerala’s hyper critical nature and deep media penetration, any attempt to overplay authority into dictatorship will be challenged at the political and legal circle,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pinarayi-is-first-kerala-cm-to-win-successive-terms/article34468591.ece
03 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP jubilant over win in Tirupati byelection||The YSR Congress Party’s camp office in Tirupati erupted in celebrations on Sunday after the party emerged triumphant in the recently held byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency. YSRCP candidate Maddila Gurumoorthy, a physiotherapist by profession, scored a thumping victory over TDP candidate and former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi. BJP-Jana Sena candidate and former bureaucrat K. Ratna Prabha came in a distant third. Though the YSRCP victory was comprehensive, the margin of victory was much lesser than the ‘five lakh majority’ that was projected ahead of the byelection. The ruling party’s Chittoor district in-charge and TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy called the victory a reflection of the people’s support to the Jagan Mohan Reddy regime’s welfare schemes. “Our Chief Minister has fulfilled 90% of the schemes that were promised in the manifesto, which turned out to be a barometer of his credibility,” Mr. Subba Reddy said at a press conference, flanked by Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy. Mr. Narayanaswamy attributed the fall in victory margin to the less-than-expected voter turnout due to the pandemic, as well as opposition leaders rushing to the streets crying foul over ‘non-existent’ fake voters. Rubbishing the ‘moral victory’ claim of the opposition parties, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the YSRCP’s winning margin had seen a dip only because of their ‘theatrics’. TDP’s Panabaka Lakshmi said the party, despite failing to achieve victory, had won a place in the hearts of voters who she alleged “had shown the YSRCP its place by reducing the victory margin”. ‘Real voters stayed away’ “Real voters voted for the TDP, but the imported voters carrying fake identity cards did the damage,” she charged. Ms. Lakshmi challenged the YSRCP leaders to swear either at Tirumala or Kanipakam that they had not resorted to unethical means to garner votes. BJP election in-charge and former Minister B. Adinarayana Reddy also accused the ruling party of resorting to malpractices. “As fake voters turned up, real local voters stayed away,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-jubilant-over-win-in-tirupati-byelection/article34469324.ece
03 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition parties taking heart from bypoll results||While the ruling YSR Congress Party is upbeat over its victory in the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection, the opposition parties are taking heart from the results thanks to an increased vote share. The ruling party’s trump card, Maddila Gurumoorthy, was already tipped to be the frontrunner thanks to his image of a newcomer to politics as well as his track record of being a well-known medical professional. Though the YSRCP managed to retain the seat, which had fallen vacant after the death of his predecessor Balli Durgaprasad Rao, the party had to pull out all stops in order to achieve victory. Seven senior Cabinet ministers were made in-charge of the seven Assembly segments, while the party’s entire top brass shifted base to Tirupati during the campaign. While Telugu Desam Party (TDP) candidate Panabaka Lakshmi tasted defeat for the second consecutive time, she still managed to retain her voter base. TDP activists said the party showed a lot of fighting spirit at the right time, thereby indicating that it was far from being written off as a spent force as was being projected by the ruling party during its campaign. TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and general secretary N. Lokesh camped in the constituency for ten days during the last leg of the campaign, which gave a much-needed moral boost to cadres who had been subdued after the 2019 defeat. The BJP-Jana Sena alliance, despite not making any significant impact, can take solace from their vote share which saw an almost four-fold rise compared to 2019 — indicating that a large number of voters have been won over. It was all gloom for Congress candidate and CWC member Chinta Mohan, who was relegated to fourth place with his vote share being halved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-parties-taking-heart-from-bypoll-results/article34469322.ece
03 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TUDA plans ‘mini forest’ near Tirupati||If competition leads to excellence in humans, why not in trees? It is with this idea that the Tirupati Urban Development Authority (TUDA) has proposed to develop a park with high-density plantation, with the larger aim of environment management and carbon dioxide mitigation. The idea is simply based on the ‘survival of the fittest’ concept. Random saplings are planted in close proximity, that is, at a distance of half a metre, so that the truly deserving ones not only survive but also emerge stronger. The concept was introduced in Japan in the eighties by Akira Miyawaki, a renowned botanist and expert in plant ecology, as a new and innovative reforestation approach. The specialist in seeds used native plant varieties and recommended an unusually dense plantation to trigger competition. The technique has worked worldwide, irrespective of soil or agro-climatic conditions.TUDA has taken up the task of developing a park, touted as a ‘mini forest’, in Avilala panchayat abutting Tirupati, where a total of 4,200 plants, comprising 130 species, will be grown in a small area of 1.3 acres. A similar attempt was made by the Forest Department in Vijayawada, Srikalahasti, and near Naravaripalle in the past, but this is the first time that an urban development authority has taken up the challenging task. Native plants “We are growing native plants such as Maredu, Bandaru, Peddamanu, Udaga, Chigara, Panasa, Adavinimma, Kanchanam, Pasupu veduru, Bandiga Gurivinda, Velaga and Bommalamarri in this park,” says TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy. Such trees with wider canopy will ensure development of an entire ecosystem, including microbes, worms and insects, reptiles and birds. ‘Miyawaki parks’ Going by its success, more such ‘Miyawaki parks’ will be developed across TUDA limits, adds Vice-Chairman S. Harikrishna, hinting at plans to create such urban forests in Tiruchanur and Srikalahasti. TUDA invested a mere Rs. 10 lakh towards bore-well and drip irrigation network, as the saplings were supplied free of cost by Andhra Pradesh Greening and Beautification Corporation. The existing soil was replaced with fertile top soil, coco peat, vermicompost, or cow dung, and rice husk in equal proportion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tuda-plans-mini-forest-near-tirupati/article34468646.ece
03 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Whitefly predator eggs to be mass-produced||The Dr. YSR Horticultural University (Dr. YSRHU), buoyed by successful experiments on predators of the invasive Rugose Spiralling Whitefly, has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with several companies for mass production of the predator eggs. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr YSRHU Vice-Chancellor Tolety Janakiram said that the university has conducted excellent research with regard to the Whitefly. For the first time in the country, standardisation of predator Pseudomallada astur (P. astur) was done. The predator Pseudomallada astur would hold the key to controlling the invasive whitefly, he said. The varsity has signed MoUs with private firms to scale up the production. Agreements were signed with Godrej Agrovet based in Chintalapudi of West Godavari district, SSD Enterprises (Gopalapatnam, West Godavari district), Cryptox Biosolutions (Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu) and Echocare Ltd. (Trichy, Tamil Nadu). “The MoUs were entered into for mass production of potential predator Pseudomallada astur on a non-exclusive basis,” Dr. Janakiram said. The V-C said that a capacity-building programme on mass multiplication of Corcyra cephalonica (rice moth) and neuroptera predator Pseudomallada astur was imparted to technical personnel from those firms. “As part of the programme, practical training on rearing of host Corcyra cephalonica and predator Pseudomallada astur was imparted to them. Entire protocol of mass rearing of C. cephalonica, production of Pseudomallada astur and its release technique was taught to them. The methodology of multiplication was simplified and low-cost technology that can be replicated was standardised to promote large-scale mass production,” he said. The mass production is done on lab surrogate host Corcyra cephalonica and predator Pseudomallada astur larvae are reared on these host eggs, he said. At present, Varsity’s bio-control lab’s annual production of predator eggs is 25 to 30 lakh. But demand is enormous and the firm has an indent booking of over one month. Demand for predator eggs is also pouring in from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/whitefly-predator-eggs-to-be-mass-produced/article34469315.ece
03 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID tally hits new peak as 23,920 cases surface in a day||The single-day tally of coronavirus infections hit a new peak in the State as a staggering 23,920 new cases were reported in 24 hours, ending on Sunday morning. The daily tally is double the peak witnessed during the first wave of pandemic last year. During the period, 83 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 8,136. However, the death rate came down to 0.71%. The cumulative tally jumped to 11,45,022 as the recovery rate reduced to 86.79%. With 11,411 recoveries, the total count went up to 9,93,708. The active cases jumped to 1,43,178 that includes the 92,700 patients who have been put under home isolation.  1.14 lakh samples tested As many as 1.14 lakh samples were tested in the past day, the highest so far and their positivity rate was put at 20.93%. The overall positivity rate also increased to 6.90%. East Godavari district reported 12 more deaths, while Anantapur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam reported eight deaths each. Prakasam and Vizianagaram reported seven deaths each, while Chittoor, Nellore, Srikakulam and West Godavari witnessed six fatalities each, followed by Guntur (5) and Kurnool (4). Kadapa district reported no deaths in the past day. Five districts in the State reported more than 2,000 new infections in the past day. Chittoor district reported 2,945 cases, the highest among the districts. East Godavari reported 2,831 infections, followed by Srikakulam (2,724), Kurnool (2,516), Guntur (2,384), West Godavari (1,997), Visakhapatnam (1,938), Prakasam (1,378), Anantapur (1,303), Kadapa (1,055), Nellore (1,011), Krishna (989) and Vizianagaram (849). West Godavari joined the list of districts that witnessed more than 1 lakh infections so far. The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,47,292), Chittoor (1,25,097), Guntur (1,09,053), West Godavari (1,01,872), Anantapur (85,717), Nellore (83,289), Visakhapatnam (83,064), Kurnool (80,438), Prakasam (73,876), Srikakulam (72,843), Kadapa (65,054), Krishna (63,137) and Vizianagaram (51,395).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-tally-hits-new-peak-as-23920-cases-surface-in-a-day/article34469330.ece
03 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Set air-conditioners at 26° C’||The State Energy Conservation Mission (SECM) suggested to people to set their air-conditioners’ temperature setting at 26 degrees Celsius in order to cut down on electricity consumption and contribute to the much-needed reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. In a press release, SECM CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy said that according to estimates, the present annual power consumption by air-conditioners is 2,800 MU. When the AC temperature is set between 19 and 21 degrees, which is much lower than the normal body temperature, there might be risks of hypothermia, skin allergy or itching and high blood pressure, he said. Moreover, when an AC runs at low temperatures, its compressor continuously works on full energy and consumes excess power. The best way to run an AC is to set it up at a temperature of 26° C or more, which results in lesser consumption of electricity. Even if five units are saved per AC per night by running it on 26°, a savings of five million units of electricity per day in 10 lakh houses would be achieved. The usage of a 5-star rated AC would save 4.5 units per day when compared to a zero-star AC. A 1-star split AC of 1.50 ton capacity would save Rs. 665 per year while a 5-star AC would save around Rs. 2,500 when compared to a zero-star AC. In an online meeting on star-rated appliances, Energy Secretary N. Srikant said a reduction of one degree in the setting of AC temperature would result in 6% reduction in electricity consumption. He observed that most of the people have a habit of running their ACs at 20-22 degrees whereas the human body’s temperature tolerance ranges from 23 degrees to 39 degrees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-air-conditioners-at-26-c/article34469311.ece
03 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. postpones Inter examinations||Education Minister A. Suresh on Sunday announced the postponement of Intermediate examinations, which was scheduled to commence on May 5, owing to the spurt in the coronavirus infections in the State. “It has been decided to put the Intermediate examinations on hold as advised by the High Court. A fresh schedule will be released once the pandemic situation improves,” a release quoted the Education Minister as saying. Mr. Suresh observed that some States had either completed the SSC and 10+2 examinations or were in the process. The examinations had been cancelled some other States too and pass certificates issued in the absence of uniform guidelines in this regard from the Central government. High Court’s suggestion The Andhra Pradesh High Court had suggested the State government to reconsider its decision to conduct the examinations in May and June, keeping in view the risk of students, parents and others contracting the infection. The Minister said the Intermediate students ought to score a stipulated percentage of marks to write competitive examinations and on the basis of their performance in those exams, they tend to get good job offers. “The government was, therefore, keen on conducting the examinations in strict adherence to the COVID protocols. Moreover, the practical examinations are over and the written examinations would have lasted only six days,” said Mr. Suresh. Mr. Suresh said the government took note of concerns expressed by the students and their parents and felt that postponement of the examinations was in the best interest of all. The government’s decision would be informed to the High Court on May 3, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-postpones-inter-examinations/article34468580.ece
03 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI for all-party meet on COVID||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has demanded that State government call for an all-party meeting to elicit their opinions on checking the spread of coronavirus infections. The CPI held an all-party meeting that was attended by Opposition parties, representatives of youth and trade organisations among others here on Sunday and passed several resolutions. Resolution adopted The participants demanded that the Central government supply oxygen free of cost to all the States. The other resolutions included supply of medicines and protective gear free of cost to the patients in home isolation and to their family members. They also demanded that necessary steps be taken to ensure that private hospitals did not charge more than the prescribed fee for treating the COVID patients. The leaders said the government should start recruiting health staff and that an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh be paid to employees who died of infection in the line of duty. One COVID hospital should be opened in every Assembly constituency and quality food should be supplied to COVID hospitals, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-for-all-party-meet-on-covid/article34469325.ece
03 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu congratulates winners of elections||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu congratulated Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and DMK leader M.K. Stalin for winning the Assembly elections. “Warm congratulations to @sarbanandsonwal Ji and @BJP4India led NDA for registering a resounding win in Assam Legislative Assembly elections, 2021,” Mr. Naidu tweeted. He also congratulated Mr. Vijayan for leading the Left Democratic Front (LDF) towards a massive win in Kerala. Mr. Naidu congratulated Ms. Banerjee in a tweet. “Hearty congratulations to @MamataOfficial ji led @AITCofficial on its victory in West Bengal Legislative Assembly elections, 2021.” Mr. Naidu congratulated Mr. Stalin for his victory in Tamil Nadu. He also wished the NDA coalition in Puducherry. “My good wishes to NDA coalition (AINRC & @BJP4India) for decisively winning the Puducherry Assembly Elections 2021. All the best!,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-congratulates-winners-of-elections/article34469328.ece
03 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM cheers Gurumoorthy||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the win of the YSRCP in Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha byelection was a people’s victory, and congratulated party candidate M. Gurumoorthy. The fact that the party’s victory margin rose from 2.28 lakh in 2019 to 2.71 lakh proves its popularity, the Chief Minister said in a post on Twitter. “The victory has made us more responsible to serve the people better,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-cheers-gurumoorthy/article34469320.ece
03 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents, students hail decision to postpone Inter exams||The announcement of Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on the postponement of the Intermediate examinations has relieved the tension of parents and students. They are worried as the COVID-19 second wave is sweeping the State. However, the silence of the State government on postponement of SSC (Class X) examinations is causing confusion among parents and students. Various peoples’ organisations and associations have already appealed to the government to postpone both SSC and Intermediate examinations. Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) has written to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday seeking cancellation of the examinations. PAV general secretary T. Kameswara Rao and president M.V. Ramanayya said that the decision to hold the examinations could lead to a disaster. When the State Cabinet meeting was postponed as Ministers would have to gather at one place, how could the government conduct examinations in which lakhs of students would attend, they said. Both students, teachers and parents would be exposed to the risk. While the government claims that all COVID-19 protocols would be followed, one could not be sure that students would comply with the guidelines. Students, who attend examination after taking paracetamol, cannot be detected by the thermal scanner. There could be asymptomatic carriers, who could transmit the virus to others, they said.  ‘Syllabus not completed’ The attendance of students fell to a dismal 10 to 15% and the syllabus has not been completed in many schools. The examinations can be conducted after the COVID-19 cases decline and after giving a month’s time for the students to prepare, they said. In a separate letter to the Chief Minister, Andhra Pradesh Private Schools Association State chairman K.S.N. Murthy has demanded postponement of the SSC examinations. During the academic year 2020-21, very less syllabus was completed for the students due the reduced working days for the schools in view of the pandemic situation, he said. There was full attendance only in February. Again in March, due to the spread of the pandemic students did not attend the classes. Many of the parents and students succumbed to COVID-19. In April only 15% attended, forcing most schools to close down. Most of the students are reluctant to write the examinations now, Mr. Murthy said. Under these circumstances, it would be better to conduct the examinations, after cases declined, he said. The students should be given a month’s time to prepare. Alternatively, they should promoted this year also like last year with a good rank to protect their future, Mr. Murthy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-students-hail-decision-to-postpone-inter-exams/article34469393.ece
03 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 major projects in city await inaugural||The city is keenly awaiting the inaugural of three major projects — the NAD flyover, a Waste-to-Energy recycling plant at Kapuluppada, and a Multi-Level Car Parking Project (MLCP). While the flyover project is under the purview of the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA), the Waste-to-Energy plant and the MLCP are being taken up by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). Officials said that all the projects are in the final phase of construction. A month ago, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana announced that the Waste-to-Energy plant will be inaugurated in April. However, the inaugural was delayed due to the Urban Local Body (ULB) elections. It may be recalled that in February 2016, GVMC had entered into an agreement with JIFT Urban Infrastructure Limited for the project. In December 2018, GVMC had given 17.08 acres of land at Kapuluppada on lease for a period of 25 years. GVMC will supply 900 to 1,000 tonnes of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) gathered from the households on a daily basis to the plant and will also bear the transportation costs. The company would generate 15 MW of power from the waste collected. Discoms will procure electricity generated by the plant. Meanwhile, the MLCP project was also initiated two years ago as part of the Smart City project to provide parking space near Jagadamba Junction. The G+5 MLCP project is being taken up by a Pune-based private company at a cost of Rs. 9.7 crore, and it will accommodate around 100 cars. GVMC officials have carried out a trial run of the project in February. “The waste-to-energy plant was scheduled to be completed by mid-2020, but work was delayed due to COVID-19 and lack of labour. Another deadline of December 2020 was also missed due to the delay in the project. Similar is the situation with the MLCP, which too was delayed due to financial issues in 2019 and again due to COVID-19 in 2020. Both the projects will be completed at the earliest,” said a senior official from GVMC. Meanwhile, the much-awaited NAD flyover is in the final stages of completion. Most of the work on the flyover is complete, except for one rotary from Marripalem to NAD Junction. As of now, only the lower rotary, beautification, and electrification works are being carried out. VMRDA officials are planning to invite Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to inaugurate the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-major-projects-in-city-await-inaugural/article34469398.ece
03 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade union leader dies||K. Suryanarayana, leader of HPCL Employees Union, affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), died here on Sunday. The CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee condoled the death of Suryanarayana and expressed sympathies to the bereaved family members. Party Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao described the death as a loss to the working class. In a separate statement, general secretary of the Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) A. Aja Sarma expressed grief at the death of Suryanarayana. He recalled his association with the departed leader in the trade union movement. After the major blast in HPCL in 1997, Suryanarayana had worked relentlessly to exert pressure on the company management for improving safety standards in the refinery, Mr. Aja Sarma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-union-leader-mourned/article34469331.ece
03 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relay fast against sale of VSP enters 80th day||The relay hunger strikes launched by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee in protest against the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) entered the 80th day on Sunday. Union representatives from LMMM, WRM, RS&RS departments participated in the strike. Addressing the gathering, committee convener J. Ayodhya Ram alleged that the ‘mindless decisions’ of the Centre, at a time when the nation was reeling under the coronavirus pandemic, was causing untold hardships to the people. He called upon the people to teach a lesson to the BJP-led NDA government. Oxygen supply He said that public sector steel plants had emerged as a saviour for the coronavirus patients by supplying medical oxygen to hospitals and other COVID facilities. He called upon the VSP management to improve the services being offered at the Visakha Steel General Hospital and take steps for the vaccination of all the employees. “During the first wave of the pandemic, the VSP had lost 19 lives. But in the last four days alone, 19 persons had lost their lives,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relay-fast-against-sale-of-vsp-enters-80th-day/article34469396.ece
03 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1,938 new cases, 8 deaths||Continuing the trend of increase in COVID-19 cases on a daily basis, as the second wave sweeps the district, the district recorded 1,938 cases in the last 24 hours on Sunday. This is the highest daily tally since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, in the district. With the fresh positive cases, the overall tally of cases recorded in the district stands at 83,576. The district also recorded eight deaths, highest since the last eight months, taking the total death count to 626. Meanwhile, 907 persons, who were suffering from the virus, were discharged from hospitals or COVID care centres or have recovered under home isolation. This takes the total recoveries to 70,875.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-dist-records-yet-another-highest-single-day-tally/article34468644.ece
03 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical officer deputed to health centre||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao visited the Rural Health Centre (RHC) at Simhachalam and found there was no medical officer there. He directed Andhra Medical College(AMC) Principal P.V. Sudhakar to immediately depute a medical officer to the RHC. Dr. Sudhakar deputed L. Siva Kumar, Assistant Professor, Social and Preventive Medicine, AMC, for strict implementation of the government programme still further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-officer-deputed-to-health-centre/article34469394.ece
03 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP will be a formidable force in State by 2021’||Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) senior leader Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju here on Sunday said that the party’s victory in Assam and Puducherry and a significant improvement in its performance in West Bengal have boosted the morale of the leaders in the State. Reacting to the poll results, Mr. Sanyasi Raju, who contested as MP candidate of Vizianagaram in 2019 election and worked as a State Treasurer of the Party, said: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image is the biggest asset of the party and it is proved again in the Assembly elections. The State leadership should take a cue from these States and try to improve the party’s strength on its own, which can be possible only with gaining credibility.” ‘Not a difficult task’ He said if BJP could gain the confidence of the people of West Bengal and Assam in the last five years, it was not a difficult task to win the hearts of people in the State. “All that we need to do is understand the issues of the people here and work in tandem with local leaders in resolving them. The party will be a formidable force in the State before 2021 elections,” the leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-will-be-a-formidable-force-in-state-by-2021/article34468641.ece
03 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies in fire accident at Parvatipuram||A short-circuit at a house led to a fire accident, resulting in the death of an elderly woman at Parvatipuram in Vizianagaram district in the early hours of Monday. The deceased woman was identified as Subba Lakshmi (66). Four other family members also sustained burn injuries and were admitted to the Parvatipuram area hospital for treatment. The fire broke out in a shop adjoining the house and soon spread, leading to the mishap. The injured victims told the police that they had tried in vain to save themselves as their house was locked from inside and they were unable to find the key in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-in-fire-accident-at-parvatipuram/article34468642.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP retains Tirupati Lok Sabha seat||The result came as a big disappointment to the BJP - Jana Sena Party combine, which had considered the byelection as a springboard to catapult to power in the State by opening its account in the spiritual centre with its “Hindutva agenda,” with its candidate K. Ratnaprabha suffering an ignominious defeat by polling only a little over 57,000 votes (5.17%) in the wake of JSP president Pawan Kalyan withdrawing from the campaign midway after contracting COVID-19. Ms. Ratnaprabha, a bureaucrat-turned-politician, lost her deposit and so did 25 other candidates, who included another former Union Minister and Congress candidate Chinta Mohan, who polled 9,500 votes. CPI(M) candidate Nellore Yadagiri secured a little less than 6,000 votes. ‘Faith reposed in Jagan’ The surging COVID-19 cases resulted in a reduced voter turnout of 64.42% against 79.76% in 2019. Coming out of the counting centre set up at the D.K. Government Degree College for Women in Nellore, Dr. Gurumoorthy said the result showed that the people reposed their faith in the leadership of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, thanks to the implementation of welfare schemes on a large scale. He promised to make himself available to voters. Dr. Gurumoorthy, in a PPE suit, spoke about the government’s efforts to address the oxygen shortage to provide succour to COVID patients and overcome the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-retains-tirupati-lok-sabha-seat/article34469332.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State receives 82,000 vials of Remdesivir||Andhra Pradesh has received 82,000 vials of Remdesivir injections in the second phase. In the first phase, 60,000 vials were allotted to the State, said the Drug Control Administration (DCA) officials. “The Remdesivir stock has been allotted for the period between May 1 and 9. So far, the Centre has allotted 1.42 lakh vials of Remdesivir to the State during the second wave of the pandemic,” said DCA Director General (DG) S. Ravi Shankar Narayan. With the incidents of misuse and black marketing of Remdesivir injections, the State government is supplying the stocks to the notified COVID hospitals and monitoring the stock of Remdesivir and oxygen at various hospitals. Mr. Ravi Shankar Narayan told The Hindu that Remdesivir injections were being allotted based on the indents submitted by the hospital managements on their daily requirement. All measures are being taken to prevent the illegal sale of Remdesivir. Special teams have been constituted in all districts to check the misuse of the vials, he said. “The teams comprising of the officials of DCA, Vigilance and Enforcement and Health Department visited some hospitals in Visakhapatnam, Prakasam, Nellore, Guntur and other districts. They verified the case sheets, stock position, and interacted with the attendants of the patients undergoing treatment,” Mr. Ravi Shankar said. Vigilance and Enforcement Director General K.V. Rajendranath Reddy said acting on complaints, raids were conducted on COVID hospitals in the State. “Cases have been registered under the Section 188 and 120 of the IPC, and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act after some irregularities were found in a few hospitals. We aim at facilitating the supply of Remdesivir to the needy patients and prevent black marketing, not harassing any person,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-receives-82000-vials-of-remdesivir/article34469336.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sweating it out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sweating-it-out/article34469391.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grim scenario||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grim-scenario/article34469400.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-first/article34469334.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siesta time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siesta-time/article34469313.ece
03 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Probe into diversion of COVID drugs to pvt. hospital||A day after allegations of a scam involving diversion of COVID-19 drugs from the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam to a private hospital came to the fore, the Bhadrachalam town police on Sunday deepened the investigation into the role of some staff members of the hospital in the “racket.” The police reportedly questioned some suspects and obtained vital information about the alleged major scam involving a few employees of the Area Hospital and a private hospital in the temple town. A host of Adivasi sought a CB-CID probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-into-diversion-of-covid-drugs-to-pvt-hospital/article34469217.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Testing goes slack, caseload in TS sees little fluctuation||Telangana recorded 7,430 new coronavirus infections on Saturday, a marginal drop from the previous day’s 7,754 cases. Over the past three days, around 77,000 samples are being examined on a daily basis, keeping the cases in the 7,400-7,800 range. From April 8-24, over 1 lakh tests were being conducted per day. The highest of 10,122 infections were detected on April 26 when 99,638 samples were tested. On April 28, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao claimed that the second wave was “stabilising” and the next three to four weeks were crucial to bring the situation under control. This led to doubts among people on how it was stabilising without many people observing COVID-appropriate behaviour and in the absence of any restriction on movement. A closer look at the daily infection rate, however, shows that the cases are staying within a particular range due to fewer tests conducted. The daily test positivity rate, in fact, has been hovering around the 10%-mark for the past five days. Of the 7,430 cases logged on Saturday, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region saw the maximum number of infections at 1,546 followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (533) and Rangareddy (437). The everyday death toll continues to remain above 50. A total of 56 COVID patients succumbed to the virus on Saturday. So far, the State has conducted 1.3 crore tests and the total case tally stands at 4,50,790. The active cases have increased to 80,695 with 3,67,727 having recovered, and 2,368 dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/testing-goes-slack-caseload-in-ts-sees-little-fluctuation/article34469192.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||How long does it take to find a ventilator bed in Hyderabad?||How much time does it take to find a ventilator bed in and around Hyderabad? To put it simply, one cannot give a definite time period in the current situation. It took more than five hours for the family members and friends of a 70-year-old woman in Secunderabad whose oxygen saturation level had dropped to 80. They found a bed at a small hospital. But compared to others going through the same ordeal, they were relatively fortunate. Sai Charan Chikkula, a volunteer who has been helping people find beds in hospitals by responding to calls for help on social media, said it takes 10 to 12 hours to figure out bed availability in all hospitals. When this reporter heeded an SOS call on Twitter for a ventilator bed for a 51-year-old woman on Sunday evening and reached out to 41 hospitals, as many as 25 said they did not have one available. There was no response to calls by nine hospitals while the numbers of seven hospitals remained busy for long. The numbers had been provided on the government website (health.telangana.gov.in). The patient’s oxygen saturation levels were at a dangerous level of 70. Even after 90 minutes of relentlessly calling up all hospitals where beds were available — as displayed on health.telangana.gov.in — a ventilator bed could not be tracked. Her family finally got a breakthrough after over two hours. Many Twitter users shared a similar experience of finding no beds when they were in the thick of distress, despite calling hospitals where beds were listed as available. Government hospitals and major corporate hospitals in the city limits were fully occupied too. In case of the 70-year old woman from Secunderabad, the oxygen saturation level dropped from 90 to 80 as her family member took her from one hospital to another in their car. “Though some hospitals said they have a bed, they refused to admit her after evaluating her condition. The family visited five hospitals. We called up several more. Finally, she got a bed after five hours,” said a family friend of the patient. Fast occupied “After 10 to 12 hours of tracking a bed, some hospitals call back 4-5 hours later to inform that a ventilator bed is available. In most cases, it gets occupied in a span of a few minutes, if families do not respond in the nick of time. There could be many reasons for that. The private hospitals might have patients on oxygen beds who might need a ventilator bed while others might have a waiting list to cater to,” Mr Sai Charan said. He added that it takes him longer to find a bed since he does not go by the bed availability data on the government website, which may not be updated on real time basis. Instead, he calls up each hospital in the city to track the current situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/how-long-does-it-take-to-find-a-ventilator-bed-in-hyderabad/article34469194.ece
03 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sagar victory KCR’s win and not of TRS||Congress candidate K. Jana Reddy had no inkling of behind the scenes work launched a couple of months in advance by the ruling party to ensure it retained the Nagarjunasagar seat even as it sent deliberate signals initially about its difficulties in finalising the candidate. The TRS victory is nothing but a reflection of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s strategy and perfectly executing the same on the ground. Social engineering and sympathy apart, the TRS needed something extra to defeat Mr. Jana Reddy, who had natural sympathy from voters as he lost the election in 2018 general elections. When the Congress announced quite early that Mr. Jana Reddy would be its candidate, it was a foregone conclusion that he had an edge as there was no tall leader in the TRS to take him on. Moreover, the TRS was divided with two strong forces pushing for their candidates rather than Nomula Bhagat, son of late Nomula Narsimhaiah, whose untimely death necessitated the bypoll. But the Chief Minister held his cards close to his chest without revealing the name he had in mind till the last day sending false confidence to the opposition that the party was struggling to find the right candidate to suit Mr. Jana Reddy’s stature. Mr. KCR finalised Mr. Bhagat despite some apprehensions raised by some senior leaders on the non-local factor that was gaining some strength. He was aware of the numerically strong Yadava community’s sentiment, and also a strong Yadava leader in the BJP that might have taken advantage if any other candidate was picked by the TRS. A senior leader confessed that the CM wanted to neutralise the BJP effect even while ensuring the win for TRS candidate. After announcing Mr. Bhagat’s name, the party also successfully lured Mr. Anjaiah Yadav from the BJP to its fold. The CM entrusted the responsibility of implementing his strategies to MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, who had gained confidence with his hard work and loyalty. He was crucial in the coordination of leaders and whom to tap where and when. After deploying a host of Ministers and MLAs as in-charges for each mandal, the Chief Minister did not commit the mistake he did in Dubbak by-elections by staying away. In fact, he held two public meetings within a gap of a couple of months, a rarity, and one on the day before the campaigning ended, ensuring that his presence and his assurances for the constituency ringed in the ears of voters on the polling day as well. The financial muscle that the ruling TRS party had was also utilised to the maximum effect. Morally down with a series of defeats and resource-crunched Congress entered the fray only on the individual strength of Mr. Jana Reddy, a veteran of many political battles. He could give at least a decent fight or else the battle was lost much before it had begun for the Congress. The BJP was nowhere in the picture right from day one after it announced the little-known Ravi Kumar Naik, a young doctor from the Scheduled Tribes community. It is still baffling as to why Mr. Anjaiah Yadav was denied ticket by the BJP?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sagar-victory-kcrs-win-and-not-of-trs/article34469230.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea to streamline bed allocation||Common people and volunteers have urged the State government to streamline the process of locating ventilator beds in hospitals. The plea has been echoing even as several people share their day-to-day ordeal of making arrangements for beds, oxygen and drugs for a family member or friend on social media platforms. The problems involved in finding a bed becomes accentuated if a COVID-19 patient’s condition worsens at night. As the number of severe cases increases, the demand for ventilator beds is poised to further rise. Adding to their woes is the fact that the phone numbers of a few government and private hospitals provided on the government website — health.telangana.gov.in — are wrong. What’s more, helpline numbers of two major government hospitals in Hyderabad provided are actually the numbers of their respective faculty members. In such a scenario, Telangana could take a cue from the capital of neighbouring State, Maharashtra, in streamlining allocation of ventilator beds. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation mentioned on Twitter that ward war rooms are the only authority to allocate COVID beds in Mumbai. “Bed allocation system was decentralised since a single helpline, with innumerable calls, could not have taken the load alone & it would only increase wait time for citizens. If a War Room does not respond as per need, escalate complaint to 1916 (sic),” the tweet read. Some exceptional cases or serious patients can approach the municipal corporation, government or private health facilities for a bed by furnishing a COVID-positive report. Such a system in Telangana could also help patients from slipping into severe complications and reduce the anxiety of helpless family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-streamline-bed-allocation/article34469195.ece
03 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police motivate rural folk to overcome vaccine hesitancy||Dispelling the myths about the after-effects of COVID-19 vaccination, Wanaparthy police has been successful in motivating people in far-flung areas to get the jab and protect themselves from the infection. Efforts of the police has seen a quantum jump in people turning up at vaccine centres. Unfounded beliefs among villagers like spike in blood pressure, palpitations, lack of appetite and high temperature were preventing them from taking the vaccine. Even the risk factors attributed to co-morbidities was one of the main reasons for their reluctance to get vaccinated. District Superintendent of Police Apoorva Rao said a doctor, along with local leaders, was involved in convincing the villagers about the risks posed by the coronavirus for those not vaccinated. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Rao said that their aim is to reach out to all the villages and create awareness on COVID-19 vaccine to protect the lives of people in the district. “We started the awareness drive a week ago as part of community policing to create awareness among villagers on the vaccine and its benefits,” she said, adding that the drives were being conducted by following COVID norms such as wearing masks, physical distancing and use of hand sanitisers. “We are asking the villagers who take part in the drive to go back home and advise their family members, relatives and other villagers to take the vaccine and protect themselves from the deadly virus,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-motivate-rural-folk-to-overcome-vaccine-hesitancy/article34469201.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala not director of hatchery||The company master data with the Registrar of Companies about Jamuna Hatcheries Private Limited owned by former Minister Eatala Rajender’s family disclosed that Mr. Rajender was not at all a director of the firm. The directors included Mr. Rajender’s wife Jamuna, their son Nithin Reddy and daughter-in-law Kshamitha Loka. Firm set in 2018 The company was incorporated on February 23, 2018, with an authorised capital of Rs. 10 crore and paid up capital of Rs. 9.60 crore. While Ms. Jamuna and Mr. Nithin were directors right from incorporation of the firm, Ms. Kshamitha was included on May 20, 2020. It was a company limited by shares. This being the status, the report of Medak Collector A. Harish to the government said the inquiry led by him showed “some of the assigned land was found in possession of Jamuna Hatcheries Limited represented by Eatala Rajender, Honourable Minister, and Smt. Jamuna w/o Nithin Reddy”. Different numbers The report also said it was observed that 66 acres and one gunta of assigned land in survey numbers 97 of Hakimpet village and survey numbers of 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82 and 130 of Atchampet village was illegally occupied. Jamuna Hatcheries constructed some sheds and buildings and laid a road through the land. On the contrary, all the survey numbers mentioned by the Collector differed with those cited by Jamuna Hatcheries in its letter to the former while denying that it had grabbed land. The company said it purchased land in survey numbers 55, 111, 123, 124, 126, 127, 128, 129 and 130. In only two survey numbers, 81 and 130, cited by the Collector, the company purchased eight acres and 36 guntas from a vendor Seetha Rama Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-not-director-of-hatchery/article34469226.ece
03 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jana Reddy hints at rest, not retirement||Senior Congress leader and former Minister K. Jana Reddy has indicated that he no more has interest in active politics and prefers to take rest, but did not commit that the Nagarjunasagar bypoll was his last. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday after he lost to TRS candidate Nomula Bhagat, he said even if he had won he would have expressed a similar opinion. “Unless the situation demands that my presence is absolutely necessary in the next elections, I prefer to take a break from active politics,” he said. Age factor “I am not tired of politics but it is my personal feeling that I should take rest given my age,” he said, adding that he had contested in the last 11 elections and since he was 20 years old. The former Minister, however, said Congress should not lose hope as the margin in the bypoll between the TRS and the Congress was just 10% despite the ruling party using all the methods at its disposal to win. The result would have been different if it was a general election and not a bypoll where the ruling party has the advantage. Mr. Jana Reddy refuted the allegations that he had not developed the constituency. “The development during my tenure was not peripheral but permanent. Instant schemes may get votes but they hurt development in the long run. People will realise this slowly,” he argued. Democratic values He said he joined the fray as per the wishes of Sonia Gandhi for whom he has great respect for honouring people’s wishes for a separate Telangana. “My contest was to preserve democratic values in Telangana.” He said he would visit the constituency after the situation improves to thank people who supported him throughout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jana-reddy-hints-at-rest-not-retirement/article34469228.ece
03 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS corporator held on rape charge||TRS corporator of Jawaharnagar, Pallapu Ravi, 50, was arrested by the Rachakonda police on Saturday night on charges of rape. He was produced before a magistrate on Sunday, who remanded him to judicial custody. On Saturday, a 33-year-old domestic help lodged a complaint with Jawaharnagar police alleging that when she was alone in their under construction house site the previous evening, Ravi came there and raped her, the police said. As per the police, three years ago the victim and her husband purchased a 115 square yards of land parcel from the accused for Rs. 7.11 lakh. They asked Ravi, who is also a builder, to construct a house for them. However, as locals were troubling the couple, they left the area, and recently they approached the corporator again to finish the construction work for Rs. 2 lakh and paid Rs. 50,000 in advance. “To oversee the construction work, Ravi went to the site. He noticed the victim alone and forced himself on her,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-corporator-held-on-rape-charge/article34469208.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Japanese scholarships for students||Japan MEXT — Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology — is offering scholarship to international students wishing to study in Japan as undergraduate students (five years), College of Technology (four years) and Specialized Training College (three years) under the Japanese Government (MEXT) Scholarship Program of 2022. More details can be had on the webpage of the Consulate-General of Japan in Chennai:https://www.chennai.in. emb-japan.go.jp/itpr_ja/ 11_000001_00173.html. The application along with the requisite documents can be submitted by May 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/japanese-scholarships-for-students/article34468777.ece
03 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||AFS staff electrocuted||A 39-year-old Military Engineering Services employee was electrocuted at Air Force Station, Begumpet, here on Saturday night. The victim, Mandavalli Kiran Kumar, an electrician a resident of New Bowenpally, went to the AFS to check the electricity supply in one of the units as it got shut down. “Without turning off the substation transformer, he with the help of his assistant Durgesh climbed the pole. “Suddenly, the power supply resumed and he was electrocuted,” Bownepally Sub-Inspector Sudhakar Reddy said. He said that the incident took place around 9.30 p.m. and Kumar was soon rushed to Osmania General Hospital, where he was pronounced dead by the doctors. A case under Section 304-A (Causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/afs-staff-electrocuted/article34469209.ece
03 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||It’s a wait and watch for Eatala Rajender!||After being stripped of the Health Ministry and the government stepping up its efforts to corner him with the inquiry report on land grabbing, MLA Eatala Rajender is waiting for the next move of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Will the episode end with the Ministry taken away or will he also be asked to resign as the MLA, or will the government further probe into other land dealings is what haunts Mr. Rajender. He seems to adopt the wait and watch approach and let things happen at their own pace rather than he pushing for some drastic action to be taken by the CM, not only from the government but also as the head of the TRS party. The next big development, he feels, might be the effort to suspend him from the party and then ensure his removal as MLA with anti-party activities attributed to him. If the developments reach that stage, he may prefer to let them happen rather than he himself taking the first step. Mr. Rajender indicated the same to his followers and hundreds of supporters from his Huzurabad constituency. TRS party workers, sympathisers and his followers met him at his farm house near Shamirpet expressing their sympathy and support for him. Some of them became emotional as well, seeing their favourite leader facing the biggest political crisis of his life. And that the crisis was a result of their own party going after the Minister. Mr. Rajender did not spell out his future plans despite some emotional demands that he launch a new party rather than taking it lying down. He reiterated his oft-repeated belief that TRS was the party of all those who sacrificed so much in the Telangana agitation, and they cannot so easily disassociate from it. He explained his pain and hurt with the way he was being defamed by the government and his own party. His followers said Mr. Rajender wants to wait for the outcome of the inquiry report and then take legal opinion to fight the cases in the courts. For politics there is enough time, he feels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/its-a-wait-and-watch-for-ex-minister/article34469232.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No clarity on resumption of vaccination||There is no clarity over whether COVID-19 vaccination drive will resume at government COVID Vaccination Centres (GCVCs) from Monday. On Friday, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao stated that the vaccination programme will not held at the GCVCs over the weekend (May 1 and 2). However, till late Sunday evening, there was no communication from the Health department regarding resumption of vaccination from the new week. The information is crucial for scores of people who have been waiting endlessly for their second vaccine dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-clarity-on-resumption-of-vaccination/article34469196.ece
03 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR thanks people of constituency||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao thanked the people of Nagarjunasagar for ensuring a big victory to the party by blessing Nomula Bhagat Kumar with a vast majority. Recollecting the promises made during electioneering, he said these would be fulfilled in due course. “Very soon, I will visit the constituency again along with Mr. Bhagat to thank the constituents and reassure that all their problems will be resolved,” the Chief Minister said in a statement issued after the party’s victory on Sunday. The lift irrigation schemes sanctioned in Devarakonda, Nagarjunasagar, Miryalguda, Huzurnagar and Kodad constituencies would be completed on a fast track to irrigate the intended ayacut. All issues of people in Nagarjunasagar compiled during the campaigning would be attended in a time-bound manner. Thanking the people of Nagarjunsagar for expressing their immense faith in the welfare schemes of the government, the Chief Minister said they had supported TRS despite several vicious campaigns let loose by vested interests. He said TRS would rededicate itself and work with renewed vigour for the comprehensive development of the constituency. Mr. Rao congratulated Mr. Bhagat and suggested the newly-elected legislator to utilise the opportunity to serve the people and lay a strong foundation for a successful political career. He thanked the TRS leaders, cadre and supporters for working for Mr. Bhagat’s victory. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said that the result has reiterated one more time that Telangana society was firmly behind KCR and TRS. Government whip Balka Suman said the bypoll result should be a lesson for BJP and felt that the development done by TRS had defeated Congress candidate K. Jana Reddy as people had given a clear verdict in favour of TRS in every mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-thanks-people-of-constituency/article34469220.ece
03 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Outpatient clinics in all govt. hospitals soon||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the GHMC officials to start outpatient clinics at all government hospitals, urban health centres and basti dawakhanas and wanted home treatment kits to be handed over to all the symptomatic persons. The officials concerned were asked to constitute teams with municipal staff, ANM and at least two ASHA workers. The teams should visit every household in the area to identify people suffering from fever and other symptoms and would handover kits with medicines. They would also follow up and monitor the health condition of the patients. In addition, steps should be taken to intensify cleanliness drive in all the government hospitals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/outpatient-clinics-in-all-govt-hospitals-soon/article34469207.ece
03 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Counting of votes for KMC polls today||The stage is set for counting of votes polled in Friday’s election to the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) amid COVID-19 safety protocols at the designated counting centre at SR&BGNR Government Degree and PG College here on May 3. The process of conducting COVID-19 tests for the entire staff, including the police personnel to be deployed at the counting centre, has been completed as per the instructions of the State Election Commission, sources said. According to sources, the staff will be allowed inside the venue of the counting centre on Monday only after showing the COVID-19 negative test report. As many as 10 CCTV cameras have been installed outside the strong rooms. The entire counting process will be video-graphed as per the stipulated norms. Collector R.V. Karnan on Sunday visited the venue of the counting centre and monitored the arrangements for smooth conduct of counting of votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/counting-for-khammam-civic-body-today/article34469216.ece
03 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Probe into alleged land grabbing continues||Officials from the revenue, vigilance and other departments continued their inquiry into the alleged encroachment of land by Jamuna Hatcheries Private Limited, a firm owned by wife and son of former Health minister and TRS leader Eatala Rajender, on the second day. Signboards erected The officials erected signboards on the land allegedly encroached. Collector A. Harish with several teams of officials had visited these villages on Saturday, conducted an inquiry and interacted with villagers who made the allegations. He had confirmed that about 65 acres of assignment land was encroached. About 15 signboards were erected in the last two days. Besides, the officials went through the records at Masaipet mandal revenue office and looked into when the land changed hands and what other ‘manipulation’ took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-into-alleged-land-grabbing-continues/article34469355.ece
03 May 2021||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||Use all available ventilators: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has directed officials to use all the ventilators available with the government by Monday evening. He warned that any laxity would not be tolerated. Mr. Rao said that officials should see to it that there is no shortage of oxygen or Remdesivir injections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/use-all-available-ventilators-harish/article34469214.ece
03 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||In view of the increasing demand for blood during the corona pandemic, the district unit of the BJYM organised a blood donation camp at the district headquarters town on Sunday. Blood shortage was experienced as those who got vaccinated are not supposed to donate blood till 56 days were over after the jab. As many as 44 persons donated their blood at the camp. BJYM has been campaigning with the slogan ‘Donate blood, then get vaccine’ and organising such camps, said BJYM district president Pavan Mudiraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34469213.ece
03 May 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao on Sunday called upon party workers not to hold any rallies or processions after the declaration of results for municipal elections on Monday. He said that all victory rallies were banned by election authorities in view of the pandemic and hence, all party workers should follow it without fail. He also directed polling agents to come to counting stations with masks and sanitisers. Collector P. Venkatarama Reddy said that only three persons would be allowed to collect winning certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34469356.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||TDP decimated in State politics||The Telugu Desam, which was recently decimated in State politics with the exit of its lone MLA who joined the TRS, has suffered blow after blow since the formation of separate Telangana. The latest jolt that the party had to face was in the byelection to Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency whose result was declared on Sunday. Its candidate Muvva Arun Kumar polled just 1,708 votes while an Independent, Talari Rambabu, was ahead with 2,970 votes. Party leaders never expected it to do so badly. The bypoll was also a setback to the BJP that was riding high with victory in Dubbak bypoll and GHMC polls. Its candidate P. Ravi forfeited deposit as he polled only 7,646 votes.   Whenever there are elections to local bodies, either urban or rural, the announcement of candidates by major political parties would have one common feature – that is to announce the candidatures of wards reserved for women with a photo along with the image of their husband or father, in case they are unmarried. It’s repeated again in the elections held to seven urban local bodies, including the Warangal and Khammam corporations, counting of votes for which is scheduled on Monday.  When contacted and asked to throw some light on the unwelcome tendency, a ruling party leader said, “It becomes inevitable to have the photos of the women candidates along with their husband or father as it is the men who would be active in public and since the wards are reserved for women, they can’t enter the fray. The women who would be actually in fray are lesser known in public, in a majority of cases, and the pictures of husband or father would only for better recognition of the candidate by the electorate”. A strange and convenient explanation indeed as women have proved time and again that they more than what they are portrayed to be.   Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao led State government has received all round appreciation for its action on the complaints of land grabbing made against senior leader and former Minister for Health Eatala Rajender. The swift manner in which the probe was ordered against Mr. Rajender and submission of the preliminary report by the District Collector concerned in less than 24 hours caught everyone by surprise. A section of people and political parties are now urging the government to initiate action against all those facing similar charges of land grabbing.  (N. Rahul, B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tdp-decimated-in-state-politics/article34469225.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Cans of hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cans-of-hope/article34469204.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail - Hyderabad||Fear and news of COVID-19 has crippled our freedom of movement and social relationships with social distancing becoming the order of the day. So-called life-saving drugs like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab etc are being prescribed by doctors and families of patients are made to procure those themselves. They have to run around to find the drug or end up losing their loved one if they can’t lay their hands on it. There is a huge shortage of medicines and some are being sold by black marketeers at exorbitant prices which a normal person cannot afford. Why can’t the State government rise to the occasion and open their own outlets to dispense the medicines on doctor’s prescription so that many lives can be saved? Imposing night curfews or lockdowns will not solve the problem; instead it adds more to agony. Request the authorities to shoulder the pain and agony of the patient, and do the needful. V.G. Deshpande, Warsiguda    A single oxygen cylinder being shared by three patients/citizens outside a private hospital as beds were full sounds like a novel idea. It was also noticed that they were being monitored with a shared oxygen-meter, showing excellent presence of mind. Kudos to the three persons, hospital and staff as a life lost cannot be brought back. Where there is a will, there is a way. Have a big tent or asbestos to protect/ shield the patients from the heat too. P.V. Padmavati, Boudhanagar    There are proposals to shift the Sarada Nagar post office in Vanasthalipuram from the present premises which is in prime location and accessible to people. One plan seeks to merge it with Vanasthalipuram sorting post office but it is 2km away and not at all convenient for senior citizens. Authorities concerned are requested to take a decision in the larger public interest. I V.Prabhakar Rao, Vanasthalipuram  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns.      They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail-hyderabad/article34469200.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||HC allows BJP leader to amend plea in challenge to Jain’s election||The Delhi High Court has allowed BJP leader S.C. Vats to make amendments in his petition challenging the election of Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain to the Legislative Assembly for allegedly indulging in “corrupt practices”. Mr. Vats lost to Mr. Jain in the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections from Shakur Basti constituency here. The court has also permitted Mr. Vats to place on record certain additional documents and asked Mr. Jain to file his reply to the amended petition within four weeks and listed the matter for hearing on July 19. “From the amendments as proposed to be brought, it is evident that the petitioner [Vats] has not introduced any new fact and is only adding particulars to the existing facts. Further, the respondents [Jain, Returning Officer and Chief Election Officer] are yet to file their reply to the election petition and hence the amendments are sought at the preliminary stage itself. “Consequently, this court deems it fit to permit amendments to the petition as also filing of the additional documents,” Justice Mukta Gupta said in an order passed on April 8, and made available now. Vats, in his plea, had sought to make amendments to the plea regarding some typographical errors, inadvertent omission and explanatory facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-allows-bjp-leader-to-amend-plea-in-challenge-to-jains-election/article34469167.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Ensure medicines and equipment for COVID not sold above MRP: HC||The Delhi High Court on Sunday directed the Delhi government to ensure that medicines and equipment like oxygen cylinders and concentrators needed for COVID-19 treatment not be sold above the maximum retail price (MRP). A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli directed the government to book those persons found hoarding or black marketing medicines and equipment related to COVID-19 and be brought before the court for taking independent contempt action against them. The direction was issued after the court was informed by some lawyers that there was rampant overcharging of medicines and equipment. Subsequently, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that Delhi Police has set up a helpline — 33469900 — for receiving complaints about malpractices like overcharging for ambulances, hoarding or black marketing of medicines, equipment. He urged the court to direct that the helpline be widely publicised so that people can inform authorities about such unscrupulous activities and action can be taken against the same. Taking note of the submission, the court directed the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) and police to give wide publicity to the helpline number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ensure-medicines-and-equipment-for-covid-not-sold-above-mrp-hc/article34469168.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Ghaziabad and Noida add 32 more virus deaths||Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddha Nagar together recorded 32 new COVID-19 deaths and 2,656 fresh cases on Sunday as the cumulative number of active patients in the two neighbouring districts in western Uttar Pradesh surged to 15,378, official data showed. Ghaziabad logged 20 more fatalities that pushed its death toll to 246, while 1,085 more people tested positive for the infection, taking the overall case tally to 42,045, according to data released by the State health department for a 24-hour period. During the same period, Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded 12 fatalities that pushed its death toll to 237. It also saw its highest single-day spike in infections with 1,571 new cases and the district’s case tally reached 44,346, the data showed. The two neighbouring districts, adjoining Delhi, now have a cumulative death toll of 485 and 15,378 active cases, according to the data. Their overall tally of COVID-19 cases so far is 86,391. The health department’s data showed that 863 patients were discharged in Ghaziabad and 1,303 in Gautam Buddha Nagar, leaving active cases in these districts at 7,117 and 8,261, respectively. The overall number of recovered patients in Ghaziabad reached 34,682 with a recovery rate of 82.48% and 35,848 in Gautam Buddha Nagar with a recovery rate of 80.83%. The mortality rate in Ghaziabad stood at 0.58% and in Gautam Buddha Nagar at 0.53%, according to the statistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ghaziabad-and-noida-add-32-more-virus-deaths/article34469169.ece
03 May 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha declares journalists front-line COVID warriors||The Odisha government has declared working journalists as front-line Covid warriors, recognising the risks they undertake to cover the pandemic. Approving a proposal to this effect on Sunday, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said, “Working journalists are doing a great service to the State by providing seamless news feed, making people aware of issues relating to COVID-19.” According to the Chief Minister’s Office, the decision is likely to benefit 6,944 working journalists. “These 6,944 working journalists have been covered under Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana. They get health insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh each,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-declares-journalists-front-line-covid-warriors/article34469176.ece
03 May 2021||Chandigarh,||More curbs in Punjab||The Punjab government on Monday announced that not more than two persons can travel in a car, 50% staff strength at government offices and a negative COVID-19 test report must for those entering the State as part of added curbs amid rising COVID-19 cases and fatalities. These restrictions, in addition to the earlier ones, will remain in effect till May 15, according to the Punjab Home Department’s directive to all Deputy Commissioners and district police chiefs. Punjab is among the worst-hit States in the second wave of the pandemic. On Saturday, it registered 7,041 fresh COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/more-curbs-in-punjab/article34469175.ece
03 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Automotive units suspend work in Gurugram, but hopes afloat||The large migrant workforce employed in hundreds of automotive units across Gurugram-Dharuhera-Bhiwadi industrial belt is in a dilemma, whether to return home or stay back after the three Original Equipment Manufacturers – Maruti Suzuki, Hero Motocorp, and Honda Motorcycles & Scooter India Pvt. Ltd (HMSI) – announced a temporary halt of 10-15 days amid a surge in COVID-19 cases and multiple lockdowns across the cities. However, the overwhelming sentiment seems to be to “wait and watch”. “Lots of my friends working in automotive units and staying within a radius of around 200-250 km have decided to go to their homes during the shutdown. But those from far-off areas such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, said they would continue to stay in Gurugram during the shutdown. It is not viable to go back and then return in a week’s time. Also, they are hopeful that the shutdown will not prolong and production will resume,” said Sompal Vats, working at Sunbeam Lightweighting Solutions Pvt Ltd in Gurugram’s Narsingpur. From Haryana’s Panipat, Vats has been working at the automotive company for more than 15 years and is now settled in Gurugram. The company, a vendor of Maruti Suzuki and Hero Motocorp, might run during the shutdown as well. “The company also exports auto parts. So it may continue to run despite both OEMs being shut,” said Mr. Vats. Scary situation His colleague, Gopi Chand, a resident of neighbouring Palwal, said the situation arising out of the infection was “very scary” and most of the workers wanted their companies to shut down for 10-15 days. “More than 30 workers in our company are infected. Most of the workers commute by autorickshaws and buses and are at the risk of contracting the infection. They are scared for their lives. But they need to come for work if the company is running,” said Mr. Chand. “Workers won’t mind a few days shutdown, even if they are not paid for it. Jan hai to jhaan hai [While there’s life there’s hope]. But they cannot afford a long break from work without salary,” he quipped. Convincing workers Former Maruti Udyog Kamgaar Union general secretary and workers’ leader Kuldeep Jhangu said the Maruti Suzuki company had advanced its annual maintenance activity during the shutdown and all employees would be paid during this period. “Since all employees will be paid for the nine-day shutdown, there is no reason for them to go back to their hometowns. The workers have also been directed not to leave the station. The contractual workers might be tempted to go back to their homes in case the shutdown is further increased,” said Mr. Jhangu. Many automotive companies have advised their workers not to leave the station during the shutdown. “We have advised the workers not to travel in the present situation as it is not safe. Since the shutdown is only for nine days, we hope they do not leave for their homes. Even if a fraction of the workforce decides to go, it won’t impact the production much,” said a senior Human Resource official at an automobile company in Manesar, unwilling to be named. He added that the possibility of national lockdown was bleak this time and they had tried to convey this to the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/automotive-units-suspend-work-in-gurugram-but-hopes-afloat/article34469140.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||With second strike of pandemic, a second wave of exodus||Amid the sustained surge in COVID-19 cases, migrant workers in the city, who had come back to the Capital a few months ago, are forced to return to their villages, yet again due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. For most, the second phase of restrictions has meant a loss of livelihood for the second time within a year. When the Delhi government announced a one-week lockdown, many had hoped it would not get extended. But that was not to be. Loss of work With the national capital reeling under a shortage of beds, oxygen, medicines and the positivity rate continuing to be high, several migrant workers said they wanted to return to their hometowns while the trains were still running. Referring to last year’s exodus, the workers said they did not want to endure the same experience if there was a complete shutdown. Sheikh Ariful Ali, an embroider in Shahpur Jat, said: “Last year we were stuck in Delhi for the longest time without work. Ultimately, we had to pay around Rs. 3,200 per ticket for the special trains and return to our village in West Bengal. We do not want a repeat of the same situation. We are planning to leave by the first week of May. Just when the work was picking up, we have to return again.” With a reduced workload and source of income, negotiating with landlords had also become difficult, said Mr. Ali. “Four of us stay in a room that costs Rs. 8,000. With no income currently, how are we supposed to sustain ourselves over here? The landlord has clearly mentioned that we cannot keep the room if we do not pay. So for us, it is a better option to return at the moment,” said Mr. Ali who is from the West Medinipur district. S.K. Riyazul Hussain, another embroider from the same district, said around 800 people had already returned even as others are planning to do the same. “We stayed back in the first two weeks as there were some orders left. Now we are completely out of work. Because of restrictions on international flights, our products, which usually get exported, have also stopped. Wedding seasons were another big source of income for us. Now with the curtailed arrangement, we do not have work from there as well,” said Mr. Hussain. Stating that workers were at a loss, Mr. Hussain added, “Last year, with a complete shutdown, the situation was worse. Now, if it happens again, we will not have any options left with us. So it is best we leave now.” Prevailing uncertainty Waiting at the Sarai Kale Khan terminal with his family of four, Akhilesh Kumar, a migrant worker from Bihar, said that two weeks of lockdown and the prevailing uncertainty had forced him to take the decision to return. “First we thought this lockdown will be for a week and then it got extended to another week. Now we do not know for how much longer it will continue. So it is best that we return to our village. Remaining here endlessly without work does not make sense. We have faced enough miseries last year and cannot afford it once again,” said Mr. Kumar, who used to work as a daily wager at construction sites. However, for some like Raju Yadav, a juice seller from Bihar’s Danapur district, arriving at the decision has not been easy. “Last year, I had gone home after much distress. But this time I am in a fix as things are not really in great shape back home. It is not like the situation is better out there. Here, at least, I am somehow managing to scrape through the days. Additionally, if we go home, I will have to continue paying the rent. What is the point then? I am really in a fix and not sure what to do apart from hoping that restrictions will be lifted soon,” said Mr. Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-second-wave-of-the-virus-and-another-exodus/article34469138.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Overwhelmed with bodies, small crematoriums face meltdown||While most cremation grounds in the city are already overwhelmed with bodies, the smaller ones dedicated to COVID victims are seeing additional problems. In the lesser-known cremation grounds, the staffers are finding it difficult to control the barrage of COVID positive relatives of victims. Varsha Mehta, a Dwarka resident, who went to the Subhash Nagar ground to cremate her husband Sandeep Mehta said she and her son Tushar were both COVID positive. “There is no one to help us with cremation. My husband died in a hospital and his body had to be moved,” she said. While the hospital told the family that there was a tie-up with the cremation ground and therefore the body was released, the crematorium was full in the afternoon. “We have been waiting for an hour and they are saying the ground is full. The body has been in the ambulance for over two hours,” she said. BP Rawat, president of Janshakti NGO, which runs the cremation ground, said people should be aware enough to not visit public places if they are infected. “We have a staff of about 30 people managing cremations, wood and coordination. It is impossible to keep a track of people coming in and so many of them are COVID positive,” he said. Dr. Rawat added that the ground can accommodate 40 cremations on wooden pyres and about 16 a day at the CNG crematorium inside. “Unfortunately, we have to refuse after we reach our limit. What to do?” he said, as a staffer turned away a man. “Thank God, we didn’t get the body released from the hospital,” the man said. Dr. Rawat added, “Even if it’s a lesser-known cremation ground, we have to stop taking bodies around 1 p.m. or 2 p.m. because we are full by then. Every day, our staff can leave only by 1 a.m.,” he said. Sitting in an e-rickshaw, waiting to cremate her father’s body, was 18-year-old Sukanya and her mother. “My father was killed by the healthcare system and not COVID. I remember going to arrange oxygen for him at 3 a.m. and have it delivered in the hospital, but his pneumonia was diagnosed much later,” she said. A ‘non-COVID’ cremation ground in Tilak Vihar wore a deserted look on the outside. But inside, all the 25 wooden pyres were burning at the Shamshan Bhumi Sudha Samiti. About 10 days ago, we were getting one or two bodies, said head priest Ashok Kumar Sharma. “Since then, we have been getting many bodies on a daily basis. People start queuing up at 5.30 a.m. and by 7 a.m., there is a crowd. As soon as we have 25 people, we stop. This usually happens around 11 p.m.,” he said. Denying COVID Mr. Sharma said the surge in the number of bodies makes him wonder that these could be COVID positive people dying at home. “We ask people if the person died of COVID, but they deny because they know we wouldn’t accept otherwise. We then have our own ways to ascertain whether the person is lying. We ask ambulance drivers, see if anyone is wearing PPE kits or if they are maintaining distance from the body,” he said. But the fear always hovers, said another staffer Balbir Singh. “We don’t touch the bodies at all. Family members themselves have to place the body on the pyre. That is our way of taking precautions because we are sure some COVID positive bodies are coming in,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/overwhelmed-with-bodies-small-city-crematoriums-face-meltdown/article34469135.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three arrested for killing man during robbery bid||Three men were arrested for allegedly killing a person during a robbery bid in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, the police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Sunny (21), Ritik (20) and Mohammad Izaz (18) — both residents of Sangam Vihar, they said. A man named Azad was assaulted, robbed of his phone and Rs. 1,000 cash at 11.15 p.m. on April 18 while he was returning home from his brother’s house, an officer said. A case was registered under relevant sections of the IPC on April 19. Later, he died during treatment on April 25 and Section 302 (murder) was also added in the case. On April 26, the police analysed CCTV footage in which the accused men were seen. ‘Accused were intoxicated’ “In the evening, one of them was identified as Sunny. A trap was laid near his house, and he was nabbed. On his instance, his associates Ritik and Izaz were also arrested,” said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. The mobile phone has been recovered. The accused, who were intoxicated at the time of the incident, were going to purchase cigarettes when the victim’s deceased’s motorcycle bushed past them. Next, a verbal altercation ensued between them. The accused then started assaulting Azad following which they robbed him, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-arrested-for-killing-man-during-robbery-bid/article34469143.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 held for black marketing of oxygen concentrators||Two men have been arrested for their alleged involvement in black marketing oxygen concentrators — an equipment used to treat COVID patients — the police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Anuj Minda (41), a resident of Ashok Vihar, and Gurmeet Singh (36) from Rohini, they said. The accused charged Rs. 1.65 lakh for an oxygen concentrator against its actual price of Rs. 31,000. On Saturday, Bharat Juneja from Kalkaji Extension, called the Ashok Vihar police station, saying his wife and mother were COVID positive and in a critical condition when he purchased an oxygen concentrator from Minda at Rs. 1.45 lakh. However, the machine was not in a working condition, he told the police. When Mr. Juneja contacted Minda to tell him that the machine was not working, the accused refused to change the machine and did not give any refund, they said. “The police arrested Minda. He disclosed that he was engaged in black marketing of oxygen concentrators along with Singh. Later, Singh was also arrested. One oxygen concentrator was also recovered,” said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Guriqbal Singh Sidhu.  The accused charged Rs. 1.65 lakh for an oxygen concentrator against its actual price of Rs. 31,000 Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2-held-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-concentrators/article34469146.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ambulance driver held for overcharging||An ambulance driver has been arrested for allegedly charging Rs. 14,000 to ferry the body of a COVID-19 victim from the hospital to the crematorium, the police said on Sunday. Kandhi Lal was charging the exorbitant amount to ferry the patient for a distance of 6 km, they said. On Saturday after receiving a tip-off about the driver, the police laid a trap. “Constable Mahesh called the driver and asked him to ferry the body of a COVID patient to Nigam Bodh Ghat from NuLife Hospital. The ambulance driver said it would cost him Rs. 14,000 and sent a slip to give the money,” said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Guriqbal Singh Sidhu. Next, the driver was held, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ambulance-driver-held-for-overcharging/article34469144.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Medical store owner held for fleecing||A 39-year-old medical store owner was arrested for allegedly selling COVID-19-related equipment four times higher than the maximum retail price, the police said on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Sudhir Gahlot, a resident of Mohan Garden, Uttam Nagar, they said. The police said they received information at Jamia Nagar police station about the incident. Next, on Saturday, a tip-off was laid following which Gahlot, the owner of Advanced Medical Home care, was arrested. Three oxygen flow meters, two water nozzles and 18 oxygen pumps were seized, the police said, adding that he was previously involved in five cases of cheating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/medical-store-owner-held-for-fleecing/article34469145.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||All quiet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/all-quiet/article34469142.ece
03 May 2021||Seoul,||North Korea says Biden has a ‘hostile policy’, warns of response||North Korea on Sunday accused U.S. President Joe Biden of pursuing a hostile policy, dismissing “spurious” American diplomacy and warning of a response. Mr. Biden had said on Wednesday that his administration would deal with the threat posed by Pyongyang’s nuclear programme “through diplomacy as well as stern deterrence”. The White House said on Friday that Mr. Biden was open to negotiations with North Korea on denuclearisation following the completion of a policy review, but Pyongyang said Mr. Biden had made a “big blunder”. “His statement clearly reflects his intent to keep enforcing the hostile policy toward the DPRK as it had been done by the U.S. for over half a century,” Kwon Jung-gun, a Foreign Ministry official, said in a statement released by the official KCNA news agency. “The U.S.-claimed ‘diplomacy’ is a spurious signboard for covering up its hostile acts, and ‘deterrence’ touted by it is just a means for posing nuclear threats to the DPRK,” Mr. Kwon added. “Now that what the keynote of the U.S. new DPRK policy has become clear, we will be compelled to press for corresponding measures.” The White House said Friday that its goal remains “the complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula”. Mr. Biden’s press secretary Jen Psaki gave little indication of what kind of diplomatic initiative this could entail, but suggested that the President had learned from the experience of his predecessors, who struggled to deal with North Korea’s leadership and its nuclear weapons programme.  In a separate statement through KCNA, North Korea also accused the U.S. of insulting its leadership and its anti-coronavirus measures, referring to a State Department press release on April 28. State Department spokesman Ned Price had issued a statement that day criticising North Korea’s human rights abuses and draconian COVID-19 curbs, describing it as “one of the most repressive and totalitarian states in the world”. ‘A political trick’ “The ‘human rights issue’ touted by the U.S. is a political trick designed to destroy the ideology and social system in the DPRK,” the North Korean Foreign Ministry said. And in a third statement issued on Sunday, Mr. Kim Jong-un’s powerful sister Kim Yo-jong lashed out at South Korea over a recent anti-Pyongyang leaflet campaign by a defector group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-says-biden-has-a-hostile-policy-warns-of-response/article34468512.ece
03 May 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar rebel group calls for united fight against junta||A prominent rebel group in eastern Myanmar appealed on Sunday to other ethnic armies to unite against the military, as the country enters its fourth month under a junta regime. Myanmar has been in turmoil since civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi was deposed in a February 1 coup, triggering a mass uprising across the country. As security forces have deployed deadly violence against civilians to suppress a persistent anti-junta movement, some of Myanmar’s myriad ethnic armies have spoken out against the military. Among the most prominent opponents is the Karen National Union (KNU), which has admitted offering shelter to fleeing dissidents in the territory they control along Myanmar’s eastern border. Clashes have escalated in Karen state between the KNU’s fighters and the military. Last week the rebels attacked and razed a military base. The junta retaliated with airstrikes and rocket launchers aimed at rebel-held territory. On Sunday — after five days of air raids — the vice chief of staff for the KNU’s armed wing wrote an open letter calling for all ethnic Karen fighters to unite, regardless of their loyalties. “Never has there been such a great opportunity during the 70-plus years of revolution. Take advantage of this and fight against the Burmese military dictatorship,” said Lieutenant General Baw Kyaw Heh. “In our generation, let us stand united... to escape the military dictatorship.” His letter was addressed to two other rebel groups in Karen state — the Democratic Karen Buddhist Army and the KNU/KNLA Peace Council. Mr. Baw Kyaw Heh also called for unity among ethnic Karen fighters in the Border Guards Forces (BGF) -- a subdivision of Myanmar’s military made up of former ethnic insurgents. “So BGF, as you are Karen, you need to think carefully about it and make the right decision,” he said. “Karen people should not be killing each other.” Myanmar has more than 20 ethnic rebel groups, many of whom hold territories in the country’s border regions. Meanwhile, thousands of anti-coup protesters marched in Myanmar on Sunday, calling for a “spring revolution” with the country in its fourth month under a military regime. Demonstrations kicked off early in commercial hub Yangon as activists called for a show of force and a “spring revolution”. Bomb blasts also went off across different parts of Yangon on Sunday. Explosions have been happening with increasing frequency in the former capital, and authorities have blamed it on “instigators”. Youths gathered on a street corner before marching swiftly down the streets in a flash mob — dispersing soon after to avoid clashing with authorities. “To bring down the military dictatorship is our cause!” they chanted, waving a three-finger salute of resistance. Violence continues Violence erupted again on Sunday by 10 a.m. in Shan state’s Hsipaw township, when security forces opened fire on protesters, killing at least one. “He was shot in the head and died immediately,” said one protester, who said he rushed to hide his friend’s body in case authorities tried to take it away. In northern Kachin state, security forces also fired on protesters, even flinging grenades into the crowd. A 33-year-old man was shot in the head, a fellow demonstrator told AFP, adding that many others were wounded in the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-rebel-group-calls-for-united-fight-against-junta/article34468514.ece
03 May 2021||kabul,||Afghan fighting leaves scores of Taliban fighters dead: Ministry||Fighting between Afghan government forces and the Taliban has left more than 100 insurgents dead in the past 24 hours, the Defence Ministry said on Sunday, as the U.S. military pressed on with its withdrawal from Afghanistan. The Taliban and government forces clashed across several provinces, including in the former insurgent bastion of Kandahar where the U.S. military carried out a “precision strike” on Saturday as it formally began the final troop pullout. Another 52 Taliban fighters were wounded in the clashes, the ministry said in a statement, without giving details of any casualties suffered by government forces. The Taliban did not offer any comment on the fighting, but both sides are known to exaggerate casualties inflicted on the other. Fighting on the ground has continued unabated in recent months as peace efforts aimed at ending the 20-year conflict have faltered. The U.S. military formally began withdrawing its remaining 2,500 troops from the violence-wracked country on Saturday, as ordered by President Joe Biden last month. The pullout of all U.S. forces will now be completed by the 20th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, as announced by President Biden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-fighting-leaves-scores-of-taliban-fighters-dead-ministry/article34468517.ece
03 May 2021||GREEN BAY,||U.S. casino shooting leaves 3 dead, 1 wounded||A gunman killed two people at a Wisconsin casino restaurant and seriously wounded a third before he was killed by police late on Saturday, in what authorities said appeared to be a targeted attack. Brown County Sheriff's Lt. Kevin Pawlak said investigators believe the gunman was seeking a specific person he was angry at. “He was targeting a specific victim who was not there, but he decided to still shoot some of the victim’s friends or co-workers, it appears,” Mr. Pawlak said. Neither the gunman nor the shooting victims were immediately identified. Mr. Pawlak wasn’t sure if the shooter was a former employee of the restaurant, but said “it appears there’s some relationship that had to do with employment”. “Whether or not they all worked there, we’re still working on,” he said. The wounded person was being treated at a Milwaukee hospital, he said. The attack happened around 7.30 p.m. at the Oneida Casino, operated by the Oneida Nation on the western side of Green Bay. Jawad Yatim, a witness, said he saw at least two people shot. “I know for sure two because it happened right next to us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-casino-shooting-leaves-3-dead-1-wounded/article34468518.ece
03 May 2021||Tehran,||Iran’s Zarif apologises for leaked comments||Iran’s Foreign Minister apologized on Sunday for recorded comments that were leaked to the public last week, creating a firestorm in Iran less than two months before presidential elections. The recordings of Mohammad Javad Zarif included frank comments on powerful late Iranian Gen. Qassem Soleimani, who was killed by a U.S. drone strike in 2020. The attack at the time brought the U.S. and Iran to the brink of war. Soleimani’s funeral processions in Iran drew millions of people to the streets. In the recordings, Mr. Zarif criticises Soleimani’s separate relations with Russia and his refusal to stop using the national carrier Iran Air for Syrian operations despite Mr. Zarif’s objections. Iran Air has been sanctioned by the U.S. Mr. Zarif said in an Instagram post on Sunday he hoped Soleimani’s family would forgive him. “I hope that the great people of Iran and all the lovers of General (Soleimani) and especially the great family of Soleimani, will forgive me,” he said. Mr. Zarif’s leaked comments were highly controversial in Iran, where officials mind their words amid a cut-throat political environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/irans-zarif-apologises-for-leaked-comments/article34468521.ece
03 May 2021||Tehran,||U.S. agrees to prisoner swap: Iran state TV||Iran will free prisoners with Western ties in Iran in exchange for billions of dollars from the U.S. and the U.K., state television reported on Sunday. The U.S. denied the report, while the U.K. did not respond. The state TV report quoted an anonymous official just as Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei began giving what authorities earlier described as an “important” speech. However, Mr. Khamenei did not immediately discuss any proposed swap amid negotiations in Vienna over Tehran’s tattered nuclear deal with world powers. The official quoted by Iranian state TV said a deal made between the U.S. and Tehran involved a prisoner swap in exchange for the release of $7 billion in frozen Iranian funds. “The Americans accepted to pay $7 billion and swap four Iranians who were active in bypassing sanctions for four American spies who have served part of their sentences,” state TV said. U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price immediately denied the Iranian state TV report. “Reports that a prisoner swap deal has been reached are not true,” he said. “As we have said, we always raise the cases of Americans detained or missing in Iran. We will not stop until we are able to reunite them with their families.” Tehran holds four Americans in prison. State TV also quoted the official as saying a deal had been reached for the U.K. to pay £400 million to see the release of British-Iranian Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-agreed-to-prisoner-swap-iran-state-tv/article34468523.ece
03 May 2021||Washington,||ISS astronauts splash down off Florida on SpaceX craft||A SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule carrying four astronauts back to Earth splashed down off Florida on Sunday in NASA’s first nighttime ocean landing in more than 50 years. The crew reported they were feeling well after their arrival back on Earth following a nearly six-month mission aboard the International Space Station, NASA said.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iss-astronauts-splash-down-off-florida-on-spacex-craft/article34468520.ece
03 May 2021||Mogadishu,||Somali president reopens election talks in bid to ease tensions||Somalia’s President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed on Saturday relaunched talks over the holding of fresh elections, in a move welcomed by the Opposition. He effectively abandoned a policy voted through last month that would have extended his term in office by two years.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/somali-president-reopens-election-talks-in-bid-to-ease-tensions/article34468522.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A mirror to the future of Tamil Nadu and India||Having been in power for two terms, it was clear that it was not going to be easy for the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) to win again. Further, given that the AIADMK was always seen to be held together by strong personalities, many anticipated an implosion following the passing away of former Chief Minister and party leader Jayalalithaa. Nevertheless, the Tamil Nadu Assembly election was closely fought. Under these circumstances, what does the victory of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) mean for the future of the State and for the pan-Indian polity? The narratives and campaign The election can be seen as a referendum on both Tamil Nadu’s as well as India’s future. At the State level, the election foregrounded three fundamentalisms; the religious fundamentalism of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the language fundamentalism of the fringe Tamil nationalists exemplified by the Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) and the caste fundamentalism of sections of intermediate caste groups that are anxious about Dalit mobility. In a sense, all three have come together in this election to challenge the Dravidian-Tamil identity that enabled the State to forge a relatively inclusive developmental trajectory as well as a composite electoral bloc. The DMK’s campaign sought to not only counter the three narratives, but it also revolved against the erosion of State autonomy, a core ideal of Dravidian politics. Despite its electoral insignificance, the BJP emerged as an ideological opponent to Dravidian mobilisation in this election. Unlike in the past, the BJP targeted DMK’s role in the Sri Lankan Tamil issue, and conducted the ‘Vel Yatra’ to promote Murugan, a popular Tamil deity, to exploit the politics of Tamil nationalism. ‘Tamil’ can now be imagined as a constituent of a glorious Hindu past, with the Dravidian identity being merely a colonial construct. The BJP was aided in this project by NTK which again sought to pit the Dravidian parties against the Tamil identity and hence opened up the possibility of constituting a Hinduised Tamilness. They sought to foreground a ‘pure Tamil’ identity through caste lineage. To them, the Dravidian parties, the DMK in particular, have denied ‘Tamils’ their rights because of the ‘non-Tamil’ origin of some of their leaders. This attack helped the BJP to push the narrative of a ‘Hindu-Tamil’ identity at the expense of ‘Dravidian-Tamil’. Issue of caste The third factor that this election brings to the forefront is caste. For the AIADMK, apart from its leader (and Chief Minister) Edappadi K. Palaniswamy projecting himself subtly as a leader from the numerically large Kongu Vellala Gounder caste, it also passed a Bill just before the election to provide the most backward Vanniyars a 10.5% internal reservation within the 20% Most Backward Community quota to assuage the anxiety of this caste group over Dalit mobility. It may have led to the AIADMK alliance winning a few seats but at the cost of a caste-based polarised polity. The DMK’s victory suggests that despite such mobilisations, the ideological basis of Dravidian commonsense continues to resonate with large sections of its traditional bloc of voters and which may have in fact been strengthened in response to what are seen as attempts by the central government to undermine the State’s autonomy. State autonomy thus constituted another crucial line of battle. The DMK highlighted the AIADMK’s surrender of the State’s rights through its inability to act against a centralising New Education Policy, imposition of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, and its support for the Farm Bills and Goods and Services Tax implementation. The DMK spotlighted such incursions as an attack on the State’s political and cultural autonomy. Results and the idea of India The DMK’s victory, along with that of the All India Trinamool Congress (TMC)’s in West Bengal and the Left Front’s in Kerala, therefore, have a lot to offer to the pan-Indian polity. To begin with, it has a key role in preserving the idea of a pluralistic India. It is ironic that a party which was perceived to be anti-national is now leading the battle for the protection of the core ideals that define India’s Constitution, its secularism and its federalism. Given that constitutional powers including fiscal relations are heavily biased towards the Centre, the limits and possibilities of federalism are largely a function of two variables; the nature of political coalitions at the Centre and the role of States in such coalitions, and sustaining regional diversity. Tamil Nadu’s political history offers lessons for re-imagining India as a substantive federal entity by locating the political in the aspiration for autonomy of self-governing States. There is a clear need for struggles around federal autonomy to be fought collectively with other States that calls for credible political coalitions to strengthen federalism. The Indian variety of federalism — which is very flexible — can be sustained only by such political coalitions. With its strong legacy of fighting for the rights of States, it is imperative that the DMK uses this win to sustain that legacy for pluralism at the national level, and also to guard the unique trajectory of the development of the State which is under attack now. Obstacles to navigate Internally, the victory notwithstanding, the DMK faces several challenges as it assumes power. In the domain of development, the huge fiscal burden compounded by the decline in transfers from the Union government and limited avenues for autonomous resource mobilisation make the task of identifying resources for investments daunting. Clearly, the need for economic governance cannot be overstated. The key, therefore, would be to leverage existing resources effectively, educational institutions and resources being probably the most important. In terms of school education, a shift towards privatisation and poor learning outcomes poses challenges for deepening social justice. A social segmentation in the school education is likely to feed into the uneven quality of higher educational institutions, and what seems to be a potential segmentation of access in terms of caste, class and gender. If broad-basing of education and resultant opportunities in the modern sectors was the core pillar of social justice, effective governance of education needs to address such emerging imbalances. Focus on welfare The DMK’s election manifesto has been hailed for its emphasis on welfare. However, the manifesto and the 10-year vision document put forth by the DMK promises a lot on the governance of development. The promise of a Right to Services Act, emphasis on learning outcomes and university-industry linkages, and efforts to revive State public sector enterprises all augur well on this front. The manifesto also emphasises sustaining agriculture through exploring the possibility of providing a minimum support price for all agricultural products, the promotion of organic farming as well as water resource conservation and management. Politically, the continued electoral dominance of the AIADMK in western Tamil Nadu and the fact that the Pattali Makkal Katchi in alliance has managed to win a few seats in northern Tamil Nadu suggest a partial victory for caste-based mobilisation. The DMK must genuinely renew its anti-caste agenda if its legacy of social justice is to survive in the future. Hence, the party will be tested strongly on whether it can live up to the faith posed in it by the people and their mandate. A series of youth initiatives in the domain of civil society seeking to secure the ideals of social justice that informs the Dravidian movement offers hope. Kalaiyarasan A. is with the Madras Institute of Development Studies, Chennai and a Fulbright-Nehru Fellow at Brown University. Vignesh Karthik K.R. is a doctoral researcher at the King’s India Institute, King’s College London. M. Vijayabaskar is with the Madras Institute of Development Studies, Chennai. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-mirror-to-the-future-of-tamil-nadu-and-india/article34468498.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Towards a new type of government||Dear Chief Minister-elect, I send to you my felicitations on your victory in the elections to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly and my confidence that you will not only inaugurate a new government but what N. Ram, Director of The Hindu Publishing Group, at the recent launch of the book, The Dravidian Model — Interpreting the Political Economy, said he would want to see: ‘a new type of government’. Before I suggest what that ‘newness’ might be, I want to say something which does not need saying for it stares us in the face. Please do not think of this is as ‘an old man’s lecture’. It is not. It is a fellow citizen’s ardent appeal. Tackling the pandemic You are assuming office, like Joe Biden did in Washington a few months ago, in the jaws of a pandemic the like of which India has not seen in recent memory. Death stalks us at every breath. You are inheriting a monstrous crisis in the shape of the virus’ surge. We, the people, have brought the second wave upon ourselves by our utterly callous response to the challenge. We have gifted to you a victory. And a virus. You saw how, despite your entreaties, as your victory’s details were coming in, your joyous supporters converged in large numbers, wearing no masks, milling and mixing, to celebrate. I understand — and share — their happiness but where is the ganniyam Periyar taught us ? You will have to admonish us. You will have to do unpopular things. You will have to be brutally frank with us. But if you have inherited a monumental problem, you have also inherited a superb administrative tradition and a machine in the State that is among the best, most earnest and hard-working in our country. Test it with optimism and trust it with confidence, for there is a crisis at hand. Your officers are a great instrument at your disposal. They will give your vision and your inspiration shape. Your calling for an across-the-board vaccination of all ‘above 18’, when the norm was ‘above 45’, showed your concern and we may expect you to bring vigour and momentum into the vaccination drive, with fairness at the heart of the drive. Please ask the Centre, as CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has done, for vaccines to be made available free to the State, as to all States, so that they can vaccinate us for free. But if that gesture does not come, please go ahead regardless of the cost to the State. There is another ‘cost’ that I want to place before you. I say this not as a teetotaller or as prohibitionist. I say this as one who sees the virus finding an unwitting ally in TASMAC shops supplying liquor, mainly to those who should not be wasting their hard-earned money on alcohol. Please have these outlets shut at once, as a COVID-19 move. Those in charge of implementing COVID-19 ameliorative and preventive measures in the State, and our amazing healthcare providers, have, over the last many months, been working with a zeal amounting to a passion. But a powerful, consistent and committed message from the political class did not come. The elections, which were all about massing people together, contradicted the requirement for distancing. Our estimable Governor made important interventions but then in our polity, the lead has to come from the leader. And you are now that leader. The situation now has reached a stage for brutal frankness. You must tell both your officers and us, the people, that if this second wave is to be tamed and a third and fourth wave are to be averted, it is imperative that we the people of your State be motivated and helped actively to get vaccinated and, equally important, mask up. And have oxygen supplies going. If this does not happen, Tamil Nadu will most definitely slide into the situation that Delhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka face. Thomas Abraham in The Hindu of April 30, 2021 has given telling statistics to show how the community can be turned from being suicidally mask-negligent to being sensibly mask-diligent. Tamil Nadu can be a game changer if it takes up mass mobilisation for vaccination, masking up and maintaining a steady line of oxygen supplies. There is no escape from one or another form of lockdown. Uddhav Thackeray, the amazing Chief Minister of Maharashtra, like you, a first-time Chief Minister, has taken tough decisions. Please seek his advice. Maharashtra has been a distinct gainer in recent weeks because of its lockdowns. We know the deleterious effect of a shutdown, particularly on migrant labour, the informal sector and artisans. But if a total lockdown is wrong, free rein given to dangerous ‘openness’ is no less so. Ten tangible steps I will end now with how you can give the State the gift of a ‘new type of government’ through 10 tangible steps. One, you are a child of the Dravidian movement, which is the bedrock of your party. Give a dramatically new contemporary dimension to that movement by making it the voice, not just of Tamil aspirations, but the voice of the voiceless, the marginalised and the immiserated. Senior Advocate at the Supreme Court, Menaka Guruswamy, has described India as ‘the majority of minorities’. These minorities include ethnic, linguistic and religious minorities but go further to include all those who are vulnerable because of their numbers or situation. Make your government, in other words, a sanctuary for the culturally, economically and socially endangered. Two, give the Opposition, which too has been returned to the Assembly in sizeable numbers, the unconditional respect that you wish had been given to you. Three, make freedom of speech valued by your government as a democratic principle, a desideratum of Dravidian self-expression. Four, make known your intolerance of corruption by exemplary action, sparing no one howsoever high or close. Five, women and Dalits remain under-represented in the political pantheon. Please constitute two empowered panels of advisers on gender and Dalits and give them — and us, who observe them — a sense of their worth. Six, give our farmers (including our fisherfolk) what the Swaminathan Commission has recommended. Seven, make the protection of the natural and physical environment a priority, with polluters, exploiters and looters shown their place, with ‘developers’ told to leave commons and water bodies alone so as to prevent Chennai from the man-made flooding of a few years ago. Eight, take a hard and urgent look at the condition of our prisons and of undertrials in them, most of who are likely to be innocent. They should not be where and how they are. Nine, give the Right to Information Act the power it deserves. It will empower you in doing right. Ten, reflect on each matter before you decide on it, with the Preamble to our Constitution as your guide. May Tamil Nadu get, under your helmsmanship, a new type of government which Rajaji, Periyar, Kamaraj and Anna would acclaim, no less than your father, the late Kalaignar. And which, if I may add, a part of MGR’s un-resentful heart would also respond to. Your fellow citizen, Gopalkrishna Gandhi Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/towards-a-new-type-of-government/article34468509.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal’s mandate, a turning point in national politics||The people’s mandate in West Bengal has been decisively against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and in favour of the incumbent Trinamool Congress (TMC), led by Mamata Banerjee. Together with the mandates in favour of the Left Democratic Front in Kerala and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-led coalition in Tamil Nadu, this may well become a turning point in national politics, as far as the Narendra Modi regime is concerned. For BJP, a rise and then fall Two years ago, the BJP had witnessed a phenomenal rise in Bengal, with its vote share rising from around 10% in 2016 to 40% in 2019, enabling it to win 18 out of the 42 Lok Sabha seats from the State. Preliminary data suggest a slight reversal of that trend in 2021, with the BJP finishing with a State-wide vote share of around 38%. The TMC, on the other hand, has significantly improved its vote share from 43% in 2019 to around 48% in 2021. An almost 10% lead in vote share has translated into a clean sweep, with the TMC registering a two-third plus majority, belying the projections of most opinion and exit polls that it will be a cliffhanger of a contest. The BJP has finished way below the double digit threshold, publicly earmarked by the TMC’s key poll strategist, Prashant Kishor. What went wrong for the BJP? How did the TMC turn things around between 2019 and 2021? While anti-incumbency against the State government was a major factor behind the BJP’s rise in 2019, it is anti-incumbency against the Narendra Modi regime which has kicked in by 2021, leading to a fall in the BJP’s vote share. This is a clear indication of rising discontent against the intense social and economic distress caused by the Modi regime’s mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic over the past one year. A sizeable proportion of migrant workers who had to journey through hell during last year’s lockdown were from West Bengal. So are those getting infected in the second wave of COVID-19. People have emphatically held the Centre and not the State government to be more responsible for plunging the country into avoidable crises, repeatedly. The farmers’ movement against the farm laws, rising fuel prices, across-the-board privatisation of public assets, from banks, insurance companies and coal mines to railways — all of it became ammunition against the Centre. Additionally, there was the threat to the citizenship of millions of East Bengal refugees, Dalits and minorities, posed by the NRC-NPR-CAA — or the National Register of Citizens, the National Population Register, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. While anger has mounted against the Centre, Ms. Banerjee has managed to win back public support through a combination of grievance redressal, outreach programmes and welfare schemes, which have yielded discernible electoral dividends, mainly among the deprived and marginalised sections. Polarisation plan backfired The BJP’s attempts to brazenly polarise the elections on communal lines have clearly backfired. So has its strategy to capture power in the State by engineering large-scale defections from the TMC. While the TMC may have many skeletons in its cupboard, the BJP’s desperate attempts to grab power in the State by manipulating the central agencies and misusing the pending corruption cases appeared as acts of “invasion”. The fact that the BJP does not have a single Bengali leader who can pose a credible challenge to Ms. Banerjee, added to that perception of “outsiders”. Therefore, what happened as a reaction to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led propaganda overkill in West Bengal, aided by a needlessly prolonged eight-phase election campaign and partisan, often violent interventions by the central forces, was an unprecedented consolidation of the Muslim votes, totalling over one-fourth of the electorate, behind the strongest anti-BJP alternative. The TMC’s convincing victories in hitherto unconquered territories of the Muslim-majority districts of Murshidabad and Malda are pointers. The Hindu vote, in contrast, did not consolidate behind the BJP. Rather, a section of the BJP voters appear to have switched from the BJP to the TMC between 2019 and 2021. The dynamics behind such anti-BJP consolidation needs further examination and analysis. The Left’s decline The emergence of the TMC as the only credible platform for anti-BJP votes to consolidate was also facilitated by the sheer political vacuity underlying the dubious coalition stitched together by the CPI(M) titled “Samyukta Morcha”. It has achieved little besides launching the political career of an Islamic cleric, whose violent remarks against a woman MP of the TMC and the public endorsement of the Paris beheading of 2020, available in the public domain, has only confused the electorate over why the Left Front had to join hands with his ilk. If the erroneous line of allying with the Congress in the 2016 Assembly election dragged the CPI(M) and the Left Front down to the third position in Bengal, it was the extension of that opportunistic, non-programmatic alliance to include non-secular elements such as Abbas Siddiqui, which has decimated the CPI(M)/LF in 2021. The West Bengal Assembly will not have a single Left MLA, for the first time since Independence. While the Kerala leadership of the CPI(M) has delivered and has therefore been rewarded by the people, the Bengal leadership at Alimuddin Street needs to be held to account for this sad outcome, both within the party and outside. It is the persistent lack of accountability at the top, combined with political opportunism and programmatic incoherence of the CPI(M) leadership which has led to this fiasco of the Left in West Bengal. The BJP, while defeated in the State, has still captured the Opposition space. In order to relegate the BJP to the margins, where it once belonged in West Bengal, the revival of the Left is essential. That revival, however, is contingent on the much-awaited overhaul within the Left, both within and outside the CPI(M). Prasenjit Bose is an economist and activist based in Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bengals-mandate-a-turning-point-in-national-politics/article34468501.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A mandate for compassionate governance||Many surmise that the reason why Kerala is a developed State is that there is regime change following every election, either from the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) to the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) or vice versa. This time, though, the LDF has broken the decades-old trend of the incumbent government being ousted from power (the last time this happened was in 1977). Its emphatic win coincided with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) losing the only seat it held (Nemom) in the State. Tackling calamities, disease outbreaks Pre-poll surveys showed that the LDF might return to power and there were large turnouts at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s election rallies despite the COVID-19 threat. Mr. Vijayan spearheaded the State through the turbulent years of two catastrophic floods, Cyclone Ockhi, the Nipah outbreak and more than a year of the COVID-19 pandemic. The LDF’s effective tackling of these calamities and outbreaks not just reinforced the confidence of the people in the regime, but also helped voters re-imagine the notion of ‘development’. The citizens took note of the government’s timely efforts in organising relief during the natural calamities. Last year, the government was able to significantly minimise the death rate and human suffering due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It is pertinent to note that in India, at least in the initial stages of the pandemic, suffering and deaths were not due to financial, medicinal or foodgrains shortages or even COVID-19 itself, but poor governance and wrong prioritisation of options. Having already dealt with the experience of preventing the spread of Nipah, Kerala had started taking effective containment and prevention measures against COVID-19 by the end of January 2020. COVID-19 desks were set up in all the four airports in Kerala by early February 2020. The details of those who landed from foreign countries were collected. These travellers were sent to quarantine facilities. Gatherings were banned by the second week of March and educational institutions were closed. The ‘Break the Chain’ campaign and sanitation campaigns reached large sections of the public within a short span of time. Contact-tracing of those who had tested positive was done and the details were published. The State ensured free but high-quality treatment to all those who tested positive. There was strict screening at the State border and at railway stations with every team comprising one paramedical staff member, a police officer and a local volunteer. In this election, the Health Minister, K.K. Shailaja, has won her constituency (Mattannur) with the highest margin ever seen in the State, an emphatic reaffirmation of her efforts during these times. A multidimensional approach The LDF’s success lies in the Pinarayi government’s tackling of the disease with a multidimensional approach. Kerala also has a well-established public healthcare system. The State adopted a compassionate and sustainable model. Free foodgrain kits were provided, irrespective of the family’s income, to prevent hunger. Community kitchens were opened for those who were not able to cook. Mr. Vijayan and Ms. Shailaja addressed the people every day via mass media, to alleviate the agonies related to the pandemic. In addition, the government made arrangements to take care of the emotional needs of schoolchildren and Mr. Vijayan appealed to men to ‘help’ women in household work. Migrant workers were termed ‘guest workers’ and camps were set up for them. They were provided with the food of their choice. Each camp had a multilingual guard besides health and recreational facilities. The State also provided for the safe return of those guest workers who wanted to join their families in their respective native places. Social security pensions were not stalled and elderly and vulnerable individuals were given special care. Even stray animals and birds were provided with food and water. Gradually and systematically, the government changed the development paradigm and promoted a compassionate, reliable and sustainable development plan to the public. The gradual opening up of the State after the lockdown resulted in an increase in the number of cases, but despite having the highest proportion of elderly people (12.6%), with a significant number of them affected by co-morbidities, the case fatality rate in Kerala was the lowest among major States in November 2020. It is no wonder that the LDF regime has been rewarded for its idea of compassionate governance. Resmitha R. Chandran is Advocate-On-Record, Supreme Court of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-mandate-for-compassionate-governance/article34468506.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Second decisive shift||On paper in Assam, the Congress had identified the electorate’s pain points well enough. Its manifesto promised non-implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), three million jobs in a State historically struggling with unemployment numbers, raising the daily wage of tea garden workers, free electricity up to 200 units per household and Rs. 2,000 monthly income support to all homemakers. An emphatic no to the CAA was meant to win back the ethnic Assamese vote that had decisively shifted to the BJP over the course of the 2014 general election and the State poll two years later. The wage sop intended to court what was once an assured party vote bank that years of silent work by the RSS and its affiliates had chipped away. A tie-up with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) of Badruddin Ajmal, a prospect which the party had officially shied away from all these years, was aimed at ensuring non-fragmentation of the ‘Muslim vote’. And yet, the whole isn’t the same as the sum of its parts. The 10-party ‘Grand Alliance’ is only projected to win around 40 seats as the BJP-led NDA seems set to romp home a second time with a victory margin slightly lower than in its debut triumph in the State in 2016. So, what gives? No longer a hot-button issue The results show that the cataclysm of the street protests in several parts of Assam in 2019 notwithstanding, the CAA has lost salience as a hot-button issue in an environment where the ruling party has constantly endeavoured to fuse Hindu nationalism with Assamese sub-nationalism. The secular lens on the post-1971 immigrant into Assam has electorally lost to a differential approach that advocates the rehabilitation of some and expulsion of the rest. The BJP’s junior partner, the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), the torch-bearer of regionalism since the days of the Assam Agitation, read this shifting ground right, pulling several stunts of quitting the government but ultimately betting that the ‘new’ Assamese nationalism increasingly aligns with the BJP’s. Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal, the regional outfits forged in the crucible of the 2019 anti-CAA protests, cut little ice even in areas of high ethnic Assamese concentration, resulting in the ruling alliance retaining in large measure the leads it had built in eastern, northern and parts of middle Assam in the 2016 Assembly election. The consolidation was, perhaps, aided by the coming together of the Congress and the AIUDF. While the combined vote share of the two parties in the last election exceeded that of the BJP and AGP, the joining of forces has had the opposite effect, with Hindu voters constantly reminded of the spectre of Mr. Ajmal as potential Chief Minister by the ruling alliance during the campaign. A stable ship As it is, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma were seen as piloting a more stable ship than a Tarun Gogoi-less Congress that farmed out campaign verticals to his son, the State unit chief and the Leader of the Opposition in the outgoing Assembly. The government has lasted a full term devoid of major scams, and synergy with the BJP-led Central government has enabled a more focused delivery of development schemes. Cash doles targeting the tea tribes and beneficiary schemes such as ‘Orunodoi’, through which the State extends financial aid to women, have been regarded as generating goodwill for the Sonowal government. Ironic as it may sound, the pandemic also helped the ruling dispensation claw its way back in Assam. COVID-19 snuffed out both the anti-CAA stir in Assam and the anti-National Register of Citizens (NRC) movement in the rest of the country (most anti-CAA votaries in the State support the NRC). The lockdowns and curfews defused the pent-up anger in the aftermath of the December 2019 protests in which five persons were killed in police firing in Guwahati. They presented a beleaguered government the opportunity to seize back the narrative with proactive (and well-publicised) steps to safeguard the State... and, as the results bear out, itself. abdus.salam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/second-decisive-shift/article34468504.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Clear and distinct||Elections present an opportunity for political change, but voters at times prefer the familiar comfort of continuity and reward performance over promise. Assam, West Bengal and Kerala have voted for the incumbents, while Tamil Nadu and Puducherry have voted for change. There is no one theme that can explain how the voters responded to the myriad political choices before them. Parties with strong and visible leadership might have the same appeal as leaders that show empathy for their daily struggles. While Hindutva nationalism won Assam for the BJP, in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, its limits became apparent. In fact, M.K. Stalin in Tamil Nadu, and Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala, both known critics of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, offered an ideological alternative to the politics of the BJP although it was not a direct contender for power directly in either State. In contrast, the Congress’s efforts to arrest its slide and gather its wits did not yield much. The results have exposed more chinks in its armour, while regional parties offered robust resistance to the BJP. In West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee mobilised Bengali sub-nationalism that stopped the rampaging march of Hindutva at the borders, at least for now. This was the first serious bid of the BJP for power in Bengal. Though it fell far short of its boasts, the BJP’s rise is remarkable — from three seats in 2016 to 81 now. With the Left and the Congress nearly obliterated, the BJP is now a force to reckon with in the State. But what got it so far may not necessarily take it any further. In fact, the popular reaction against the BJP’s crude communalism and deployment of its workers from other States was so intense that people left aside all their complaints against the incumbent Trinamool Congress government. The BJP’s strategy for West Bengal has been costly in terms of public health, institutional credibility, social harmony and even bilateral ties with a friendly neighbouring country, Bangladesh. Though the BJP lost, the damage caused by its maximalist campaign cannot be easily undone. The State is staring at an explosion in COVID-19 infections, and Ms. Banerjee has her task cut out, entering into her third term as Chief Minister. She must take serious note of the public resentment against her party rather than read this victory as public approval of its high-handedness and corruption. The style and substance of the Trinamool’s politics and governance must change for the better. In Assam, the BJP reaped the benefits of its government’s proactive measures to provide relief to people badly impacted by the lockdown last year, and of a slew of welfare schemes. While the Congress-AIUDF partnership failed to live up to its promise, the BJP inflamed communal passions by suggesting that AIUDF leader Badruddin Ajmal could become Chief Minister if the alliance won. As the party’s key strategist in the victory, Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma will likely make a claim for the top post, and the BJP will have an internal power tussle to handle. Mr. Stalin led the DMK to power in Tamil Nadu after a hiatus of 10 years. With his son also now an MLA, Mr. Stalin has taken full control of the DMK. His victory is not aided by any strident public resentment against the AIADMK government, and therefore can be considered a positive verdict in his favour. Moreover, the results also prove the resilience of Dravidian politics, modified to new challenges. Now in the Opposition, and its leadership still in a flux, the AIADMK will have to adapt to survive. There are other aspirants at play, and outgoing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami might have to again beat off challenges from within the party to his leadership. In Kerala, the second consecutive victory of the Left Democratic Front led by the CPI(M) marks a departure from the anti-incumbency verdicts since the 1980s. For Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Congress, rendered aimless by its antediluvian leaders, was easy prey. But Mr. Vijayan also retained his support base through a mixture of political acumen and administrative measures. Having managed two floods and the pandemic with considerable efficiency, he also made some daring moves in social engineering that will continue to ripple. All that paid rich dividends for him, but the path ahead is going to be tougher as Kerala faces a fresh surge in COVID-19 infections. Finances are also challenging for the State. Mr. Vijayan’s complete command over the party has eclipsed other leaders, a situation that can turn out to be a crisis in the future. These results also hold some messages for national politics. For the Congress and its leader Rahul Gandhi, this is a grim reminder that they have no viable politics at the moment. Mr. Gandhi spent a disproportionate amount of time and energy in Kerala. That turned out be a counterproductive strategy. The party lost Kerala and Assam, the two States it had a chance to win. Mr. Gandhi has to rethink his freelancing, footloose politics. For the BJP and its leaders, Mr. Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, these results must be sobering. In Kerala, the party scored nil, losing the lone seat it won in 2016; in Tamil Nadu, it might even have damaged the prospects of ally AIADMK. The notion that there can be a nationalist straitjacket into which the diversity of India will fit is irresponsible. They must consider a softer pursuit of power. The Left tasted historic victory in Kerala but faces extinction in Bengal. Experiments in exclusive Muslim politics are not worthwhile, the results show. The Indian Secular Front, founded by a cleric in West Bengal hardly had any impact; in Assam, the AIUDF and Congress appear to have failed to aggregate their individual tallies of 2016. The BJP might have lost more than it won, but Sunday’s verdicts are no indication that a national-level alternative to it is in the making. That is still some distance away in time and effort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/clear-and-distinct/article34468494.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Madras hotel keepers||At the Soundarya Mahal, George Town, a public meeting of the Hotel and Restaurant keepers of Madras was held yesterday evening to protest against the cutting off of the free allowance of water to their premises, by the Corporation. There was a large gathering of the Hotel-keepers, and of sympathisers, including Messrs G. Guruswami Chetti, Abdul Majid Sharar, and Dr. Rama Kamath. Mr. Rangaswami Iyengar who presided protested in emphatic terms against the new proposal of the Corporation in cutting off free water supply to hotels in spite of the fact that they were paying taxes and rates under various heads, both directly and indirectly. He said the proposal would seriously jeopardise public health and sanitation, and it was gross injustice also to single out the Coffee Hotels and Restaurants for a specially shabby treatment as compared with that applied to others. There must be he emphasised an irresistible demand that justice and fairplay should prevail and it was his confidence in the sense of justice and fairplay of the councillors, which kept them hopeful of the issue of the controversy still that a satisfactory solution would be found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/madras-hotel-keepers/article34468502.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Holiday habit should be encouraged’||The President, Mr. V.V. Giri, said here yesterday [May 2, Bangalore] that people should be encouraged to spend holidays in heath resorts, hill stations and places abounding in scenic beauty. It would increase their efficiency and output, and the nation would benefit in the long run. Internal tourism could also become a major factor in the promotion of national integration and social cohesion, he added. Declaring open the Ashoka hotel built by the Indian Tourism Development Corporation, the President said the workers in Soviet Russia were given compulsory holidays which they had to spend in health resorts. This had a great psychological value and the workers returned from their holiday throughly refreshed. The Governor, Mr. Dharma Vira, hailed the new amenity created in Bangalore for tourists. Dr. Karan Singh, Union Tourism and Civil Aviation Minister, in his welcome speech, outlined the task ahead in developing tourism in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/holiday-habit-should-be-encouraged/article34468503.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||DC’s collective effort overshadows Mayank’s individual brilliance||Delhi Capitals’ chase-and-win plan worked well for the sixth time this season and lifted it to the top of the table following a seven-wicket victory against Punjab Kings at the Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad on Sunday. Shikhar Dhawan, who regained the Orange Cap with an unbeaten 69 (47b, 6x4, 2x6), led the charge as DC won with 14 balls to spare. PBKS, playing under a new captain Mayank Agarwal after K.L. Rahul was ruled out following an acute appendicitis that required immediate surgery, reached 166 for six. Mayank propelled the Punjab side with an unbeaten 99 (58b, 8x4, 4x6), the second highest for a debutant captain behind Sanju Samson’s 119 in Rajasthan Royals’ campaign-opener against PBKS this season. Given DC’s in-form openers, the target of 167 appeared sub-par and once Prithvi Shaw and Dhawan smashed 63 in the PowerPlay, PBKS was never really in the match. Shaw, briefly in discomfort after being hit on the abdomen guard by a 140kmph delivery from Riley Meredith, scored a brisk 22-ball 39, including three sixes and three fours. But Shaw fell to left-arm spinner Harpreet Brar — the man who dramatically turned it around against Royal Challengers Bangalore in the previous outing — in the seventh over, the bowler’s first. Steve Smith joined Dhawan to add 48 steady runs off 41 deliveries. After Smith’s dismissal, Rishabh Pant and Dhawan combined for a 36-run stand before the former’s attempt to rush to the finish-line cost him his wicket. It was left to Shimron Hetmyer to smash two sixes and a four and hasten the end. Earlier, Mayank made up for the slow start with timely acceleration. After being 90 for four in 14 overs, PBKS rode on Mayank’s shoulders as 76 came off the last six. The icing on the cake was the final over from Avesh Khan that fetched 23 runs, Mayank scoring 15 of them but missing a well-deserved century. For the first 14 overs, the DC bowlers were in complete control. Kagiso Rabada, who shattered Chris Gayle’s stumps with a full toss, took three wickets without looking his best. Axar Patel was economical, his biggest reward being the scalp of debutant Dawid Malan, the No. 1 T20 batsman in the world. Avesh was the other bowler to impress, till he went for plenty in the 20th over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dcs-collective-effort-overshadows-mayanks-individual-brilliance/article34468601.ece
03 May 2021||Portimao,||Hamilton notches up 97th win||Seven-time World champion Lewis Hamilton won the Portuguese Grand Prix for Mercedes on Sunday to stretch his Formula One lead over Red Bull’s Max Verstappen to eight points after three races. Verstappen finished second at the Algarve circuit with Mercedes’ Valtteri Bottas completing the podium, and taking a bonus point for the fastest lap, after starting from pole position. Verstappen’s Mexican teammate Sergio Perez was fourth. The victory was a record-extending 97th of Hamilton’s career, second of the year and repeated his win at the same circuit last season. “That was such a tough race, physically and mentally, just keeping everything together. It was very windy out there so it was very easy to put a foot wrong,” said Hamilton, who started on the front row with Bottas. ‘Not a good start’ “I just didn’t quite get as good a start as Valtteri and then lost out on the re-start, which was not good. I was not happy about that.”  The safety car was deployed on lap two after the Alfa Romeos of Kimi Raikkonen and Antonio Giovinazzi made contact, with debris left on the track and the field streaming through the pitlane. When racing resumed, Verstappen pounced to pass Hamilton for second place but the Briton seized back the position five laps later. He then swept past Bottas on track on lap 20 of 66 and took the chequered flag 29.148 seconds clear of Verstappen after the Dutch driver pitted in a bid for fastest lap on fresh, soft tyres. “I had to make the move early on before the tyres were destroyed and managed to just get him in Turn One,” said Hamilton of the key overtake before his pitstop. “Right on the limit, but great race.” Perez and Bottas both pitted in the closing laps to try and bag the bonus point. Verstappen thought he had it but his lap time was deleted for going wide.The only consolation was that it did not go to Hamilton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-notches-up-97th-win/article34468653.ece
03 May 2021||Pallekele,||Lanka takes the upper hand||Sri Lanka was five wickets away from a series win after Bangladesh was restricted to 177 for five at stumps on day four of the second Test here on Sunday. Chasing a daunting 437, the Bangladesh batsmen were troubled by Sri Lanka spinners Praveen Jayawickrama and Ramesh Mendis who took the five wickets on a crumbling wicket. Sri Lanka set Bangladesh 437 by declaring its second innings on 194 for nine. No team has reached such a large target in Test history. The greatest run chase is the 418 made by the West Indies against Australia in 2003 in Antigua. The most successful run chase here is 382 by Pakistan in 2015. Should Bangladesh succeed in forcing a draw with 150 overs left in the game, Sri Lanka risks falling to its lowest world ranking.  Bangladesh, which is down to its last recognised pair, needs another 260 to win with one full day’s play left. Sri Lanka declared its second innings after lunch on 194 for nine and Bangladesh finished on 111 for three at tea. Big wicket Mendis claimed the big wicket of Tamim Iqbal when he was caught behind by Niroshan Dickwella for 24. Debutante Jayawickrama, who took six in the first innings, accounted for Saif Hassan and Najmul Shanto. The delivery that dismissed Shanto pitched outside off stump, spun sharply, went through bat and pad and hit the top of leg-stump. After tea, Bangladesh lost captain Mominul Haque, who chopped a Mendis delivery onto his stumps to leave his side struggling at 134 for four. Earlier, Dimuth Karunaratne top-scored with 66 as Sri Lanka declared on 194 for nine. The Sri Lankan captain finished the series with 428 runs in three innings, having scored a double hundred, a hundred and a half-century. Bangladesh left-arm spinner Taijul Islam bagged his eighth five-wicket haul, for 72.  The scores: Sri Lanka 493/7 decl. and 194/9 decl. (Dimuth Karunaratne 66, Dhananjaya de Silva 41, Taijul Islam 5/72) vs Bangladesh 251 and 177/5 (Mushfiqur Rahim 40, Ramesh Mendis 3/86) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lanka-takes-the-upper-hand/article34468660.ece
03 May 2021||OKLAHOMA CITY,||Pacers pile it on in rout of Thunder||Domantas Sabonis had 26 points, 19 rebounds and a career-high 14 assists to lead the Indiana Pacers to a 152-95 blowout win over host Oklahoma City Thunder on Saturday. The result was a home team’s largest margin of defeat in NBA history. The Pacers’ 152 points were the most in franchise history since the team moved to the NBA in 1976-77. The 57-point margin was the largest loss in Thunder franchise’s history. Indiana flirted with the largest margin in NBA history — Cleveland’s 68-point win over Miami in December 1991 — with the Pacers leading by as many as 67 in the fourth quarter. Bojan Bogdanovic scored 34 points, Rudy Gobert had a double-double and a couple of key late buckets, and short-handed Utah Jazz regained the top spot in the NBA with a 106-102 win over Toronto in Salt Lake City. Dorian, Doncic dazzle Dorian Finney-Smith canned the deciding 3-pointer with 9.3 seconds left to play and Luka Doncic racked up his first triple-double since March 15 as Dallas outlasted visiting Washington 125-124. Bradley Beal put Washington in front with a pair of free throws with 26.1 seconds remaining before Doncic found Finney-Smith in the corner for his huge 3-point shot. Beal then missed the potential game-winning 3-pointer with 2.6s to play. A 13-0 run in the fourth quarter, 29 points from Terry Rozier and the return of LaMelo Ball powered host Charlotte past Detroit. Zion Williamson scored 37 points and Lonzo Ball had a career-best game as visiting New Orleans rallied late to defeat Minnesota Pelicans 140-136 in overtime.  Nikola Jokic, with game-high totals of 30 points, 14 rebounds and seven assists, made another statement in his MVP candidacy, leading Denver to a road win over Los Angeles. Curry sizzles Stephen Curry exploded for 23 of his 30 points in the third quarter as Golden State turned an extended run into a road victory over Houston. Curry added six rebounds and five assists to his ledger.   The results:   Utah 106 bt Toronto 102; Dallas 125 bt Washington 124; Atlanta 108 bt Chicago 97; Cleveland 107 lost to Miami 124.   Orlando 112 bt Memphis 111; LA Clippers 104 lost to Denver 110; Minnesota 136 lost to New Orleans 140 (OT).   Oklahoma City 95 lost to Indiana 152; Charlotte 107 bt Detroit 94; Houston 87 lost to Golden State 113.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pacers-pile-it-on-in-rout-of-thunder/article34468670.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Buttler serves up a royal feast as RR coasts to victory||Jos Buttler’s maiden T20 hundred (124, 64b, 11x4, 8x6) powered Rajasthan Royals to a convincing 55-run win over Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi on Sunday. RR posted 220, its highest-ever total batting first. Chasing the stiff target, Jonny Bairstow and Manish Pandey — opening in place of David Warner who was benched — got SRH off to a flying start, adding 57 off 36 balls. Major breakthrough But both batsmen fell in the two overs after the PowerPlay; Pandey was clean bowled by Mustafizur Rahman and Bairstow was caught at long-on off Rahul Tewatia. And new skipper Kane Williamson’s dismissal in the 13th over put RR firmly in control. Mustafizur (3/20) and Chris Morris (3/29) combined to hand SRH’s its third consecutive loss, and sixth overall. RR lost Yashasvi Jaiswal early. Rashid Khan, introduced in the PowerPlay for the first time this season, trapped Jaiswal in front with a slider. Rashid could have nailed Buttler too, but Vijay Shankar misjudged a catch at long-on. Buttler and Sanju Samson (48, 33b, 4x4, 2x6) exploded in the seventh over, carting Vijay Shankar for a six each. Samson was dropped on 23 by Pandey at long-off, a costly miss as the Buttler-Samson duo eventually put on 150 runs. Buttler reached his fifty with a six, before following it up with a flat-batted four over extra-cover, taking 17 off seamer Sandeep Sharma’s third over. Samson joined the party with a boundary over short third-man, bringing up the century partnership. In the 15th over, bowled by Mohammed Nabi, Buttler collected 20 runs with two fours and two sixes. Buttler brought up his first IPL century, off 56 balls, before clobbering 22 in the 19th over bowled by Sandeep to take RR past 200, a total that proved beyond SRH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/buttler-serves-up-a-royal-feast-as-rr-coasts-to-victory/article34468605.ece
03 May 2021||Rome,||Inter ends Juve’s hegemony||Inter Milan clinched its first Serie A title in 11 years on Sunday after Sassuolo drew 1-1 with second-placed Atalanta to assure Antonio Conte’s side of the league crown. Inter’s triumph ends a run of nine consecutive title wins for Juventus. The league title is Inter’s first since winning the Serie A, Coppa Italia and Champions League Treble in 2009/10 under Jose Mourinho, and its 19th overall. Inter has become the second-most successful club in league history behind Juventus, which has 36 league wins. Match postponed In the Premier League, Manchester City was made to wait longer to know whether it would be the champion after the key match between Manchester United and Liverpool was called off after supporters stormed into Old Trafford to demand the Glazer family ownership sells the club. A loss for United would have given the title to City.  The results:   Premier League: Newcastle 0 lost to Arsenal 2 (Elneny 5, Aubameyang 66).   Serie A: Lazio 4 (Correa 30, 56, Immobile 43-pen, Alberto 48) bt Genoa 3 (Marusic 47-og, Scamacca 80-pen, Shomurodov 81); Sassuolo 1 (Berardi 52-pen) drew with Atalanta 1 (Gosens 32); Napoli 1 (Osimhen 13) drew with Cagliari 1 (Nandez 90+4); Bologna 3 (Palacio 31, 71, Palacio 84) drew with Fiorentina 3 (Vlahovic 22-pen, 73, Bonaventura 64); Udinese 1 (Molina 10) lost to Juventus 2 (Ronaldo 83-pen, 89).   LaLiga : Valladolid 1 (Weissman 68) drew with Real Betis 1 (Ruibal Garcia 49); Villarreal 1 (Pino 79) bt Getafe 0.   Saturday: Premier League: Chelsea 2 (Havertz 10, 49) bt Fulham 0; Everton 1 (Calvert-Lewin 19) lost to Aston Villa 2 (Watkins 13, El Ghazi 80).   LaLiga: Elche 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 1 (Llorente 23); SD Huesca 1 (Ramirez 87) bt Real Sociedad 0; Real Madrid 2 (Militao 76, Casemiro 80) bt Osasuna 0.   Serie A: AC Milan 2 (Calhanoglu 6, Hernandez 60) bt Benevento 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inter-ends-juves-hegemony/article34468611.ece
03 May 2021||KOCHI,||All the hard work has now gone waste, says Jinson Johnson||Three years ago, Jinson Johnson was the toast of the country when he returned with a gold and silver from the Jakarta Asian Games. He grew stronger in September 2019 when he set a National record in the 1500m clocking 3:35.24s in Berlin and came very close to the Olympics qualification time of 3:35.00s. The Tokyo ticket appeared to be in his reach then. But an Achilles tendon injury later that year put him off track for many months. Then came the long coronavirus lockdown. Johnson suffered another jolt last month when COVID-19 hit him. Pain and tiredness “I got it from inside the camp, I did not go out anywhere and it came with all the symptoms. I had severe headache, body-ache, fever and breathlessness. The first 10 days of quarantine were okay but the last four were difficult. I completed my isolation period some five days ago but my body has not fully recovered yet,” said the Asiad 1500m champion in a chat with The Hindu from the Bengaluru national camp. “I feel very tired, my muscles feel weak, I still have problems breathing. I just do some walking these days. ”  The Olympic Games are less than three months away but for the country’s best middle-distance runner they look very far. “I can’t say anything about my Olympic preparations now. I will need about two weeks in May to gain full recovery. And if I’m fit, I’ll do the Grand Prix in June,” said the 30-year-old. “Just before I got COVID, everything was going well. All the hard work has now gone waste, it has affected my life in a big way too.” To train in Ooty Johnson will be leaving the national camp soon. “The camp is only for athletes who have qualified for the Olympics and who are likely to qualify. I will be going to Ooty shortly and train there, following coach Amrish Kumar’s schedule.” He has a word of advice for fellow athletes. “Not just athletes but everybody. The experience before getting COVID and after getting it is very different. Once you catch it, it affects you badly. “Now is the time to be careful, wear a mask even when relatives, friends or neighbours come home. Sometimes, we tend to remove our mask when they visit us...that should not be the case. Be alert always.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-the-hard-work-has-now-gone-waste-says-jinson-johnson/article34468649.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Knight Riders eye desperate win||A fifth loss in seven matches, caused by another batting failure, annoyed Kolkata Knight Riders head coach Brendon McCullum no end. McCullum’s instructions to play attacking cricket fell on deaf ears, prompting the Kiwi to suggest that a change in personnel is warranted when KKR takes on Royal Challengers Bangalore at Ahmedabad on Monday. The likes of Nitish Rana, Shubman Gill and Rahul Tripathi have been patchy, while captain Eoin Morgan has struggled as well (92 runs in seven outings). The opening pair of Rana and Gill has failed to exploit the early field restrictions.  Changes in the offing To get some quick runs up top, KKR could revert to its tested strategy of using Sunil Narine as a pinch-hitting opener. If McCullum is serious about changing the playing eleven, the likes of Venkatesh Iyer, Sheldon Jackson, Karun Nair and Gurkeerat Singh are available to do his bidding. On the bowling front, pacers Pat Cummins and Prasidh Krishna lead the pack with nine and eight wickets respectively. RCB, meanwhile, will look to bounce back from a 34-run loss to Punjab Kings on Friday. The match was an example of the side’s reliance on batting stars Virat Kohli, Devdutt Padikkal, Glenn Maxwell and A.B. de Villiers, and how things can go south if they don’t perform. The support cast of Rajat Patidar, Daniel Sams and Shahbaz Ahmed needs to step up. The Narendra Modi Stadium pitch has offered turn, evidenced by PBKS left-arm spinner Harpreet Brar’s match-winning three-wicket haul against RCB. In Narine and Varun Chakravarthy, KKR has two quality slow bowlers who can exploit these conditions. The form of RCB leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal, however, has been a worry, as he has just four wickets at an average of 47.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/out-of-sorts-knight-riders-eye-a-desperate-win/article34468598.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rahul hospitalised, set to miss IPL||Punjab Kings skipper K.L. Rahul is set to miss the remainder of the Indian Premier League after a need to undergo immediate surgery for removal of inflamed appendix late on Saturday night. In a statement, PBKS said, “K.L. Rahul complained of severe abdomen pain last night and after not responding to medication, he was taken to the emergency room for further tests. “Diagnosis led to a case of acute appendicitis. It will be resolved surgically and for safety measures, he has been transferred to the hospital for the same.” As a result, Mayank Agarwal replaced Rahul as the PBKS captain ahead of Sunday’s match against Delhi Capitals.  Considering the post-operative care and the mandatory period of quarantine, Rahul is unlikely to take part any further in this edition of IPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-hospitalised-set-to-miss-ipl/article34468595.ece
03 May 2021||Dhaka,||Shakib and Mustafizur named in preliminary one-day squad||Former skipper Shakib Al Hasan and Mustafizur Rahman were included as Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB), announced the preliminary squad for the Sri Lanka series. Bangladesh is scheduled to begin training for the series from Sunday but Shakib and Mustafizur are currently playing the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 and it is unclear whether they will join the camp on time or not. “The Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) announces the preliminary squad for Sri Lanka’s Tour of Bangladesh 2021,” the BCB said in an official statement. According to a report in ESPNcricinfo , the ODI series between Bangladesh and Sri Lanka is likely to start on May 23.  The preliminary ODI squad : Tamim Iqbal, Naim Sheikh, Imrul Kayes, Liton Kumer Das, Soumya Sarkar, Najmul Hossain Shanto, Shakib Al Hasan, Mushfiqur Rahim, Mohammad Mithun, Mahmudullah, Afif Hossain Dhrubo, Moaddek Hossain Saikat, Mahedi Hasan, Mehidy Hassan Miraz, Taijul Islam, Nasum Ahmed, Shaif Uddin, Mustafizur Rahman, Rubel Hossain, Taskin Ahmed, Hasan Mahmud, Shoriful Islam and Shohidul Islam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shakib-and-mustafizur-named-in-preliminary-one-day-squad/article34468673.ece
03 May 2021||PARIS,||Pochettino ‘optimistic’ about Mbappe||Paris Saint-Germain coach Mauricio Pochettino is confident Kylian Mbappe will be fit to face Manchester City on Tuesday after the France striker was forced to watch from the stands as Neymar scored one goal and set up the other in a vital 2-1 win over Lens in Ligue 1 on Saturday. Neymar netted in the 33th minute and his corner was headed home by Marquinhos just prior to the hour mark at the Parc des Princes, with Cameroonian forward Ignatius Ganago pulling a goal back for Lens. It was a huge three points for PSG in its attempt to retain the Ligue 1 title.  Mbappe was reduced to the role of spectator because of a calf problem, while Angel Di Maria was also left out of the starting XI as Pochettino made six changes to his team from Wednesday’s 2-1 home defeat against City in the first leg of the Champions League semifinal. “I am always optimistic and I still am,” Pochettino told Canal Plus when asked if he expected Mbappe to play. “We think he will be there, but we will make a decision before the game.” PSG is looking to win its eighth Ligue 1 title in nine years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pochettino-optimistic-about-mbappe/article34468657.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Pollard delighted to do well in ‘Clasico’ of the IPL||Kieron Pollard felt proud about his match-winning knock against Chennai Super Kings in the “ El Clasico of the IPL”, saying this was the kind of performance people would speak about for long. “There are world-class players in CSK. We billed this match-up as the Clasico of the IPL. They have international guys with so much experience... Faf du Plessis and Suresh Raina... guys that have done it time and time again,” Pollard said at the post-match conference. “You know you want to be able to come and perform in these sort of matches. These things stand out when people speak about the individuals,” he said. Pollard revealed that it was about playing to his strengths and doing what the team required. “You know what we have done over the years. For me, it is not about the ratings, it is more about doing the job and winning the game for your team. That is what I did,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pollard-delighted-to-do-well-in-clasico-of-the-ipl/article34468603.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen inches closer to title||World champion Magnus Carlsen won the last two games of the day to take the first match 3-1 against Hikaru Nakamura in the final of the New in Chess Classic rapid online tournament on Saturday. He now only needs a draw in the second match to claim his first title on the Champions Tour this season. For the third place, Levon Aronian and Shakhriyar Mamedyarov won with black for a 2-2 deadlock after all four games were decisive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-inches-closer-to-title/article34468650.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kishan Rungta succumbs to COVID-19||Former BCCI selector and Rajasthan captain Kishan Rungta died of COVID-19 at a hospital in Jaipur. He was 88. The veteran administrator tested positive for the virus last week and died on Saturday. “Kishan Rungta has died of COVID-19,” a BCCI source confirmed to PTI. Rungta served as a national selector from Central Zone in 1998. He played 59 First Class games between 1953 to 1970, scoring 2,717 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kishan-rungta-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34468666.ece
03 May 2021||Jaipur,||Asian gold medallist Khan no more||The 1982 Asian Games gold medallist rider Colonel Gulam Mohammad Khan (retired) died on Saturday in Pune. The renowned rider, 74, had joined the Indian Military Academy in 1973. From 1980 to 1990 he captained the ASC team, during which time his team won the National title six times and he became individual National Champion (Eventing) four times. As a member of the team which won the gold medal in Eventing at the 1982 Asian Games in Delhi, Col. Khan gained the individual silver riding Goodwill. At the next Asian Games in Seoul he was a member of the Dressage and Eventing teams, winning bronze medals on both teams and gaining the highest place of any Indian rider — fourth in the Eventing and ninth in the Dressage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asian-gold-medallist-khan-no-more/article34468674.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hindustan FC owner Bose passes away||Veteran football administrator and Hindustan FC owner Dilip Kumar Bose passed away here on Saturday, after battling COVID-19. He was in his early 70s. Bose was part of the Executive Committee of the then Delhi Soccer Association for many years. He was also a member of the organising committees whenever Delhi organised any international or national competitions. Football Delhi mourned Bose’s death and offered condolences to his family.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hindustan-fc-owner-bose-passes-away/article34469128.ece
03 May 2021||The Hague,||Ajax clinch Dutch title with three games to spare||Ajax Amsterdam clinched its 35th Eredivisie (Dutch league) title on Sunday to completed a double two weeks after winning the cup final. No champion was crowned last season, which was halted in early March by the COVID-19 pandemic, with Ajax leading the table.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ajax-clinch-dutch-title-with-three-games-to-spare/article34468654.ece
03 May 2021||Jerez (Spain),||France: Miller wins Spanish MotoGP as Bagnaia takes championship lead||Australian Jack Miller rode to only his second MotoGP victory in Jerez on Sunday as Ducati teammate Francesco Bagnaia finished second to take the overall championship lead. Franco Morbidelli was third on a Yamaha.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/france-miller-wins-spanish-motogp-as-bagnaia-takes-championship-lead/article34468656.ece
03 May 2021||Oeiras (Portugal),||Riya & Ce fall short||Riya Bhatia and Gabriela Ce of Brazil lost 6-4, 6-0 to Adrienn Nagy and Sohyun Park in the doubles final of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-ce-fall-short/article34468661.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Hurdles to dharma||In the Bala Kanda, the arrival of Vishwamitra in Ayodhya heralds many auspicious happenings that are to lead the story in its long and arduous course. Vishwamitra’s antecedents are well known. Though born in the Kshatriya race, he attains the status of a Brahma Rishi through severe and austere penance. He now comes to Dasaratha with a request to send Rama with him to the forest to protect the yagna he has begun. The rakshasas Subhahu and Maricha keep disrupting the yagna and they are prompted by none other than Ravana. In a discourse, Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal drew attention to the fact that generally when any good work is undertaken with good intentions, there will be hurdles, tangible or subtle, to be faced. But one should learn to continue with the good effort and not be disillusioned. At a deeper level, the rakshasas are only symbolic of the evil forces within us that prevent and dissuade us from cultivating good tendencies and pursuing the path of dharma. That these can be overcome only with God’s intervention, grace and help is illustrated in this context when the sage takes Rama’s help. So, when Dasaratha, who had just welcomed the sage and promised to fulfil his requests, now goes back on his word, Vasishta, aware that Dasaratha is unable to recognise Rama as the Lord incarnate, explains certain truths to the king in subtle terms. He says that the king need not fear for Rama’s safety, though it is natural to feel so as a father and a king. Moreover, the sage can easily curse the rakshasas, but that sages practise patience and try not to give in to anger. He also indicates that Vishwamitra now asks for Rama not for any personal good but for the good of Rama and for all the people and he counsels the king to send Rama with the sage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/hurdles-to-dharma/article34468511.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 10:17 IST,||Sudoku — May 3, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-3-2021/article34469776.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Re-imagine learning||The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic last year drastically disrupted the overall education system across the globe. Closer home, as schools and colleges swiftly moved to online classes, there was a disproportionate impact on education of students with disabilities. During the initial phase of the nationwide lockdown, many were not able to attend online classes due to lack of guidelines and absence of tools to facilitate students with visual, hearing or specific learning disabilities. Not that the situation earlier was fully conducive, but the pandemic exposed the stark lack of academic infrastructure for students with disabilities in Indian universities. They had to suddenly deal with compounded challenges; the most critical one being lack of access to technology and assistive devices that could have eased the “non-inclusive” nature of typical teaching content. Need for planning While there has been progress in making education accessible to all — the National Education Policy 2020 included proposals on barrier-free access to education and teacher training programmes — the magnitude and complexities involved in implementation need exhaustive planning and meticulous execution. As Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) aspire to prepare the next generation to be global players, they must also contribute towards creating an inclusive society. While most universities in India are yet to begin classes on campus and are using e-learning to ensure continuation of academic activities, government authorities can adopt some long-term measures that will help establish a process that addresses the needs of all learners. One of the key tenets of inclusive education is to make provisions that can give the students with specific needs full access to adequate services. To ensure this, we require a coordinated approach that makes universal accessibility norms an integral part of pedagogy and teaching methodology in universities. Inter-ministerial coordination would be required for an all-encompassing standardised guidelines for digital education infrastructure. These guidelines will ensure that digital education being imparted in schools and universities is being made available to learners with disabilities. Support system On ground, a learning support system needs to be established in each university — both public and private. This may be managed by a dedicated office or centre that would ensure a smooth transition for students with disabilities, their integration into the social environment of the campus, access to course material and technologies for improved academic experience, avail academic accommodations, and other pedagogical provisions. A diligent effort in awareness and sensitisation towards people with disabilities is paramount. Stigma attached to looking or thinking differently than the “accepted” norm needs to be eradicated and educating people is the first step. While there are visible disabilities that need an accessible physical and academic infrastructure in HEIs, the invisible ones such as Autism Spectrum, Dyslexia, Dysgraphia, Dyscalculia, and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) need to be understood and seen as learning and thinking differences. The unique perspectives all these students bring in to the learning and teaching experiences of the higher education landscape make it an enriching environment for all, including neurotypical students, the teaching faculty and the overall community. While a systemic change in the higher education ecosystem may take time, breaking from the past and re-imagining the world of education, especially post pandemic, will be a welcome step for all, including people with disabilities. The writer is an Educational Therapist and Director, Office of Learning Support, Ashoka University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/re-imagine-learning/article34469029.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Re-imagine learning||The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic last year drastically disrupted the overall education system across the globe. Closer home, as schools and colleges swiftly moved to online classes, there was a disproportionate impact on education of students with disabilities. During the initial phase of the nationwide lockdown, many were not able to attend online classes due to lack of guidelines and absence of tools to facilitate students with visual, hearing or specific learning disabilities. Not that the situation earlier was fully conducive, but the pandemic exposed the stark lack of academic infrastructure for students with disabilities in Indian universities. They had to suddenly deal with compounded challenges; the most critical one being lack of access to technology and assistive devices that could have eased the “non-inclusive” nature of typical teaching content. Need for planning While there has been progress in making education accessible to all — the National Education Policy 2020 included proposals on barrier-free access to education and teacher training programmes — the magnitude and complexities involved in implementation need exhaustive planning and meticulous execution. As Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) aspire to prepare the next generation to be global players, they must also contribute towards creating an inclusive society. While most universities in India are yet to begin classes on campus and are using e-learning to ensure continuation of academic activities, government authorities can adopt some long-term measures that will help establish a process that addresses the needs of all learners. One of the key tenets of inclusive education is to make provisions that can give the students with specific needs full access to adequate services. To ensure this, we require a coordinated approach that makes universal accessibility norms an integral part of pedagogy and teaching methodology in universities. Inter-ministerial coordination would be required for an all-encompassing standardised guidelines for digital education infrastructure. These guidelines will ensure that digital education being imparted in schools and universities is being made available to learners with disabilities. Support system On ground, a learning support system needs to be established in each university — both public and private. This may be managed by a dedicated office or centre that would ensure a smooth transition for students with disabilities, their integration into the social environment of the campus, access to course material and technologies for improved academic experience, avail academic accommodations, and other pedagogical provisions. A diligent effort in awareness and sensitisation towards people with disabilities is paramount. Stigma attached to looking or thinking differently than the “accepted” norm needs to be eradicated and educating people is the first step. While there are visible disabilities that need an accessible physical and academic infrastructure in HEIs, the invisible ones such as Autism Spectrum, Dyslexia, Dysgraphia, Dyscalculia, and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) need to be understood and seen as learning and thinking differences. The unique perspectives all these students bring in to the learning and teaching experiences of the higher education landscape make it an enriching environment for all, including neurotypical students, the teaching faculty and the overall community. While a systemic change in the higher education ecosystem may take time, breaking from the past and re-imagining the world of education, especially post pandemic, will be a welcome step for all, including people with disabilities. The writer is an Educational Therapist and Director, Office of Learning Support, Ashoka University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/re-imagine-learning/article34469028.ece
03 May 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 56,647 fresh cases; active tally goes up again||Maharashtra reported 56,647 new COVID-19 cases against 51,356 recoveries on Sunday as the State’s active case tally rose to 6,68,353. A high fatality spike of 669 deaths pushed the death toll to 70,284. Of these, 350 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and 153 during the last week. A further 166 were from the period before the past one week, the State Health Department said. The total cases have reached 47,22,401 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 37,30,729 with the recovery rate climbing to 84.31%. “Of a total 2,76,52,758 laboratory samples tested thus far, 47,22,401 (with the average case positivity rising to 17.08%) have returned positive with over 2.57 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had incrementally declined to 1.49%. Pune district reported more than 11,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 8,64,899. As per the State Health Department figures, 65 deaths were reported (of which more than 105 were from an earlier period) as the fatality count touched 9,707. According to district authorities, the active case tally dipped to 96,734 while the death toll is nudging 13,400 with 159 fatalities reported on Sunday. Mumbai recorded its lowest surge in days, adding just 3,629 new cases, taking its total tally to 6,55,997 of whom 61,436 are active. As many as 79 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 13,294. Nagpur district in Vidarbha logged more than 5,000 cases as its total cases reached 4,33,448 of whom 72,503 are active. Thirty deaths pushed the fatality toll to 5,221. Sangli in western Maharashtra registered 26 more deaths and more than 1,400 cases, taking its fatality toll to 2,100 and its total case tally to 82,360 of whom 14,758 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-adds-56647-fresh-cases-active-tally-goes-up-again/article34468795.ece
03 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Not more than 2 to be allowed in cars in Punjab as cases rise||The Punjab government on Monday announced not more than two persons can travel in a car, 50% staff strength at government offices and a negative COVID-19 test report must for those entering the State as part of added curbs amid rising COVID-19 cases and fatalities. These restrictions, in addition to the earlier ones, will remain in effect till May 15, according to the Punjab Home Department’s directive to all Deputy Commissioners and district police chiefs. Punjab is among the worst-hit States in the second wave of the pandemic. On Saturday, it registered 7,041 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest in a day, bringing the infection count to 3,77,990, while 138 more fatalities took the toll to 9,160. Anybody arriving in Punjab by air, rail or road must have a negative COVID-19 report which is not more than 72-hour old or produces vaccination certificate, at least of one dose, over two weeks old. All passenger vehicles, including cars and taxis, will not be allowed to seat more than two passengers in the State. However, vehicles carrying patients to hospitals will be exempted, according to the directions. It also stated that pillion riding on scooters and motorcycles will not be allowed except for those belonging to the same family and living in the same house. All shops selling non-essential items will remain shut. Those dealing in medicines and essential items like milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy and poultry products like eggs, meat, mobile repair will be allowed.  Half strength in offices All government offices, as well as banks, will work at 50% strength other than those where officials are involved in COVID-19 management, according to the new directives, which also stated that Deputy Commissioners are authorised to draft services of any official for COVID-19 management and related duties. No gathering of more than 10 people, including for weddings, cremations and funerals, will be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/not-more-than-2-to-be-allowed-in-cars-in-punjab-as-cases-rise/article34469294.ece
03 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana government announces 7-day lockdown starting today||The Haryana government on Sunday announced a seven-day lockdown in the State from May 3. Earlier, a weekend shutdown was imposed in nine districts of the State on April 30. “Seven days complete lockdown announced in entire Haryana from May 3 [sic.],” said a tweet from Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij, informing about the government’s decision. Earlier, the government had imposed a weekend lockdown in nine districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonipat, Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad – from 10 p.m. on April 30 to 5 a.m. on May 3. Haryana has 1,02,516 active COVID-19 cases and 4,341 patients, including 1,506 women, have died so far due to the infection. The State has a positivity rate of 6.76% and fatality rate of 0.87%. The recovery rate is 78.70%. Earlier in the day, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, in a meeting with doctors and officials in Sonipat, said that the State’s oxygen quota was increased to 257 MT and the number of oxygen beds would now be augmented. The Chief Minister said an oxygen plant would be set up at Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Faridabad and the equipment required for these were received. Mr. Lal said that 100 doctors were ready for a degree internship at Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College in Khanpur and they would be sent to different districts as per requirement. He said daily auditing of liquid medical oxygen should be done in all hospitals of the State so that there was no shortage of oxygen for any COVID-19 patient. He called upon the voluntary organisations to come forward to deliver essential items to the patients in home isolation. The Chief Minister directed the officials that there should be no disruptions in the movement of food items due to the lockdown and the rate list of commodities be displayed outside food shops to prevent black marketing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-government-announces-7-day-lockdown-starting-today/article34469148.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records 407 deaths and 20,394 new virus cases||The Capital on Sunday recorded 407 deaths and 20,394 COVID-19 cases, along with 24,444 recoveries. A health bulletin released by the Delhi government stated that 71,997 tests were conducted and a positivity rate of 28.33% was recorded. Currently, there are 92,290 active cases in the city, out of which 50,742 people are under home isolation. The cumulative figures now stand at 11,94,946 cases with 16,966 deaths and 10,85,690 recoveries. As many as 49,633 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the past 24 hours, out of which 28,775 received their first dose. The bulletin added that 33,02,559 beneficiaries had been vaccinated so far with 7,10,672 having received both doses. L-G takes stock Taking stock of the situation, the Lieutenant-Governor sought further advice from departments and agencies concerned regarding the availability of medicines, beds, medical oxygen and augmentation of capacities at crematoriums and graveyards, with the aim of addressing the ongoing problems being faced by people. A statement from his office said that he has asked for the submission of a “quantifiable action plan” with “monitorable timeline” in this regard. The L-G has also suggested the possibility of re-employing recently retired doctors and other paramedical staffers, wherever required to address shortages, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-records-407-deaths-and-20394-new-virus-cases/article34469165.ece
03 May 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkatans borrow from Satyajit Ray to celebrate Mamata’s massive win||People in Kolkata were on Sunday borrowing from the words of revered filmmaker Satyajit Ray — who would have turned 100 on this day — to celebrate the stunning victory of Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress in the West Bengal Assembly elections. By the evening, many of the city’s roads saw bike processions and people gathered on the streets, greeting each other with “Joy Bangla!” While a win for the sitting Chief Minister was not entirely unexpected — most exit polls had given her a narrow edge over the BJP — not many had imagined her handing such a powerful blow to her opponents, represented by none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself. By Sunday afternoon, as the outcome of the bitterly-contested elections became clearer, Ms. Banerjee was being hailed as ‘ Aparajito ’ (The Unvanquished) who had no ‘ Pratidwandi ’ (Rival) — both titles of Ray movies. Some hailed the people of West Bengal as the “Nayak” (Hero). Mr. Modi, on the other hand, was being depicted by many as ‘ Ganashatru ’ (Public Enemy). Many in West Bengal, doctors included, had not taken kindly to the fact that elections were to be held in the State in eight phases; they saw the long-drawn process as a red-carpet welcome to COVID-19. Then came a time when the prolonged campaign became acrimonious with Mr. Modi’s repeated “Didi-o-didi” taunts aimed at Ms. Banerjee; but what really turned the general sentiment against the Prime Minister was when he continued to address massive public meetings in West Bengal even when the second wave of COVID-19 had started sweeping through the country. For those who resented his frequent appearances in the State in the face of the pandemic, the results appeared to have a cathartic effect. “What makes me happy is not who won, but who lost. The result is reassuring, that we won’t hold our doors open for fascists,” said Tapatrisha Das, a former journalist. For people like her, the fact that the results came on May 2 — the centenary of Ray, one of Bengal’s biggest icons — is an added bonus. Business owner Anuradha Mitra spent a better part of the day sharing with friends a depiction from the final scene of Ray’s film Hirak Rajar Deshe , showing subjects pull down the statue of their evil king with the cry: “ Dori dhore maaro taan , raja hobe khan khan ” — Pull the rope and the king will be in pieces. “What better day to remember this punch line from Ray’s masterly creation. The idea of Bengal remains unity in unity. Mr. Modi, on the other hand, is more concerned about how people perceive him and how his cult could be furthered. Hope the idea of India resurrects and this becomes the beginning of the end,” Ms. Mitra said. Said Sudeshna Chakraborti, a retired teacher: “Bigotry has definitely affected the educated middle-class in Bengal, at least the ones who are regular on social media, but those who struggle for their daily bread are not taken in by such diversionary tactics. With every government machinery in their favour, the two leaders (Mr. Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah) played ducks and drakes with Bengal’s health, resulting in the spurt in new COVID-19 cases. Who is answerable to the afflicted families?” Her husband Ranesh added sagaciously, “Bengal has, once again, become the lighthouse for the rest of the country. But the most important lesson for the winners will be to remember that there is no room for complacency.”  Identity politics “There was a perception that identity politics — Hindu-Muslim, outsider-insider, etc. — was working but in real it failed,” said Sritama Chaudhuri, an associate professor of sociology in a Kolkata college. “Ultimately the Bengali sentiment, the socialist inclination of the Bengalis and the image of Mamata Banerjee worked. It is a big win for the common man.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kolkatans-borrow-from-satyajit-ray-to-celebrate-mamatas-win/article34468806.ece
03 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Vaccination for those in 18-45 age group launched in Haryana||The COVID-19 vaccination drive for 18-45 years age group was kicked off by Haryana government on Sunday with the administration of the first dose to 14,918 beneficiaries at around 200 centres. As many 5,023 beneficiaries, the highest in the State, were administered the first dose in Yamunanagar, while Hisar scored a naught. Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij had on Saturday evening announced to kick-off the vaccination drive for 18-45 age group following which the booking of slots was opened. In a press statement on Sunday, Mr. Vij said that free vaccination would be done at all government hospitals and vaccination centres in the State. He added that the government had placed order for 66 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine and the first batch was received. The Health Minister said around 1.1 crore people in the State were aged between 18 to 45 years. Registration for the vaccination had started on April 28. Camp for journalists Mr. Vij informed that a special COVID-19 vaccination camp would be organised on Monday at the MLA dispensary on May 3 for journalists. As many as 270 beneficiaries turned up for vaccination at two government session sites in Gurugram — Sector 10 Civil Hospital and Polyclinic in Sector 31. In Gurugram, Fortis Memorial Research Institute also launched the vaccination drive for 18-45 age group.  ‘Will help society’ “Fortis Memorial is the first private hospital in Gurgaon to start the vaccination for 18 plus age group. We are ecstatic that the vaccination drive has now been extended to the younger age group. This step will by and large help the society as a whole. With more people getting vaccinated, we are hopeful that it will help break the current cycle and this in turn will help in curbing the rate of positive cases,” said Ritu Garg, Zonal Director, FMRI. Max Hospital in Gurugram will launch the vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccination-for-18-45-age-group-in-haryana/article34469177.ece
03 May 2021||Pune,||Mamata’s win proves Modi-Shah not invincible, says Sena||The ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra exulted in Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress’ win over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the fiercely fought West Bengal poll, with Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut saying that the win proved that the duo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were “not invincible”. Hailing Ms. Banerjee as a “tigress” who trumped against all odds, both Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Mr. Raut lauded her fighting skills in rising to the challenge thrown by the BJP’s high-decibel campaign to win the crucial State. “Didi [Ms. Banerjee] was fighting a lone battle to uphold the pride of the people of Bengal. All forces converged to ensure her defeat, yet, she emerged victoriously. I congratulate her and the people of West Bengal,” tweeted the Chief Minister’s Office after the results trickled in. At the same time, both the Chief Minister and Mr. Raut said that the clear and present danger facing the public of West Bengal was the COVID-19 threat, which needed to be urgently tackled. “Now let us all keep politics aside and focus on our battle against COVID,” Mr. Thackeray said. “I had predicted Didi ’s win right from the start… The BJP had thrown everything in the campaign to oust her. It used the levers of power by virtue of being the ruling party at the Centre. It used all its strength and money, but to no avail,” Mr. Raut said. He said that the BJP, regardless of the dangers posed by the deadly second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, had mounted a strident campaign to supplant Ms. Banerjee. “So, the public of West Bengal have now answered the BJP in kind…however, people are now worried about the rising COVID-19 cases than election results. Ms. Banerjee will need to address that immediately,” Mr. Raut said. The Sena, while not contesting in West Bengal, had lent its support to the TMC. Congratulatory messages flowed in from other Maharashtra leaders like Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Raj Thackeray. “Congratulations on your stupendous victory! Let us continue our work towards the welfare of people and tackling the pandemic collectively,” tweeted Mr. Pawar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mamatas-win-proves-modi-shah-not-invincible-says-sena/article34468797.ece
03 May 2021||Kurukshetra (Haryana),||Doctor held for breaking COVID-19 norms||A doctor, who had last month tested positive for COVID-19, was arrested on Sunday for allegedly breaking COVID-19 guidelines when he went to the Deputy Commissioner’s camp office despite knowing his positive status, police said. Lokender Goel, owner of a private hospital in Kurukshetra, whose facility had been admitting COVID patients, was arrested after a case was registered against him under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Dr. Goel was produced before a duty magistrate here. However, he was later released on bail. According to SHO, Kurukshetra, Davinder Walia, the arrest was made based on a complaint filed by Amrik Singh, personal assistant to the Deputy Commissioner of Kurukshetra, on April 27. In his complaint, Mr. Singh had alleged that Dr. Goel, who had tested COVID-19 positive a few days ago, had come to the DC’s camp office along with 25 to 30 relatives of some COVID patients under treatment at his hospital. The complainant had alleged that the doctor forcibly entered the camp office by pushing the policeman on duty around 8.30 p.m. He raised a hue and cry that his hospital, which is handling 80 COVID patients, is left with oxygen for just about an hour. However, an enquiry by the Chief Medical Officer found that oxygen supplywas sufficient till 4 a.m. the next day. As a result, Dr. Goel not only endangered the life of others having tested COVID-19 positive but also created unnecessary panic among the patients and their relatives, the complainant has alleged. In the meanwhile, Dr.Goel has tested negative for the virus. His wife Dr. Monika, who is a director of the hospital, alleged that the administration had acted in a biased manner towards them as they had filed a case of recovery of over Rs. 2.50 crore pending against the State government in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. She said the sum was incurred for the treatment of COVID patients sent by the government to their hospital in the first phase of the pandemic last year. ‘Tanker detailed’ Dr. Monika said the oxygen tanker purchased by the hospital from their vendor was allegedly detained by the police in Karnal on April 27 for over 10 hours forcing Dr. Goel to go personally to the DC’s camp office when his telephone calls did not bear any effect, and the life of the patients was endangered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doctor-held-for-breaking-covid-19-norms/article34469291.ece
03 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab Cong. chief forms panel to help people hit by COVID-19||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar has constituted a committee and would launch a control room at the party office here to ensure help reaches people affected by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Hitting out at the Narendra Modi dispensation at the Centre, Mr. Jakhar alleged that the “callous, incompetent government has pushed the whole country into a grim medical and health emergency.” Punjab is among the worst-hit States in the second wave of the pandemic. On Saturday, it registered 7,041 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest in a day, bringing the infection count to 3,77,990, while 138 more fatalities took the toll to 9,160. The number of active cases rose from 55,798 on Friday to 58,229. “We are passing through a crisis situation and we all need to help each other. The Congress government in Punjab is doing a commendable task to ensure the best of medical help to the patients and it has also provided ration kits to the needy,” Mr. Jakhar said during a virtual meeting with leaders from across the State on Sunday. He also said the Congress cadre have also been doing everything to complement the State’s efforts to curb the contagion. “Our cadre have been directed to ensure all possible help to the needy in this hour of distress in every manner possible. Some families, whose all members are infected with the COVID-19, need food, some need medicine or urgent medical help which our partymen have been directed to ensure immediately,” the Punjab Congress chief said. The control room would be launched at party office here on Monday by Mr. Jakhar and Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.  State coordinator General secretary of All India Youth Congress Amarpreet Singh Lalli has been appointed the State coordinator of the committee constituted by Mr. Jakhar, and general secretary of Punjab Youth Congress Karambir Singh Bittu has been appointed State coordinator who will manage the helpline tasks. The Punjab Congress chief said party leader Rahul Gandhi had been forewarning the Centre about the situation. “Had they paid heed, the situation would not have deteriorated like this,” he said. There is a need to continuously spread awareness about vaccinations to ensure maximum coverage, Mr. Jakhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-cong-chief-forms-panel-to-help-people-hit-by-covid-19/article34469298.ece
03 May 2021||Patna,||Sushil Modi’s younger brother among COVID-19 victims in Bihar||Senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi's younger brother was among 97 COVID-19 patients succumbing to the infection in Bihar on Sunday, health department bulletin said. The State recorded 13,534 new positive cases, taking the total caseload to 4,97,640, it said. The death toll has risen to 2739. Former Deputy Chief Minister and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi’s younger brother Ashok Kumar Modi died of COVID-19 in a hospital during the day. The Parliamentarian performed the last rites of his younger brother at Gulbi ghat here. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over death of Sushil Modi's brother. Deputy Chief Minister Tarkishore Prasad also paid tributes to him.  97 deaths in the State According to the updated health bulletin, out of 97 new COVID-19 deaths, capital Patna accounted for maximum 30 fatalities. Among other districts Muzaffarpur reported 9 casualties, West Champaran (8) and Bhagalpur (6). Out of 13,534 new cases, Patna registered 2748 infections. A total of 11,694 patients recovered from COVID-19 in last 24 hours while 3,84,955 have been cured so far. The recovery rate is 77.36 per cent in Bihar currently. There are 1,09,945 active cases in the State at present. A total of 89,393 test of samples took place Sunday while overall more than 2.65 crore clinical examinations for the virus have been conducted in the State. On the vaccination front, a total of 59,835 beneficiaries in the age bracket of above 45 years were administered the jabs during the day while 72,95,165 have been inoculated so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sushil-modis-younger-brother-among-covid-19-victims-in-bihar/article34469292.ece
03 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Make all-out efforts to lift oxygen allocated for Delhi||At a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation in the Capital, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday asked the Delhi government to make all-out efforts to lift their allocated oxygen using all the means at their disposal. He also told the government to ensure that the available oxygen is distributed rationally and in a transparent manner so that there is no diversion or leakage. The Cabinet Secretary expressed his anguish at recent instances, where people had suffered due to lack of adequate and timely availability of oxygen and emphasised the need to ramp up the city’s medical infrastructure at the earliest, to cater to the increasing demand for COVID beds, ICUs and ventilators. ‘Single helpline’ He also stressed the need to make available all relevant information on COVID beds and other facilities and medicine availability to the public through dedicated websites and apps, on the basis of which people in need can approach the right place. “A single helpline should be created at the front end to provide relevant clinical information to the needy people and should be popularised. The helpline can be serviced through a dedicated and well-staffed call centre,” Mr. Gauba said. He also asked for further augmentation of testing facilities and timely availability of test results. The meeting was attended by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul, the Delhi Chief Secretary and other senior officials of the GNCTD. Mr. Paul emphasised the seriousness of the present situation and recommended to rope in small nursing homes and hospitals for augmenting the medical infrastructure of the Capital. He asked for COVID care centres to be opened in hotels and similar places, as per protocol. In order to supplement the 24x7 helpline of the Delhi government, Mr. Paul recommended that the Delhi Medical Association be requested to offer around 50 doctors, who can voluntarily provide medical consultation to COVID-19 patients. “The helpline/medical professional can provide guidance on use of medicines, oxygen concentrators and other medical facilities,” he said. The Additional Secretary, Health, emphasised the need for setting up oxygen audit committees in various hospitals and medical facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/make-all-out-efforts-to-lift-oxygen-allocated-for-delhi/article34469154.ece
03 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC issues notices to three hospitals for asking patients’ kin to arrange Remdesivir||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has issued show cause notices to three private hospitals for allegedly asking the relatives of COVID-19 patients to arrange Remdesivir injection. The civic body had already instructed all the hospitals treating novel coronavirus patients that the onus of arranging the anti-viral injection was on the hospital and not on the patient. NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said that directions were issued to the hospitals that Remdisivir should be used as per the guidelines laid down by the Maharashtra State Task Force and the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Hence, a special order was issued stipulating that no hospital should prescribe the injection either to the patient or their relatives, as it is the responsibility of the hospital to procure the required vials through the collectorate. It was also mentioned that action would be taken against the hospital in case of any violation,” Mr. Bangar said. Asking the patient’s relatives to arrange Remdesivir added to their anxiety and tension and increased the possibility of its black marketing, considering the current shortage, he said. The hospitals that have been issued notices are Sunshine Hospital in Sector 16, Nerul, Siddhika Nursing Home in Sector 15, Koparkhairane, and Om Gagangiri Hospital in Sector 18, Koparkhairane. If the hospitals failed to give a satisfactory reply, an FIR would be registered against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Indian Penal Code, Mr. Bangar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nmmc-issues-notices-to-three-hospitals-for-asking-patients-kin-to-arrange-remdesivir/article34468793.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Bustling promenade falls silent||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bustling-promenade-falls-silent/article34469253.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Nod for sale of Remdesivir in domestic market sought||A PIL in Delhi High Court has urged it to direct the Centre to permit sale of Remdesivir, used in COVID-19 treatment, by pharmaceutical companies which manufacture it solely for the purpose of export so that the drug is easily available in the market. The PIL said there are more than 25 companies in India which manufacture the medicine, but only six to eight are permitted to sell it in the domestic market and the rest were producing it for exports alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nod-for-sale-of-remdesivir-in-domestic-market-sought/article34469149.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||In search of lifeline||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-search-of-a-lifeline/article34469153.ece
03 May 2021||May 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Ghost town||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ghost-town/article34469296.ece
03 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Illicit liquor unit busted in Punjab||The police have busted an illicit liquor manufacturing unit at a village in Amritsar, with the arrest of five people, an officer said on Sunday. It is the seventh such racket busted by the police in Amritsar in the last two months. The police seized 1,18,400 kg ‘lahan’ (raw material used in making liquor), 390 litres of illicit liquor, 94 drums (50 litres each), four gas cylinders and 20 tarpaulins during a raid conducted in Boparai Khurd village on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Those arrested were identified as Sarwan Singh, Angrez Singh, Sanjay, Avtar Singh and Resham Singh. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Amritsar (Rural) Dhruv Dahiya said based on specific intelligence inputs, police teams carried out a six-hour-long operation in the area. “Preliminary investigations indicate that the accused had established a semi-mechanised scale of production of illicit liquor, which is based on sourcing of raw materials like jaggery from within the village, and is sustained by extensive illicit distribution chains radiating from outside the village,” he said in an official statement. A case under relevant sections of the Excise Act has been registered and a process to forfeit the properties of the accused is underway, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/illicit-liquor-unit-busted-in-punjab/article34469297.ece
03 May 2021||Aligarh (U.P.),||‘Bribe sought to hand over victim’s body’||The son of an 80-year-old woman alleged on Sunday that the staff of a government hospital here was not handing over her body and demanding Rs. 8,000 for it. A visibly shattered Mr. Shankar told media on Sunday that his mother had succumbed to COVID-19 at the Deen Dayal Hospital on Friday. He alleged that since then, the hospital staff were dilly-dallying on the matter. They warned him not to visit as it was a COVID facility and would rudely turn him down whenever he approached the hospital authorities, according to Mr. Shankar. On Sunday, one of the hospital staff told him to pay Rs 8,000 if he wanted to secure his mother,s mortal remains, Mr. Shankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bribe-sought-to-hand-over-victims-body/article34469299.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi health minister's father succumbs to Covid-19, CM Kejriwal tweets||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain has lost his father to COVID-19, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet on Sunday. “Satyendra himself has been working tirelessly round the clock for the people of Delhi. God bless his [father’s] soul and my heartfelt condolences to the family,” Mr. Kejriwal added in his tweet. Mr. Jain had tested positive last year.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-health-ministers-father-succumbs-to-covid-19-cm-kejriwal-tweets/article34469150.ece
03 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi BJP starts ‘Modi Kitchens’ to provide food to needy||The Delhi BJP on Sunday started ‘Modi Kitchens’ across the Capital to provide food and ration to the poor and marginalised people suffering due to the lockdown. The party said that it has started the initiative as the Delhi government allegedly failed to provide any kind of assistance to the ones who are affected most by the continued shutdown in the Capital due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-bjp-starts-modi-kitchens-to-provide-food-to-needy/article34469151.ece
