05 May 2021||MUMBAI,||IPL-14 postponed indefinitely after virus breaches bubble||The 2021 edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) came to an abrupt halt on Tuesday, with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) deciding to suspend the season midway through the league stage. The decision was made minutes after it was revealed that two players — Wriddhiman Saha of Sunrisers Hyderabad and Amit Mishra of Delhi Capitals — had contracted COVID-19. The BCCI, in a statement, said that it had unanimously decided to “postpone” the current season of the IPL with immediate effect. “The BCCI does not want to compromise on the safety of the players, support staff and the other participants involved in organising the IPL. This decision was taken keeping the safety, health and well-being of all the stakeholders in mind,” the statement said. The IPL executives and BCCI officials, late on Monday and early on Tuesday, tried to chalk out a plan to shift the tournament to two stadia in Mumbai. However, the moment new infections were confirmed, the emergent IPL Governing Council meeting decided to stop the competition. It is uncertain whether the remaining 31 games of the tournament can be played any time soon. With the international calendar packed till the end of the year, the BCCI may struggle to find a window for rescheduling the IPL. However, a BCCI official, preferring anonymity, said that efforts will be made to “create a window immediately after the T20 World Cup final in November”. India is scheduled to host South Africa for a full series after the T20 World Cup in October-November at home. It will be interesting to see if the series is curtailed to make way for the IPL. More importantly, the IPL suspension has dented India’s chances of hosting the 16-nation T20 World Cup. With the COVID-19 pandemic wreaking havoc across the country, BCCI-appointed tournament director Dhiraj Malhotra recently confirmed United Arab Emirates as a back-up venue to organise the event. With the bio-secure bubble for the IPL having been breached across multiple locations, the global cricket community and the governing bodies are unlikely to agree to travel to India for the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ipl-14-postponed-indefinitely-after-virus-breaches-bubble/article34485325.ece
05 May 2021||Patna,||Bihar imposes lockdown till May 15||In view of a surge in COVID-19 cases, the Bihar government on Tuesday announced a lockdown till May 15, with guidelines that all offices, educational institutions, religious places and business establishments will be closed with the exception of essential services, including construction, agriculture and allied activities. The Patna High Court, which on Monday rapped the government for its failure to control the COVID-19 situation and stated “enforce a lockdown or the court will order it”, on Tuesday observed that “at least one order has been complied with”. “After having discussion with colleague ministers and officials yesterday it has been decided to impose lockdown in Bihar till May 15’ 2021. The crisis management group has been directed to execute its detail guidelines and other activities today itself,” Chief Minister Nitish Kumar tweeted in Hindi. The ruling BJP and JD(U) and Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal welcomed the move. The Indian Medical Association, Bihar chapter, too thanked Mr. Kumar for the decision. ‘HC orders on Thursday’ On Tuesday, the court did not pass any order, as midway through the hearing, Advocate General Lalit Kishore informed that the government had imposed a lockdown. The court, however, made it clear that it would pass “appropriate orders” on Thursday. It said, “The court will fail in its duty if necessary orders are not passed in the larger public interest to ensure right of life to the people in the State”. “We have all failed. All of us feel ashamed for what we have done. Don’t make a joke of the proceedings. We cannot wait. We cannot play with the lives of the people, you may. It is an observation on us also that we have failed. This has happened only because we depended on the State officials and false assurances given by the State officials,” it observed. “You had spoken about 1,000 beds at the IGIMS [Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences] and 500 beds at the ESIC [Employees’ State Insurance] hospital, but it could not start. The PMCH [Patna Medical College and Hospital] is in shambles, the NMCH [Nalanda Medical College & Hospital] is struggling,” it stated. “The fact remains that you [government] could not manage beds in ICU for COVID-19 patients,” it added. ‘Complete failure’ Earlier on Monday, the Division Bench of the court, observed that “it is like complete failure, as infection seems to be unabated. The government seems to be gripped in a state of indecision”. It had said the State needed a complete lockdown and asked Mr. Kishore to speak to the Chief Minister on it. “Either the government declares a lockdown, or the court will have to pass an appropriate order”, it stated in an oral observation. It had directed Mr. Kishore to inform the government’s decision on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-imposes-lockdown-till-may-15/article34485496.ece
05 May 2021||Mumbai,||Raise oxygen allocation by 200 MT, State urges Centre||The Maharashtra government has demanded that the Centre enhance allocation of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to the State by at least 200 metric tonnes (MT) daily as its requirement in 16 districts has risen following a spike in COVID-19 cases. In a letter addressed to Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on May 3, Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte also demanded that 10 LMO tankers be allocated to the State. The State government has requested that the supply from Jamnagar in Gujarat be increased to 225 MT per day from the current 125 MT and from Bhilai to 230 MT per day from the current 130 MT. “These geographically close locations will reduce the turnaround time of oxygen tankers, which are limited in number,” Mr. Kunte said. With Maharashtra continuing to face the onslaught of the second wave of COVID-19, of the 6,63,758 active cases in the State, 78,884 patients are on medical oxygen, including 24,787 in the ICUs, he said. Mr. Kunte also said that 16 districts — Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur, Nandurbar, Beed, Parbhani, Hingoli, Amravati, Buldhana, Wardha, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur — are showing growth in cases, with oxygen requirement on the rise. The Chief Secretary said, “Considering the rise in the demand for medical oxygen, the present allocation to the State can be enhanced by at least 200 MT. This allocation may be raised at the locations convenient to Maharashtra. Earlier allocation from RINL, Vizag, and Jindal Steel plant, Angul, Odisha, remains only on paper.” “I request you to allocate at least 10 LMO tankers to Maharashtra to enable lifting of the allocated oxygen quota from the steel plant located at Angul [Odisha] via RoRo [roll-on/roll-off) service,” Mr. Kunte said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/raise-oxygen-allocation-by-200-mt-state-urges-centre/article34485928.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI /Kolkata,||PM calls Bengal Governor over post-poll violence||Amid reports of post-poll violence from several districts of West Bengal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called up West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar and BJP national president J.P. Nadda flew to the State to visit the families of those killed. Political parties, including the BJP, the CPI(M) and the Congress, have alleged that their cadre were being attacked by Trinamool Congress supporters. There were reports of violence from Birbhum, Howrah, Basirhat, Sonarpur and Bardhaman in south Bengal, and Dinhata and Sitalkuchi in north Bengal. According to the State BJP, the number of party supporters killed in the past two days has risen to nine. The Trinamool Congress has rubbished the allegations, saying its supporters were at the receiving end. ‘PM anguished’ “PM (Prime Minister Modi) called and expressed his serious anguish and concern at the alarmingly worrisome law and order situation. I shared grave concerns @PMOIndia given that violence, vandalism, arson, loot and killings continue unabated. Concerned must act in overdrive to restore order,” tweeted Governor Dhankar after the PM’s call. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury also condemned the violence, tweeting, “Are these reports of gruesome violence in Bengal TMC’s ‘victory celebrations’? Condemnable. Will be resisted and rebuffed. Instead of focusing on combating the pandemic, TMC unleashes such mayhem. CPI(M), as always will be with the people to protect, assist, providing relief.” Congress in charge of West Bengal Jitin Prasada said, “The post-poll violence that has been unleashed by the TMC on the Congress workers is unacceptable. Even women and children are not spared. I’m sure the people of West Bengal did not vote for this lawlessness.” Mr. Nadda condemned Mamata Banerjee while speaking to reporters after visiting the families of BJP supporters killed in Kolkata and Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas.   The post poll violence that has been unleashed by the TMC on the Congress workers is unacceptable Jitin Prasada West Bengal Congress in-charge   Only those who cannot hear the cries of a wailing mother can say the killing of supporters is a political gimmick J.P. Nadda BJP national president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-calls-bengal-governor-over-post-poll-violence/article34485316.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Stalin to be sworn in T.N. CM on May 7||DMK president M.K. Stalin will be sworn in as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, along with his Council of Ministers, by Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhavan on Friday. At a meeting of 133 newly-elected DMK MLAs [and candidates of alliance parties elected on the ‘rising sun’ symbol] held at the party’s headquarters, Anna Arivalayam, on Tuesday, Mr. Stalin was unanimously elected the leader of the DMK Legislature Party. DMK general secretary Duraimurugan proposed his name for the post, which was seconded by principal secretary K.N. Nehru. Mr. Stalin is expected to meet the Governor on Wednesday to stake claim to form the next government. In a related development, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo called on the Governor at the Raj Bhavan and handed over to him the Election Commission of India’s notification under Section 73 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, for the constitution of the new Assembly for Tamil Nadu. Controlling COVID-19 Earlier in the day, Mr. Stalin held a meeting with Chief Secretary Rajiv Ranjan, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, DGP J.K. Tripathy and other senior officials in Chennai. He advised them to depute IAS officers, who had been appointed to monitor the availability of beds, medicines and oxygen, and medical professionals to the districts to ensure quality treatment to COVID-19 patients. A press release said he made a strong case for proper implementation of the new COVID-19 lockdown regulations as that alone could control the spread of the disease. He also sought details on the measures taken to control the spread of the virus and the availability of beds, oxygen and medicines. Mr. Stalin also issued an appeal to make the preventive measures against COVID-19 a “people’s movement”. Mr. Stalin issued an appeal to make the preventive measures against COVID-19 a “people’s movement”. “People should diligently follow the new restrictions announced by the government as the second wave is more severe than the first, and is costing more lives,” he said in a statement. Pointing out that news from the northern States had become a great cause of concern as hundreds were dying every day, Mr. Stalin said people should be doubly cautious. “People have understood that the new curbs were announced for their welfare and to break the COVID-19 chain. People should treat them as self-imposed curbs,” he said. He requested people not to come out of their houses unless it was absolutely necessary, and urged them to wear masks. “If you are working from an air-conditioned room, keep the door open. Wash your hands with disinfectants. Eat a lot of vegetable and fruits,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-to-be-sworn-in-tn-cm-on-may-7/article34485372.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||82 deaths and 20,034 new cases in State||The State witnessed 82 new COVID deaths and 20,034 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning taking the death toll to 8,289  and cumulative tally to  11,84,028.   In the past day, 12,207 patients recovered, taking total recoveries to 10,16,142 with a recovery rate of 85.82%. The number of active cases increased to 1,59,597. Over 1.15 lakh samples were tested in the past day and 17.30% of them turned positive. Positivity rate The overall positivity rate of 1.68 crore samples tested increased to 7.03%. During the past three days, 3.45 lakh samples were tested and 62,926 samples turned positive registering a positivity rate of 18.2%. West Godavari has been witnessing a rapid surge in cases and deaths of late. During the past day, 12 COVID deaths occurred in the district. It was followed by Anantapur, East Godavari, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram which reported nine deaths each. Nellore reported seven deaths, Krishna reported six and Guntur reported five deaths while Chittoor, Kurnool, Prakasam and Srikakulam reported four new deaths each. Kadapa has again reported no new death. Eleven districts reported more than a thousand new infections. Srikakulam has reported 2,398 new infections, the highest among the districts. It was followed by Chittoor (2,318), Anantapur (2,168), Visakhapatnam (1,976), Prakasam (1,741), Guntur (1,678), Kurnool (1,396), West Godavari (1,258), Nellore (1,160), East Godavari (1,075), Vizianagaram (1,075), Krishna (998) and Kadapa (793). East Godavari's cumulative tally of infections crossed the 1.5 lakh mark and was the only district to see such a huge caseload so far. Chittoor, which was next it, was 20,000 infections behind. East Godavari's death rate was 0.47% and the recovery rate was 88.30% as it has 16,853 active cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,50,281), Chittoor (1,29,129), Guntur (1,11,925), West Godavari (1,04,218), Anantapur (89,043), Visakhapatnam (87,000), Nellore (85,786), Kurnool (84,462), Srikakulam (76,973), Prakasam (76,853), Kadapa (66,816), Krishna (65,125) and Vizianagaram (53,522).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/82-deaths-and-20034-new-cases-in-state/article34485322.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||18-hour curfew in State from today||The State will go under an 18-hour curfew between 12 noon and 6 a.m. every day for two weeks (up to May 18) from Wednesday as a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19. Between 6 a.m. and 12 noon all the business activity, public movement and others would be allowed and Section 144 of the Cr.P.C. would be in force to prevent the gathering of five or more people at public places. From 12 noon to 6 am next morning, all the business and public activity including all the firms, shops, establishments, offices, educational institutions, restaurants and others have to be closed, as per the guidelines issued in a government order on Tuesday. However, essential services, including hospitals, diagnostic labs, pharmacies, print and electronic media, telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting services, IT and ITeS, fuel stations, including CNG outlets, LPG outlets, power generation, transmission and distribution, water supply and sanitation, cold storage and warehousing services and private security services would be exempted from the curfew. Manufacturing industries, agricultural operations have also been exempted. Exempted During the curfew hours, all public movement would be restricted and those related to the list of offices and establishments declared under the essential services category would be exempted. In addition, officials of State and Central governments, including staff of the High Court, local bodies on emergency duty, have been exempted. Medical personnel, pregnant women and patients, persons availing COVID vaccination at designated health facilities, persons availing themselves of healthcare in public or private healthcare establishments, transportation of persons in private vehicles for availing healthcare services, persons coming from or going to airports, railway stations, bus stands on production of valid tickets are also exempted from the curfew. Transport All the inter-State and intra-State movement of essential and non-essential goods have been exempted, while local transport services like auto-rickshaws, cabs and city bus would be allowed only between 6 a.m. and noon. Intra and inter-district public transport and inter-State public transport would not be allowed during the curfew hours.  Weddings The government reduced the number of guests allowed at marriages to 20 and only functions such as marriages that were already scheduled and could not be rescheduled would be allowed with permission from local authorities. District administration, police units and other HoDs were asked to issue passes to the persons under the exempted category to facilitate their movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-hour-curfew-in-state-from-today/article34485323.ece
05 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||SP, BJP claim victory in U.P. panchayat polls||The Uttar Pradesh State Election Commission (SEC) on Tuesday evening directed its district units to not delay issuing of certificates to winning candidates after the Samajwadi Party (SP) alleged that candidates supported by it were not been given their certificates. Strict action will be taken if it receives verified complaints of delay in issuing certificates in any district, the SEC said, adding that the counting process, which started on May 2, had concluded. Earlier in the day, SP president Akhilesh Yadav had claimed that the party had been the “first preference” of the voters. “The victory of the Samajwadi Party in large numbers is a clear indication that is had acceptability among the farmers, youth and in villages,” Mr. Yadav said in a statement. On Monday evening, the BJP had claimed that it was ahead of the other parties and candidates linked to it had won 918 zilla panchayat member seats while in 557 others they enjoyed a decisive lead. Parties do not issue their symbols for the three-tier panchayat polls but indicate the candidates they support in the zilla panchayat election. The SP did not mention the specific number of candidates supported by it who had won. Party spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary claimed that the BJP received a jolt in both Gorakhpur and Varanasi, the political home ground of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, respectively. The SP also received huge success in Lucknow, said Mr. Chaudhary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sp-bjp-claim-victory-in-up-panchayat-polls/article34485606.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. gives nod for 5G trials; Chinese tech giants left out||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) on Tuesday gave permission to Telecom Service Providers (TSPs) to conduct trials for the use and application of 5G technology. This formally leaves out Chinese companies like Huawei and ZTE from the 5G race in India. “The applicant TSPs include Bharti Airtel Ltd., Reliance JioInfocomm Ltd., Vodafone Idea Ltd. and MTNL. These TSPs have tied up with original equipment manufacturers and technology providers, which are Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung and C-DOT,” a statement from the Ministry of Communications said. In addition, Reliance JioInfocomm Ltd. will also be conducting trials using its own indigenous technology. The duration of the trials is for six months, which includes a time period of two months for the procurement and setting up of the equipment. “The permissions have been given by DoT as per the priorities and technology partners identified by the TSPs themselves,” it stated. Each TSP will have to conduct trials in rural and semi-urban settings also, in addition to urban settings, so that the benefit of 5G technology proliferates across the country and is not confined to the urban areas, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-gives-nod-for-5g-trials-chinese-tech-giants-left-out/article34485327.ece
05 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||Five COVID-19 patients die in Hubballi hospital||Five COVID-19 patients, including two women, getting treatment in a private hospital in Hubballi passed away on Tuesday evening leading to speculation about shortage of medical oxygen. While the family members of the deceased said that oxygen shortage was the reason for the deaths, District Health Officer Yashwanth Madinkar, who visited Lifeline Hospital located on Gokul Road, said that it was not related to oxygen shortage as the hospital had its own oxygen concentrator and adequate stock of cylinders. All the five patients who passed away on Tuesday were on ventilators and were in critical condition. Dr. Madinkar told The Hindu that he visited the hospital and took stock of oxygen and other facilities there. It did not appear that the deaths were due to oxygen shortage. The cause of death of the patients would be looked into in detail before arriving at any conclusion. But oxygen shortage was not the reason for the deaths, he said. He said that the Death Audit Committee would inquire into the issue to know the cause of death and related issues. He said that 21 patients were getting treated in the private hospital which has 30 jumbo oxygen cylinders, 2 kl capacity oxygen container and an oxygen concentrator. An alarm system to alert discrepancy in shortage of oxygen is also in place in the ICU, he added.  The Death Audit Committee will inquire into the issue to know the cause of death and related issues: DHO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-covid-19-patients-die-in-hubballi-hospital/article34485450.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Ruling party legislators allege bed blocking scam||In an embarrassing turn of events for the government, a group of ruling party legislators led by Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya, accompanied by three MLAs from the South zone, livestreamed an exposé of alleged corruption in bed allocation for COVID-19 patients by the city’s civic body. The alleged scam in the South zone war room has raised questions about the integrity of bed allocation system across the city. Mr. Surya and the legislators — Ravi Subramanya, Uday Garudachar, and Satish Reddy — held a press conference and alleged that beds were being blocked in the name of asymptomatic patients in home isolation, only to be sold to others hours later by staff in the South zone war room. In a dramatic turn of events, Mr. Surya and the three MLAs visited the war room in Jayanagar armed with bed allocation details and confronted the officials. “There has been no transparency in bed allocation. I had to threaten a senior officer in the wee hours of Tuesday that unless we were provided with the raw data of bed allocation, I would stage a protest in front of the war room. A prima facie analysis of the data revealed the scam,” he said. The legislators furnished three audio clips, of them calling up patients and asking them about beds allotted in their name, only to find them at home or in a private hospital. “We have found cases where ICU beds were booked 12 times for one patient,” Mr. Surya said. He alleged this was affecting genuine patients in need and especially the poor who cannot afford treatment at private hospitals. Meanwhile, the Jayanagar police while conducting a sting operation arrested a social worker and her nephew for selling beds for anywhere between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 40,000. They believe that the duo have ties to BBMP war room personnel. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that action would be taken against those who are involved in the BBMP bed blocking scam. He said that he would be meeting with Mr. Surya to get more details. The scam has come as an embarrassment to the BJP government especially as it was unearthed by their own party members. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar took a dig at the legislators, congratulating them for “exposing corruption by their party government and corporation”, and demanded that they "immediately name the BJP Minister responsible for people suffering so much". Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, BBMP, has tasked Kumar Pushkar, nodal officer, bed management, BBMP, to conduct a probe and submit a report. Mr. Pushkar held a meeting on Tuesday and reviewed the software as well, and will submit a report on how to plug loopholes in the software that has probably made such bed blocking possible. He is expected to submit his report on Wednesday. Elected representatives, facing pressure from people seeking beds, but are unable to help them are angry with bureaucrats and private agencies to whom the management of call centres has been outsourced, sources said. Following a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, where the issue was raised Mr. Yediyurappa has appointed two senior ministers Basavaraj Bommai and R. Ashok to oversee bed management in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ruling-party-legislators-allege-bed-blocking-scam/article34485761.ece
05 May 2021||MANGALURU,||Get tested upon noticing symptoms, says Udupi Deputy Commissioner||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Tuesday urged people to immediately get tested for COVID-19 upon noticing symptoms. One should not drag till the condition worsens requiring treatment in intensive care units, he said. ICU beds in the district are full and the situation is worsening as days pass with increasing number of COVID-19 positive patients, he said in a pre recorded video message. Despite asking people to get tested immediately after noticing symptoms, many remain home and approach hospitals in a serious condition thereby increasing the burden on the administration. If people get themselves tested and undergo treatment, if found positive for COVID-19, the situation could be saved, he said. Mr. Jagadeesha also urged people not to entertain people from outside in their houses. Even if their close relatives visit them, they should maintain safe distance from them, he suggested. Vaccination In a press release, Mr. Jagadeesha said that 947 eligible persons due for second dose of Covishield vaccine will be administered the vaccine on priority basis as there is not enough stock in the district. ASHAs and healthcare personnel will call such people and take steps for administering the vaccine. Those who have got Covishield vaccine eight weeks before may call ASHAs to get the second dose, he said. Covaxin is not immediately available in the district, he said and added that as and when the State gets supply of the vaccine, healthcare workers will administer it on priority basis to those who have got it six weeks before. In the coming days, steps will be taken to administer the second dose of vaccine on priority basis to those who have already got the first dose. Healthcare workers will arrange for vaccination of the first dose as and when enough supply of vaccine is available in the district. Till then, those intending to get the first dose need not visit hospitals, Mr. Jagadeesha suggested. The vaccination drive for those aged between 18 and 45 will start soon after the government supplies the required number of doses. The beneficiaries have to register online for the purpose, be it in government facility or private hospitals, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/get-tested-upon-noticing-symptoms-says-udupi-deputy-commissioner/article34485906.ece
05 May 2021||MYSURU,||Emergency averted at K.R. Hospital||Authorities at K.R. Hospital in Mysuru drafted the services of Fire and Emergency Services personnel to help break ice crystal formation in the oxygen tank and averted an emergency on Tuesday. Sources said failure to do so would have resulted in ice crystal formation in the tubes and affected the oxygen flow. Director of the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute C.P. Nanjaraj said ice crystal formation was normal and they use sprinklers frequently to break it and keep the flow normal. But the crystals had hardened and hence it was decided to seek the assistance of the Fire Services who helped break the ice using high-powered sprinklers. Dr. Nanjaraj attributed the ice build-up to the high usage of oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/emergency-averted-at-kr-hospital/article34485551.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||Foreign aid channelled to Central facilities||Around 40 lakh items, comprising medicines, oxygen cylinders and masks, among others received in foreign aid have been distributed to 38 institutions and hospitals, mostly run by the Central government in 31 States and Union Territories, according to a statement issued by the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. Amid the second wave of COVID-19, with over 3 lakh cases being reported daily, India for the first time in 17 years decided to accept foreign aid. Emergency aid continued coming into the country from various countries. Seven tankers with 20 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) each arrived at the Mundra port in Gujarat from the United Arab Emirates, the first such shipment of LMO to India, according to the Ministry of External Affairs. In a joint effort by the U.K. with the Indian Air Force, 450 oxygen cylinders were ferried to Chennai. The fifth in a series of consignments carrying medical equipment — 545 oxygen concentrators — arrived from the U.S. Also, a shipment from Kuwait arrived in India with 282 oxygen cylinders, 60 oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/foreign-aid-channeled-to-central-facilities/article34485318.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||Supply oxygen or face contempt: HC to Centre||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to show cause why contempt should not be initiated against it for failing to comply with orders to supply oxygen to Delhi for COVID-19 patients. “You can put your head in sand like an ostrich, we will not,” the court told the Centre. It added that the Supreme Court had already directed, and now the HC is also saying that the Centre will have to supply 700 MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. “You are part of the city and seeing the situation yourself. No, you don’t know. Are you living in ivory towers?” the Bench said. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also rejected the Centre's submission that Delhi was not entitled to 700 metric tonnes of medical oxygen in light of existing medical infrastructure. It said the top court’s April 30 detailed order directed the Central government to provide 700 MT of oxygen per day to Delhi and not just 490 MT. “We had told you contempt is the last thing on our mind but it is certainly in our mind and don’t drive us to that last point. Enough is enough. Be clear on this. We are not going to take no for an answer. There is no way you won’t supply 700 MT... There is Supreme Court order and now we are also saying that you will have to supply 700 MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. We will not hear anything except compliance,” an annoyed Bench orally observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supply-oxygen-or-face-contempt-hc-to-centre/article34485328.ece
05 May 2021||Pune,||65,934 more recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s recovery spree continued with 65,934 more patients being discharged against a surge of 51,880 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Though active cases dipped to 6,41,910, the State recorded a spike of 891 fatalities, pushing its total death toll to 71,742. The State’s total tally has reached 48,22,902, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 41,07,092, with the recovery rate going up to 85.16%. The fatality rate has dipped to 1.49%. Pune district reported over 7,500 new cases to take its tally to 8,72,617. Mumbai city reported just 2,554 new cases to take its total case tally to 6,61,175, and 62 more fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/65934-more-recoveries-in-maharashtra/article34485929.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||ECI notification on new House||Chief Electoral Officer, Kerala, Teeka Ram Meena handed over the Election Commission of India’s notification of those elected to the Assembly to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan at Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. The duly constituted new Assembly for Kerala has been published in the State Gazette (Extraordinary) of May 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eci-notification-on-new-house/article34485477.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||May session of JEE (Main) postponed||Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ announced on Tuesday that the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) for the May session had been postponed, keeping in view the safety of students. “Students are advised to keep visiting the official website of NTA (National Testing Agency) for further updates,” tweeted Dr. Nishank. The May session was scheduled for May 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28. Earlier, the April session had also been postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. From this year, the exam is being held four times a year to offer students flexibility and a chance to improve their scores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/may-session-of-jee-main-postponed/article34485314.ece
05 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,||4 dead due to disruption in oxygen supply||Four persons died reportedly owing to disruption in oxygen supply in the Cancer Hospital, which has been converted into a COVID-19 hospital connected to the Super Speciality Hospital. This is the third consecutive day that COVID patients have died owing to alleged human error and lack of proper supervision at the government hospitals in Anantapur district. Cancer Hospital has a 6 KL medical oxygen unit, but it got emptied at 6 p.m. and new supplies arrived only at 7.45 p.m., resulting in the death of four patients, Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy told the media outside the hospital premises. Four ambulances went out, but it was not clear as to how many died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-dead-due-to-disruption-in-oxygen-supply/article34485319.ece
05 May 2021||Mysuru,||Chamarajanagar: Surge came from rural pockets||There has been a surge in positive cases in rural areas of Chamarajanagar. As per district administration data, 2,255 cases were reported in the district between April 1 and 25, of which 1,697 were from rural pockets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chamarajanagar-surge-came-from-rural-pockets/article34485759.ece
05 May 2021||bengaluru,||Data shows mismatch in govt. claims on oxygen||The State government, which has been requesting the Centre to increase the allocation of oxygen to 1,792 metric tonnes per day (MTD) based on the number of active COVID-19 cases, lifted only 650-670 MTD of the allocated 802 MTD between April 30 and May 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/data-shows-mismatch-in-govt-claims-on-oxygen/article34485760.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHi,||Kejriwal announces free ration for cardholders||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the Delhi government will provide free ration to all 72 lakh cardholders in the city for the next two months. He added that the government will also provide ﬁnancial assistance of Rs. 5,000 each to every auto and taxi driver in the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-announces-free-ration-for-cardholders/article34485828.ece
05 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Deaths no less than ‘genocide’: Allahabad HC||Deaths of COVID-19 patients due to lack of supply of oxygen “is a criminal act and not less than a genocide by those who have been entrusted the task to ensure continuous procurement and supply of oxygen”, the Allahabad HC said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deaths-no-less-than-genocide-allahabad-hc/article34485830.ece
05 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Central BJP leaders may decide next Assam CM||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP’s national general secretary, Arun Singh, are expected to reach Guwahati from New Delhi soon to meet the newly elected candidates of the party and decide who will be the next Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-bjp-leaders-may-decide-next-assam-cm/article34485829.ece
05 May 2021||BELAGAVI,||‘Ensure information on beds is easily available’||Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who has been newly appointed as Belagavi district in-charge Minister, held a virtual meeting with officers in Belagavi on Tuesday. He asked officers to ensure that hospitals in the district did not suffer from oxygen scarcity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-information-on-beds-is-easily-available/article34485452.ece
05 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Central BJP leaders may decide next Assam CM||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP’s national general secretary, Arun Singh, are expected to reach Guwahati from New Delhi soon to meet the newly elected candidates of the party and decide who will be the next Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-bjp-leaders-may-decide-next-assam-cm/article34485935.ece
05 May 2021||COLOMBO,||86 held in Sri Lankan waters||As many as 86 persons from India, travelling on 11 boats, were on Tuesday caught in Sri Lankan waters as they tried to enter the island nation, possibly fleeing the raging pandemic, the Sri Lankan Navy said. “They were intercepted mid-sea and held there by the Navy. We immediately informed the Indian High Commission, asking them to make arrangements for the Indian Coast Guard or the Navy to take them back,” Navy spokesperson Captain Indika De Silva told The Hindu . When contacted, an official at the Indian High Commission here said there were “a few boats with Indian fishermen near the IMBL [International Maritime Boundary Line], which were stopped by the Sri Lankan Navy when they inadvertently drifted towards Sri Lanka”. While the Sri Lankan Navy said it prevented “illegal immigrants” from entering Sri Lankan waters, the Indian mission referred to them as “fishermen”. “After they were told to return, they have gone back towards India. We continue to believe that the matters related to the fishermen of both countries should be dealt with in a humanitarian manner,” the official said. Details of where the 86 fishermen came from were not made available. Tamil Nadu is observing the annual 61-day ban on fisheries to allow for breeding in the Palk Strait. During this time, mechanised boats from Tamil Nadu, which are accused of fishing in Sri Lankan waters, are usually off sea. The Sri Lankan Navy said it has increased patrol along the island’s north and north-western coasts to prevent “illegal migration”. The development comes days after two women and two children from India were arrested in Sri Lanka for entering the island nation illegally by boat, Captain De Silva said. “One of them was a Sri Lankan refugee who was living in India, and another was a Sri Lankan woman who was undergoing treatment there.” Similar cases of refugees attempting to return to Sri Lanka by boat were also reported during India’s first wave of COVID-19 last year. In the past two weeks, the Sri Lankan Navy apprehended four Indian dhows with 21 people, carrying “smuggled dried turmeric, cardamom, other consumer goods”, a press release said. “The Indian nationals and the dhows held in these operations were repatriated back to Indian waters, taking into consideration the prevailing spike in the transmission of COVID-19,” according to the media release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/86-caught-in-sri-lankan-waters/article34485233.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The caste calculus in DMK’s win||With the DMK-led alliance winning a two-thirds majority in Tamil Nadu, it may be useful to look at the caste calculus in the recently concluded Assembly election. The post-poll survey shows that the support of Dalits, minorities and upper castes played a major role in helping the DMK alliance win. Dominant backward castes offered only lukewarm support to the DMK alliance. In southern Tamil Nadu, a majority of the Thevar vote (55%) was won by the AIADMK alliance, with only two of every 10 voters supporting the DMK-led front (19%). In the north, the AIADMK alliance, along with the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), secured a majority (54%) of Vanniyar votes. Parts of northern Tamil Nadu also saw a polarisation of the Mudaliar and Vanniyar votes in AIADMK alliance’s favour. However, for both social groups, it was not a sweep for the AIADMK, as the DMK coalition got at least four out of every 10 votes. The Dalit vote for the DMK-led coalition helped them consolidate in the north and offset the loss of the Vanniyar and Mudaliar support. In the west, the Gounder vote was firmly with the AIADMK front (59%). Here, the support of Arunthathiyar Dalits (68%), for the DMK alliance helped it garner votes and slash the winning margins for the AIADMK front. The support of the Nadars, the Devendrakula Velalars, and Christians helped the DMK-led coalition in the South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-caste-calculus-in-dmks-win/article34485252.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scientists see flaws in SUTRA’s approach to modelling pandemic||With close to 4,00,000 cases being added every day, questions are being raised by some scientists on whether a government-backed model, called SUTRA, to forecast the rise and ebb of the COVID-19 pandemic, may have had an outsize role in creating the perception that a catastrophic second wave of the pandemic was unlikely in India. An official connected with the COVID-19 management exercise said, on condition of anonymity, that the SUTRA model input was “an important one, but not unique or determining”. The SUTRA group had presented their views to V.K. Paul, who chaired a committee that got inputs from several modellers and sources. “The worst-case predictions from this ensemble were used by the National Empowered Group on Vaccines and the groups headed by Dr. Paul to take measures. However, the surge was several times what any of the modellers had predicted,” the official said. On May 2, the SUTRA group put out a statement, carried by the Press Information Bureau, that the government had solicited its inputs where they said a “second wave” would peak by the third week of April and stay at around 1 lakh cases. “Clearly the model predictions in this instance were incorrect,” it noted. Past its peak SUTRA (Susceptible, Undetected, Tested (positive), and Removed Approach) first came into public attention when one of its expert members announced in October that India was “past its peak”. After new cases reached 97,000 a day in September, there was a steady decline and one of the scientists associated with the model development, M. Vidyasagar, said at a press conference then that the model showed the COVID burden was expected to be capped at 10.6 million symptomatic infections by early 2021, with fewer than 50,000 active cases from December. In October, at that time, there were 7.4 million confirmed cases of which about 7,80,000 were active infections. Computational biologist Mukund Thattai, of the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, in a Twitter thread on May 1 summarised instances of the SUTRA forecasts being far out of bounds of the actual case load. “The so-called Covid ‘supermodel’ commissioned by the Govt of India is fundamentally flawed,” he tweeted. “Based on Prof. Agrawal’s [Manindra Agrawal of IIT-Kanpur] own posts, it was quite clear that the predictions of the SUTRA model were too variable to guide government policy. Many models got things wrong but the question is why the government continued to rely on this model, than consult epidemiologists and public health experts,” Mr. Thattai told The Hindu . Mr. Agrawal was among the mathematicians involved in developing the model. In an email to The Hindu , Mr. Agrawal said that the model, which had multiple purposes, didn’t work well on a metric of “predicting the future under different scenarios”. He said unlike many epidemiological models that extrapolated cases based on the existing number of cases, the behaviour of the virus and manner of spread, the SUTRA model chose a “data centric approach”. The equation that gave out estimates of what the number of future infections might be and the likelihood of when a peak might occur, needed certain ‘constants’. These numbers kept changing and their values relied on the number of infections being reported at various intervals. However, the equation couldn’t tell when a constant changed. A rapid acceleration of cases couldn’t be predicted in advance. ‘Danger of overfitting’ Rahul Siddharthan, a computational biologist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, in an email said no model, without external input from real-world data, could have predicted the second wave. However, the SUTRA model was problematic as it relied on too many parameters, and recalibrated those parameters whenever its predictions “broke down”. “The more parameters you have, the more you are in danger of ‘overfitting’. You can fit any curve over a short time window with 3 or 4 parameters. If you keep resetting those parameters, you can literally fit anything,” he said. According to Mr. Agrawal, one of the main reasons for the model not gauging an impending, exponential rise was that a constant indicating contact between people and populations went wrong. “We assumed it can at best go up to pre-lockdown value. However, it went well above that due to new strains of virus.” Further the model was ‘calibrated’ incorrectly. The model relied on a serosurvey conducted by the ICMR in May that said 0.73% of India’s population may have been infected at that time. “ I have strong reasons to believe now that the results of the first survey were not correct (actual infected population was much lower than reported). This calibration led our model to the conclusion that more than 50% population was immune by January. In addition, there is also the possibility that a good percentage of immune population lost immunity with time,” Mr. Agrawal said. In the SUTRA approach, the factor by which reported cases differ from actual ones is a parameter in the model that could be estimated from just reported government data (covid19india.org), according to Mr. Agrawal. “I understand it may appear a bit mysterious, but the math shows how. This, in fact, is one of our central contributions,” he told The Hindu . This has been described in a preprint research paper that has been available online since January.  (With inputs from Shubashree Desikan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scientists-see-flaws-in-sutras-approach-to-modelling-pandemic/article34485265.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Clear message from Supreme Court||A series of decisions within a week since Justice N.V. Ramana took over as the 48th Chief Justice of India shows a rejuvenation happening within the Supreme Court in its role as the guardian of rights of ordinary people. The court has not flinched while ordering a reluctant Uttar Pradesh government to shift journalist Siddique Kappan to Delhi for medical treatment. It has talked straight and true to the Centre about the lapses in managing a devastating second COVID-19 wave that has cost precious lives, especially in the national capital. The court has also decided to revisit the legality of the law of sedition. The intervention would bring into spotlight the use of sedition as a tool to incarcerate activists, lawyers, students and journalists who voice their dissent against the government. The court’s decision to relook the Section comes hardly three months after it had rejected a similar plea filed by some lawyers. In Mr. Kappan’s case, a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice Ramana brushed aside Uttar Pradesh government’s submission that he did not require any special treatment. The Bench held that “the most precious fundamental ‘right to life’ unconditionally embraces even an undertrial”. The Bench went on to author a detailed order and put on record how the earlier medical reports on Mr. Kappan submitted by the Uttar Pradesh government revealed that he had “multiple health issues like diabetes, heart ailment, blood pressure and bodily injury”. “However, the next set of medical reports and additional affidavit circulated by the State this morning show that he has tested COVID-19 negative…” the CJI Bench laid bare the facts. Chief Justice Ramana, days before his swearing in on April 24, had sent a clear message in a public address that the legal community was obliged to protect the vulnerable sections of society from human rights atrocities perpetrated by the State or any anti-social elements. The suo motu hearings in ‘ In re: distribution of essential supplies and services during COVID-19 ’ before Justice Sharad A. Bobde had begun by drawing criticism. Senior lawyers went public to say that the Supreme Court’s intervention may interfere with the efforts of various High Courts. Following Justice Bobde’s exit, the suo motu case went to a new Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. The court immediately set the record straight by saying that it did not want to interfere with the High Courts’ work, but wanted to supplement it. The following days saw the court put the Centre on a clock. Most important, the Bench warned States of contempt if they tried to punish people for airing grievances. The court also made it clear to a “hurt” Election Commission that it would not stop the media from reporting judges’ oral remarks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clear-message-from-supreme-court/article34485231.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The impact of social factors||Factors like gender, class, education and location played an important role in the Tamil Nadu Assembly election, indicates the Lokniti-CSDS post-poll survey. Compared to the 2016 election, a higher proportion of male voters favoured the DMK-led alliance. There was an increase of 12 % points in men voting for them. Even among women voters, there was a marginal increase of 1% in support. The AIADMK-led alliance, too, despite getting a smaller share of women votes as compared to its rival, registered an increase. Women voters Data indicate that the women vote has shifted from the other towards the AIADMK-led alliance, enhancing its share of women voters despite the absence of of Jayalalithaa. However, the DMK alliance has improved its vote share among the non-literates and those with limited access to education. The AIADMK alliance was able to hold on to voters who are matric pass and those with access to college education. Location, economic class The DMK alliance performed much better in towns, increasing its share by 9% points. There was not much of a difference in the rural votes for both alliances.The AIADMK alliance improved its vote share among voters living in cities by garnering 7% more votes than in 2016. Poorer voters shifted allegiance to the DMK-led front substantially. In small towns and cities, the DMK alliance was well ahead. Among the middle classes, too, the DMK alliance did better, adding to the above reasons for a comprehensive victory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-impact-of-social-factors/article34485249.ece
05 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||SP, BJP claim victory in U.P. panchayat polls||The Uttar Pradesh State Election Commission (SEC) on Tuesday evening directed its district units not to delay issuing of certificates to winning candidates after the Samajwadi Party (SP) alleged that candidates supported by it were not being given their certificates. Strict action will be taken if it receives verified complaints of delay in issuing certificates in any district, the SEC said, adding that the counting process, which started on May 2, had concluded. Earlier in the day, SP president Akhilesh Yadav had claimed that the party had been the “first preference” of the voters. “The victory of the Samajwadi Party in large numbers is a clear indication that is had acceptability among the farmers, youth and in villages,” Mr. Yadav said in a statement. On Monday evening, the BJP had claimed that it was ahead of the other parties and candidates linked to it had won 918 zilla panchayat member seats, while in 557 others they enjoyed a decisive lead. Parties do not issue their symbols for the three-tier panchayat polls but indicate the candidates they support in the zilla panchayat election. The SP did not mention the specific number of candidates supported by it who had won. Party spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary claimed that the BJP received a jolt in both Gorakhpur and Varanasi, the political home ground of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, respectively. The SP also received huge success in Lucknow, said Mr. Chaudhary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-bjp-claim-victory-in-up-panchayat-polls/article34485260.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||How does a concentrator help?||With the demand for medical oxygen continuing unabated and several States struggling to keep pace with demand, the oxygen concentrator has emerged as a sought after device. Unlike medical oxygen sourced from industrial units, which are supplied via cylinders, concentrators are devices that can be operated at home. When is an oxygen concentrator needed? When blood saturation levels drop below 94%, it could be a sign of respiratory distress. Usually this merits hospitalisation, but due to the surge in COVID-19 cases and oxygen beds in short supply, the device could help those whose saturation levels range between 88 and 92 if they can’t access hospital services. Any lower would require more intensive oxygenation and any higher would mean that an improvement in lung function can obviate the need for such a device. What does a concentrator do? An oxygen concentrator takes in air and separates the oxygen and delivers it into a person via a nasal cannula. Air is 79% nitrogen and 21% oxygen and a concentrator that works by plugging into a source of electricity delivers air that is upto 95% oxygen. In respiratory infections that causes oxygen saturation levels to dip below 90%, having an external device supply pure oxygen eases the burden on the lungs. However in cases of severe respiratory distress, it may be necessary to provide oxygen that is almost 99% pure and an oxygen concentrator is not up to that job, How does it work? A concentrator consists of a compressor and sieve bed filter. The former squeezes atmospheric air and also adjusts the pressure at which it is delivered. The sieve bed is made of a material called Zeolite that separates the nitrogen. There are two sieve beds that work to both release oxygen into a tank that’s connected to the cannula as well as release the separated nitrogen and form a continuous loop that keeps producing fresh oxygen. Are all concentrators the same? These products come with a variety of specifications. There are those with varying oxygen outputs. For COVID-19 patients, a device with a 5L-10 L output is recommended. What’s important though is that it delivers air that contains at least 90% pure oxygen. The cost of these devices can range from Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 90,000. There are also pulse and continuous flow concentrators where the latter delivers oxygen at a constant rate and the other uses a sensor to deliver a puff of oxygen when a user is about to inhale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/how-does-a-concentrator-help/article34485272.ece
05 May 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal BJP veteran targets leadership over loss||Tathagata Roy, former Meghalaya Governor and one of most senior BJP leaders in West Bengal, targeted the party leadership on Tuesday through a series of social media posts. He questioned the party’s selection process, including its choice of several actors as candidates, and accused the party leaders of not standing by supporters when they are under attack. While Mr. Roy focused earlier in the day on the decision of the party to field Tollywood actors who were seen in public with a Trinamool Congress leader, he later highlighted the alleged attacks on party supporters by ruling party cadres and questioned why BJP central observers were not coming to their rescue. “Film and TV actors who never had anything to do with politics, let alone BJP, were handed tickets by BJP’s election management team. Srabanti Chatterjee (Behala West), Payel Sarkar (Behala East), Tanusree Chakraborty (Shyampur-Howrah). These women were so politically stupid that they had gone on a steamer trip with TMC’s playboy-politician Madan Mitra less than a month before elections and shot selfies with him,” the veteran politician wrote on Twitter. The video of the steamer trip of the BJP nominees with the TMC leader had gone viral during the elections. Pointing out that all these actors were defeated, Mr. Roy asked party leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya and Dilip Ghosh why they were given the BJP ticket. Later in the day, he said BJP workers from Canning in South 24 Parganas are calling him to complain about their houses being set on fire and possessions being looted. “Calling Kailash Vijayvargiya, Shiv Prakash, Arvind Menon. Your duty does not finish as soon as you’ve lost the elections. Strangely the karyakartas (workers) are asking me to come to their rescue. Not Dilip Ghosh, not any of the General Secretaries,” Mr. Roy said on social media, adding that he had no official post currently in the party and was helpless in such a situation. Mr. Roy had expressed his willingness to work for the BJP in West Bengal even when he was Governor of Meghalaya. While the BJP leadership did not respond to the barbs by the 75-year-old leader, Mr. Ghosh, the State unit chief, said that he would never desert the party supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-bjp-veteran-targets-leadership-over-loss/article34485832.ece
05 May 2021||Kolkata,||‘No vote for BJP’ helped Trinamool||In the middle of the election campaign in West Bengal, when top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders were making daily visits to the State, farmer leaders protesting in Delhi too came calling. The leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha led by Rakesh Tikait and social activist Medha Patkar camped in the State for two days. The leaders held rallies in Nandigram, Singur and Kolkata urging people not to vote for the BJP. Their campaign was ‘no vote for BJP’, and both Mr. Tikait and Ms. Patkar dissuaded people from voting for the BJP. In another development, prominent names of Bengal’s television and film industry came up with a six-minute video song titled ‘Nijerder Mate, Nijeder Gaan ’ , with a message to the electorate emphasising diversity and co-existence in the State. Almost 48 hours after the results of West Bengal Assembly election were declared, the State BJP leadership believes that the coming together of all anti-BJP vote is responsible for the verdict. The Trinamool Congress registered an all-time high voting percentage since the formation of the party by recording 47.9 % votes. The BJP recorded 38.1 % votes, 9.8 % less votes than the State’s ruling party. “What was left of the Left parties and the Congress went to the Trinamool Congress to stop the BJP. Compared to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Left and the Congress vote share dropped by another 5%, which went to the Trinamool, and that has made all the difference,” a top State BJP leader told The Hindu .  Political analyst Biswanath Chakraborty said while there could be multiple factors, the “no vote to BJP” campaign by a section of Left supporters and civil society foiled the chances of the saffron party. “The State’s intelligentsia resisted the BJP with full force and so did the mainstream vernacular media,” he said. Among other factors, the fielding of defectors from the Trinamool Congress did not go down well with the electorate. “Most of the defectors who joined the BJP from the Trinamool Congress lost. Only Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram and Mihir Goswami from Natabari won. More than 30 MLAs who had defected to the BJP were given tickets and only a few won,” said Prof. Chakraborty said. Other issues such as giving tickets to sitting MPs like Babul Supriyo, Locket Chatterjee and former Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta also did not go down well with the electorate, experts pointed out.  At least three phases of the election were held in the last few days of April, when the Centre’s mismanagement of COVID-19 crisis was all over the media, Prof. Chakraborty said. “This was such an important issue voters could not ignore.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-vote-for-bjp-helped-trinamool/article34485262.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘PM must take responsibility for mess’||Amid the second wave of the pandemic, Tejashwi Yadav , Leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Assembly and RJD leader, speaks about the COVID-19 situation in the State, Opposition politics and the return of his father Lalu Prasad from prison.  If we go by the official statistics, the number of active COVID-19 cases and number of deaths in Bihar is lower than in many other States. The ground reports and the recent death of Bihar Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Singh indicate a different story. What is the reality? Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has notoriously under-reported the numbers, be it the number of positive cases or deaths. But even if we were to go by the official statistics, it is alarming. For instance, in April alone 2.4 lakh new cases and 984 deaths have been reported with a TPR (test positivity rate) of 16.1%. These are not merely numbers. These are 984 precious lives that have been lost due to the lack of proper treatment and medical infrastructure... Into the second year of this pandemic, Bihar is still struggling with the first step in pandemic management — testing. It takes seven to 10 days for the reports to come. We have the lowest percentage of vaccinated people in the country. And all this while, the Chief Minister is busy fudging the numbers. Many experts have said that today’s situation is a result of apathy towards medical infrastructure shown by successive governments. Aren’t the Opposition parties, who have been in power in the previous years, equally to be blamed then? This is a fallacious argument. In Bihar, the pandemic has spiralled out of control solely because of the apathetic attitude of the Nitish government. For a moment, even if I were to agree with your hypothesis, Nitish Kumar has been the Chief Minister of Bihar for the last 15 years. Why are the positions of doctors, nurses and other paramedics still vacant? Why don’t we have enough beds? What has this government done in the last one year to augment its medical infrastructure? There was enough warning about the second wave, yet the elections went on in four States and a Union Territory. In October, Bihar also had Assembly polls, where we saw you addressing tightly-packed public meetings. With hindsight, do you think if the Opposition parties had taken a united stand, these public meetings could have been avoided? We were the first and probably the only political party to write to the Election Commission asking them to postpone the Bihar polls. We were mocked by the BJP-JD(U) and a few sections of the media too. Since it was the call of the Election Commission to hold the election, we were left with no choice but to participate. It’s grossly unfair to question the Opposition for every mishap in the country. The government at the helm should also be asked and held accountable... We have been reduced to a procedural democracy from being a substantive democracy. In the past few days, we have seen an ‘us vs them’ narrative, with the State governments blaming the Centre and the Centre blaming them. Who holds the primary responsibility for this mess. Never before in the history of Independent India have we witnessed such discrimination against the States by the Union government. In a pandemic, the Centre has got all the powers and control over the resources, the States are left begging for oxygen, testing kits, basic medicines and vaccines. The Centre is dictating the policy which the States have to follow. If he [Narendra Modi] can boast about every little accomplishment, then as the captain of the ship, he should also take responsibility for this mess. But again in a State like ours, even these limited resources allocated by the Centre have been poorly distributed and managed. The Nitish government has done absolutely nothing to ramp up medical facilities in the State. It has been over five months now since Nitish Kumar took over for the fourth time as Chief Minister of Bihar. Tension between the ruling side and the Opposition has escalated. Last month, we saw the police entering the Assembly. How is this fourth term different from his previous tenures? This one is an absolutely dictatorial government. What happened in the Patna Assembly is unheard-of. Lawmakers were thrashed and kicked around by the Patna police for peacefully protesting against the passage of the draconian Special Armed Police Bill in the Assembly. For this, they were beaten black and blue at the behest of Nitish Kumar. He is trying to implement the agenda of the RSS by altering the Constitution, which we shall vehemently oppose. Your father, Lalu Prasad, is out on bail. Will he be returning to Patna and do we expect him to resume political activities? At the moment, he is undergoing treatment at AIIMS and recovering at home. And he will definitely be returning to Patna once we consult his doctors.  The Chief Minister is busy fudging the numbers, which is very unfortunate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-must-take-responsibility-for-mess/article34485242.ece
05 May 2021||Chennai,||Over 3.6 lakh new infections and 3,454 deaths reported||India reported 3,62,238 lakh new COVID-19 cases and 3,454 deaths until 11.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,06,37,870 cases and 2,25,840 deaths. Maharashtra reported 51,880 infections, accounting for 14% of the new cases, followed by Karnataka (44,631) and Kerala (37,190). Maharashtra also recorded the most number of casualties (891) on Tuesday. Uttar Pradesh followed with 351 new deaths, while Karnataka registered 292 new casualties. As many as 3,15,665 new recoveries were recorded, taking the total to 1,69,16,517. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Delhi, Sikkim and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the health bulletins of the respective States and UTs. India on Monday crossed 2 crore infections, becoming only the second country after the U.S. to cross the mark. On an average, nearly 47% of the world’s cases were recorded in India as on Tuesday.  Over 16.6 lakh tests were conducted on Monday (results of which were made available on Tuesday), about 1.6 lakh more samples compared to the previous day. Over 17 lakh doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-34-lakh-new-infections-and-3112-deaths-reported/article34485276.ece
05 May 2021||Washington,||Set up more makeshift hospitals: U.S. expert Fauci||Terming the situation in India “very desperate”, America’s top public health expert Anthony Fauci has suggested the government marshal all its resources, including the armed forces, to immediately build makeshift field hospitals, and urged other countries to help with not only materials but also personnel. In an exclusive interview to PTI, Dr. Fauci, who is the Chief Medical Adviser to U.S. President Joe Biden, also called for a nationwide lockdown, not necessarily for six months but “for a few weeks” to break the “continuity and transmission of infection.” “Given the fact that India is under such terrible stress right now with the extent of the outbreak, the rest of the world should pitch in to help, similar to what the United States is doing,” he said. “The world can help by supplying India with materials, and perhaps even personnel, but certainly materials that they need to adequately address it [the pandemic],” he said. The 80-year-old physician also recommended mass vaccination to arrest the current spread. “Right now, they should start getting as many people vaccinated as they possibly can, with both the vaccines that they developed themselves in India as well as supplies of vaccines that they may be able to procure from other suppliers, be that the United States, be that Russia… whatever country is willing, whenever companies are willing to supply vaccine,” Dr. Fauci said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/set-up-more-makeshift-hospitals-us-expert-fauci/article34485269.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A silent yearning for an alternative force?||Tamil Nadu politics has typically seen a bipolar contest between two major alliances: the DMK-led and AIADMK-led formulations. Since the last Assembly poll in 2016, there has been a silent voice for a third alternative, especially after the passing away of both the political stalwarts of the State, M. Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa. During the 2021 Assembly election, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) and Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) headed by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, Kamal Haasan and Seeman, respectively, secured close to 11% of the total votes polled in the State. Over half the surveyed voters (55%) agreed with the idea of a political alternative to the two dominant fronts (23% fully and 32% somewhat). However, one-third of the voters felt there was no need of a third force. Interestingly, voters who had voted for the NTK overwhelmingly supported the idea of a third alternative(56% fully and 18% somewhat). Six of every 10 of the supporters of AMMK+ and MNM+ also did so. It remains to be seen whether this sentiment is only a general desire for a wider pool of choices or an implicit warning about the firm bipolarity within which the Tamil Nadu politics operates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-silent-yearning-for-an-alternative-force/article34485254.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Twitter suspends Kangana’s account||Twitter on Tuesday permanently suspended actor Kangana Ranaut’s account following a series of controversial tweets over the prevailing situation in West Bengal, which triggered sharp reactions across social media. Ms. Ranaut, known for her inflammatory posts, had shared several messages following the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress’ win over the BJP in West Bengal and incidents of post-poll violence. Calling for President’s Rule in the State, she also blamed Ms. Banerjee for the violence. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said, “The referenced account has been permanently suspended for repeated violations of Twitter Rules specifically our Hateful Conduct policy and Abusive Behaviour policy.” Many social media users called Ms. Ranaut out for spreading hatred. The actor, who was last year awarded Y-plus category security by the government, posted a video on Instagram on Tuesday. She termed the apparent silence of the international media on Bengal violence their “conspiracy against India”. Fashion designers Anand Bhushan and Rimzim Dadu announced that they were removing all her images from their social media channels. They also pledged never to work with her. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kanganas-twitter-handle-suspended/article34485256.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||India reiterates need for global cooperation to beat COVID-19||India on Tuesday reiterated the need for international partnership to deal with the pandemic and called for stronger trade cooperation with the United Kingdom. This intent was expressed during the virtual summit meeting conducted between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson, which came hours after a number of Indian companies, including the Serum Institute of India, pledged major investment in post-Brexit U.K. “Both leaders emphasised that global cooperation and solidarity are key to fighting the pandemic and achieving sustainable and inclusive recovery. They agreed to expand and enhance the existing U.K.-India vaccines partnership, highlighting the successful collaboration between Oxford University, Astra Zeneca and the Serum Institute of India on an effective COVID-19 vaccine that is ‘developed in UK’, ‘Made in India’ and ‘distributed globally’',” declared a joint statement issued after the meeting.  The declaration to “expand” the vaccine partnership came hours after several major Indian companies pledged to commit major financial investment in the U.K. Prime Minister Johnson on Monday announced a series of commercial trade and investment deals to create 6,500 jobs in his country. The biggest of the announced deals is by the SII, which pledged £240 million investment to expand its vaccine business. In all, Mr. Johnson declared £1 billion worth trade and investment deals between the two sides that also included software giant Infosys. The Prime Ministers announced that both sides will negotiate a comprehensive Free Trade Agreement (FTA) that will double bilateral trade by 2030. The two sides also discussed concluding an Interim Trade Agreement to ensure “early gains” of trade. They agreed to deepen defence ties with a focus on the Indo-Pacific region under the the India-UK Defence and International Security Partnership framework. They also firmed up plans for the new logistics MoU.  Both leaders agreed to expand the U.K.-India vaccines partnership, highlighting the collaboration between Oxford University, Astra Zeneca and the Serum Institute of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-reiterates-need-for-global-cooperation-to-beat-covid-19/article34485750.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t repeat RT-PCR tests on those positive: ICMR||Citing the increased load on laboratories, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday issued an advisory on testing during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The recommendations advise against repeating of RT-PCR tests on those who have tested positive. RT-PCR testing on healthy individuals undertaking inter-State travel may be completely stopped to reduce the load on laboratories, the ICMR said. The ICMR said India had 2,506 molecular testing laboratories with the daily capacity “close to 15 lakh tests”. “At present, the laboratories are facing challenges to meet the expected testing target due to extraordinary case load and staff getting infected with COVID-19,” the ICMR said. The ICMR recommended that RT-PCR tests should not be repeated on individuals who have tested positive once through Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) or RT-PCR. It said no testing was required once a COVID-19 patient recovered and is discharged from hospital. The ICMR suggested that States set up mobile testing systems. The advisory also said RAT should be upscaled to meet the demand and that States should decide on the payment modalities. The advisory said all those showing symptoms of fever with or without cough, headache, sore throat, breathlessness, body ache, recent loss of taste or smell, fatigue and diarrhoea during the current wave of COVID-19 should be treated as suspected cases of COVID-19 unless proven otherwise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-repeat-rt-pcr-tests-on-those-positive-icmr/article34485752.ece
05 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Central BJP leaders will name Assam CM||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national general secretary, Arun Singh, are expected to reach Guwahati from New Delhi soon to meet the newly-elected candidates of the party and decide who will be the next Chief Minister. The BJP did not name its chief ministerial candidate this time, unlike in 2016 when incumbent Sarbananda Sonowal was projected for the post. The party is likely to continue with him although some leaders have been canvassing for Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “We did not approach the election without saying who will be the next CM because we already have one and it is very likely that the party would not make any changes amid the COVID-19 pandemic,” a BJP leader said, declining to be quoted. Party insiders said Dr. Sarma has garnered the support of a majority of the 60 newly-elected candidates. “First, let the central leaders meet the 60 elected representatives. They are expected to arrive soon,” a party office-bearer said. The Asom Gana Parishad and United People’s Party Liberal, the BJP’s allies, have left it to the BJP to name the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-bjp-leaders-may-decide-the-next-assam-cm/article34485258.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army’s Base Hospital faces oxygen shortage||The Army’s Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment was running low on oxygen after the Delhi government drastically reduced the allocation, Army sources said on Tuesday. “Allocation for Base Hospital is done through the Delhi government. The situation has arisen after the Delhi government cut down the allocation by almost one third,” a source said. Late in the evening, Raghav Chadha, national spokesperson of Aam Aadmi Party, said on Twitter that oxygen cylinders were sent to Base Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armys-base-hospital-faces-oxygen-shortage/article34485270.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. gives nod for 5G trials||Stating that TSPs are encouraged to conduct trials using 5Gi technology in addition to the already known 5G technology, the statement said the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) has also approved the 5Gi technology, which was advocated by India, as it facilitates much larger reach of the 5G towers and radio networks. The 5Gi technology has been developed by the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M), Centre of Excellence in Wireless Technology (CEWiT) and IIT Hyderabad. With 5G technology data, download rates are expected to be 10 times that of 4G while giving up to three times greater spectrum efficiency. The trials will be on a non-commercial basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-gives-nod-for-5g-trials/article34485229.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||PM calls Governor over post-poll violence||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury also condemned the violence, tweeting, “Are these reports of gruesome violence in Bengal TMC’s ‘victory celebrations’? Condemnable. Will be resisted and rebuffed. Instead of focusing on combating the pandemic, TMC unleashes such mayhem. CPI(M), as always will be with the people to protect, assist, providing relief.” Congress in charge of West Bengal Jitin Prasada said,“The post-poll violence that has been unleashed by the TMC on the Congress workers is unacceptable. Even women and children are not spared. I’m sure the people of West Bengal did not vote for this lawlessness.” Speaking to reporters after visiting the families of BJP supporters killed in Kolkata and Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas, Mr. Nadda said, “Those who cannot hear the cries of a wailing mother can only say that the killing of our supporters is political gimmick. Intolerance thy name is Mamata. I want to assure BJP workers of West Bengal that crores of BJP workers are with them.”  Denying the allegations, Trinamool Congress leader Firhad Hakim said the BJP was trying to spread a false narrative when in certain places it is the Trinamool’s supporters who were at the receiving end of the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-calls-governor-over-post-poll-violence/article34485234.ece
05 May 2021||Srinagar,||A bureaucrat who refused to be a rubber stamp||Jagmohan Malhotra (1927-2021), who served as bureaucrat and Governor, refused to be a rubber stamp and his two tenures as the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir remained the most controversial. Widely known by his first name, he is among a very few bureaucrats to witness and work through the different epochs of India — beginning with the Jawaharlal Nehru period, the Indira Gandhi rule, the Sanjay Gandhi ‘misrule’ and finally the Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s new idea of India revolving around ‘Hindutva’, when he served as a Cabinet Minister. Mr. Jagmohan served Delhi (twice), Goa and Daman and Diu as Lieutenant Governor. He was honoured with the Padma Shri in 1971, Padma Bhushan in 1977 and Padma Vibhushan in 2016 for his contributions as a public servant. However, it was Mr. Jagmohan’s stints as the Governor of the erstwhile State of J&K, first in 1984 and then 1990, that till date remains the most enigmatic. He oversaw the toppling of the Farooq Abdullah government in 1984 and the installation of a non-Abdullah regime. On one hand, the political class of Kashmir disliked him for the 1984-episode, but he earned people’s goodwill by focussing on road connectivity and development projects in 1986. Mr. Jagmohan later defended his actions in his book My Frozen Turbulence in Kashmir . “Acting in the overall national interest, the ideal Governor must display courage and vision at the time of a crisis. He should not act as a cipher, or as a rubber stamp, or as a foggy old man standing in a corner with a wooden face and stony eyes,” he wrote, in the book. It was this tough approach as a Governor that shortened his second term in J&K to just four months in 1990 under the V.P. Singh regime. Mr. Jagmohan, however, emerged as a messiah for the cornered community of Kashmiri Pandits as an armed rebellion was escalating in the 1990s. He is believed to have arranged a safe corridor for the Hindu population out of the Valley. However, this move was seen in Kashmir as a precursor to an all-out war against militants, sympathisers and anti-India protesters. What followed the migration of Pandits was an ugly massacre at Gaw Kadal in Srinagar that left over 50 dead, just on the second day of his term in 1990. Similar incidents at Hawal, Zakura, Magharbal Bagh, etc., only resulted in his recall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-bureaucrat-who-refused-to-be-a-rubber-stamp/article34485236.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Supply oxygen or face contempt, HC to Centre||“Enough is enough. Be clear on this. We are not going to take no for an answer. There is no way you won’t supply 700 MT... There is Supreme Court order and now we are also saying that you will have to supply 700 MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. We will not hear anything except compliance,” an annoyed Bench orally observed. The Bench, which heard for nearly five hours the matter relating to the oxygen crisis and other COVID-19 related issues that Delhi was grappling with, said, “We see the grim reality of people not able to secure oxygen or ICU beds in hospitals everyday.” “We, therefore, direct the Central government to show cause why contempt not be initiated for not only non-compliance of our order of May as also of the order of the Supreme Court dated April 30. To answer the said notice, we direct the presence of Piyush Goyal and Sumita Dawra [senior Central government officers] tomorrow,” it said. On the submission of Additional Solicitor-General Chetan Sharma that the compliance affidavit of the April 30 order would be filed in the Supreme Court by tomorrow morning, the Bench said, “We fail to understand what good a compliance affidavit will do when, as a matter of fact, 700 MT of oxygen is not delivered to Delhi. Even the earlier allocated 490 MT and revised 590 MT is not delivered.” Mr. Sharma submitted that the apex court had not directed the supply of 700 MT of oxygen per day to Delhi. The court disagreed with him and said a plain reading of the top court’s order showed that it had directed the Central government to supply 700 MT of liquid medical oxygen by making good the deficit. The Bench noted that the apex court’s order recorded Delhi government counsel’s submission that as against demand of 700 MT of oxygen a day, manufacturers have been able to supply only 440 MT. It said the apex court noted that Delhi’s projected demand would be 976 MT of oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supply-oxygen-or-face-contempt-hc-to-centre/article34485237.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Virtual conclave on career guidance to be organised||The SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) and The Hindu have organised a 15-part webinar series — SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021 — focussing on science, engineering and technology courses and their relevance to the 2020s workplace. The first in the series, ‘Helping Students Navigate Uncertainties during the pandemic’, will be held on May 8 at noon. The session will touch upon the anxiety and concerns arising from examinations being cancelled and postponed. Four panellists The session will include four panellists — Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder of Sneha and head, department of psychiatry, Voluntary Health Services; Nandini Raman, consultant counsellor, corporate trainer and columnist; and Prince Kalyanaraman, deputy director, student affairs, SRMIST.  Register for webinar Radhika Santhanam, assistant editor, The Hindu , will moderate the discussion. To register for the free webinar visit http://bit.ly/SRM THE1 or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virtual-conclave-on-career-guidance-to-be-organised/article34485240.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Foreign aid channelled to Central facilities||Also, a shipment from Kuwait arrived in India with 282 oxygen cylinders, 60 oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies. Out of the eight hospitals in Delhi, six that received the aid sent from foreign countries are run by the Central government. Delhi is one of the worst affected States hit by oxygen shortage, with the Central government and the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government sparring over the oxygen allocation. Oxygen allocation is being centrally controlled by an empowered group of officers. The Lady Hardinge Medical College, Safdarjung Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), National Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases in Delhi have received the foreign aid, the Ministry said. The 24 categories of items that have been received from foreign countries include BiPAP machines, oxygen concentrators and cylinders, PSA oxygen plants, pulse oximeters, drugs such as Flaviparivir and Remdesivir, PPE coveralls, N-95 masks and gowns, the Ministry said. The States and UTs that have received the items or are in the process of getting them are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, D&N Haveli, Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/foreign-aid-channeled-to-central-facilities/article34485243.ece
05 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab farmers all set to head for Delhi borders||With wheat harvesting almost over in Punjab, scores of farmers and farm labourers are all set to “march” again to the State borders of Delhi on May 5 in a bid to ensure the momentum of the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws stays intact. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the largest outfits in Punjab, and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), a prominent outfit at the forefront of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, have announced that farmers and farm labourers from the State will start moving in the coming days towards Delhi so that the number of protesters at the agitation sites keeps growing. While the BKU (Ugrahan) is planning to send “big batches” of farmers after May 10, the KMSC plans to send scores of its member farmers and farm labourers from Amritsar district on May 5. “Several groups of farmers are all set to leave for Delhi on May 5 from Amritsar,” KMSC general secretary Sarvan Singh Pandher told The Hindu on Tuesday. Mr. Pandher added that the BJP-led Central government should not remain under any misconception that the agitation would fizzle out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-farmers-all-set-to-head-for-delhi-borders/article34485244.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||IPL-14 postponed indefinitely||“The BCCI does not want to compromise on the safety of the players, support staff and the other participants involved in organising the IPL. This decision was taken keeping the safety, health and well-being of all the stakeholders in mind,” the statement said. The IPL executives and BCCI officials, late on Monday and early on Tuesday, tried to chalk out a plan to shift the tournament to two stadia in Mumbai. However, the moment new infections were confirmed, the emergent IPL Governing Council meeting decided to stop the competition. It is uncertain whether the remaining 31 games of the tournament can be played any time soon. With the international calendar packed till the end of the year, the BCCI may struggle to find a window for rescheduling the IPL. However, a BCCI official, preferring anonymity, said that efforts will be made to “create a window immediately after the T20 World Cup final in November”. India is scheduled to host South Africa for a fullseries after the T20 World Cup in October-November at home. It will be interesting to see if the series is curtailed to make way for the IPL. More importantly, the IPL suspension has dented India’s chances of hosting the 16-nation T20 World Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ipl-14-postponed-indefinitely/article34485245.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,||V. Kalyanam, Gandhiji’s personal secretary, dead||V. Kalyanam, who was the last personal secretary of Mahatma Gandhi, passed away on Tuesday in Chennai due to age-related ailments. He was 99. He was the only surviving member of Mahatma Gandhi’s secretariat. Nalini Kalyanam, his younger daughter, said he was associated with Gandhiji  from 1943 and lived a life adhering to the Gandhian philosophy of simplicity, non-violence and cleanliness. “He was a great gardener until the age of 97,” she added. His final rites will be held at 1.30 p.m. on May 5 at the Besant Nagar crematorium in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/v-kalyanam-gandhi-jis-personal-secretary-dies/article34485228.ece
05 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Deaths no less than a ‘genocide’: Allahabad HC||Deaths of COVID-19 patients due to lack of supply of oxygen to hospitals “is a criminal act and not less than a genocide by those who have been entrusted the task to ensure continuous procurement and supply chain of liquid medical oxygen,” the Allahabad High Court said on Tuesday. A Division Bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar made the observation while taking note of reports of the deaths of patients in Meerut and Lucknow due to lack of oxygen. District officials have been told to conduct a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deaths-no-less-than-a-genocide-allahabad-hc/article34485753.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul presses for a complete lockdown||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said only a full lockdown in the country could now save human lives but the Government of India’s (GOI) “inaction is killing many innocent lives”. In another tweet, Mr. Gandhi clarified that he was now advocating a complete lockdown only because the Centre’s lack of strategy against COVID-19 allowed the situation to reach this stage and a “crime has been committed against India”. The government must first ensure cash transfer for the vulnerable sections, he stated. “GOI doesn’t get it. The only way to stop the spread of Corona now is a full lockdown — with the protection of NYAY for the vulnerable sections. GOI’s inaction is killing many innocent people,” he tweeted. The Congress has been advocating a minimum income guarantee scheme or ‘nyuntam aay yojana’ (NYAY) for people who live on daily wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-presses-for-a-complete-lockdown/article34485274.ece
05 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mahajot members trade blame for Assam loss||Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) attributed the electoral loss of the 10-party Mahajot, or grand alliance, in Assam to the failure of the Congress to put up a good show. Congress, on the other hand, blamed it on the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and Raijor Dal that together contested more than 90 seats but managed to win only one — Sibsagar, which went to Akhil Gogoi, the outfit’s president. The Mahajot ended up with 50 seats, four of them won by Bodoland People’s Front. “We gave up many seats for the sake of the grand alliance but while we won 16 out of the 20 that we contested, the Congress managed 29 out of 95 contested. We don’t want to engage in a blame game, but the fact is Congress failed to do well in eastern Assam and the northern bank of the Brahmaputra River,” said AIUDF general secretary (organisation), Md. Aminul Islam.  Jitendra Singh, the AICC general secretary in charge of Assam said Congress lost at least 10 seats because of the AJP-Raijor Dal factor. The two parties ate up a sizeable chunk of votes against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the Congress felt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahajot-members-trade-blame-for-assam-loss/article34485247.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC to probe Bengal violence||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday ordered an in-house fact-finding team to investigate the alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal on Monday. The rights body took suo motu cognisance of media reports on the death of some people in the violence, a day after the election results were declared. “The political workers allegedly clashed with each other, party offices were torched down and some homes were ransacked and valuables also looted. District Administration and local law and order enforcement agencies appear not to have acted to stop such violation of human rights of the affected persons,” the NHRC statement said. The NHRC said it considered it a “fit case of alleged violation of Right to Life of the innocent citizens”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-to-probe-bengal-violence/article34485255.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||ECI orders protection for Nandigram RO||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday asked the West Bengal government to extend medical support and counselling to the Returning Officer (RO) of Nandigram constituency and monitor the security protection provided to him in view of reported pressure being exerted on him. The ECI’s letter to the State Chief Secretary came two days after the election results were announced. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress swept the polls, but she lost her own contest in Nandigram to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. Ms. Banerjee claimed that RO Kishore Kumar Biswas did not order a recount of votes as he feared for his life. On Monday, the State told the ECI that security had been provided to the RO on the directions of the commission. The ECI asked the Chief Secretary to monitor the protection given to the RO on a regular basis and directed that the officer be “extended appropriate medical support/counselling”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eci-orders-protection-for-nandigram-ro/article34485246.ece
05 May 2021||Guwahati,||Bengal BJP workers flee to Assam after attacks||Hundreds of people from northern West Bengal have taken refuge in the border areas of Assam to escape violence, Assam’s Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Tuesday. The police in western Assam’s Dhubri district said panic-stricken people began trickling in from the night of May 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-bjp-workers-flee-to-assam-after-attacks/article34485751.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shortage of vaccines leaves people worried||It is four days after the State and Union governments announced that vaccines would be provided for people in the 18 to 44 years age group. The long queues in capital Delhi have left Chennaiites wondering when their turn will come. A few have taken to social media to complain. Some have joked about the drive while others have aired their disappointment. On Tuesday, quite a few in the over 45-plus years age group, who were eligible for the second dose, were disappointed that they could not register through the CoWin app. A resident of Chinmaya Nagar tried to register for her second dose of Covishield on Tuesday. The app did not allow her to register in the private hospital where she had her first shot. “I checked on the app. There is no open slot at all,” she said. When she called the hospital she was told there was no stock. She then tried to register with the nearby urban primary health centre. “My PHC doesn't appear in CoWin. It did last time, has vanished now,” she said. P. Viswanathan, convener of Chitlapakkam Residents’ Association Coordination Committee, has been getting calls from youngsters and adults. In Velachery, the apartment complexes were targeted in the initial drive but the facility managers have now been told to wait for the second dose as vaccines were not available. Quite a few people who had been administered Covaxin first dose were now eligible for the second dose. On May 1 when the eligible beneficiaries were told that Covaxin would not be administered at the Anandha Kalyanamandam, Chromepet, as the vaccine was not available. The second dose is to be administered between 29 and 42 days. With Covaxin in short supply there is apprehension about whether they would receive their second dose. Some aged around 25 years had registered on CoWin app on in April last week for the vaccine with a hospital in Tambaram. While their slots were confirmed and they were hoping to get the jab on May 1, they received an SMS informing that their registration had been cancelled. “How can they cancel the registration without the knowledge of the beneficiaries,” he wondered. “The message should have been that the vaccination had been postponed and the new date would be informed later,” he said. Karthik, a resident of south Chennai took to twitter after he failed to get vaccinated. He made an appointment on May 1 at Billroth Hospitals. His second appointment the next day was with Apollo Speciality Hospital. On May 3, he registered with Apollo Spectra, hoping he would be lucky. “All cancelled citing no vaccines available,” he tweeted. Sameer Saran, another twitter user, responded: “The world’s largest vaccinate programme requires #vaccines... just putting it out there...”       Mistakes in certificates    Meanwhile, some of the older residents who got their second shot received vaccination certificates that mentioned that they had received their first dose. A 62-year-old man received his first dose of Covishield on March 15 at Tambaram government hospital. The provisional certificate generated the next day indicated that his second dose was 28 days later. He had provided his Aadhaar card for registration. On May 1 he got his second dose, this time at Peerkankaranai APHC as Tambaram GH did not have stock of the vaccine. This time too he provided his Aadhaar card for registration. To his shock when he downloaded the certificate from the CoWin app the next day, it said he was due for his next shot between May 29 and June 26. “He has given his Aadhaar for registration on both occasions. How is it that the government is unable to identify the beneficiary correctly. We need rectification as this certificate would be valid if we have to travel,” Mr. Viswanathan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shortage-of-vaccines-leaves-people-worried/article34485814.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases surge past 21,000; 144 people die||Tamil Nadu’s daily tally of COVID-19 cases surged past 21,000 on Tuesday. A total of 21,228 people tested positive for the infection while 144 people died, taking the case count to 12,49,292 and the toll to 14,612. Fresh infections have been on the rise since March 5. The surge in daily cases pushed the number of active cases to 1,25,230. As many as 19,112 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 11,09,450. In Chennai, 6,228 people tested positive for COVID-19. Chengalpattu and Coimbatore recorded 1,608 and 1,509 cases, respectively. There were 1,152 cases in Tiruvallur, 787 in Madurai, 747 in Ranipet and 719 in Tirunelveli. Salem recorded 624 cases. Four districts had less than 100 cases each — Ariyalur (35), Perambalur (31), Pudukottai (72) and Ramanathapuram (90). Among those who tested positive were 34 returnees. Chennai reported 36 deaths and Salem 15. Tiruvallur and Vellore recorded 12 and 11 deaths respectively. Only nine districts reported no death. Of the 144 deceased, 34 did not have co-morbidities. They included a 25-year-old woman from Madurai, who was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on April 28 and died on May 1 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Six people in their 30s succumbed to the infection. In the last 24 hours, 1,40,512 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 2,32,38,475.  State gets vaccine doses Tamil Nadu has received another two lakh doses of Covishield and 75,000 doses of Covaxin, according to officials of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The State has so far achieved a coverage of 60,81,010 (inclusive of the first and second doses) people. According to a press release from the Union Health Ministry on the status of COVID-19 vaccine distribution for those aged 45 and above till May 4, Tamil Nadu has received 68,28,950 doses of the two vaccines. The State accounts for one of the highest wastages at 8.83%. The total consumption, including wastage, stood at 67,13,192. The State had a balance availability of 1,15,758 doses, while total doses in the pipeline were 2,75,000. On Tuesday, 60,799 people were vaccinated. This included 31,157 people aged 45-59 and 19,883 senior citizens. Vaccination was held in 3,071 sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-surge-past-21000-144-people-die/article34485401.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMC converts newly modified block into COVID-19 facility||A new in-patient facility, which was planned as an orthopaedic care complex, will now accommodate patients with COVID-19 at the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore. The hospital has designated the newly-modified Paul Brand Block for admission and treatment of patients with COVID-19. There are three wards with a total of 105 beds in this block. The complex houses 11 operation theatres, including two daycare theatres and one septic theatre, a fully equipped High Dependency Unit with 12 beds, which was upgraded to an Intensive Care Unit in view of the pandemic. There are 22 post-operative recovery beds, according to a press release. The theatre complex with positive and negative pressure options would enable surgeons to perform operations on COVID-19 patients without compromising the safety of the healthcare workers. The building also has a diagnostic radiology suite with X-ray, ultrasound, CT scan and MRI facilities. A comprehensive care package could be offered to COVID-19 patients with various needs. On Monday, Vellore Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram inaugurated the Paul Brand Block in the presence of CMC director J. V. Peter. The Collector said CMC’s projections about the trajectory of the pandemic from time to time was very helpful to the district administration for framing appropriate policies and for putting in place infrastructural facilities ahead of time. “When we were having only 30-plus cases in June 2020, CMC predicted 7,600 cases in the next one month. This allowed us to put in place almost 4,000-plus beds,” he added. Various COVID-19 care centres were opened and oxygen supply was increased based on the projections, the Collector said, according to the release. CMC’s director Dr. Peter said that over 1,000 COVID-19 positive patients were currently under the hospital’s care. About half of them were admitted. More than 700 patients were cared for through the CMC COVID Home Isolation and Management programme, a home monitoring programme run by the nursing staff under medical supervision. The provision of home monitoring, has been one of the unique aspects of COVID-19 care in the second wave, he said. Mark Ranjan Jesudason, associate medical superintendent and project lead (head of Colo-rectal surgery) gave an overview of the project. Vikram Mathews, associate director, Administration (professor of haematology), CMC also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmc-converts-new-block-into-covid-19-facility/article34486003.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||900 oxygen cylinders delivered to city||The Indian Air Force transported 900 oxygen cylinders from the United Kingdom to the Chennai airport via Cairo on Tuesday, airport sources said. This is the first tranche of cylinders that have been gifted by the British Oxygen Company to the Indian Red Cross Society. The cylinders, each holding about 46 litres, were airlifted in two C-17 Globemasters of the IAF. While the first aircraft with 450 cylinders landed at 5.10 a.m., the next one with another 450 cylinders reached by around 12 p.m. Non-stop journey These aircraft were flown from Jamnagar Air Base on May 2 to Brize Norton in the United Kingdom for bringing life support equipment, according to a press release. The aircraft flew non-stop for 11 hours and 30 minutes to reach their destination. “The first aircraft landed at 0200 local time and with a quick turnaround, flew back to Chennai with 35 tonnes of equipment, including 450 empty oxygen cylinders, for India. The aircraft landed at Chennai at 0500 on May 4,” the release said. So far, 54 cryogenic containers and 900 oxygen cylinders from various locations around the globe, including Singapore, Dubai, Bangkok, Frankfurt and the United Kingdom, have been airlifted by the Indian Air Force. Inside the country, the IAF employed eight C-17, four IL-76, 10 C-130, 20 An-32 aircraft, Mi-17V5 and Chinook helicopters and carried 180 cryogenic oxygen containers, cylinders, oxygen plant equipment and other essential medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/900-oxygen-cylinders-delivered-to-city/article34485811.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai hotels too become COVID-19 care facilities||With hospitals running out of rooms for the care of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients, a few hotels and serviced apartments have stepped in to offer them space. The hospitals provide doctors and nurses on the premises 24x7 and the patients are sent from the hospitals to the hotels based on their requirement. Clarion Hotel, which gave an entire block last year, has begun lending a helping hand this year too with 150 rooms. S. Madhan Raj, manager-operations, said they were the first to get approval from the health department to start the facility in association with a hospital last year. “Our managing director Aboobucker felt he had to do his bit for the society since many persons were not sure of home quarantine last year. Since we served around 1,500 isolated persons last year and there was a need this year, we started the facility from mid April. Our staff are well-aware of the protocols to be followed and we ensure their safety with good high-protein diets and regular health checks,” he said. At Hotel Regent Central Deccan, 50 rooms have been blocked for such persons who require isolation. Here too the patients come after being referred by hospitals. “They come here after the treatment is over and don’t need emergency medical care. However, we do have doctors and nurses and follow all safety protocols. People who prefer pure vegetarian food prefer our hotel,” said R. Gowrishankar, general manager. Another hotel in T. Nagar, which did not want to be named, has leased out its rooms to a medical care provider. “We have outsourced everything from housekeeping to pest control, maintenance and even security. The only service that we provide is to prepare food, which the medical care provider serves to the guests,” said a hotel source. A few serviced apartments too have come on board to help such persons, who require home quarantine. “I stay alone and when I fell sick with COVID-19 I preferred to stay at a hotel and self-quarantine since I felt the basic medical care would help. It was comfortable and I came back home well-rested,” said a person who recently tested negative after treatment. The Chennai Corporation had said that hotels need not take any permission for helping out hospitals to set up such facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-hotels-too-become-covid-19-care-facilities/article34486000.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic triggers sharp rise in cases of depression, anxiety||The steep rise in COVID-19 infections has raised anxiety levels among many persons. Psychiatrists say they are seeing more people with depression and anxiety, while every psychiatric disorder is worsening in the midst of the second wave of the pandemic. The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 in the State has been increasing daily. Simultaneously, there are growing concerns on bed availability and oxygen supply. How the fresh wave of infections has been impacting the mental health of people and the need to seek help is of equal importance, say doctors. “We are seeing a lot of people with anxiety, palpitation, panic disorder and depression. With a lot of children testing positive for COVID-19, the anxiety levels have increased among parents too, especially in nuclear families. So, in the first wave, there was the fear of the unknown. Now, in the second wave, there is fear of the known,” said Lakshmi Vijayakumar, psychiatrist and founder of Sneha suicide prevention centre. She pointed out that the second wave was traumatic, and there was a sense of emotional fatigue among people. The anxiety was definitely more now, P. Poorna Chandrika, director of Institute of Mental Health, said. “In the first wave, the stigma associated with COVID-19 was high but it has reduced now. There is a definite increase in anxiety levels. Some persons are experiencing aggravation of symptoms of their already diagnosed psychiatric disorders,” she added. All pre-existing conditions such as depression, anxiety, psychosis, obsessive compulsive disorder and panic disorder were getting worse, R. Thara, vice-chairperson of Schizophrenia Research Foundation, pointed out. “Many are unable to see doctors face to face as teleconsultations are being taken up. Many are unable to do therapies that need face to face interactions,” she said. “As cases dipped from November to January, people were looking forward to normalcy. There was some hope in people’s minds. All that has come dashing to the ground. There is desolation and despair and people are feeling helpless. They are seeing lack of beds, oxygen and vaccines all around. This despair, sense of hopelessness and fear is more now as there is uncertainty around,” she added. She said that people should talk to counsellors or friends and seek support for their mental health needs. Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar said the number of persons seeking help through calls had increased exponentially. “People should not panic unnecessarily. We have clear cut guidelines and treatment protocols for COVID-19. We need to understand that cases are spreading faster than the first wave, and that there are enough treatment protocols to handle,” she said. Doctors called for limiting exposure to media could help in reducing anxiety levels. “Watch television news once a day or read the newspaper once a day,” she said. Persons who are in need of support/counselling can call the Institute of Mental Health at 044-26425585.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-triggers-rise-in-cases-of-depression/article34485374.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK men ransack Amma Unavagam in Chennai||A group of men belonging to the DMK entered an Amma Unavagam (Amma Canteen) in Mogappair, Chennai, on Tuesday, and ransacked the premises. The men reportedly demanded that the staff remove the photograph of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa from the canteen’s name board. Soon after a video of the incident went viral, DMK Saidapet MLA-elect Ma. Subramanian tweeted that DMK president M.K. Stalin had ordered action against two partymen and directed that the name board of the “government outlet” be restored. Following this, some DMK cadre tried restoring the broken name board. AIADMK cadre soon reached the spot and reportedly damaged what the DMK men were trying to fix. A quarrel ensued. The police booked cases against both sides. Amma Unavagam, a flagship scheme of the erstwhile Jayalalithaa government, serves food at an affordable cost in the city. The incident took place at the Amma Unavagam located in ward 92, Mogappair. In the video, some men are seen entering the outlet and coming out with a signboard displaying instructions. They are seen damaging another board, hanging on the canteen’s wall, to the shock of the women staff. They then pull down a portrait of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and throw out groceries. The men also allegedly threatened the staff. The police rushed to the spot and held inquiries. Outgoing Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar and AMMK founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran condemned the incident. AIADMK leaders O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, in a statement, urged Mr. Stalin to take action against the cadre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-men-ransack-amma-unavagam-in-chennai/article34485397.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,212 nurses on contract regularised, posted in Chennai||As many as 1,212 staff nurses, recruited on contract basis, have been regularised and posted in Chennai to address the rising manpower requirements in the district due to an increase in its COVID-19 caseload. The Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services, in an order issued on May 3, said 1,212 staff nurses recruited on contract basis had been absorbed into the regular time scale of pay. The Directorate noted that in view of the second wave of COVID-19, it was important to combat the situation with an adequate number of health personnel. Considering the rise in cases and the projected number of people requiring hospitalisation and management, it was ideal to employ additional nurses to meet the demand, particularly in Chennai. During a high-level monitoring committee meeting held on May 3 at the Directorate of Medical Education (DME), it was decided that additional human resources would be deployed in centres in Chennai. Accordingly, the staff nurses have been directed to report before the DME for issuance of necessary placements in Chennai. They should be discharged from the contract posts on May 5, and relieved from the present station on the same day. Their places of posting in regular time scale will be issued in due course, the DMS said. Any candidate who fails to report for duty at the office of the DME will be forfeiting their regular appointment from contract service. The Tamil Nadu MRB Nurses’ Empowerment Association welcomed the order. General secretary N. Subin thanked DMK leader M.K. Stalin for taking measures to fulfil their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1212-nurses-on-contract-regularised-posted-in-chennai/article34485407.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK’s strike rate a hope for its expansion||With four of the six candidates of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), an ally of the DMK, winning in the Assembly election, including from two general constituencies, the party is overwhelmed. “This has never happened in Tamil Nadu’s electoral history. While it [VCK] is not a Dalit party, it is a party headed by a Dalit [Thol. Thirumavalavan],” said its general secretary D. Ravikumar. What is also significant for the Ambedkarite political party, which professes “anti-caste and anti-Hindutva” politics, is that its candidates were elected on its ‘pot’ symbol. In the last Lok Sabha poll, Mr. Thirumavalavan was elected on his own symbol, while Mr. Ravikumar won on the DMK’s ‘rising sun’ symbol. The newly-elected MLAs are Sinthanai Selvan (Kattumannarkoil - Reserved), J. Mohammed Shanavas (Nagapattinam), S.S. Balaji (Thiruporur) and M. Babu (Cheyyur – Reserved). Two candidates — Vanni Arasu and Gowthama Sanna H. — lost the election in Vanur and Arakkonam constituencies. Mr. Shanavas and Mr. Balaji defeated candidates of the PMK, which is at loggerheads with the VCK. In his initial reaction to the stunning performance by his party, Mr. Thirumavalavan had said, “The VCK has shattered hate politics by its victory. Those who tried to restrict, contain and isolate us as only a Dalit party have been defeated. This is a historical achievement for the Panthers.” Mr. Ravikumar said the candidates had to surmount the AIADMK’s “money power”. “Our leader’s ideological conviction and individual charisma has ensured that the VCK gained acceptance in general constituencies as well. People have accepted us,” he said, adding that Mr. Balaji was a Vanniyar. He said the results had shown that there was no need for senior alliance partners in the future to deny the party a chance to compete in general constituencies, fearing that it would not be able to win it. Mr. Selvan felt the victory had shown that people had rejected casteist and religious forces. There is also a view that the party will emerge as an important player in alliance formations in the future, especially in northern Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vcks-strike-rate-a-hope-for-its-expansion/article34485411.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor, pharmacist held for illegal sale of Remdesivir||Officers of the Civil Supplies CID on Tuesday arrested a doctor and pharmacist working in the COVID-19 facility at the King Institute in Guindy for illegal sale of the drug Remdesivir. Police said following information, a special team of personnel, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police John Sundar, mounted surveillance near the Guindy bus stand in the SIDCO Industrial Estate. Decoy deployed They deployed a decoy and enquired about the rate of the drug through WhatsApp with the doctor. The doctor asked Rs. 20,000 for a vial and after agreeing to buy the drug, a team of plainclothes policemen waited at the bus stand. They intercepted a car, which was driven by the doctor, identified as P. Ramasundram, working in the COVID-19 facility at King Institute and found 12 vials of Remdesivir in the car, the police said. While the team was questioning the doctor, another person, identified as N. Karthik, 27, a pharmacist, who also worked at the King Institute, arrived on a two-wheeler and handed over 12 more Remdesivir vials. The duo were arrested and handed over to personnel from the Guindy police station. Sources said the pharmacist brought the drug from the COVID-19 facility illegally and sold it to the doctor for Rs. 5,000 per vial. The doctor would in turn sell them for Rs. 20,000, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-pharmacist-held-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir/article34485818.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private practitioners to be allowed to set up care centres||Private medical practitioners will be permitted to establish COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) in hotels, hostels, private schools and other available buildings. The State Appropriate Authority/Clinical Establishments Act would treat such standalone CCCs as temporary clinical establishments without requiring registration up to a period of 60 days from the date of permission. The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in an increased demand for healthcare services and in-patient care. Considering the limited availability of oxygen-supported beds, the government has been ramping up facilities in all government hospitals. Since non-oxygen beds would be converted to oxygen beds for critical patients, a high-level committee advised the State Appropriate Authority, the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments Act (TNCEA), and the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (DMS) to grant permission for private medical practitioners to establish CCCs with an undertaking to treat patients as per the guidelines issued by the government and manage biomedical waste generated as per the Bio Medical Management Act, the DMS said in a circular. The Competent Authority, TNCEA and the Indian Medical Association have been requested to encourage private medical practitioners to establish CCCs. Apply for permission Those willing can apply for permission to the State Appropriate Authority, TNCEA and DMS in their letter head with an undertaking to treat patients as per the protocols, manage biomedical waste and submit reports to the respective authorities. Subject to need, permission would be extended from time to time. Considering the demand for oxygen beds in the second wave of the pandemic, CCCs may establish oxygen facilities, deploy lifesaving equipment to provide healthcare services for mild and moderately ill patients. They are permitted to administer drugs and other lifesaving procedures, including delivery of oxygen through high flow nasal cannulas and continuous positive airway pressure. However, sale of drugs in these temporary facilities should be avoided as it requires statutory licensing. Instead, the patients may be charged at a reasonable package rate, depending on the severity of illness and the services offered. Already, the DMS was authorised to grant permission to COVID-19 empanelled hospitals to start CCCs to treat asymptomatic patients. CCCs play a vital role in reducing the load at hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-practitioners-to-be-allowed-to-set-up-care-centres/article34485817.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No consensus yet in AIADMK on Leader of the Opposition||A consensus is yet to emerge within the AIADMK on who should be the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly. Party functionaries said though outgoing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was declared the party’s Chief Minister candidate for the Assembly poll, there was a section of MLAs that favoured party coordinator and outgoing Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam as the Leader of the Opposition. Two former Ministers who spoke to The Hindu said the issue was yet to be decided and hoped the meeting of newly-elected party legislators on May 7 would put a full stop to the issue. This was a sensitive issue and it could not be decided in a hurry; hence, party MLAs had been called for the meeting on Friday evening, they said. “The AIADMK’s decision to project Mr. Palaniswami as its Chief Minister candidate was only a stop-gap arrangement. The issue of dual leadership and the challenges it was creating in the party were not permanently resolved last October. Now that the election is over, and the AIADMK could not win, the issue has re-emerged,” said political analyst P. Ramajayam. Since the AIADMK retained its stronghold in the western districts, from where Mr. Palaniswami hails, he stands to gain majority support from them, should there be a voting of sorts. His Chief Minister candidature also helped Mr. Palaniswami emerge as the face of the party, irrespective of its defeat. “The situation is likely to go in Mr. Palaniswami’s favour. A majority of elected party MLAs are from the western region and the meeting on May 7 is of party MLAs and not functionaries,” said Mr. Ramajayam. But Mr. Panneerselvam is no less in stature, as he was handpicked by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to succeed her, as a “stop gap” arrangement, twice. As Finance Minister for long, he has presented multiple State Budgets. His supporters feel Mr. Panneerselvam cannot be sidelined, as any statement issued by the party would have to be co-signed by him as well. The post of the Leader of the Opposition is the next best thing that an outgoing Chief Minister would expect to hold because it would mean that he/she would continue to remain the face of the party, both in the Assembly and outside it, and would get to question the Chief Minister face-to-face. Losing that post would make it difficult for either of them to stake a claim to lead the party in the future. Meanwhile, several newly-elected AIADMK MLAs continued to visit Mr. Palaniswami’s residence in Salem district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-consensus-yet-in-aiadmk-on-leader-of-the-opposition/article34485402.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC asks doctor to pay monthly maintenance to estranged wife||The Madras High Court has directed a government doctor to pay a monthly maintenance of Rs. 15,000 to his estranged wife despite her having received Rs. 3 lakh in lump sum in 2003 following a compromise reached between them when she filed a petition seeking divorce. The court held that the woman was entitled to seek monthly maintenance, in addition to the permanent alimony, since now she had no means to maintain herself. Justice P. Velumurugan pointed out that the marriage between the couple was solemnised in 1999 but they had no children. In 2002, the woman approached the Family Court seeking divorce but that petition was dismissed after the parties decided to compromise the issue on payment of Rs. 3 lakh towards permanent alimony and on transferring certain immovable properties in the name of the woman. Thereafter, the doctor remarried another woman and begot children. In 2017, the woman filed a maintenance petition under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.P.C.) before the Family Court in Dharmapuri and sought a direction to her husband to pay her monthly maintenance. She contended that one of the two immovable properties allotted to her as part of the compromise, was sold by his father to a third party, and the other property was not fetching any income at all due to its dilapidated condition. Accepting her plea, the Family Court directed the doctor to pay her Rs. 21,500 a month and hence he moved the High Court with a revision petition. Disposing of the revision, the judge said: “Though the respondent had filed a divorce petition, they entered into a compromise and no divorce was granted. As such, the respondent continues to be the wife of the petitioner. Even otherwise, a divorced wife is also entitled to get maintenance.” Further, pointing out that the properties given to her in permanent alimony were not fetching any income, the judge held that the doctor must pay her monthly alimony too since he was earning a monthly salary of Rs. 1 lakh from government service. Besides he was earning through private practice and the rental income from his properties. As per Section 125 of Cr.P.C., maintenance must be paid if a woman could not sustain herself, he said. Nevertheless, holding that the amount of Rs. 21,500 a month fixed by the Family Court was on the high side, he reduced the quantum to Rs. 15,000 per month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-asks-doctor-to-pay-monthly-maintenance-to-estranged-wife/article34485997.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to conduct vaccination camp for lawyers and family members||The Madras High Court has decided to hold a COVID-19 vaccination camp for its staff, lawyers and their family members from May 10 to 22. This is part of a larger arrangement being made by its Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee to hold similar camps at all court complexes across the State this month to provide an opportunity to the regional court staff, lawyers and their family members to get inoculated. High Court’s Registrar (Administration) V. Devanathan has issued a circular to the office-bearers of Madras High Court Advocates Association, Madras Bar Association, Women Lawyers Association and the Law Association of the City Civil Court, situated within the High Court campus, soliciting the names of their members and family members who would wish to take the jab during the vaccination camp. Stating that the camp was being organised as a preventive measure against the spread of COVID-19, the Registrar urged the lawyers to utilise the opportunity and get themselves as well as their family members vaccinated without fail. He said it had been planned to vaccinate around 200 people a day and that that the camp would be conducted on all days except a Sunday falling between May 10 and 22. Acting on the basis of the circular, the Madras Bar Association had begun collecting names of its members who were willing to get vaccinated and asked them to share their Aadhaar details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-conduct-vaccination-camp-for-lawyers-and-family-members/article34485998.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Victim’s deposition sufficient to convict under POCSO Act, rules HC||In cases booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act of 2012, the minor victim’s deposition is sufficient to convict the accused. There is no need for corroboration by an independent witness if the trial court is convinced that the child is speaking the truth and does not appear to have been tutored by her parents or others, the Madras High Court has held. Justice P. Velmurugan ruled so while confirming the conviction and five-year imprisonment imposed on Venkatesan of Chennai for having molested a 11-year-old daughter of his neighbour when she was alone at home, and her family had gone to a nearby supermarket. The convict challenged his conviction on the ground that there was no independent witness or corroborative evidence. However, the judge wrote, “In a case like this, this court cannot expect any eyewitness or independent witness. This type of accused will always wait for a chance to take advantage of the loneliness of minor girls to commit this type of offence. The evidence of the victim regarding sexual assault is enough for conviction and it does not require any corroborative evidence unless there are compelling reasons seeking for corroboration.” According to the prosecution’s case, the victim’s parents left her alone at home and had gone to the supermarket. The convict came to her house in the guise of playing with her. When he suddenly attempted to assault her sexually, the girl resisted, forcing him to leave the house. Thereafter, she called her parents over phone and asked them to return home. After their return, she narrated the incident, leading to a police complaint lodged by her father a day later. If the incident was true, the girl would have narrated it to her parents over the phone itself and the complaint would have been lodged early, the convict claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/victims-deposition-sufficient-to-convict-under-pocso-act-rules-hc/article34485819.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 MPs to choose between Rajya Sabha, Assembly||AIADMK Rajya Sabha MPs K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam, elected to the Assembly from Vepanahalli and Orathanadu constituencies, are yet to choose which House to represent. They can either remain members of the Upper House or be sworn in as legislators in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. If they opt for the Rajya Sabha, then the State will face byelections to the two Assembly constituencies. Alternatively, given the numbers in the yet to be constituted Assembly, the DMK will get to send two more members to the Upper House. Mr. Vaithilingam was nominated to the Upper House by then party chief Jayalalithaa, soon after he lost in the 2016 Assembly poll. Mr. Munusamy, who too was defeated in 2016, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha last year. A party source said, “They are yet to make a decision. The party leadership will consult with them and decide whether or not they will continue as MPs.” In March, another AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP, A. Mohammedjan, died of cardiac arrest while campaigning for the party for the Assembly poll.  If they opt for the Rajya Sabha, then the State will face byelections to the two Assembly constituencies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-mps-to-choose-between-rajya-sabha-assembly/article34485405.ece
05 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Activist ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy dies at 88||K.R. Ramaswamy, 88, popularly called “Traffic” Ramaswamy, died due to age-related ailments at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Tuesday. He earned more enemies than friends during his career as an activist. At one point, his family disassociated themselves from him after they received threatening calls and abuses. He started his activism by helping to regulate the chaotic traffic in and around Parry’s Corner, and was thereby given the nickname ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy by the locals. Initially, he was hailed by government officials for his work, only to later become a thorn in the flesh for various departments, particularly the police, with whom he had several run-ins on issues affecting the life of commoners. Be it the eradication of the banner culture in the city, the removal of vendors occupying footpaths or the shifting of iron and steel merchants from George Town to Sathangadu, near Manali, Mr. Ramaswamy had a hand in all. Mr. Ramaswamy’s formula to make government servants do their duty was simple — file a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition in the Madras High Court and make the officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation and the city police do the work, as failure to comply with a court order would invite contempt of court. However, residents’ welfare associations and social activists, who initially approached Mr. Ramaswamy to find solutions to civic issues in their locality, found that filing PIL petitions for every issue was not the answer, and slowly moved away from him. S. Rangarajan, who was instrumental in forming Neer Exnora, said the filing of PIL petitions by Mr. Ramaswamy brought to light the encroachment of a huge parcel of railway land at the Velachery station. A senior government official said he was instrumental in making the police and Chennai Corporation officials shift iron and steel shops that lined the narrow streets of George Town to Sathangadu. Mr. Ramaswamy filed a PIL petition in the High Court, stating that the merchants were not moving. For all his good work, Mr. Ramaswamy was attacked by the cadre of various parties on several occasions when he attempted to remove banners. He was also reprimanded and fined by the Madras High Court for filing frivolous petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activist-traffic-ramaswamy-dies-at-88/article34485409.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Boy steals Rs. 12 lakh from father to play online game||A businessman has lodged a complaint with the police against his 13-year-son’s friends, alleging that they forced his son to steal and spend Rs. 12 lakh on an online game. Complainant R. Ram Vilas, an interior designer, said his son, a Class 8 student, took the money from his locker in small portions under the insistence of one of his friends, who asked him to play Free Fire , an online video game. He and three others gave the money to an employee of an electronic gadget showroom to recharge their accounts and continued playing the game. Recently, Mr. Vilas noticed that the cash was missing from his locker and questioned his son. Based on his confession, Mr. Vilas lodged a complaint at the J.J. Nagar police station against his son’s friends — all 13-year-olds — and the private firm’s employee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-steals-rs-12-lakh-from-home-to-play-online-game/article34485806.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petrol, diesel prices go up||Petrol and diesel prices climbed up by over 10 paise per litre on Tuesday after a gap of 18 days. Fuel outlets in the city sold petrol at Rs. 92.55 per litre and diesel at Rs. 85.9 per litre. In Sankagiri, it was Rs. 92.86 per litre of petrol and Rs. 86.35 per litre of diesel. Dealers said demand, especially for diesel, had come down after May 1. “People are afraid to step out of their homes due to the rising number of COVID-19 cases. Movement of heavy vehicles, too, has been affected due to the lockdown in other States,” a retailer said. Another retailer said the decrease in sale volume was around 10%-15%, and it had been falling over the last 15 days. “We have witnessed a reduction of about 20% sales in auto LPG too,” he added. Consumers questioned the rationale behind the price hike when international crude prices remained more or less the same. “At a time like this, an increase in fuel prices is uncalled for,” said M. Manikantan of Velachery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-by-over-10-paise/article34485807.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 7.2 lakh cases booked for not wearing masks||Over 7,21,571 cases were booked against people who failed to wear masks across the State. The police have been enforcing the rules effectively since April 9. According to the police, the cases reached 7.21 lakh on Monday, and fines were also collected from people who were found not wearing masks in public places. Separately 22,460 cases were booked for violation of physical distancing norms and other COVID-19 protocols. The Greater Chennai City Police said 25,675 cases were filed against people who were not wearing masks in the city limits. A total fine of Rs. 48,37,600 was collected from violators and another 431 cases were booked for violation of physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-72-lakh-cases-booked-for-not-wearing-masks/article34485815.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Journalists are frontline workers: Stalin||DMK president and Chief Minister-designate M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said journalists would be treated as frontline workers in Tamil Nadu. He said journalists, too, worked during natural calamities and pandemics, unmindful of the risks to their lives. In a statement in Chennai, he said television media, print and radio journalists would get all rights and privileges entitled to frontline workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/journalists-are-frontline-workers-stalin/article34485398.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shops in T.N. will be open today||Shops and departmental stores will remain open on Wednesday despite the day being Vanigar Dhinam , which is a holiday every year. A.M. Vikramaraja, president, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangagalin Peramaippu, said this was to ensure that consumers buy essential goods before the May 6 restrictions come into effect. He said on May 5, packs containing provisions would be distributed to those running saloons, flower vendors and dhobis to help them tide over the current situation. Holding stocks A trader said most kirana stores would hold stocks for only three days to a week. “They will not have bigger packs since they do not have large storage spaces. If supermarkets are shut down, there will be a shortage of goods, like biscuits, almost immediately,” he said. Another trader said the early start of 6 a.m. could be pushed to 7 a.m. and the closing time could be 1 p.m. as many people do not go to shops as early as 6 a.m., with schools remaining closed. P.M. Ganeshraam, State president, Tamil Nadu FMCG Distributors’ Association, said the government could permit traders to stock up till about 3 p.m. after the day’s sales are over. “This will help in restocking goods and prevent panic buying. Some goods are replenished every three days, some every week, some once in 15 days and so on,” he explained. Lessons learned Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said the government should have learnt its lessons from last year’s lockdown and brought in time restrictions accordingly. “They have stopped short of calling it a lockdown. It can even distribute free provisions to affected families through the public distribution system,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-in-tn-to-be-open-today/article34485377.ece
05 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Association seeks relief||The Spinal Injured Persons’ Association has appealed for more awareness and support for persons with spinal injuries who have been affected by pressure ulcers. In a statement, the association said failure to provide immediate care to persons with spinal injuries who have developed pressure ulcers can severely affect them. The association has appealed for direct support from government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/association-seeks-relief/article34485809.ece
05 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||As COVID-19 cases surge, some hospitals run at full capacity||With Coimbatore district seeing a steady increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, several hospitals, especially the ones in the private sector, run at full capacity. As per the data shared by the district administration, 18 out of 50-odd private hospitals in Coimbatore had their beds allocated for COVID-19 patients occupied on Sunday and Monday. Several other private hospitals had less than 10 such beds remaining vacant. A private medical college hospital had its 420 beds dedicated for COVID-19 treatment occupied from May 1. Another private hospital had its 267 beds reserved for COVID-19 occupied from Sunday. The situation was the same at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital which had patients in all the 680 beds reserved for COVID-19 treatment on Sunday and Monday. An official from ESI Hospital said it categorised patients before admission depending on the severity of infection and refer patients to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) in case of unavailability of beds with life support facilities. CMCH, which has 1,055 beds reserved for COVID-19 patients, had 282 of them vacant on Monday. All the government hospitals together had 449 beds vacant and a total of 983 out of 4,216 beds in 52 private hospitals were also vacant on Monday evening, according to the district administration. Private hospital managements said they were in the efforts to increase the bed strength after the State Health Department recently instructed them to allocate a minimum of 50% of their total bed strength exclusively to treat COVID-19 patients. A senior official from a private hospital said it recently added 100 beds after it faced difficulty in managing the patient inflow. KG Hospital chairman G. Bhakthavathsalam said the hospital recently increased the bed strength to 265 for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-covid-19-cases-surge-some-hospitals-run-at-full-capacity/article34485821.ece
05 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine shortage leads to worry||Inadequate stock of Covishield and Covaxin at vaccination centres in government hospitals have forced people to run from one place to another. Several people, who came to the vaccination centre at the Government Arts College, Coimbatore, on Tuesday, had to leave after waiting for a long time when the police informed them that the vaccine stock for the day was over. The vaccination centre had long queues before 7 a.m. “We waited for about an hour before the police asked us to vacate. Urban primary health centres (UPHC) where we enquired also did not have stock of the vaccine we wanted,” said a youth who brought his elderly relatives to the Arts College for vaccination. The youth had to hire a taxi for the elderly persons to avoid journey on buses. Another woman, who was looking for the vaccination of her grandmother, said that attempts to get a shot of vaccine from nearby UPHCs went in vain. C.M. Jayaraman, president, Citizens Voice Coimbatore, said the Health Department officials and senior officials, including the Chief Secretary, should make efforts to ensure adequate supply of vaccines till the newly-elected State leadership officially assumed office. He alleged that a private hospital in the city where he approached for the vaccination of one of his friends quoted Rs. 750 for a dose. The hospital staff soon claimed that the stock was over when questioned about the over-pricing, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-shortage-leads-to-worry/article34485824.ece
05 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Delay in medical oxygen supply a concern for small hospitals||Small private hospitals that are into COVID-19 treatment in Coimbatore have raised concern over an imminent shortage in the supply of liquid medical oxygen. Sources in some of the small private hospitals here say they are witnessing delay in the supply and decline in the quantity of medical oxygen from manufacturers, unlike previous times of the pandemic. They say that diversion of liquid medical oxygen produced at a plant in Palakkad district, Kerala, to other parts of the country is one of the reasons for the current situation. Several hospitals in the city are buying medical oxygen from this plant, they add. According to them, consumption of medical oxygen in hospitals doubles when it is used for ventilators and high flow oxygen therapy for COVID-19 treatment. Though the current supply is enough to handle the cases, the continuing surge of the cases in the district is a cause of worry, they add. However, major private hospitals continue to get adequate supply to meet their needs. A senior doctor attached to a tertiary-level private hospital said it was getting medical oxygen supply on alternate days with which it banked for three-four days. On Tuesday, Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan called on Collector S. Nagarajan and urged him to take stock of the medical oxygen availability in hospitals. “As in many other places, it is learnt that some private hospitals are facing issues with oxygen supply. I have requested the Collector to take war footing measures to ensure adequate stock of oxygen as a precaution,” he said. Mr. Natarajan added that the situation was also taken to the attention of Industry Secretary N. Muruganandam, monitoring officer for Coimbatore district, and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. “Liquid medical oxygen is brought to our district primarily from Kanjikode in Palakkad. I have requested the Health Secretary to make arrangements to increase the supply and stock the same,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-medical-oxygen-supply-a-concern-for-small-hospitals/article34485827.ece
05 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two murdered near Sulur||Two persons were murdered in a fight between two groups near Sulur here on Tuesday. The police said M. Vasanth (30) from Kakkan Nagar near Singanallur and his relative Mahesh succumbed to stab injuries they suffered in a fight with another group at Bharathipuram near Sulur. According to the police, Vasanth, Mahesh and Prem were confronted by their relative Saravanan of Bharathipuram and four others at Palapalayam around 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The five men, including Saravanan’s brother Sathish, assaulted the trio. Mahesh had picked up a quarrel with Saravanan, also his relative, late on Monday suspecting that the latter was involved in the pelting of stones at his house. As a retaliation, Saravanan, Sathish, Hari, Dinesh and Srinath waylaid the two-wheeler travelled by Vasanth, Mahesh and Prem on Tuesday morning and assaulted them. While Vasanth died on the spot, Mahesh succumbed to injuries later. The Sulur police have apprehended all the five accused. Saravanan, who was injured in the assault, was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-murdered-near-sulur/article34485431.ece
05 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||110 containment zones earmarked in Erode||With the number of persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 crossed 3,400 in the district as of Monday, a total of 110 containment zones were earmarked in which 2,800 households comprising 8,800 persons are under home quarantine. Collector C. Kathiravan said that so far, a total of 22,817 persons tested positive while 19,231 were discharged. Currently, 3,149 persons were under treatment while the death toll in the district stood at 167, he added. He said that 2,430 persons were in home isolation while 812 were undergoing treatment at hospitals while the rest were at the Covid Care Centres in the district. He said that disinfection measures were regularly carried out at the 110 containment zones across the district. Mr. Kathiravan said that 5,29,021 persons had undergone RT-PCR tests while 1,41,397 persons were vaccinated so far. Mr. Kathiravan said that 550 beds are available at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, 208 beds at the District Headquarters Hospital, 20 beds each at government hospitals at Gobichettipalayam and Sathyamangalam, 18 beds at Bhavani GH, 10 at Anthiyur and eight beds at Perundurai GH. Apart from this, 2,580 beds are ready at the COVID-19 Care Centres and Primary Health Centres in the district while 686 beds are available at private hospitals. Details regarding COVID-19 can be obtained from the emergency control room at 0424-1077 and district helpline at 0424-2260211 and at whatsapp number 97917-88852. Also, one can contact the State helpline at 1075, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/110-containment-zones-earmarked-in-erode/article34485436.ece
05 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: monitoring intensified at T.N.-Karnataka border in Talavadi||Following a spike in COVID-19 cases in Chamarajanagar district in Karnataka that borders Talavadi, the district police have intensified checks at the inter-State border from Tuesday to prevent people from Karnataka entering into the State. Ramapuram, Arulvadi, Bisalvadi, Ellakattai, Gumtapuram and Bainapuram villages are located in Talavadi bordering Karnataka. The jurisdiction of Chamarajanagar starts two km away from the villages and people of both the States frequently cross the border for work. People of Talavadi visit the hospitals at Chamarajanagar for medical emergencies, while vegetables from there are transported to Talavadi mandis from where it is taken to markets in Erode and Coimbatore. Due to total lockdown in Karnataka from April 27, inter-State borders at Ramapuram, Arulvadi and Bisalvadi were closed and barricaded thus preventing the movement of vehicles. Also, the roads at these places have been dug up to prevent people from crossing on foot. Since ambulances and vegetable-laden vehicles ply between the States, check posts were installed on the roads that lead to Karnataka at Ellakattai, Gumtapuram and Bainapuram and monitored by the police personnel round the clock. A senior police officer said that only ambulances and vegetable-laden vehicles were allowed to pass through checkposts while the public were denied entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-monitoring-intensified-at-tn-karnataka-border-in-talavadi/article34485433.ece
05 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports 624 new cases||As many as 624 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Tuesday. According to health department officials, all cases were indigenous and 378 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. 328 cases were reported in Namakkal. As per bulletin all cases were indigenous. As per bulletin, 15 persons died at private and government facilities in Salem. Erode district reported 585 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 23,338. While 571 persons were discharged, 3,419 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 167 in the district. Krishnagiri recorded 305 cases fresh cases and one death, while 550 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 2,875 cases as of Tuesday. A total of 16,200 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 263 fresh cases, while 181 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 1,351. As of date, a total 10,268 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-624-new-cases/article34485438.ece
05 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Bank ordered to be closed||Collector C. Kathiravan ordered the closure of the branch of Indian Overseas Bank at Kalingarayanpalayam in Bhavani for failing to adhere to COVID-19 safety guidelines here on Tuesday. During his inspection, he found many customers not wearing masks and also not ensuring personal distancing. The Collector questioned the branch manager for flouting the norms and ordered closure of the branch from Wednesday. Mr. Kathiravan inspected a two-wheeler workshop, a tea stall in the area and found a commercial cylinder being used without permission. He imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 on the owner of the tea stall. He also inspected the measures taken on the premises of Arulmigu Sangameswarar Temple at Bhavani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-ordered-to-be-closed/article34485434.ece
05 May 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||M-sand spillage poses threat to motorists on highway||Beds of M-sand that spills from trucks dot a stretch of Dargah Road along the Hosur highway, posing grave threat to two-wheeler riders. Blown by the winds, the sand gets collected along the side of the highway. On an ordinary day, hundreds of trucks carrying M-sand make their journey from the quarries and crushers at Thorapalli towards the construction sites in Karnataka, primarily Bengaluru. If the steady movement of trucks laden with thousands of tonnes of M-Sand is alleged to have damaged the roads, the sand spill from the trucks is a safety threat to motorists, who face the risk of skidding off the road, especially while riding in the dark. The sand spillage needs to be addressed soon given the steady rise in fatal accidents on the highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/m-sand-spillage-poses-threat-to-motorists-on-highway/article34485449.ece
05 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses plea seeking issue of house site pattas||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court dismissed a petition filed by 315 persons who sought a direction to the State government to get the defence lands in K. Abishekapuram in Tiruchi district transferred from the Ministry of Defence and to issue them house site pattas. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh took note of the counter affidavit submitted by Tiruchi Collector that said the petitioners were encroaching up on the land belonging to the Ministry of Defence and they had no right to claim house site patta. The Estate Officer submitted that the land would be utilised to develop a transient accommodation and canteen facilities for the welfare of the serving and the retired service personnel, as an Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme Polyclinic was constructed opposite the site.  ‘Impossible relief’ The judge observed that the petitioners had claimed an impossible relief just to continue with the illegal encroachment of the lands belonging to the Ministry of Defence and they completely lacked any legal right. The State government was already taking steps for the rehabilitation of the encroachers by allotting flats constructed by the Slum Clearance Board at Nagamangalam. The petitioners were not prepared to avail the scheme and want to squat on the defence lands, the court observed. The judge observed that the relief sought by the petitioners cannot be granted and that the court did not find any ground to even entertain the petition. The petition was dismissed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-issue-of-house-site-pattas/article34485383.ece
05 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Crematoria under strain as deaths spike||Over the past week, staff at two electric crematoria in the city — Thathaneri and Moolakarai — have been overburdened, attending to an increasing number of COVID-19 deaths. While crematoria have been witnessing long queues due to an increase in COVID-19 deaths, the State’s health bulletin does not reflect the surge in Madurai. According to City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan, the bodies of COVID-19 patients or those suspected to have had the infection are cremated at the electric crematoria at Thathaneri and Moolakarai. People are allowed to take the bodies of COVID-19 patients to their villages for cremation only after obtaining a ‘no-objection certificate’ from the respective health inspectors, he said. Sources at the Thathaneri crematorium said there was only one functional gasifier there. The second gasifier, repaired recently, would be commissioned after a trial run in a few days, a Corporation source said. Currently, on average, 25 bodies of COVID-19 patients are attended to at the Thathaneri crematorium every day, when compared to last week, when 17 bodies were cremated. “Around 40% of the bodies are of residents of Madurai,” a source said. Similarly, there has been an increase in the number of bodies attended to at Moolakarai. According to a source, around 10 bodies of COVID-19 patients are attended to every day. But there is a mismatch between the bodies cremated at these crematoria and the deaths recorded in the health bulletin. Dr. Kumaraguruparan said patients from neighbouring districts were coming to the Government Rajaji Hospital and major private hospitals in Madurai for COVID-19 treatment. “To handle the additional number of bodies, it has been instructed that both crematoria should function round the clock,” he said. RT-PCR tests are being conducted on all undergoing surgery or other procedures. “While they may test positive for COVID-19, the cause of death might be other reasons. In such cases, the bodies are cremated following COVID-19 protocol, but such deaths might not figure as COVID-19 deaths in the bulletin,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crematoria-under-strain-as-deaths-spike/article34485404.ece
05 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court ruling on award of ‘kudimaramathu’ works||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court dismissed the appeal preferred by the State government against a Single Bench order that held Public Works Department had to award kudimaramathu works only in favour of farmers organisations constituted under Tamil Nadu Farmers Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that it was a settled position that when the statute requires a particular act to be done in a particular manner, it had to be done in that manner alone and not in any other way. No merit in appeal It said that there was no merit in the appeal. When the Act prescribes certain mechanisms for the formation of the association and for the execution of Kudimaramathu work in a transparent manner, the authorities concerned were not justified in awarding the works to an association registered under Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975. The court took note of the fact that in Sivaganga district, the works had hardly commenced and in a hurried manner an association was created and a work order was issued. It dismissed the appeal. The Single Bench had given elaborate directions on the conduct of the kudimaramathu works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-ruling-on-award-of-kudimaramathu-works/article34485902.ece
05 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railway parcel rate slashed by 33% in select trains||Madurai Division of Southern Railway has slashed parcel rates by 33% in some of the trains with immediate effect. A railway statement said that parcel rates for the select trains had been reclassified from Rajdhani to Premier and hence the slashing of rates. Consequent to downgrading of parcel rate, one quintal of parcel by Nellai special train from Tirunelveli to Chennai will be charged Rs. 191 as against the old rate of Rs. 290, a railway statement said. The new rates are applicable in Train No. 02632 Tirunelveli - Chennai Egmore Nellai special train, Train No. 06106 Tiruchendur - Chennai Egmore Chendur Special train, Train No. 02662 Sengottai - Chennai Egmore Podhigai Special train, Train No. 06852 Rameswaram - Chennai Egmore special train running via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam main line, Train No. 02206 Rameswaram - Chennai Egmore special train running via Vridhdhachalam chord line and Train No. 02652 Palakkadu - Dr. MGR Chennai Central special train running via Palani, Oddanchatram and Dindigul are downgraded as "Premier".||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-parcel-rate-slashed-in-select-trains/article34485384.ece
05 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC closes plea seeking probe into MKU scams||Taking note of the fact that the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC)was conducting an investigation into the scams in Madurai Kamaraj University, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has closed a petition seeking a thorough probe into the irregularities. The scams included irregularities in the conduct of examinations and issuance of certificates. The petitioner M. Lionel Antony Raj sought a probe into the irregularities and that the court monitor the investigation. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that taking note of the seriousness of the issue, the court had passed a direction to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption to conduct a detailed investigation. Since the direction was already passed by the court, the judges closed the petition. Earlier, it had also directed the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption to extend the scope of the investigation to other universities after completing the probe in Madurai Kamaraj University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-closes-plea-seeking-probe-into-mku-scams/article34485418.ece
05 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chamber of Commerce and Industry expects industrial growth||Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) congratulated Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader M.K. Stalin for winning a majority of seats in the assembly elections and to take charge as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. A statement from TNCCI president N. Jegatheesan said that the COVID-19 pandemic had affected the trade and industry sector. “While there have been no new investments in the state, Foreign Direct Investments in the State are also not sufficient. The employment opportunities are also declining gradually.” “In this context, the people have chosen Mr. Stalin as the Chief Minister, who will lead Tamil Nadu towards the path of development.” This has given hope that Tamil Nadu will see growth in the industrial sector. TNCCI requested the new government to set up a high-level consultative committee with the Chief Minister, government officials and representatives of important trade associations to give advice to the government for development of trade and industrial sector. TNCCI will continue to extend full support to the State government in the economic growth and development of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-of-commerce-and-industry-expects-industrial-growth/article34485903.ece
05 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||Tirumangalam Town police have recovered a note, purportedly written by an advocate, A. Harikrishnan (40), who was found dead in his house in Tirumangalam on Tuesday, about a murder of his girl friend. The police found the man, who was separated from his wife a few years back. In the note, he had mentioned about a woman, Chithra Devi (36), a yoga teacher, who, too, was separated from her husband. The note said that he had murdered her and buried the body in his house, Tirumangalam Deputy Superintendent of Police, Vinothini, said. However, she said that only a thorough investigation can bring out the truth. The woman has been missing from April 2. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead/article34485419.ece
05 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two trains temporarily cancelled||Two interstate special trains connecting Tiruchi with Thiruvanathapuram and Nagercoil with KSR Bengaluru have been temporarily cancelled due to poor patronage from passengers. Train no. 02627/02628 Tiruchi-Thiruvanthapuram-Tiruchi intercity express is fully cancelled from May 6 up to May 15, according to a press release. South-Western Railway Meanwhile, South Western Railway announced cancellation of Train No.07235 KSR Bengaluru– Nagercoil Special leaving KSR Bangalore at 5 p.m. from May 5 until further advice. Train No.07236 Nagercoil – KSR Bengaluru Special leaving Nagercoil at 7.10 p.m. is fully cancelled from May 6 until further advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-train-services-temporarily-cancelled/article34485395.ece
05 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight vials of Remdesivir missing||Eight vials of life-saving Remdesivir went missing from the COVID Ward of Government Rajaji Hospital here. According to police sources, the hospital authorities came to know about the missing vials when they opened the boxes on Sunday. Hospital Assistant Resident Medical Officer has lodged a complaint with the Mathichiyam police. Police sources suspect the hand of some insider in the missing of the anti-viral drug which had, of late, been in great demand in the market. Even several private hospitals in the State have run out of the medicine. It is being sold at an exorbitant rate in black market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-vials-of-remdesivir-missing/article34485417.ece
05 May 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pontiffs of ancient Shaivite mutts congratulate Stalin||Pontiffs of two ancient Shaivite Mutts in Mayiladhthurai district have congratulated DMK president M.K. Stalin for bringing his party to power in the State. Acknowldging late Chief Minister Karunanidhis efforts for growth of Tamil language and literature through Tamil Semmozhi conference, installaton of Tiruvalluvar Statue in Kanyakumari, and introducing temple archanas in Tamil in temples, Dharmapuram Adheenam 27th Gurumaha Sannidhanam Srilashri Masilamani Desika Gnanasambantha Paramachariya Swamigal exuded hope that Mr. Stalin would toe the same path. In his congratulatory message, the Adheenam of Thiruvavaduthurai Aadheenam Mutt, 24th Guru Maha Sannithanam Shrila Shri Ambalavana Desiga Paramachariya Swamigal, exhorted Mr. Stalin to administer the State with neutrality, transcending religions and castes. At a critical time like this when the State was affected by pandemic, the administration had to be carried out with an objective outlook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pontiffs-of-ancient-shaivite-mutts-congratulate-stalin/article34485379.ece
05 May 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Traders seek permission to open all shops till noon||Traders in Namakkal district have requested the State government to permit operations of all shops between 8 a.m and 12 noon and not just groceries. Welcoming the curbs from May 6, members of the Tamil Nadu Vanigarsangakalin Peramaipu lamented that shop owners need to handle electricity bills, salaries and loan dues and restrictions could affect their livelihood. The traders also said that Ramzan, muhurtham days are approaching and shops should be permitted to operate for restricted hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-seek-permission-to-open-all-shops-till-noon/article34485442.ece
05 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With 17 more deaths, U.T.’s COVID-19 toll touches 865||The Union Territory on Tuesday registered 17 COVID-19 deaths and 1,138 new cases. Of the 17 deaths reported, 16 cases got registered in Puducherry region and the remaining one in Karaikal. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 865 persons have succumbed to novel coronavirus in the Union Territory. Of the total new admissions, 760 were reported in Puducherry and the remaining in the three enclaves of the Union Territory, data released by the Health Department said. The new cases were registered from screening 6,820 persons. The second wave of the virus has taken the number of active cases in the Union Territory to 10,849, including 8,921 under home isolation, data said. Over 2 lakh vaccinated So far, 63,298 persons got infected of the virus and 51,584 patients were treated and discharged. As many as 2,04,245 persons got vaccinated, including the second dose, in the Union Territory, data revealed. The toll in Cuddalore district rose to 336 with seven more deaths reported in the last 24 hours even as 305 new cases were added to the case tally on Tuesday. The patients were in the age group of 49 to 70 years. According to a bulletin of the Health Department, the district’s case tally stood at 31,525. While 29,188 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,718. Villupuram district recorded three more COVID-19 deaths and 196 new cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 20,239. Three men, aged 75 to 89 years died of the disease on Tuesday, taking the toll to 127. The district saw 17,829 recoveries and 2,283 were active cases. Kallakurichi district reported 146 new cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 13,037.  Villupuram district recorded three more deaths and 196 new cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-17-more-deaths-uts-covid-19-toll-touches-865/article34486005.ece
05 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown restrictions extended||The Puducherry territorial administration has extended the lockdown restrictions up to May 10 in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases. In an order, Revenue Secretary Ashok Kumar, on Monday night, said that in addition to the night curfew, the restrictions in place on opening of shops, commercial establishments and social gathering for events would continue up to May 10. Provision stores, vegetables shops, fish and meat marts, and shops selling animal fodder and milk parlours would function as normal. However, shopping complexes and big commercial establishments would remain closed. All religious places would remain closed for public worship, the order said. No liquor shops In another order, Deputy Commissioner (Excise) T. Sudhakar said all category of liquor shops would remain closed till May 10. Any violation of the order would invite punishment under relevant provisions of Puducherry Excise Act, 1970, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-restrictions-extended/article34486006.ece
05 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy may be sworn in Puducherry CM on May 7 or 9||The swearing-in of the N. Rangasamy-led National Democratic Alliance government in the Union Territory is likely to take place on May 7 or 9. Sources in the All India N R Congress and the BJP told The Hindu that Mr. Rangasamy would decide on the date and time of the swearing-in in a day or two. “Most likely, the swearing-in of the Chief Minister and Ministers will take place on May 7 or 9,” a senior AINRC leader said. Mr. Ranagasamy, along with BJP-in charge for the Union Territory Nirmal Kumar Surana and Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) Rajeev Chandrasekhar, on Monday evening met Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to stake claim to form the government. This followed both the parties together gaining a majority of 16 seats in the 30 member Assembly in the recently held poll. According to a highly-placed source in the BJP, the party was likely to get the Deputy Chief Minister’s post and two ministerial berths. The party was also pressing for the post of Deputy Speaker, the source said. As per the Union Territory Act, the Legislative Assembly, with a total strength of 30, can have six Cabinet members, including the Chief Minister. Ministry strength The Act puts the Ministry’s strength at 15% of the total legislators. The source said the Centre may also appoint three nominated legislators before the swearing-in. In such a scenario, the strength of the Assembly would go up from 30 to 33 and proportionally the number of Cabinet Ministers would go up by one, the source added. The party had also put up a demand with the AINRC to decide on the portfolios before the swearing-in ceremony. “Discussions are on pertaining to the swearing-in. Everything will be finalised shortly,” he added.  The Centre may also appoint three nominated legislators. In such a scenario, the strength of the Assembly will go up from 30 to 33||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-may-be-sworn-in-puducherry-cm-on-may-7-or-9/article34485376.ece
05 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Adequate beds in Pudukottai’||Adequate beds have been created in the district for treatment of COVID-19 patients, Collector P. Uma Maheswari said on Tuesday. A total number of 450 beds were added in Pudukottai Medical College Hospital; 70 in Aranthangi Government Headquarters Hospital; 300 in 12 Taluk Government Hospitals; 100 beds in Old Government Hospital and 190 beds in six private hospitals to treat those with symptoms. To treat those infected by the virus but without any symptoms, 300 beds had been created in 10 upgraded PHCss; 125 beds in Backward Classes Welfare students hostel in Pudukottai; 75 beds in Adi Dravidar students hostel in Pudukottai; 125 beds in ITI at Viralimalai; 75 beds in Aranthangi Polytechnic College and 100 beds in Government Arts College for Women in Pudukottai. Information regarding bed facilities could be obtained from the telephone numbers: 04322-1077, 04322-222207 and 75388-84840.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adequate-beds-in-pudukottai/article34485391.ece
05 May 2021||S. SundarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||BSF personnel all praise for hospitality in Virudhunagar||Border Security Force personnel, who were on election duty, were overwhelmed by the hospitality and peaceful atmosphere in Virudhunagar. While 80 companies of BSF had come to southern districts for election duty, a section of them are returning home by a special train from Madurai. “It was a good experience for us,” said one of the BSF personnel. He was highly appreciative of the hospitality of Tamil Nadu police. “Right from our accommodation and food, we were taken care of well. Besides, whenever we needed to move from one place to another, the vehicle came for our use promptly,” he said. The armed BSF personnel who had come much before the polling day were involved in flag march. They were posted in check post duty and also deployed in those polling booths identified as sensitive and critical. After polling they were used for round-the-clock inner ring security for counting centres. A BSF soldier became an admirer of the people of Virudhunagar district and its peaceful atmosphere. “I have done election duty in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. We had tension and had to tackle law and order situations ranging from minor scuffles to major clashes during the election. But here it was absolutely smooth and peaceful,” he said. Stating that many of his colleagues felt the same during their stay here for nearly 50 days, he said, “Tamil Nadu is the best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bsf-men-all-praise-for-hospitality/article34485415.ece
05 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH has sufficient stock of medical oxygen: Dean||Beds designated for Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital have filled up and the Hospital is working on increasing bed strength. Officials said that oxygen beds in the district are almost fully occupied at the moment. The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital is the tertiary care centre for COVID-19 treatment, and besides patients from Salem, the district also caters to those from neighbouring districts. The Hospital had 650 beds for COVID-19 treatment with 550 beds with piped oxygen supply. It had increased the bed strength to 800 and as on Tuesday morning all beds in the Hospital have been filled with COVID-19 patients. According to Hospital officials, 48 patients were admitted on Monday alone. R.Murugeshan, Dean of the Hospital, said that private hospitals are referring cases to Salem GH in critical stage, without prior information or confirming bed availability. “Oxygen supply is ensured through pipe and cylinders at the Hospital at the moment but all 800 beds designated for COVID-19 treatment here have become full. Patients are being referred to the Hospital from private facilities without confirming bed availability,” he said. He added that they are working on increasing the bed strength further with oxygen facilities. However, allaying fears, Dr. Murugeshan said that patients requiring critical care are being admitted at the Hospital and there is sufficient supply of medical oxygen. According to doctors, the hospital has 35,000-litre oxygen plant and it is being filled on daily basis. The hospital is also stocking sufficient numbers of oxygen cylinders to ensure continuous supply of medical oxygen to the Hospital. District Collector S.A.Raman said, “oxygen beds are almost full in the district. Hence, we are now working on increasing oxygen beds here. Another 350 beds would be arranged at GMKMCH and patients whose health condition has improved would be shifted to step down ward. Oxygen beds are also being readied at government hospitals in Edappadi, Omalur, Attur and Mettur. We have also advised private hospitals with less number of oxygen beds to refer cases to Salem GH in future to ensure better supply of oxygen to hospitals here. All measures are taken to prevent shortage and avoid crisis.” He added that there is sufficient supply of medical oxygen to the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-has-sufficient-stock-of-medical-oxygen-dean/article34485446.ece
05 May 2021||salem,TAMIL NADU||Civic body invites volunteers to handle pandemic||The Salem Corporation has invited volunteers to work with the civic body in various COVID-19 pandemic-related activities. Salem Corporation Commissioner N.Ravichandran said in a release that the civic body is looking for volunteers to bring in more persons for the fever camps, to create awareness on COVID-19 disease, conducting door-to-door screening, delivering essentials and medicines to residences in quarantine zones, to prevent the public from venturing out of quarantine zones and to inform officials about persons violating safety norms. The Corporation said in a release that interested persons could download the google form in the Corporation’s website and apply for the position. According to a release, there are 69 containment zones in the Corporation limits at the moment and 73 fever camps are being organised on each day. As many as 680 field workers have been deployed as part of containment measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-invites-volunteers-to-handle-pandemic/article34485441.ece
05 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects oxygen plant at SSP||The oxygen plant at Salem Steel Plant is being readied to manufacture medical oxygen, said District Collector S.A.Raman on Monday. Mr. Raman along with senior officials inspected the plant and reviewed the progress of works. He said in a release that all facilities have been ensured at private and government hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. Mr. Raman said that 14,000 litres of medical oxygen produced at JSW Steel Plant is being procured for supply to hospitals in Salem district. 25,000-litre of medical oxygen have been procured from other States for supply to hospitals in the district, a release said. Mr. Raman said that the medical oxygen production would begin from the facility at Salem Steel Plant at the earliest and it would be utilised to meet medical oxygen needs at government and private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-oxygen-plant-at-ssp/article34485439.ece
05 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister calls on Edappadi||Former Minister R.B.Udhayakumar called on Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami at his residence here on Tuesday. Talking to presspersons, Mr.Udhayakumar said that his understanding of the election results is that people had more expectations which had to be fulfilled. He said that people have given them the mandate to serve them from Opposition bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-calls-on-edappadi/article34485447.ece
05 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Private hospital fined||The Salem Corporation imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000 on a private hospital near Selanaikenpatti for improper disposal of medical waste during an inspection. According to a release, the civic body in two days had collected a fine of Rs. 1.08 lakh from variouos firms for violating COVID-19 safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospital-fined/article34485440.ece
05 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Sothuparai dam overflowing||The Sothuparai dam near Periyakulam is overflowing. In the wake of rains in the western ghats and the catchment areas, the dam reached its full capacity of 126 feet at 9 a.m. on Tuesday. The Public Works Department has asked villagers residing close to the waterspread area to move to safer places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sothuparai-dam-overflowing/article34485413.ece
05 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Eight streets termed containment zones||Following an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Periyakulam, the municipality has identified eight streets to undertake containment measures. The areas were barricaded and disinfectants sprayed. The authorities have urged the people to follow mandatory COVID-19 protocols by wearing face masks, maintaining physical distancing and frequently sanitising therr hands. Shops sealed Two textile shops and a home appliances store that measured more than 3,000 sq.ft were sealed in Dindigul on Tuesday for operating in violation of restrictions imposed by the State government to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Another textile shop and two other shops were fined Rs. 5,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-streets-made-containment-zones/article34485421.ece
05 May 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Sothuparai dam overflows||The Sothuparai dam near Periyakulam is overflowing. Due to the rains in the western ghats and the catchment areas, the dam reached its full capacity of 126 feet at 9 am on Tuesday. The Public Works Department have issued a warning and have asked the villagers residing close to the area to move to safer places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sothuparai-dam-overflows/article34486041.ece
05 May 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Sothuparai dam overflowing||The Sothuparai dam near Periyakulam is overflowing. In the wake of rains in the western ghats and the catchment areas, the dam reached its full capacity of 126 feet at 9 a.m. on Tuesday. The Public Works Department has asked villagers residing close to the waterspread area to move to safer places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sothuparai-dam-overflowing/article34486044.ece
05 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||1,841 fresh cases in central region||Central districts on Tuesday reported 1,841 fresh cases and 14 deaths. Tiruchi district reported the maximum number with 464 patients followed by Thanjavur with 454. Nagapattinam, too, witnessed a surge in new cases with 392 patients testing positive. The daily count was 264 in Karur and 129 in Tiruvarur. While Pudukottai added 72 new cases, Ariyalur and Perambalur reported 37 and 31 cases. According to a medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department, there were 14 deaths in central districts. While four died in Tiruchi district, it was three each in Karur and Thanjavur. Perambalur and Tiruvarur saw the death of one patient each. A 48-year-old female patient from Karur, a 34-year-old male from Nagapattinam and another patient aged 42 from Nagapattinam, who had no pre-existing conditions, were among those who died. A male aged 74 and a female aged 80, and a male aged 53 from Tiruchi, who had comorbid conditions, were among the 14 patients who died in central districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1841-new-cases-in-delta/article34485388.ece
05 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two more vehicles inducted into highway patrol fleet||Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan inducted two vehicles into the highway patrol fleet here on Tuesday. The new vehicles would strengthen patrolling particularly policing at night along the highways, especially along the four-lane National Highways passing through the district. Each vehicle will have a Sub-Inspector of Police and three constables including the driver. While one of the two vehicles would be deployed on the National Highway under the Thazayoothu police sub-division, the second vehicle would be moving along the National Highway under Nanguneri police sub-division. Since these vehicles would be on the move round-the-clock in the areas allotted to them, any information passed on to the police about any unlawful incident along the highway would reach the police on patrol vehicles in no time. Mr. Manivannan plans to equip these vehicles with breathalyzers to randomly check if the vehicle drivers were behind the wheels under the influence of alcohol. Warning If the driver is found to be in an inebriated condition, the vehicle with the driver would be detained and booked for posing threat to other road-users’ safety. “Though prevention of crime along the highways and assistance to accident victims to save their lives are the top priorities of this fleet, checking drunk driving is paramount to avert accidents in which innocents are getting affected. So we’ll take appropriate measures to check this menace,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-vehicles-inducted-into-highway-patrol-fleet/article34486046.ece
05 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 102.35 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 96.63 cusecs and 254.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 88.40 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 4 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34486048.ece
05 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested with idol||The Vellakoil police on Tuesday arrested a man on charges of allegedly attempting to sell an idol for Rs. 1 crore claiming it to be a panchaloha idol at Vellakoil in Tiruppur district. The police said G. Ramesh (37) was working as a temporary staff at the Vellakoil Panchayat Union office till January 2020. At around 12.30 p.m. on Tuesday, he was carrying the idol near a temple when the police deployed at the spot questioned him. He was taken to the Vellakoil police station for inquiry, where he confessed to have purchased the idol from Coimbatore for Rs. 4 lakh in 2020 and that he was attempting to sell it for Rs. 1 crore. The accused was arrested and remanded in judicial custody, according to the police. Weighing around 1.5 kg and about one-foot tall, the idol of a goddess would be subjected to tests to confirm whether it was a panchaloha idol. Investigations regarding the source of the idol were under way, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-with-idol/article34485427.ece
05 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Around 1.3 lakh vaccinated in Tiruppur so far||Around 1.3 lakh beneficiaries in Tiruppur district were vaccinated with at least the first dose of the anti-COVID-19 vaccines so far, according to the Health Department. Sources in the Department said the available stock of vaccines in the vaccination centres were exhausted on Tuesday and that communication from the State government regarding the arrival of additional doses was awaited. The district crossed the one lakh-mark in the number of beneficiaries receiving the vaccine shots in mid-April, following which the 130 government vaccination centres and 30 private centres began frequently experiencing shortage of vaccine doses. Amid the second wave of the pandemic, the sources said the positivity rate was nearly 10% in the district. However, the death rate was only around 1%. Around 3,500 swab samples were being lifted on an average every day and the testing would be increased further, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/around-13-lakh-vaccinated-in-tiruppur-so-far/article34485826.ece
05 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||ICU beds in the Nilgiris filling up as cases increase||The number of beds available in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) in government hospitals in the Nilgiris is decreasing due to the spike in COVID-19 cases. For the first time, the number of cases recorded on a single-day crossed 100 on Monday. Collector J. Innocent Divya said the number of COVID-19 patients, requiring hospitalisation, oxygen-support and Intensive Care Unit beds had increased during the second wave of the pandemic. Officials from the Health Department said less than 40 % of total ICU beds in government hospitals in the district were vacant, with officials taking steps to increase the number in the coming days. The Collector appealed to residents who had any symptoms to immediately get themselves tested. She added that around 70-80 % of people who tested positive recently suffered moderate to severe lung damage, especially those that delayed getting tested and treated. “This is why the first few days of the infection are crucial. If medical intervention is done immediately after people contract the virus, then the severity of the infection is much less,” said Ms. Divya. She also appealed to people to not travel outside the district unnecessarily, as the number of COVID-19 cases in districts surrounding the Nilgiris was also increasing sharply. Steps were being taken by the district administration to shift the Farmers’ Market in Udhagamandalam to a school ground at the ATC Junction. The open-air market that would start functioning in the coming days will be safer for people to shop as the risk of transmission was less pronounced, officials said. The district administration appealed to people to wear mask and maintain personal distancing. A total of 12 containment zones had been established in the district in areas where there had been a high rate of transmission, with the number of such zones set to increase in the coming days, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icu-beds-in-the-nilgiris-filling-up-as-cases-increase/article34485825.ece
05 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Seven policemen injured in accident||Seven police personnel sustained injuries after the van in which they were travelling overturned near Thaishola, a few kilometres from Manjoor town here on Tuesday. According to officials, the police personnel were stationed at a camp in Upper Bhavani to monitor movement of Maoists in the area. COVID-19 test They had been brought to Udhagamandalam to undergo test for COVID-19. Nine pf them were returning to their camp when the van met with an accident. Seven of them have been taken to Coimbatore for treatment, while two others were treated in Manjoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-policemen-injured-in-accident/article34485426.ece
05 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nine inmates of sub-jail in Coonoor test positive||Nine inmates imprisoned at the Coonoor sub-jail in the Nilgiris have tested positive for COVID-19, police and Health Department officials confirmed on Tuesday. Sources said the nine persons were in jail on charges of possession of marijuana, sexual abuse against minors and other offences. One of the inmates who tested positive was also an accused in the Kodanad dacoity-cum-murder case, and he has since been taken to Coimbatore for treatment, officials said. The Nilgiris district superintendent of police, R. Pandiarajan, said that all necessary medical care would be provided to the inmates. He said that none of the nine, who had tested positive for COVID-19, had any serious symptoms as of now. Deputy Director of Health Services (Nilgiris district), P. Baluchamy, said the inmates at the sub-jail would be screened for COVID-19 by a team of officials from the Health Department. Police personnel too, who were in contact with the inmates, would be screened and monitored, officials said. Sources said the inmates were currently being treated inside the prison as there were concerns over their security if they were transferred to government healthcare facilities. They would be monitored continuously and would be taken to hospital if any of them developed symptoms requiring treatment at hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-inmates-of-sub-jail-in-coonoor-test-positive/article34485820.ece
05 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||No bed shortage in Virudhunagar district, says health official||Availability of beds in hospitals - with and without oxygen supply - and that of Covid Care Centres in Virudhunagar district was under manageable condition, said Joint Director of Health R. Manoharan. He said that the district had 1,021 beds in both government and private hospitals and 615 beds were vacant as on Monday. This included the beds in Government Medical College Hospital in Virudhunagar, government hospitals in Sivakasi, Rajapalayam, Sattur and Aruppukottai and ESI Hospital in Sivakasi. Eight private hospitals that were allowed to provide COVID treatment had over 20% beds vacant. “As of now, the situation is quite manageable. While 400 beds have oxygen supply, only 100 patients required those beds,” he said. The officials were also trying to increase the number of COVID beds in Rajapalayam GH from the existing 60 to 110. Similarly, the COVID beds in Sivakasi GH would be increased by another 30, Dr. Manoharan said. Oxygen supply to the government hospitals was smooth and faced no issues. Two oxygen plants Meanwhile, ground work for installing medical oxygen plants in Aruppukottai and Virudhunagar GH has begun. “We expect the work to be completed in the next two weeks,” the Joint Director said. Two Covid Care Centres - one at Aviyur and another at Sivakasi - were functional. The CCC had over 1,000 vacant beds. The officials were planning to augment beds by setting up more CCCs in the district.  The two Covid Care Centres at Aviyur and Sivakasi have over 1,000 vacant beds  R. Manoharan Joint Director of Health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-shortage-of-beds-says-health-official/article34485420.ece
05 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two die in Virudhunagar||For the third consecutive day on Tuesday, Virudhunagar district reported COVID-related double deaths. With this, the total number of deaths has increased to 247. Meanwhile, the positive cases again saw a huge spike and 295 persons were tested positive. After discharge of 252 patients, the number of active cases stood at 1,732. The total number of positive cases stood at 21,023 and the number of discharged patient is 19,044.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-virudhunagar/article34485428.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi GH lab gets second testing machine||The RT-PCR lab of K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College has received a second automated RNA extractor machine to accelerate the process of COVID-19 testing. It has been procured through Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh. The new machine is expected to help microbiologists in handling more samples. P. Gnanaguru, Head, Department of Microbiology, told The Hindu that the RT-PCR laboratory, which was started on March 21, 2020, had so far processed 5,19,284 samples. It had a maximum capacity of processing 3,500 samples a day. Due to surge in cases of COVID-19, the lab had been converted into a 24/7 laboratory. The number of shifts had been increased to three from two. Sixty-five technicians were engaged in processing the samples. Most of them had been outsourced under various schemes including National Health Mission. Under the present arrangements the lab could process 5,000 samples a day. Dr. Gnanaguru said the laboratory received samples from all primary health centres, government hospitals, urban primary health centres and other mobile collecting points. On an average, the laboratory received 4,500 to 5,000 samples for COVID-19 testing. “It is really a challenging task to process 5,000 samples a day. We are supposed to spell out the results within 24 hours. We have risen up to the occasion.” The laboratory had six RT-PCR machines to process samples. They were not sufficient to meet their increasing numbers, but the seventh machine was expected to arrive shortly. A doctor had come forward to donate a machine worth Rs. 12 lakh. Following a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, health authorities stepped up the process of establishing more COVID care centres. As a part of the exercise, Collector S. Divyadharshini visited the Government Hospital in Srirangam and inspected the arrangements being made to treat patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-gh-laboratory-gets-second-automated-rna-extractor-machine/article34485386.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hospital employees sensitised to fire prevention measures||In the wake of fire accidents reported at hospitals in different parts of the country, leading to deaths of several COVID-19 patients, the Fire and Rescue Services Department on Tuesday oriented representatives of private hospitals here on safety measures. The minimum requirements for fire safety, fire prevention measures and National Building Code guidelines for hospitals were among the key aspects highlighted to representatives of private hospitals that were admitting COVID-19 patients at a time when the viral infection was spreading rapidly. A power-point presentation was made during the seminar on fire safety at COVID Care Centres by officials of the Fire and Rescue Services Department, covering a host of aspects including effective fire fighting techniques and the dos and don’ts. Participants were exposed to a few instances of fire accidents reported in private hospitals at Virar and Mumbai in Maharashtra, Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh and Ahmedabad in Gujarat in which many COVID-19 patients died. The hospital representatives belonging to the safety wing were briefed in detail about a range of aspects such as sources of fire, its effects, fire extinguishing methods, classes of fire, way to use fire extinguisher, minimum requirements for fire safety and National Building Code guidelines for hospitals. The slew of fire safety measures to be put in place in hospitals, fire fighting training to all staff members, installation of fire alarms in each floor, organising mock drills every six months, a fire safety evacuation plan, installation of smoke detection systems and use of flame-retardant materials in interiors were emphasised to the participants. The vulnerability factor in hospitals since they were equipped with stock of chemicals, gas cylinders, medial oxygen, kitchen facilities and electrical equipment was also highlighted to the participants during the seminar. The presentation focussed on a few cases of fire accidents in hospitals reported across the country over the years, reason for the accidents and what went wrong. Proper ventilation at chemical storage points and ensuring proper maintenance of electrical wiring and equipment were also emphasised to the hospital representatives during the programme at the Fire Station Premises here. Since private hospitals were also admitting COVID-19 patients in large numbers, there was a necessity to sensitise the hospital representatives especially those attached to the safety department to the systems to be put in place for safety at hospitals and about the fire prevention measures, said G. Anusuya, District Fire Officer, Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-staff-sensitised-to-fire-prevention-measures/article34485390.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||It’s 2,177 NOTA votes again in Tiruvarur||The ‘None Of The Above’ (NOTA) option made available in electronic voting machines (EVMs) appears to have been well utilised by voters of two constituencies in Tiruvarur district in the 2021 Assembly election. Interestingly, 2,177 voters in Tiruvarur constituency wielded the NOTA option in the Assembly polls in 2016 and 2021 as well. This time, there was an additional 153 names added to 1,96,795 voters in the 2016 election. The overall percentage of NOTA voting hovers in the range of 1.1 % of the total number of voters. The number of NOTA voters witnessed a slight rise in Thiruthuraipoondi segment this time when compared to 2016. The option was chosen by 1,768 voters in 2016 and 2,182 voters in 2021. The total number of voters was 1,75,620 in 2016 elections and 2,04,186 voters this time. In Mannargudi and Nannilam, the negative voting percentage witnessed a downward trend this time compared to 2016 election. While 1,774 voters (0.95 percentage) out of 1,87,110 preferred NOTA in 2016 elections at Mannargudi, this time a total of 960 voters (0.49 percentage) out of 1,93,234 voters. Similarly, at Nannilam the percentage of negative voting dipped to 0.56 percentage this time from 1.06 percentage recorded in 2016 elections. While 1,261 out of 2,23,510 voters opted for NOTA at Nannilam in the recently held election, 2,182 out of 2,04,154 voters preferred it in the 2016 elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-2177-nota-votes-again-in-tiruvarur/article34485378.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Colleges unsure about having bridge course||Arts and science colleges are not sure about their scope to conduct bridge course for newly admitted students for 2021-22 under online system of teaching-learning. Last year, colleges had to skip the bridge course, but language teachers handled ‘professional English’ as add-on in commerce, sciences, physical sciences, life sciences, arts and management. The course helped students to learn meanings and usage of terms relevant to their subject, thus increasing their professional vocabulary. “Of course, the offline experience cannot be replicated in online system. Yet, the bridge course is a necessity as it will benefit at least the studious section of students,” K.T. Tamilmani, Head, Department of English, Nehru Memorial College, Puthanampatti, said. Many teachers believe that the bridge course, encompassing specific hours of interactive sessions, is a necessity for enabling transition to the rigour of degree programmes. It also helps to make students feel comfortable with the new environment and set out on a path of self-exploration. The syllabus for the course covers basic knowledge on subjects that students will be learning through graduation. The course is of particular importance to students from rural and semi-rural background, the teachers emphasise. For, the students will have to adapt themselves to a classroom atmosphere in which English is the medium of instruction. Bridge courses lay emphasis on all aspects of language learning: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Some colleges even hold a test two weeks after starting the course to determine the progress of learners. “Conducting bridge course for the next academic year will hinge on the decision taken by the higher education department under the new dispensation,” a senior English teacher of a government arts and science college said. Most of the teachers agree that conducting bridge course under online system does not create the desired impact. But then, it cannot be dispensed with altogether, as the exposure will have a bearing on their career, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-unsure-about-conducting-bridge-course/article34485375.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mission accomplished||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mission-accomplished/article34485381.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mission accomplished||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mission-accomplished/article34486039.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin to be sworn in T.N. CM on May 7||“People should diligently follow the new restrictions announced by the government as the second wave is more severe than the first and is costing more lives,” he said in a statement. Pointing out that news from the northern States had become a great cause of concern as hundreds were dying every day, Mr. Stalin said people should be doubly cautious. “People have understood that the new curbs were announced for their welfare and to break the COVID-19 chain. People should treat them as self-imposed curbs,” he said. He requested people not to come out of their houses unless it was absolutely necessary, and urged them to wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-to-be-sworn-in-tn-cm-on-may-7/article34485399.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 1,509 new COVID-19 cases||As many as 1,509 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday, taking the district’s overall tally to 84,206. The district’s toll rose to 733 after four persons died of the disease. The district had 8,596 active cases on Tuesday and 1,105 persons recovered from the disease. Tiruppur district reported 494 new cases, taking the overall tally to 28,213. With the death of 63-year-old man, the toll increased to 244. There were 3,045 active cases in the district. As many as 24,924 patients recovered so far. In the Nilgiris, 116 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 10,217. The toll stood at 51 and, 500 persons were undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-1509-new-covid-19-cases/article34485822.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||Tirumangalam Town police have recovered a note, purportedly written by an advocate, A. Harikrishnan, 40, who was found dead in his house in Tirumangalam on Tuesday, about a murder of his girl friend. In the note, he had mentioned about a woman, Chithra Devi, 36, a yoga teacher, who too was separated from her husband. The note said that he had murdered her and buried the body in his house, Tirumangalam Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead/article34486043.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Madurai The water level in Periyar dam stood at 126.90 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 775 cusecs and a discharge of 150 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 61.61 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 14 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,273 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday was (in mm): Uthamapalayam 47.4, Periyar dam 38.8, Andipatti 30, Thekkadi 23.2, Sathaiyar dam 20, Sothuparai dam 8, Shanmuganathi dam 6.8, Kodaikanal 4.2, Gudalur 3.6, Mettupatti 3 and Kallandhiri 2.6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34485423.ece
05 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure information on bed availability is easily available’||Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who has been newly appointed as Belagavi district in-charge Minister, held a virtual meeting with officers in Belagavi on Tuesday. He asked officers to ensure that hospitals in the district did not suffer from oxygen scarcity. He spoke via an online link with a few chosen officers in attendance. He sought to know what measures they had in place to combat the expected scarcity. He instructed Deputy Commissioner K. Harish Kumar to ensure that the work of officers is transparent and that information on bed availability for patients is easily available, on a website. It should be regularly updated, he said. A Public Advisory Committee of senior officers should be constituted at the district and taluk levels to implement various measures transparently. Mr. Karjol said that the government expected officers to work round the clock and see that patients or hospitals did not suffer from scarcity of oxygen, or drugs such as Remdesivir. Public grievance redressal should be a priority for all officers. Officers should be sensitive to people’s problems and work in coordination with those from other departments and not pass the buck, saying that they are not in charge. There is no shortage of funds for COVID management, he said and asked officers to use funds available with the Deputy Commissioner’s office. He promised to release additional funds, if necessary. Mr. Harish Kumar said that the district has around 4,000 beds available in government and private hospitals. They include 1,909 beds with oxygen, 179 ICU beds, and 137 ICU and ventilator beds. They are categorised as 77 high flow oxygen and 543 high flow nasal oxygen beds. At least, 1,000 beds can have 24-hour oxygen supply. Mr. Karjol said that the district achieved nearly 40% vaccination targets and over 32,000 vaccine doses will be delivered to the district soon. Additional Deputy Commissioner Y. Yogeshwar said that Remdesivir is being provided to 47 hospitals based on the number of patients in the district. He said that there is no shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir in the district as of now. Each village shall have a COVID task force, with gram panchayat members and officers. They will spread awareness about COVID-19 among the people and work with the people to avoid and reduce modes of transmission. Gram panchayat officers are to keep a note of all migrant workers returning home. All those who seek work should be employed under the MGNREGA scheme. Officers in villages and towns shall keep a watch on weekly shandies and daily vegetable markets, to see that crowds don’t form at any place. In cities, the urban local bodies shall permit or arrange for carts for door-to-door sales. The police and other agencies will initiate and maintain a strict vigil to see that anti-social elements do not spread rumours on social media about COVID-19 or related issues. The police, health and drug control officers should see that there are no attempts to create artificial scarcity of Remdesivir injection. The State government is allotting doses of this drug based on demand and necessity. Black marketing of the drug should be stopped. The Deputy Commissioner should personally monitor the setting up of COVID Care Centres in all taluks and submit a report to the State government. He will also identify government hospitals, residential schools, hospital annex buildings that can be converted into COVID care centres. At all times, the general public should have information about the number of beds, oxygen and drug availability. Officers should have ready data on vaccination, population covered, scarcity and availability. COVID duty will be mandatory for officers of all necessary departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-information-on-bed-availability-is-easily-available/article34485457.ece
05 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Citizen groups pitch in with making food and delivery in Belagavi||Citizen groups are doing their bit to address the rising demand for food among the poor, homeless and other groups in the city. There are several NGOs and hotels making and delivering food. They are catering to different areas. Kunal Rao Kamle of The Helping Hands said that his is a charity that has been providing food to the homeless for over a decade now. The NGO was started by his father and the family runs it with the involvement and help from a few others. It also collects unused food from party halls. During the first wave of the pandemic, the NGO gave away over 125 meals per day, mostly to home isolated patients. The food is cooked by the Kamle family members. The service is free. Hotel New Welcome in the camp area will deliver free food to COVID-19 patients anywhere in the city. Tinniri, a hotel by VBP food factory, at RPD Cross will provide free food to COVID-19 patients in hospitals. Akhil Bharatiya Marwadi Yuva Manch has begun door delivery to patients. This is a fresh initiative and serves up to 75 packets twice daily. It has a central kitchen and a few delivery boys. Each meal is priced Rs. 50. Mandar Kolhapure, who runs a food website Belgaum Foodies, and Rajeev Wadhwa, proprietor of The Hidden Door, a hotel, have started providing food packets to those under quarantine. Lunch and dinner are charged at nominal prices. The two have sought the advice of physician Madhav Prabhu, who has had experience in treating COVID-19 patients, to prepare a simple and healthy meal package. “Many NGOs and social businesses are working in this sector. We plan to bring them together on a common platform. We are working to prepare a database of various hotels, mess, Ghar gutti (home-made meal) units and SHG members who can prepare meals at home or deliver,’’ said Kiran Nippanikar, a hotelier and NGO member, who is coordinating some of these efforts. He plans to promote a plan in which food is delivered in a decentralised manner, with multiple kitchens in different areas catering to those nearest to them. Mohsin Dalayat, a member of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, said they had prepared a data base of charities who were providing food to the needy during lockdown. Among those are foundations such as Al Iqra and the Dargah committee. “We are developing a web page to provide all this data at one place and connect it to a helpline,” Mr. Dalayat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizen-groups-pitch-in-with-making-food-and-delivery-in-belagavi/article34485454.ece
05 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Nurses seek rise in salaries, other benefits||Nurses working on contract basis in the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences have submitted a memorandum to the government demanding increased salaries and other benefits. For 13 years, “we have worked for only Rs. 10,000 consolidated pay. We are not getting any allowances. The Union and State governments promised us COVID-19 allowance and special health and life insurance benefits. We have not got any,” they said. They pointed out that a Government Order that revised their basic salaries in 2019 has not been implemented. This order said that all contract employees should get salary equal to basic salary given to a permanent employee. This needs to be implemented immediately, they said. Now, “most of us are working for over 12 hours a day. Our work is not recognised,” they said. The State government is paying Rs. 25,000 per month salary to recruits, but senior nurses continue to get Rs. 10,000 per month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nurses-seek-rise-in-salaries-other-benefits/article34485455.ece
05 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Jana Seva care centre for COVID-19 patients||Jana Kalyan Trust, a RSS affiliate, has started Jana Seva Covid Care Centre at Uday Bhavan’s Rama-Keshav Lodge on Khanapur Road opposite Uday Bhavan Hotel in Belagavi. This quarantine centre will admit patients who are non-symptomatic or those with mild and moderate symptoms. It is equipped with oxygen supply, round-the-clock care by doctors, medicine and food. It has its own ambulance. The fee is nominal. Details can be had from coordinator Ashok Shintre on Ph: 9449087848. The managing committee involves philanthropists such as Parmeshwar Hegde, Krishnanand Kamat, Girish Pai and Mahesh Nargundkar, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jana-seva-care-centre-for-covid-19-patients/article34485456.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Questions raised over veracity of BBMP quota beds||For six days, Sushma Gowda waited to hear from the BBMP control room about a bed for her brother who was suffering from COVID-19. With no means to take him to a private hospital, a government bed was her only hope. That call never came and her brother died at home. Anyone who has tried to get a bed allocated from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is often driven to despair. The beds are always almost full, especially oxygenated and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds. But an alleged bed blocking scam uncovered in the south zone war room by BJP legislators led by Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya, has now raised questions as to whether the beds are really always full in the city. “Given the lack of bed availability, the same may be happening in other zones as well. The BBMP must conduct an audit of bed allocation across the city and immediately root out corruption. Bed blocking will only affect the city’s poor, in many cases pushing them to death,” said Vinay Sreenivasa, advocate and activist working with urban poor. Mr. Surya. explaining how the beds were blocked and sold for a consideration, said the Arogyamitra appointed as a nodal officer for a particular hospital, informs the zonal control room as and when the beds are vacated. “A minute after a bed is vacated at the hospital, it is blocked from the control room, often in the name of asymptomatic patients, in home isolation. Thus senior officers, people’s representatives like us who follow the bed availability spreadsheet assume there are no beds. However, a patient for whom the bed is blocked needs to report to the hospital within 12 hours, during which time those involved in this scam at the control room manually allot it to someone else, for a consideration,” he explained. “If those with money and influence are the only ones who get beds allotted, why have a helpline?” Mr. Surya rued. However, a senior civic official said manually changing the allocation was not so easy in the software. “From what has come out now, clearly there has been bed blocking and some have tried to make money out of the scarcity of oxygenated beds and ICU beds. But it may not be very widespread,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-questions-raised-over-veracity-of-bbmp-quota-beds/article34485789.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Namma Metro: Surge in cases and lockdown slow land acquisition||The unprecedented surge in COVID-19 cases followed by the partial lockdown imposed by the State government has impacted land acquisition for Namma Metro projects, especially for the proposed airport line. In some stretches, tenants, both commercial and residential, have sought more time to vacate buildings citing lockdown restrictions and fear of contracting the virus. Given the situation, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) officials have asked them not to vacate immediately. Just last month, the Union Cabinet had approved Namma Metro’s Phase 2A (ORR Line) and Phase 2B (Airport line) totalling to a length of 58.19 km at an estimated cost of Rs. 14,788.1 crore. BMRCL aims to acquire land required before awarding tender. A senior BMRCL official said: “For the airport line from K.R. Puram to the Trumpet, we have reached the advanced stage of acquisition. On some stretches, paying compensation to the landowners has been impacted.” Of the required 3.13 lakh square metres  of land, 2.71 lakh square metres have been handed over to the engineering section. For the ORR line from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram, the 60,256 square metres of land is already in possession of BMRCL. For the ongoing phase 2, 2A & B, BMRCL has paid over Rs. 8,000 crore to acquire land that includes Rs. 1,545 crore for the ORR-Airport line. A total of 3,006 properties have been acquired. BMRCL has claimed that the lockdown has had no impact on ongoing phase 2 metro work. As many as 8,000 construction workers stationed at sites across the city are from other parts of Karnataka and India. B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan, chief PRO of BMRCL, told The Hindu that metro construction workers continue to report to duty. “Trial runs on the extended Purple Line from Mysuru Road to Kengeri are being held as per plan. In the first week of April, BMRCL started trial runs on this line, and plans to open it by June,” said Mr. Chavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/namma-metro-surge-in-cases-and-lockdown-slow-land-acquisition/article34485795.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Oxygen shortage: Two patients die in Yelahanka hospital||Two patients, including a 38-year-old mother of two children, died in the wee hours of Tuesday at Arka hospital in Yelahanka, allegedly due to non-availability of oxygen. Hospital authorities said both patients had come in a critical condition and the families had been informed about the oxygen shortage. Soon after the hospital ran out of oxygen, SOS calls started flooding Twitter tagging the Chief Minister and Health Minister. Of the nine patients in the ICU of the hospital, five were discharged after the families made alternative arrangements. “Although we got some help from a charitable trust with a few cylinders, it is difficult to manage if we do not get more stock,” said a spokesperson for the hospital. Confirming the deaths, BBMP Joint Commissioner (Yelahanka) D.R. Ashok told The Hindu that both patients had a saturation of around 50% and their condition further deteriorated. “Their condition was critical and the families had been informed about the oxygen shortage. The hospital has been procuring oxygen from Universal Air Products. The deaths took place around 2 a.m. We learnt there was a delay in the supply of 35 cylinders by when the hospital ran out of stock,” the official said. “The hospital has 45 patients on oxygen and they received 15 cylinders on Tuesday morning. The requirement per day is 30 cylinders and the rest of the supply is coming from Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh. We have also flagged the issue with the Drugs Control Department,” he said. Tuesday saw more hospitals sending out letters to patients’ relatives to shift them out as they are running out of oxygen. Several hospitals, including Aswad Hospital in Roopena Agrahara on Hosur Main Road and Rajmahal Vilas Hospital in Sanjaynagar, wrote to the Drug Control Department and the oxygen war room stating that they can no longer meet the oxygen requirement of 30-odd COVID-19 patients admitted in each of the hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-shortage-two-patients-die-in-yelahanka-hospital/article34485785.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State resolves to import five lakh vials of Remdesivir||The State has decided to import five lakh vials of Remdesivir and one lakh oxygen concentrators to tide over the COVID-19 crisis. It has also handed senior Cabinet Ministers the responsibility of pandemic management, while district in-charge Ministers have been asked to camp in their districts. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar will look after oxygen supply management and liaise with the Centre and oxygen producers to ensure adequate oxygen supply, while Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan have been tasked with addressing the Remdesivir shortage by being in touch with manufacturers and distributors. He has also been asked to get in touch with medical colleges to rope in final-year medical students for COVID-19 management. Home and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R. Ashok have been handed the responsibility of coordinating for beds in private and government medical hospitals, while Kannada and Culture Minister Arvind Limbavali has been given the responsibility of the war room, call centre, and counselling of patients. “We have decided to have more COVID Care Centres in districts and action is being initiated to appoint nursing and medical staff. We have also decided to import five lakh Remdesivir doses and one lakh oxygen concentrators. Furthermore, we are planning to issue isolation kits to patients,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told presspersons on Tuesday after chairing a special Cabinet meeting to discuss the pandemic issue.  On oxygen Stating that oxygen supply from outside the State was being delayed, the Chief Minister said the Centre had increased allocation. “We have also requested the Centre to allow Karnataka to utilise oxygen from JSW, which has been supplying to Maharashtra since cases there had come down. “Over the past two days, we have been speaking to the Centre on this. Our Central leaders Amit Shah and Piyush Goyal have agreed to it. A decision is expected on this in the next two days,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. Expressing regret over the Chamarajanagar deaths, he said the State would initiate action against those involved. When asked if the official appointed to probe the incident would provide a fair report, he said that if the report seemed partial, another inquiry would be ordered. On a possibility of announcing compensation for the families of the deceased, Mr. Yediyurappa said a decision would be taken after more discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-resolves-to-import-five-lakh-vials-of-remdesivir/article34485589.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bed blocking scam: Social worker, nephew held in sting operation||While BJP legislators brought the alleged bed-allotment scam to light, the Jayanagar police on Tuesday announced the arrest of a social worker and her nephew, suspected to have contacts with the BBMP war room staff. Considering the magnitude of the case, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant handed over the case to the Central Crime Branch police for a detailed probe. The accused, Nethravathy, 40, and Rohith Kumar, 22, who hail from Begur, were caught after the police conducted a sting operation. A team, posing as relatives of a COVID-19 patient, approached them for beds. “They would charge anywhere between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 40,000 depending upon the financial status of the person asking for a bed,” said Harish Pandey, DCP, South. The accused would circulate messages on WhatsApp offering to help patients to get beds. According to the police, they have contacts in the BBMP war room from where they get the allotment. “We also suspect that they have contacts within the private hospital network, which is being probed,” Mr. Pandey added. The Jayanagar police have registered a case of cheating and fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bed-blocking-scam-social-worker-nephew-held-in-sting-operation/article34485798.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. hospitals to get more for COVID-19 treatment||The State ministerial task force on COVID-19, headed by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, has decided to hike the bed charges given to private hospitals for COVID-19 patients. The task force, which met on Tuesday, decided to fulfil the demand of private hospitals to hike charges. Accordingly, the charge for oxygenated bed has been hike by Rs. 1,000 to make it Rs. 8,000 a day, while that for ICU bed without ventilator is up by Rs. 1,250 a day, making it Rs. 9,750. The charge for ICU bed with ventilator has been hiked by Rs. 1,500 a day, to take it to Rs. 11,500. The charges for non-critical care will remain at Rs. 5,200 a day. The task force also decided to immediately take measures to procure RAT kits and other necessary consumables such as face masks and PPE kits. The Deputy Chief Minister also said that those indulging in irregularities such as COVID-19 bed allotment blocking would be arrested under the stricter Goonda Act. The public can lodge complaints on 112, and extortion of patients will not be tolerated, he said, adding that policemen would be deployed to monitor such issues. To prevent the blocking of beds, he said that it has been made compulsory for both government and private hospitals to update on the SAST (Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust) portal on a real-time basis. Officials have been directed to strengthen the 1912 helpline, automate bed allotment, and create an integrated index app within two days to streamline COVID-19 management.  The increase The charge given for oxygenated bed has been hiked to Rs. 8,000 a day, while that for ICU bed without ventilator is now Rs. 9,750. The charge for ICU bed with ventilator has been hiked by Rs. 1,500 a day, to take it to Rs. 11,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-hospitals-to-get-more-for-covid-19-treatment/article34485588.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM takes officials to task over black marketing||Acknowledging irregularities in the distribution of beds, oxygen, and Remdesivir, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday said action would be initiated against those involved. “We are aware of the irregularities. The government is taking action against those who try to profit through black marketing. There are enough vials [of Remdesivir] and there are reports of private hospital and others together involved in black marketing,” he said after chairing a special Cabinet meeting on Tuesday. Earlier, Mr. Yediyurappa took officials to task over such allegations coming to the fore. When an official tried to justify the situation, a visibly upset Mr. Yediyurappa said, “We have reports of black marketing and drugs going out of the State. Why should you conceal it? I will order a comprehensive inquiry into it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-takes-officials-to-task-over-black-marketing/article34485590.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IAF to open 100-bed CCC at Jalahalli for public||The Indian Air Force will establish a 100-bed COVID-19 treatment facility at Air Force Station Jalahalli for the public. As per the information shared by the PRO Bengaluru, Ministry of Defence, the first 20 beds will be operational on May 6 with oxygen concentrators only. “Once oxygen availability is ensured by the State government, the remaining 80 beds are expected to be operational by May 20. Of the total 100 beds, there will be 10 ICU beds and 40 beds with piped oxygen. Balance 50 beds will have oxygen concentrators,” the release said. The facility will be manned by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff provided by the Command Hospital Air Force, Bengaluru. “Admission to the facility will be coordinated by BBMP/Government of Karnataka through a nodal officer. Government of Karnataka has assured necessary support for pharmacy, oxygen and security,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iaf-to-open-100-bed-ccc-at-jalahalli-for-public/article34485782.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Limit on indenting fixed||The State Drugs Control Department on Tuesday fixed an indenting limit of maximum 30 kilolitres per day for every hospital registered under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act. This has irked private hospitals, who said the 30 kilolitres is not enough to meet the oxygen requirement of even five patients. As per the oxygen indent form that has been posted on the KPME portal, the maximum limit of oxygen indent for each hospital is 30 kilolitres. “This is meaningless as any hospital admitting 40-50 patients per day requires not less than 1,000 kilolitres a day. Instead of resolving the crisis, the government is further complicating it,” said H.M. Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association. Moreover, the State Health Department’s circular dated May 3 on judicious use of oxygen has asked hospitals to keep stock of three days before admitting patients. “If this has to be followed, we have to discharge nearly 70% of the patients who are on oxygen,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/limit-on-indenting-fixed/article34485792.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID Care Centre for staff||The BMRCL on Tuesday announced that it has set up a 100-bed COVID Care Centre for employees and construction workers. A hotel at Kudlu Gate, Hosur Main Road, has been taken over to set up the facility, equipped with oxygen concentrators and cylinders. Arrangements have been made for round-the-clock medical care. “BMRCL has tied up with nearby hospitals to shift patients,” said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-care-centre-for-staff/article34485791.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 44,631 cases, 292 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 44,631 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 16,90,934. Of these, 20,870 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. With 292 deaths, the toll rose to 16,538. This is apart from 20 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 24,714 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 12,10,013. The State now has 4,64,363 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 29.03%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.65%. As many as 1,53,707 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,40,609 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,62,36,135.  Vaccination Despite claims by the Health Department that the State has adequate stocks of vaccine, several vaccination centres in the city put up boards displaying “No vaccination due to non-availibility of vaccine.” Several people who visited vaccination centres for their first dose were asked to come on a later date as the available stocks were not enough to administer second dose to beneficiaries. The State vaccinated 99,45,889 people till 8.30 p.m. on Tuesday. This includes 3,475 in the age group of 18-44 years, 6,82,325 healthcare workers and 4,30,247 frontline workers who have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 4,36,157 healthcare workers and 1,63,614 frontline workers have taken the second dose. On Tuesday, 43,885 beneficiaries took the jab till 8.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-44631-cases-292-deaths/article34485787.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK writes to Modi on oxygen situation in State||FormerChief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure adequate oxygen supply to Karnataka. In a letter to Mr. Modi, the former Chief Minister pointed to the 24 deaths in Chamarajanagar and four deaths in Kalaburagi, allegedly due to shortage of oxygen. He also said that several hospitals in Bengaluru have appealed for emergency supply of oxygen. Mr. Kumaraswamy also wrote that Karnataka has been asking for permission from the Centre to utilise the oxygen produced in the State. The JD(S) leader urged Mr. Modi to address the oxygen shortage forthwith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-writes-to-modi-on-oxygen-situation-in-state/article34485582.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Writer Yogappanavar no more||S.F. Yogappanavar, 73, writer, translator and former bureaucrat, succumbed to COVID-19 on Tuesday at a private hospital here. Hailing from Bagalkot, he had settled in Bengaluru. He was a KAS officer who served in several departments and also wrote several novels, critical works, translations, and columns. Among his works are Devara Hesarinalli Pramana Maadi, Arama Kurchi Mattu Itara Kathegalu ,  and Preetu Embudu Chandrana Daye . He had also translated works of Charles Baudelaire and J.D. Salinger into Kannada. The column he wrote for Lankesh Patrike made him a popular name in literary circles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writer-yogappanavar-no-more/article34485583.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Staff of minority community targeted?||The group of BJP legislators trying to expose corruption in bed allocation in the south zone, also made communally-loaded statements against those from the minority community working at the war room. Tejasvi Surya, Bengaluru South MP, came armed with a list of 17 names, all from the minority community and sought to know their qualifications. Satish Reddy and Ravi Subramanya, MLAs, took objection that so many people from the same community had been appointed at the war room. Their comments were live-streamed on Mr. Surya’s social media handles. Sources in the civic body said there are over 120 staff working at the south zone war room of which 17 were from the minority community. Following the face-off with legislators, most of them were fired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/staff-of-minority-community-targeted/article34485790.ece
05 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||2,656 new cases in Hassan district||Hassan district reported the highest ever 2,656 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. With that, the total number rose to 44,969. Five more people died, increasing the death toll to 621. So far 34,398 have recovered and 9,954 are undergoing treatment. Of them, 94 people are in ICU. Among the dead two are from Belur and one each from Arkalgud, Arsikere and Channarayapatna taluks. Of the fresh cases, the highest of 502 was reported in Arsikere taluk, followed by 495 in Hassan taluk, 439 from Holenarsipur, 384 from Channarayapatna, 299 from Arkalgud, 204 from Sakleshpur, 183 from Belur, 139 from Alur taluk, and 11 from other districts. No vacant beds All 400 beds at the designated COVID-19 hospital at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences in the city are occupied . The institute has put up a board stating that all beds are occupied. Some patients in critical condition are looking for beds in private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2656-new-cases-in-hassan-district/article34485554.ece
05 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Dalit families stage protest, occupy forest land||The Dalit families of Ganguru in Arkalgud taluk have put up huts in the Gobbali Reserve Forest land as part of their protest demanding a grant of land for cultivation. The families, who were freed as bonded labourers in 1994, have been demanding for a grant of land for decades. All these years they were allowed to cultivate a part of the reserve forest land. However, on April 1, the Forest Department took over the land, amidst protests. Hassan district administration assured them alternative land for cultivation. The families protested again on Sunday when the Forest Department staff members visited the spot to plant trees. They succeeded in sending back the staff members. In order to continue their protest, they have put up huts on the land. They have demanded that each family should be provided with four acres of land for cultivation. Leaders of pro-Dalit organisations, at a press conference in Hassan on Tuesday, urged the State government to respond to the demands of the protesters immediately. “They were released as bonded labourers 27 years ago. Since then, the government has not provided them with land for cultivation”, alleged M.G. Pruthvi, Hassan district convener of Dalit Hakkugala Samiti. CPI(M) district secretary Dharmesh, and DSS leaders Sandesh and Krishna Das were present at the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dalit-families-stage-protest-occupy-forest-land/article34485556.ece
05 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Oxygen plant at VISP to be restarted||Shivamogga district administration has taken steps to re-start an oxygen plant on the Visvesaraya Iron and Steel Plant (VISP) campus in Bhadravati to fulfil the medical oxygen requirement of the government hospitals in the district. The plant, which has remained defunct for several months, is expected to start production soon. Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar told The Hindu over the phone that the supply might start by Saturday. “The plant has remained inactive for several months. We have to check how the machines work. Once the plant is ready, we will be getting vapour oxygen and the quantity would be sufficient for the requirement in our taluk hospitals”, he said. The VISP at Bhadravati is all set to supply 150 bulk cylinders of gaseous oxygen. Surjit Mishra, in-charge Executive Director of the plant, said that the plant had a bottling capacity of 150 cylinders a day and that much would be supplied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-plant-at-visp-to-be-restarted/article34485566.ece
05 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shops to shut for a week||Shopkeepers of Ballupete village in Sakleshpur taluk have decided to close their establishments for a week from Wednesday following the death of three shopkeepers due to COVID-19 in the last few days. The merchants took a unanimous decision on Tuesday to close all shops, except medical shops, from May 5 to 12, said R. Prabha, Panchayat Development Officer of Ballupete Gram Panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shops-to-shut-for-a-week/article34485567.ece
05 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Work round the clock, Bommai tells officials||With the second wave of the pandemic turning out to be more severe than the one last year, officials should work round the clock and make honest efforts to contain the spread of the disease, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. Holding a video conference from Bengaluru with officials of Shiggaon and Savanur taluks on Tuesday, the Ministere asked the officials to take serious note of the scarcity of oxygen in other districts of the State and take immediate steps to ensure availability of adequate quantity of medical oxygen for treatment of COVID-19 patients in their taluks. “I have taken personal interest and I have sent 50 jumbo oxygen cylinders to Shiggaon and Savanur taluks. Make good use of the oxygen cylinders. Also, make judicious use of the available oxygen to save the lives of the needy patients,” he said. Elaborating on the steps to be taken to ensure that both these taluks effectively fight the pandemic, Mr. Bommai told them that a well-planned strategy will enable the officials to effectively check the spread of the pandemic in both these taluks. Containment zone Emphasising the need for keeping an eye on patients in home isolation in rural and urban areas, Mr. Bommai asked the officials to make family members of infected persons to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR test. And, their houses should be declared as containment zones, he said. At one point of time, the Minister told the officials not to give excuses but work honestly round the clock and ensure cleanliness and hygiene in both the taluks. He also said that he will personally come and check cleanliness and if found lacking, the municipal officials concerned will be suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-round-the-clock-bommai-tells-officials/article34485464.ece
05 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bar Association objects to police behaviour||The Bar Association of Hubballi has urged Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai to take action against police personnel for behaving in an uncivilised manner with one of its members who had hired an autorickshaw to visit a doctor for consultation. In a letter written to the Home Minister, general secretary of Hubballi Bar Association Ashok Anvekar has said that the incident occurred when advocate R.Y. Joshi was returning home in the autorickshaw after consulting a doctor. The autorickshaw was stopped and the inspector on duty said that the autorickshaw was being seized. Although Mr. Joshi tried to convince the police officer, the officer instead, sent a police personnel with Mr. Joshi in the autorickshaw violating all COVID-19 guidelines to drop him home and then seize the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bar-association-objects-to-police-behaviour/article34485462.ece
05 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘We are trying to augment and streamline oxygen supply’||Admitting that there is a shortfall of medical oxygen and Intensive Care Unit beds in Kalaburagi district against the rising cases of COVID-19 patients, Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna has said that the administration is under tremendous pressure for resources. “Our daily requirement of oxygen has gone up from 7 kl a day a few days ago to 15 kl now owing to the sudden surge in the number of COVID-19 patients. If we could get an additional 10 kl, we can comfortably handle the situation. We are trying to augment and streamline the supply by employing multiple methods. District in-charge Minister Murugesh Nirani has been apprised of the situation and he is also trying to get the lifesaving gas by talking to producers, particularly those operating from Jindal Steel plant at Torangal, Ballari district,” Ms Jyothsna told a press conference here on Tuesday. When asked about oxygen being sold at an inflated price in the black market by one of the oxygen bottling units in the district, the Deputy Commissioner said that she was aware of it and had taken a decision to take over the plant under the Disaster Management Act and allow the district administration to operate it. Responding to a question on the shortfall of oxygen supply to private hospitals due to a direction from the administration to oxygen suppliers to cut down supply to private facilities to augment supply in government facilities, Ms. Jyothsna dismissed it saying that Gulbarga Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) and ESIC Medical Complex, the State-run COVID-19 hospitals, are self-sufficient for oxygen and attributed the problem to the rapid surge in demand. “COVID-19 patients are coming to government hospitals when they reach a critical stage and this has led to a shortfall of beds with oxygen. We are now expanding beds with oxygen in the GIMS and ESIC Hospital. In this backdrop, we have asked oxygen suppliers to supply for government facilities as well. But, we have not asked any supplier to cut down oxygen supply to private facilities. We are maintaining a stock of 50 cylinders all the time and any hospital could contact us in an emergency,” she said. When asked whether the administration had asked hospitals not to use high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) to minimise the use of oxygen, Ms. Jyothsna said that it would be the treating doctor who would take a decision on what should be used depending on the patient’s condition. “Each patient is different and the treating doctor knows what is best for the patient. We have, however, advocated judicious use of medical oxygen as there is a dearth in supply so that the limited lifesaving gas could be optimally used to benefit more number of patients in need,” she said. When asked about the four deaths in Afzalpur taluk hospital late on Monday that were attributed to shortfall of oxygen, Ms. Jyothsna said that there were deaths but they were not due to oxygen shortage. “Of the four deceased patients, two were confirmed COVID-19 patients and the others were suspected to have contracted COVID-19. They died of other health complications and not of oxygen deficiency. The taluk hospital had enough oxygen stock. If there had been a shortfall of oxygen, they would have definitely called us and we would have immediately supplied it from the stock,” she said and added that the administration is completing the death audit of each case within 72 hours. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Dileesh Sasi and District Health and Family Welfare Officer Sharanabasappa Ganajalkhed were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-trying-to-augment-and-streamline-oxygen-supply/article34485461.ece
05 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||State govt. to import 500 oxygen concentrators from China||As part of its efforts to address the medical oxygen crisis in the State, the government has planned to import 500 oxygen concentrators from Shanghai, China, Minister for Mines and Geology and Kalaburagi in-charge Murugesh Nirani told presspersons here on Tuesday. “I have told my contacts in Shanghai to procure 500 oxygen concentrators and send them to Bengaluru by a special flight. They are expected to arrive within four days. If they arrive as expected, I am going to send 100 to Kalaburagi, which is among the districts facing a serious oxygen crunch,” he said. The price of the concentrators of 5 kg and 10 kg capacity, he added, range from Rs. 35,000 to Rs. 1.38 lakh. To a question, the Minister said there was no dearth of funds for handling the pandemic. “We can even use DMF [District Mineral Foundation] funds for purchasing essentials required for treating COVID-19 patients.” When asked about the Opposition’s demand for the Chief Minister’s resignation in the backdrop of the Chamarajanagar tragedy, he said resignation would not solve the problem. “We should not do politics at the time of a health crisis. The Opposition leaders should, by giving appropriate suggestions, join hands with the government in tackling the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-to-import-500-oxygen-concentrators-from-china/article34485591.ece
05 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Gurushant Pattedar dies of COVID-19||The former Zilla Panchayat member and senior Dalit leader Gurushant Pattedar died of COVID-19 at a private hospital in Kalaburagi on Tuesday. He was 65. The leader tested positive for the virus on Monday and was admitted to a private hospital, where he breathed his last on Tuesday evening. The late leader was elected as Zilla Panchayat member from Gobbur in Afzalpur taluk in 1996. Mr. Pattedar always fought for issues concerning the masses and poor sections of society. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and sons each and a brother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gurushant-pattedar-dies-of-covid-19/article34485459.ece
05 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Area under jasmine goes up in Udupi district||Area under jasmine, which enjoys Geographical Indication tag, in Udupi district, which had shrunk by 19.83%, has gone up by 55.57% in the last one year. Udupi Jasmine has a distinctive aroma and hence, is the most sought after flower for religious rituals, auspicious occasions and functions. Deputy Director of the Department of Horticulture in Udupi Bhuvaneshwari told The Hindu that the area under jasmine jumped from 93 hectares in 2019-20 to 144.68 hectares in 2020-21. She said that 51.68 hectares additionally came under jasmine cultivation in the district in one year. Production went up also by 55.57% from 1,205 tonnes to 1,874.62 tonnes. It was up by 669.62 tonnes in one year. GI tag for jasmine is valid till 2026. The flower obtained the tag for the first time in May 2007. The district has between 7,000 and 8,000 growers, she said. Earlier, the area under jasmine in the district had shrunk by 23 hectares (19.83%) from 116 hectares in 2018-19 to 93 hectares in 2019-20. Production in 2018-19 stood at 863.55 tonnes. Udupi District Jasmine Growers Association president Ramakrishna Sharma Banatkal said that the COVID-19 situation made many people hailing from Udupi and working elsewhere in unorganised sectors to quit their jobs and return to their native places. Many among them took up jasmine cultivation in their land as a short-term measure. In addition, some people, who were working in different sectors being in Udupi district, faced job insecurity due to COVID-19 issues. Such persons also opted for jasmine cultivation. Mr. Sharma said that the association estimates that there could be 10,000 jasmine growers in the district now. Jasmine plants begin yielding between one month and six months after planting. Sources in the department said that the digital crop survey due to its accuracy factors might have also added to some extent in showing more area under jasmine in the last financial year. Earlier, the Horticulture and Agriculture departments were completely reliant on data supplied by village accountants in gram panchayats and the Department of Statistics. But the GPS-based digital survey has now added more accuracy to field surveys. He said that growers get from a minimum of Rs. 60 to a maximum of Rs. 1,200 per “atte” of jasmine. An “atte” comprised four “chendus”. As many as 800 jasmine flowers go into the making of one “chendu” (a set of flowers tied by a string). The prices hover in this range depending on the supply-demand factors. “The price for growers on Tuesday was Rs. 70 per an ‘atte’. Otherwise, during the usual days, we get Rs. 1,000 per ‘atte’,” Mr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/area-under-jasmine-goes-up-in-udupi-district/article34485920.ece
05 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Team of officials visits Expert PU College in Valachil||A team of eight officials from the police, the District Child Protection Unit, the Child Welfare Committee and the Pre University Department, on Monday visited Expert Pre University College in Valachil in view of complaints from parents about their children being held back in the institution’s hostel. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here on Tuesday that the visit came after calls were made to him and other officials by parents accusing the college management of not allowing them to meet their children staying in the hostel and also not allowing them to speak with their children. The parents also said that their children were living under tremendous stress in the hostel. The officials, including Chairman of Child Welfare Committee Renni D’Souza, in-charge Deputy Director of Pre University Department Mariette J. Mascarenhas, Police Inspectors Mahesh Prasad and Revati, District Child Protection Officer Ravikiran, visited the college and spoke to students for more than three hours. Mr. Kumar said that some of the students told the officials that the management was complying with COVID-19 safety guidelines on campus. The officials, however, noticed some violations in managing the hostel. “I will not elaborate on the findings of the team. The report will be sent to Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra for necessary action,” he said. Nearly 400 children are in the hostel, he said. Dr. Rajendra said that he will go through the report and seek a report from the Deputy Director of Pre University Department. Director of Pre University Department Snehal R. told The Hindu that she has also received complaint against the management and that she has asked the Deputy Director to take necessary action. “I have told the college principal to send home students who want to go,” she said. It was on April 29 that the Mangaluru Rural Police booked a case against the college for conducting classes and other academic activities. The management was also accused of forcing students to remain in the hostel that led to parents staging a protest outside the college. Chairman of Expert Group of Institutions Narendra Nayak had, however, denied the charge. ‘PU Dept. direction’ Meanwhile, denying the charge made by some parents, the Expert Group of Institutions, in a statement, said on Tuesday that the children were held back in the hostel as per a recent direction by the Pre University Department to retain students in view of the upcoming examinations. As the government has restricted non-essential movement or travelling of people during the partial lockdown, parents were asked not to come to campus to pick up their wards. Reiterating that it was not holding any classes or academic activities since April 22, the institution said that students in the hostel are involved in self-study. The campus provided a safe and serene atmosphere for students to prepare for the upcoming board examinations. When parents came to pick their children, the institution allowed them to go before the health restrictions were imposed. So far, 1,500 students have left campus. No student on campus has so far tested positive for COVID-19. Five students have been sent to hospital for RT-PCR tests. If anybody tests positive, the institution will follow the necessary protocol of isolating the student and provide all necessary care. Irrespective of this care, if parents still want to take their wards back home, the institution will not stop them and it will send the children concerned back with their parents. The institution is committed to following all rules and guidelines as announced by the government. On the protest by parents outside the institution’s campus on April 29, the statement said that the parents violated health protocol and came to the campus to pick their children up without prior intimation. They used foul language and created a ruckus outside the gate of the campus, which forced the institution to call the police. Unfortunately, an FIR was registered against the institution on the charge of creating a situation for parents to gather near campus and also holding classes in the institution, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/team-of-officials-visits-expert-pu-college-in-valachil/article34485925.ece
05 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nurses from Manipal leave for Delhi||With Delhi reporting a steep hike in COVID-19 cases, a first batch of 19 nurses from Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, left on Tuesday for serving in the Manipal Hospital Dwarka in Delhi. The Manipal Dwarka Hospital had on May 3 requested for support from nursing professionals. The Kasturba hospital management praised the nurses for risking their lives in offering their service and their genuine love for the care of COVID-19 patients, the Medical Superintendent of Kasturba Hospital has said in a release on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nurses-from-manipal-leave-for-delhi/article34485923.ece
05 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SKDRDP provides medical oxygen to Wenlock in city||Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP) on Tuesday supplied 5.5 tonnes of oxygen to Government Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru, as part of the efforts to provide 100 tonnes of oxygen to government hospitals in the State. A release from SKDRDP here said that Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade gave instructions to provide oxygen to government hospitals in view of reports of oxygen shortage in the State. SKDRDP got in touch with Jindal Steels plant at Torangal in Ballari to get oxygen. As part of its efforts, one cryogenic tanker carrying 5.5 tonnes of oxygen reached Mangaluru. It was handed over to the district administration through Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra in the presence of MP Nalin Kumar Kateel by SKDRDP COO Anil Kumar. SKDRDP Executive Director L.H. Manjunath said that the supply would cater to oxygen requirements at the Wenlock Hospital for the next three days. SKDRDP was bearing the entire cost of procuring oxygen and supplying it to government hospitals, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/skdrdp-provides-medical-oxygen-to-wenlock-in-city/article34485915.ece
05 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Owners urged to return industrial cylinders||Deputy Commissioner of Udupi G. Jagadeesha on Tuesday appealed to industry owners to return to their suppliers industrial oxygen cylinders with them for generating medical oxygen. The Deputy Commissioner has in a release said that the Union government has permitted conversion of industrial cylinders to generate medical oxygen. He said that the priority is to save lives of COVID-19 patients. There is enough demand for medical oxygen which is in short supply. Thus, industries in Udupi should cooperate with the government for uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen, he said. In response to the Deputy Commissioner’s appeal, Secretary, District Small Industries Association, Udupi, Vallabh Bhat posted: “I request all members to return back their oxygen cylinders whether it is full or empty back to their agents immediately so that they can be used to refill and supply to the needy people in hospitals across Udupi district.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/owners-urged-to-return-industrial-cylinders/article34485917.ece
05 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six arrested||The Central Crime Branch and the Economic and Narcotic Crime Police have arrested six persons said to be involved in online betting during Indian Premier League cricket matches and also using 20 benami bank accounts for depositing betting proceeds. The police gave the names of the accused as Vikram Kumpala, Dhanpal Shetty, Kamalesh, Harish Shetty, Preetesh and Avinash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-arrested/article34485926.ece
05 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Online classes for UG even semesters||Mangalore University on Tuesday decided to commence classes, in the online mode, for the even semesters of its undergraduate courses of the 2020-21 academic year from May 10. The decision was taken pending the conduct of remaining examinations of the odd semesters of the undergraduate courses. The university was forced to stop midway from continuing the examinations of the first, third, and fifth semester undergraduate courses of 2020-21 after the government imposed the COVID-19 restrictions last month. Vice-Chancellor of the university P.S. Yadapadithaya said that the decision to hold the online classes for even semesters (second, fourth and sixth) from next week was taken considering the majority opinion during an online meeting of principals on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-classes-for-ug-even-semesters/article34485924.ece
05 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Oxygen shortage hits patients undergoing treatment at home||After his 80-year-old mother started experiencing breathing difficulties, Shafi, a resident of Udayagiri in Mysuru, desperately knocked on the doors of medical oxygen suppliers in the city for an elusive oxygen cylinder, but in vain. Unable to identify vacant oxygenated beds in any hospital in the city, he had no option, but to run around for an oxygen cylinder to relieve her of the breathlessness she was facing after giving a sample of her swab for COVID-19 test, which later turned positive. The medical oxygen dealers are simply turning away the relatives of patients. “We have been instructed by the district administration against giving oxygen cylinders for COVID-19 patients in home quarantine. The administration says oxygen is only for hospital purpose”, said an oxygen cylinder dealer in Mysuru. But, in the absence of vacant oxygenated beds, the COVID-19 patients have even been denied the option of receiving oxygen at home, rued Mr. Shafi. Not just oxygen cylinder dealers, even voluntary agencies, which had come forward to provide free oxygen to COVID-19 patients with respiratory infection, have been refused supply of oxygen cylinders. The United Vision Welfare and Charitable Trust and MESCO, which had started the free oxygen service with technical assistance recently, too have not been able to render their service since the last one week after the supply of cylinders to them was abruptly discontinued. “We have not been given any cylinders since the last few days. We continue to receive requests from desperate patients and their attenders for oxygen. We receive about 8 to 10 requests every day and at least 40 are on our waiting list now”, said a representative of the Trust. Though the Drugs Control Department in Mysuru said they had not issued specific directions against home use of oxygen cylinders, Nagaraj, Assistant Drug Control Officer, Mysuru, told The Hindu that medical oxygen can be used at home only under medical supervision. “It can prove to be harmful if the flow rate is either lesser or higher than the required quantity”, he said. Growing demand When his attention was drawn to the availability of the cylinders for home use till as recently as a week ago, Mr. Nagaraj attributed the scarcity to growing demand of medical oxygen. “There has been a sharp rise in the demand for medical oxygen. Mysuru is now consuming 35 to 40 KL (Kilolitres) against its regular requirement of 20 KL. With beds fast increasing, Mysuru may soon require 70 KL of medical oxygen”, he said. Decision soon However, a health official in Mysuru, speaking on condition of anonymity, admitted that many terminally ill patients including the ones suffering from cancer or cardiac problems, besides asthmatic patients are advised medical oxygen at home. “The matter has been communicated to the district administration and a decision is expected on providing oxygen cylinders to non-COVID-19 patients at home”, he said. But, COVID-19 patients may still have to struggle to find a bed in the hospital if their infection turns serious and leads to conditions such as breathlessness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-shortage-hits-patients-undergoing-treatment-at-home/article34485562.ece
05 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Chamarajanagar: Surge came mostly from rural pockets||Surrounded by forests and hills, Chamarajanagar district which staved off the first wave of COVID-19 till as late as June 2020 and was in the ‘green’ category for long, is witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases in rural areas than in urban centres in the second wave of the pandemic. The district witnessed the shocking deaths of 24 COVID-19 patients within 24 hours between Sunday and Monday, some of whom died allegedly due to lack of oxygen. The surge in the number of positive cases in rural areas is indicated in the statistics from the district administration as per which 2,255 cases were reported in Chamarajanagar district between April 1 to April 25 this year against which 1,697 cases (or 75%) were from rural pockets. In contrast, the urban regions reported 558 cases which accounted for 24.74% of the total cases between April 1 and 25, according to Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar M.R. Ravi. The situation has not eased since then. On May 3, Gundlupet, a commercial town, registered 8 new cases while 170 cases were reported from the rural areas of the taluk, according to the district administration. Similarly, Kollegal is another business centre from where 35 new cases were reported on May 3 while 115 cases were reported from the rural areas of the taluk. Chamarajanagar town, which is the district headquarters, registered 84 new cases during the same period while 244 cases were reported from rural areas. Last year the district administration took drastic measures to keep ‘outsiders’ at bay. It had even blocked roads winding through forests and connecting hamlets and villages, to minimise contact with the outside world. As a result, it remained ahead of the COVID-19 curve while the rest of the country was reeling under the pandemic. No more isolation But authorities say the district cannot continue to remain in perpetual isolation. This is because in the absence of industry and its economy being completely agrarian in nature, Chamarajanagar has a high percentage of working population from rural hinterland who traverse daily to other districts including Mysuru, Mandya and other regions for work. Also, curtailing movement of workers was not part of the prevailing COVID-19 protocol and industrial and agricultural workers are exempted from it. N.S. Prashanth of Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, who has worked extensively in the district, says containment protocol in rural areas has to be different. He said it entails community participation and the urban system of policing will not work as isolating patients in rural areas also calls for measures to meet their daily needs. The increase in patients from the rural hinterland is also adding to the pressure on the district hospital in Chamarajanagar, a district which was listed among the most backward in the State in D.M. Nanundappa Report on Regional Imbalances. Lack of facilities Dr. Prashanth said unlike other districts of south Karnataka region, Chamarajanagar has historically been plagued with issues related to scarcity of equipment and human resources. Also, there is little by way of medical facilities in the rural hinterland and the pandemic is exposing those chinks and the imperatives of investing more on public health, he added.  Cases on May 3  Gundlupet town: 8; Rural pockets: 170  Kollegal town: 35; Rural pockets: 115  Chamarajanagar town: 84; Rural pockets: 244||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chamarajanagar-surge-came-mostly-from-rural-pockets/article34485468.ece
05 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||National parks monitoring animal deaths||Animal deaths in Bandipur, Nagarahole and other protected areas are being monitored and the viscera analysed in laboratory to rule out the possibility of COVID-19 outbreak in the animal world. Reports of lions testing positive for COVID-19 apart from a few deaths reported in different parts of the world has led the government to issue guidelines in management of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries during the pandemic time. Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, said based on the advisory the Forest Department was also monitoring the death of animals inside national parks and sending samples for laboratory analysis. The advisory states that disease surveillance, mapping and monitoring should be enhancement through coordinated efforts so as to prevent any outbreak at the earliest. A similar circular was issued last year based on which a task force comprising local officers and veterinary staff was constituted and it is still operating, he added. It is a general advisory to all chief wildlife wardens of all the States and Union Territories and has been issued by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The advisory calls for minimising human-animal interface and the national park is already closed for visitors and safari was suspended when the State ordered weekend lockdown last month. Even the NTCA has sought the closure of parks for tourism and is already being complied with, according to Mr. Mahesh Kumar. The advisory also stipulates that staff and field functionaries must be COVID-19 negative when they are deputed for duty while the movement of people into the park or through the park has to be restricted. The park managers have also been advised to constitute a task force comprising veterinary doctors so as to manage any suspected cases in the forest limits. Creation of a round-the-clock reporting mechanism has been advised with a nodal officer for the swift management of any outbreak of cases. Wildlife activists said restriction in movement of people was already there by way of suspension of safari. But steps must be taken to ensure that people living in the hamlets remain COVID-19 free as they were in close proximity with wildlife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/national-parks-monitoring-animal-deaths/article34485559.ece
05 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Distribute medical kits with test results’||Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar has suggested that those who test positive for COVID-19 , should be provided medical kits along the test results. Reviewing the situation in Mandya district on Sunday the Minister said there was a surge in COVID-19 positive cases and also the imperatives of preventing the patients’ health from deteriorating to point where oxygen needs to be administered. Hence it was better to ensure that the treatment commences almost immediately on testing positive for coronavirus and the district administration should hand over medical kits along with test results for those testing positive for COVID-19 advised home isolation, he added. The situation was grim all over the country given the rise in the number of cases and there was demand for oxygen and Remdesivir injections. Hence the district administration should be pro-active in testing and treating, said the Minister. Additional beds may be required to cater to the surge in cases. He called for constituting a COVID task force committee at the booth level comprising health officers, block-level officers drawn from Education Department, anganwadi workers etc., so that each team of 5 to 6 persons could keep a tab on about 1,000 to 1,200 persons. “Ensure that the medicinal kits are distributed and their health including oxygen saturation levels monitored regularly’’, said Dr. Sudhkar. Along with doctors and nurses who are working round-the-clock to surmount the challenge posed by the pandemic, efforts should be made to rope in final year MBBS students who could help the task force and counsel the patients advised home isolation, the Minister added. The issue of ensuring oxygen supply to Mandya also came up in the review meeting. Dr. Sudhakar said that he has instructed that the existing 13000 KL liquid medical oxygen be full and 300 to 350 jumbo cylinders of oxygen be dispatched to Mandya. About 7000 KL of liquid medical oxygen will also be procured from Ballari daily, he added. On Monday, the district in-charge Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda took stock of the situation and inspected the district hospital and the facilities at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences. Deputy Commissioner S. Ashwathi and DHO Manche Gowda were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/distribute-medical-kits-with-test-results/article34485557.ece
05 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Oxygen shortage led to 28 deaths: Siddaramaiah||Accusing Health Minister K. Sudhakar of lying to the people that only three persons had died in Chamarajanagar, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday claimed that a total of 28 persons had died due to non-availability of oxygen in the district last Sunday and early Monday. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who arrived in Chamarajanagar on Tuesday and visited the district hospital along with Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar, told reporters though there was sufficient information in advance that a second wave would come, the State government remained negligent, leading to the tragic deaths. He demanded a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to the next of kin of each of the victims. He pointed out that 14 of the dead were youth and their families had been thrown to the streets after their deaths. Earlier, he held meeting with the district administration officials. Later, speaking to the relatives of the victims, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Minister claimed only three had died due to oxygen shortage and rest due to COVID-19. “But during our cross-examination with officials, we have learnt that all of them died due to oxygen shortage,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Shivakumar accused the State government of ‘murder’ and said the Congress was particular that a judicial probe should be held in the matter.  CM’s response Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, responding to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s demand for his resignation, on Tuesday said, “He has always asked my resignation. It is his duty as the Leader of the Opposition. I urge him to give suggestions as resignations will not help.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-shortage-led-to-28-deaths-siddaramaiah/article34485471.ece
05 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Villagers protest against immersion of ashes||Local people in Srirangapatna on Tuesday blocked the road leading to the Cauvery Sangama to prevent people from immersing the ashes of the dead. Though immersion of ashes has been banned since last month following the outbreak of COVID-19, there were instances of people violating the protocol. The norms were complied for a few days but gradually there was an increase in the number of people performing the immersion rites. COVID fear With the surge in COVID-19 cases there was a fear among the lvillagers near Ganjam and surrounding areas that there could be a local outbreak and hence created a road blockade. A section of the priests have called upon the government to designate a few places where the bereaved family members of the deceased could immerse the ashes. and perform rites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villagers-protest-against-immersion-of-ashes/article34485565.ece
05 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Probe into deaths begins||The government-ordered probe into the death of 24 COVID-19 patients in Chamarajanagar commenced on Tuesday. KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi Kalasad was directed to conduct an inquiry and submit a report within three days. Mr. Kalasad visited the district hospital in Chamarajanagar where the deaths took place and apprised himself of the background information and the sequence of events that culminated in the midnight crisis. He also interacted with medical officers and doctors at the hospital, visited the COVID-19 ward, apart from getting first-hand information of the facilities available there. Mr. Kalasad spoke to a few patients and also the relatives of patients waiting outside the ward. The probe will help ascertain the exact cause of death of the patients who died between 9 a.m. on May 2 and 7 a.m. on May 3 at the district hospital in Chamarajanagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-into-deaths-begins/article34485469.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru has five refilling plants||Mysuru has a combined refilling capacity of 75 kilolitres (KL) of liquid oxygen per day. Though there are no liquid medical oxygen (LMO) manufacturers in Mysuru, sources in the Industries Department said there are five refilling plants here that source bulk LMO from different places. The refilling plants source the LMO in bulk from Bellary Oxygen Company in Ballari, Praxair India Pvt Ltd from Koppal, and Bhoruka Gases Ltd from Bengaluru, which reaches Mysuru in tankers and refilled in cylinders. According to sources in the Department of Industries, Padaki Air Products and Trinethra Gas, both situated in Kadakola, and Mahanthi Oxygen, Hebbal, have a capacity to refill about 20 KL each per day each; Southern Gas Limited, Hebbal, has a capacity to refill about 10 KL per day; and Mangala Ravi Enterprises in Yadavgiri has a refilling capacity of 5 KL per day. However, the quantum of refilling depends on the availability of bulk LMO and the requirement, said an official of the Department of Industries. Though a good portion of the oxygen is also used for industrial purposes, the district administration has asked the refilling plants to concentrate on medical oxygen and meet the needs of the hospitals and other medical establishments for the present. Meanwhile, as per the oxygen availability as per the COVID-19 War Room report dated May 3, a total of 893 jumbo cylinders of 47 litre capacity, 370 cylinders of 10 litre capacity and 73 cylinders of 1.1 litre capacity, besides 46 dura cylinders of 200 litres of LMO were available in government hospitals in Mysuru district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-has-five-refilling-plants/article34485560.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Beds: BJP legislators allege scam||He alleged this was affecting genuine patients in need and especially the poor who cannot afford treatment at private hospitals.  Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that action would be taken against those who are involved in the BBMP bed blocking scam. He said that he would be meeting with Mr. Surya to get more details. The scam has come as an embarrassment to the BJP government especially as it was unearthed by their own party members. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar took a dig at the legislators, congratulating them for “exposing corruption by their party government and corporation”, and demanded that they "immediately name the BJP Minister responsible for people suffering so much". Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, BBMP, has tasked Kumar Pushkar, nodal officer, bed management, BBMP, to conduct a probe and submit a report. Mr. Pushkar held a meeting on Tuesday and reviewed the software as well, and will submit a report on how to plug loopholes in the software that has probably made such bed blocking possible. He is expected to submit his report on Wednesday. Elected representatives, facing pressure from people seeking beds, but are unable to help them are angry with bureaucrats and private agencies to whom the management of call centres has been outsourced, sources said. Following a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, where the issue was raised Mr. Yediyurappa has appointed Ministers Basavaraj Bommai and R. Ashok to oversee bed management in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beds-bjp-legislators-allege-scam/article34485783.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||II PU exam postponed in view of second wave||The State’s government’s decision to postpone the examination is not going to affect her immediate future adversely as she has already secured a seat in a university. “Most colleges had started the admission process by accepting Class 10 and I PU marks,” she added. But for those wishing to pursue professional courses, it is a never-ending wait. Anirudh S. Chakrapani, a PCME student and engineering seat hopeful from Jain College, V.V. Puram, said, “This is not good for us. We’ve been stuck in II PU for a year and a half. This is a crucial year for science students, but online classes are not very effective. I want to pursue engineering and I’m planning to write CET, COMEDK, and JEE. But it looks like this year is also gone,” he said. Yash Randar, a PCME student from Christ Junior college, and another engineering seat aspirant, has applied for a BBA seat as a back-up. “The board exam is a preparatory before the entrance exams. I am writing CET where 50% of the marks are from II PU. It’s been more than a year and we’re studying the same thing. I am frustrated. Though I was anxious about writing the exam amid the pandemic, I didn’t want it to be postponed. Some private universities are conducting online entrance exams. I think it’s about time they think of something similar for the board exams too,” he said. An administrator of a reputed private degree college in the city said though applications have been opened, admissions are not. “Some courses such as communication studies have entrance exams. So the admission process has not been started,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-exam-postponed-in-view-of-second-wave/article34485801.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||DC disputes claims of ‘timely’ oxygen supply||Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi, who is facing wrath over the death of 24 COVID-19 patients in the district late on Sunday, has contested the claims of his counterpart from Mysuru over “timely supply” of oxygen. He has said that Mysuru district administration did not respond properly to the medical emergency and the midnight crisis unfolding in the district hospital in Chamarajanagar on Sunday. Chamarajanagar, a backward district, is completely dependent on neighbouring Mysuru for supply of oxygen. As the news of 24 deaths in 24 hours – some due to alleged lack of oxygen – broke on Monday morning, the Mysuru district administration issued a circular stating it had ensured the supply of 250 oxygen cylinders for which “there were records to show.” But with the heat turning on Mr. Ravi who has come under flak for not arranging adequate supply, he has issued a circular refuting claims that Chamarajanagar district received 250 oxygen cylinders. He said 66 oxygen cylinders reached him at around 1.30 p.m. on Sunday when the Liquid Medical Oxygen storage tank in the hospital got exhausted. At 6 p.m. he received 65 cylinders from a private vendor in Mysuru. There was a requirement of an additional 100 cylinders but it was not delivered on time, he said. “I personally contacted the vendor in Mysuru at 11.45 p.m. on Sunday and sought additional supplies as a result of which another 50 oxygen cylinders were delivered at 2.20 a.m (Monday). Hence the claim of the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru (Rohini Sindhuri) that 250 oxygen cylinders were delivered, is far from the truth,” said Mr. Ravi. He went on to state that 70 cylinders arrived on Monday at 6 a.m. of which 40 were from district administration and 30 from a private vendor. “It is clear from this that the district hospital in Chamarajanagar did not receive proper response from Mysuru district administration during the midnight crisis,” said Mr. Ravi.  I personally contacted the vendor in Mysuru at 11.45 p.m. on Sunday and sought additional supplies as a result of which another 50 oxygen cylinders were delivered at 2.20 a.m. on Monday. Hence the claim of the Mysuru DC that 250 oxygen cylinders were delivered, is far from the truth. M.R. Ravi Deputy Commissioner, Chamarajanagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-disputes-claims-of-timely-oxygen-supply/article34485466.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||The fight continues||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-fight-continues/article34485564.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-care/article34485794.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Citizen groups write open letter to CM||Many citizen organisations and activists have written an open letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa expressing concern over the management of the pandemic in the city and some of the problems they are facing. Signatories, who included members of Hasiru Dala, Janaagraha, Bangalore Apartments’ Federation, and Helping Hands cited key problems ranging from shortage of beds and distress calls from daily wage workers to lack of accountability and clarity on protocols. One of the issues highlighted was the difficulty in getting medical aid without a BU number. On an average, there was a five-day wait after a person gets an SRF number before he or she is assigned the BU number. They cited two fatalities where BU numbers were assigned too late. While reiterating their commitment to work with the government, the signatories listed suggestions to streamline the effort to tackle COVID-19. They suggested the introduction of a single helpline number attended by trained triage volunteers or professionals, and ward-level war rooms. Test results Quick processing of test results was another concern raised. The letter listed some of the initiatives launched by citizen groups. “The civil society of Bengaluru is already deeply involved in relief activities. But, it is difficult to understand who is doing what, where citizen volunteers are most needed, and what skills and capacities are lacking. We request BBMP to call for a meeting to discuss the issues,” the signatories said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizen-groups-write-open-letter-to-cm/article34485799.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lockdown sustenance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-sustenance/article34485580.ece
05 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||2,719 new cases in Alappuzha||In a record high, Alappuzha reported 2,719 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Among the new cases, 2,712 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of six others remains unidentified. One person who came from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 2,719 cases, 330 were reported from Alappuzha municipality, 87 from Cherthala, 86 from Ezhupunna, 83 from Venmony, 79 from Kayamkulam, 69 from Edathua, 64 from Cherthala South, 63 from Chettikulangara, 62 from Panavally, 61 from Thycattusserry, 58 from Thamarakulam, 57 from Mannancherry, 56 from Thuravoor, 51 from Muttar, and 50 each from Aroor and Purakkad. Meanwhile, 2,261 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 21,221. On Tuesday, the police registered 25 cases and arrested 13 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 1,266 people for not wearing face masks, 701people for violating physical distancing norms and 12 people for violating quarantine norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2719-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article34485528.ece
05 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Project Muhamma vying for top prizes in U.S. contest||Synthetic sanitary pad-free Muhamma, a project jointly implemented by Muhamma grama panchayat in Alappuzha and Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), which helped achieve better menstrual health and a cleaner environment in the local body, is vying for top prizes at Solution Search, a global crowdsourcing contest powered by Rare, a U.S.-based environmental organisation. This year’s Solution Search contest facilitated by Rare’s Centre for Behaviour and the Environment focuses on unearthing existing and successful solutions that are reducing water pollution by changing behaviours. Synthetic sanitary pad-free Muhamma project is among the 10 finalists chosen from 100 submissions across 33 countries. It is the only solution from Kerala and one of the two from India to find a place in the shortlist and will be eligible for accolades including two $25,000 prizes - the Judges’ Prize, which is determined by a panel of experts and the People’s Choice award, the latter selected through public voting. Muhamma, situated on the banks of the Vembanad Lake, which was declared a synthetic pad-free village in November 2020, made this achievement through intense awareness campaigns, encouraging women to switch to reusable pads along with distributing pads made of clothes and menstrual cups. Reema Anand, senior programme officer, ATREE says the major objective of the initiative was to address the ground and lake water pollution and women’s health issues caused by single-use synthetic sanitary napkins. “Prior to the implementation of the project, about one lakh synthetic sanitary pads were disposed of in the ecosystem every month, polluting ground and lake water in Muhamma. The project has helped reduce water pollution from menstrual wastes which were impacting the water bodies and public health. Further, reduction in menstrual waste is expected to improve the ecosystem health of the Vembanad Ramsar site,” says Ms. Anand. According to her, a post-intervention survey conducted by the State Health Department revealed that the initiative has improved health and hygiene among women. ATREE is a Bengaluru-based non-profit organisation. The Antrix Corporation, the commercial arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), had financially supported the project through its CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities. Casting votes To cast vote visit:https://solutionsearch.org/contests/water-pollution -behavior-change  Muhamma, situated on the banks of the Vembanad Lake, was declared a synthetic pad-free village in November 2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muhamma-vying-for-prizes-in-us-contest/article34485522.ece
05 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Nilgiri tahr numbers rise at ENP||The annual census of Nilgiri tahr held at Eravikulam National Park (ENP) has shown an increase of 145 new calves this season. This was a mild decline in new births compared to the 155 last year. The total number of Nilgiri tahrs in its natural habitat has increased from 723 to 782 this year. Job J. Neriyamparambil, range officer, ENP, said that this year the census was held by a team of officials of the Forest Department from April 20 to 23. The survey team was led by P.S. Easa, former director, KFRI (Kerala Forest Research Institute). Last year also, the survey was limited to the officials of the Forest Department due to the COVID-19 situation, sources said. After the calving season, the ENP was opened for visitors this year to close again in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. The number of new calves in 2018 was 75 and in 2017 it was 87. The survey included Shola National Park and Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary. The areas outside the ENP were included as the Nilgiri tahrs were found in a wide area. In the census, ENP recorded 93 new births and at Shola National Park 19. No new births were recorded in Kadavari and in the proposed Kurinjimala Sanctuary. Below 1,000 The total tahr population has remained below 1,000 for over a decade. Though the authorities had succeeded in completely stopping the poaching, a large number of tahrs fell prey to carnivorous animals like wild dogs and leopards. The survey team recommended conducting the annual survey during the first week of April as the air would be more clear paving the way for easy sightings and more accurate data on tahr population. The change in the weather pattern has resulted in sighting the new calves a little earlier than the normal period of the calving season. The survey team also recommended for controlled burning of the grasslands in Kadavari of Kurinjimala sanctuary and Kasimala of Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary for providing enough grazing land and ensuring the healthy growth of tahr population.  After the calving season, the ENP was opened for visitors this year, only to close again due to COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nilgiri-tahr-numbers-rise-at-enp/article34485516.ece
05 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad panchayat to set up modern lab||At a time when the RT-PCR test results are getting delayed in the district due to dearth of laboratory facilities, the Wayanad district panchayat is preparing to set up a modern laboratory here to avoid the delay . “Now the RT-PCR tests are being conducted at the virology laboratory of the Health department in Sulthan Bathery and a newly set up laboratory of the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University headquarters at Pookode in the district. But, it would take at least four to five days to get the test results and the delay in getting the results is the major concern of the public,” District Panchayat President Shamsad Marakkar told The Hindu . “Hence, we are planning to address the issue by setting up the laboratory at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh to provide the test results in 24 hours to the public,” Mr. Marakkar said. Apart from a Real Time PCR System, the laboratory would be equipped with an RNA extraction equipment and other modern apparatus for the purpose, he said. The RNA extractor would be helped to conduct RT-PCR tests for around 300 people in an hour, he said. Once the laboratory begins functioning in three shifts a day, around 4,000 tests could be conducted a day, he said. The facility could also be used for diagnosing zoonotic disease like Kyasanur Forest Disease or mMonkey fever, a viral disease transmitted to humans through a species of ticks usually found on monkeys and a major threat to the people living on the fringes of forest in the district, he said. A meeting of the civic body had allotted Rs. 50 lakh for the purpose and the lab would be up and running in a week, Mr. Marakkar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-panchayat-to-set-up-modern-lab/article34485486.ece
05 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||959 new cases in Wayanad||Wayanad district registered its biggest spike ever in COVID-19 cases when 959 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. While 11 persons, who came from other States, were among those who were diagnosed with the disease, 250 people recovered on the day. The test positivity rate in the district stood at 27.59 % on the day when 3,592 samples were tested. Most parts of the district continues to remain as containment zones. The district has so far reported 43,125 cases. Of them, 31,701 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/959-new-cases-in-wayanad/article34485489.ece
05 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||200-litre oxygen plant operational at Thalassery GH||With the spread of COVID-19 disease, the availability of oxygen, which is essential for the treatment of critically ill patients, will no longer be an issue at Thalassery General Hospital. The oxygen plant established at the hospital is now fully operational. The plant was set up during the first wave of COVID-19 last year. While in the first stage, oxygen was delivered directly to the ICU only, after the number of critically ill patients increased significantly during the second wave of COVID, the oxygen plant was fully made operational at the hospital. All beds in the hospital wards are now equipped with direct oxygen supply. Oxygen is currently being piped directly to 250 beds in the ward. The production capacity of the plant is 200 litres per minute (LPM). The plant supplies 98% pure oxygen after collecting it from the atmosphere. At present, 30 COVID patients are receiving oxygen at the hospital. The idea of an oxygen plant at the General Hospital was mooted at the beginning of the COVID outbreak last year. It was constructed using Rs. 40 lakh sanctioned from MLA A.N. Shamseer’s Asset Development Fund and Rs. 17 lakh from the hospital fund. The machinery for the plant was brought from Gujarat with special permission during the lockdown. The Thalassery General Hospital is the only one in Kannur district to have an oxygen plant, said hospital superintendent Asha Devi. Oxygen is being delivered from outside to other government and private hospitals in the district. Meanwhile, steps have begun to start an oxygen plant with a capacity of 1,000 LPM at the district hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/200-litre-oxygen-plant-operational-at-thalassery-gh/article34485488.ece
05 May 2021||Kannur,KERALA||‘North Indian model will not work in Kerala’||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader C.K. Padmanabhan has lashed out at the State leadership of the party for the debacle in the Assembly election. Mr. Padmanabhan, who lost to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the Dharmadam constituency, said it was foolish to think that tactics used in north India would work in Kerala as well. “The BJP’s hope to make progress in the State has received a setback. The party leadership should seriously examine the reason for the failure,” Mr. Padmanabhan said. He said the delay in deciding the candidates, including at Kazhakuttam, was a flaw. Many party leaders and workers were complaining that they were not treated with dignity and consideration. He further said BJP State president K. Surendran contested in two seats without holding discussions in the party. It would have been beneficial had the focus had been on Manjeswaram alone. There was no history of the party’s State president contesting in two constituencies. The experiment failed, he said. ‘People’s verdict’ On the poll result, he said the verdict of the people was that the LDF should continue to rule. Keralites usually did not vote for the continuity of a front in power. However, it should be understood from the verdict that a large section of people in Kerala appreciated Mr. Vijayan’s determination, firm stance, and approach, he said. Mr. Vijayan was able to realise his dream of bringing LDF to power for the second time, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/north-indian-model-will-not-work-in-kerala/article34485484.ece
05 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Much to introspect for key fronts||The key fronts have something to worry about on the outcome of the battle for Perumbavoor constituency. The vote share of the United Democratic Front (UDF), the Left Democratic Front (LDF), and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) slipped compared to the 2016 Assembly elections. Congress candidate Eldhose Kunnappilly’s vote share dipped from 44.11% to 37.1% this time despite managing to secure the constituency by a reduced margin of 2,899 votes compared to the lead of 7,088 votes in 2016. The party’s performance in Koovapadi and Okkal panchayats was not up to the expected level. It seems that a section of the traditional Congress votes in these two local bodies went in favour of Babu Joseph, candidate of the Kerala Congress (M). The performance of Twenty20 candidate Chitra Sukumaran, who came third leaving behind the Bharatiya Janata party in the fourth position, had also impacted the total votes won by both the Left and United fronts. The Left had nothing much to cheer about even after claiming to have put up a close contest. Its vote share dipped from 39.25% in the 2016 election to 35.09% this time. Ms. Sukumaran, who won 20,536 votes, seems to have walked away with the votes expected for both the LDF and the UDF. The apolitical outfit had a vote share of 14.24% in its maiden tryst with Assembly election. However, the vote share of the BJP witnessed a considerable decline compared to its performance in 2016. The vote share earned by its candidate E.S. Biju, who came third in the previous election, was about 13.54%. It slipped to 10.5% in this election and party candidate T.P. Sindhumol had to end up fourth in the contest, with 15,135 votes. The party machinery would have much to explain on its poor performance despite increasing its position in the Perumbavoor municipality from three in 2015 to four in the local body elections held in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/much-to-introspect-for-key-fronts/article34485888.ece
05 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Will take forward projects initiated by Swaraj, says Babu||Returning as a people’s representative after being in the political wilderness for five years, K. Babu, who defeated incumbent M. Swaraj of the Left Democratic Front in a closely-fought electoral battle in Thripunithura Assembly constituency, remains confident of picking up the threads of development from where he had left it. Addressing drinking water shortage and implementing infrastructural projects figure prominently among his priorities. Mr. Babu had represented the constituency for five successive terms since 1991 before his run was disrupted in 2016 when he was under the cloud of bar bribery scam. Mr. Babu remains receptive to taking forward the projects conceived by outgoing MLA Mr. Swaraj. He is not even against projects funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). “We are not against KIIFB per se but opposed borrowing at higher interest rate when low interest-loans were available,” said Mr. Babu who, however, sought the anticipatory bail that the limitations of being an opposition MLA may hamper his work. He said that drinking water shortage, which was mostly resolved during his last term as MLA, has re-emerged and addressing it remains one of his priorities. “The construction of Kochi metro up to S.N. Junction, which was the fruit of my efforts, is under way and its extension up to Thripunithura railway station will be prioritised,” Mr. Babu said. Other projects Four-lane development of the S.N. Junction-Poothotta road, finalising the alignment of the Kochi-Madurai-Theni highway and hastening its construction, constructing Thevara-Kumbalam bridge, resuming the work on the 40-feet road in Palluruthy, reconstructing the Chanthapalam bridge at Nettoor, and construction of Nettoor-Kadavanthra bridge are his other development priorities. Restoring the badly affected livelihood of fisher folks and hardships caused by high tide also figured prominently in his development plans. Mr. Babu said that being relegated to the periphery even by his own party following his defeat in the last election did not dishearten him at any point. “Though I wasn’t a party officer-bearer, I was active among people in the constituency and I will continue that work in the next five years,” he said. He had scheduled a press conference on Tuesday but called it off in the last minute, which sources close to him said was borne out of the realisation that it may inadvertently end up critical of the Congress. He has been on the receiving end of the allegations that attributed his victory to vote trade-off with the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-take-forward-projects-initiated-by-swaraj-says-babu/article34485892.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hibi’s FB post creates a furore||The clamour for the removal of KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran from the post following the UDF’s electoral rout got louder on Tuesday with young Congress leader Hibi Eden MP taking the campaign to social media. Mr. Eden's Facebook post “why do we still need a sleeping president” evoked tremendous response in social media, with some Congress supporters hailing it while some others making fun of it. “I was reflecting the mood of crestfallen Congress workers. Usually, I don’t publicly respond to organisational issues. But the time has come for the party to wake up and get its act together. Something has to be done to console ordinary Congress workers and those who vote for the party,” Mr. Eden said when asked about the social media post. Some ambiguity One comment for the post wondered whether Mr. Eden was targeting the party’s State president or even its national president. Congratulating Mr. Hibi for raising his voice through the post, a Congress supporter hailed it as a bold statement. Another one suggested Shafi Parambil, MLA, for the post of KPCC president, which according to him, would help the Congress gain a foothold among the youth. One person aired his doubt whether the people still needed a sleeping party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hibis-fb-post-creates-a-furore/article34485537.ece
05 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Most patients in district in 20-30 age group||Of the active COVID cases in the district, the highest number is in the 20 to 30 age group. Going by figures available from the District Surveillance Unit, a total of 9,622 people recovering from the infection at present are in the 20 to 30 age category. This is out of an active caseload of over 50,000. This is followed by cases in the 40 to 50 age group, with 9,232 people having tested positive recently. “This second wave has cut across younger and older age groups almost alike. While people in the 25 to 45 age bracket are increasingly infected now, cases continue to rise in the elderly population as well,” said Dr. A. Fathahudeen, who heads the department of pulmonology at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. “We are seeing patients with no comorbidities developing serious illness. More pregnant women are also coming in with breathlessness and pneumonia, especially near term,” he said. “Many patients are now showing changes in certain blood parameters, indicating severe illness. This includes high LDH levels, and a tendency towards affecting the heart,” Dr. Fathahudeen said. Since it looks like this second wave is being spread by mutant strains and appears to be more contagious, it is most likely that the death rates could also increase, he added. A doctor at PVS Hospital, which is also treating critically ill patients in the district, pointed out a shift in the age group that is affected. “While elderly people are still getting infected, now a lot of younger people in the 28 to 35 age group are also getting admitted with serious illness,” said the doctor who asked not to be identified. “People in the younger age groups don’t seem to be seeking help unless they get really sick. By the time they seek help, they must have developed severe pneumonia,” he said. Early intervention remains crucial, Dr. Fathahudeen said. Continuous monitoring of oxygen levels is necessary. If oxygen levels drop, medical assistance must be sought immediately, and red-flag signs (like increasing breathlessness, severe cough and fatigue, altered sensorium or talking irrelevantly) should not be ignored, he said. Among children, 2,832 kids below 10 years are currently recovering, while 4,553 between the ages of 10 and 20 are part of the active caseload. Between the ages of 50 and 60, 8,133 people are recovering, while the figure stands at 5,,193 for the 60 to 70 age group, and 1,937 in the 70 to 80 age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/most-patients-in-district-in-20-30-age-group/article34485900.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 5,030 new cases||Ernakulam recorded 5,030 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, with a test positivity rate of 27.28%. After a dip in testing over the past two days, tests increased to 18,439 samples collected on Tuesday. Thripunithura recorded 147 new cases, Palluruthy 143, Cheranalloor 136, Thrikkakara 134, Rayamangalam 110, and Chengamanad 102. Four health workers were infected. A total of 4,235 people recovered on the day, and the active caseload in the district stands at 54,590. The number of new admissions at hospitals continues to surpass the number of people who were discharged. While 180 people were discharged from hospitals and other treatment centres, 325 people were newly admitted. Of the people recovering from the infection, 368 are admitted in ICUs. As many as 45,839 people are recovering at home, and 2,196 are recovering at private hospitals. At the Government Medical College Hospital, 192 patients are admitted, while 69 are recuperating at PVS Hospital and 67 at the Aluva District Hospital. A total of 11 government hospitals are treating COVID patients. At FLTCs, 33 people are recovering, while 440 patients are at SLTCs. Of the tests done on Tuesday, 7,620 were RT-PCR tests. So far, the district has recorded 2,06,488 cases of the infection. As many as 503 people have succumbed to it, going by officially confirmed figures. Harbour to be closed The Munambam harbour will be closed due to the increasing number of cases in the Pallipuram panchayat area. Manjapra and Palakuzha panchayats will also be closed off completely to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-5030-new-cases/article34485895.ece
05 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Debunking theories linking menstruation, vaccination||Even during normal times, menstruation is a favourite topic around which misinformation storm troopers on social media weave hare-brained myths. The pandemic seems to have provided them with a more fertile ground going by the awful theories being peddled linking menstruation and vaccination on social media. Getting vaccinated during menstruation can lead to excessive bleeding and unusually acute pain, says one such story. The campaign seems to have gained some traction going by the anxious calls received at the helpline being run by the Women and Child Development Department, sources said. Poster campaign Taking the matter seriously, the department has embarked on a poster campaign debunking these myths. The posters among other things seek to reinforce that vaccination during menstruation is as safe as any time, neither will it reduce immunity or lead to excessive bleeding. “We have also asked our 33,500 anganwadi workers to clarify the matter to the ones swayed by such misinformation campaign through calls since anganwadis remain closed now. However, they have been asked to do it judiciously as we don’t want to inadvertently help increase the reach of misinformation, which is now largely confined to social media,” T.A. Anupama, Director, Women and Child Development Department. Swapna Bhasker, Consultant in Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Ernakulam General Hospital, said that linking vaccination and menstruation was completely devoid of any scientific or medical basis. She said that the Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India has issued a circular debunking the myths. “Such claims (side effects of vaccination during menstruation) are completely unscientific. There is no physiological, endocrine, or immunological basis affecting vaccination cycle. Women can take the vaccine on any day of the menstrual cycle including the days of the periods. There is no scientific basis for delaying or avoiding vaccination for this reason,” the release said. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for immunisation in Ernakulam district where test positivity rate has exceeded 30%, said the Union Health Ministry itself has debunked the myth. “In fact, even those allergic to certain drugs should go for vaccination as it can only boost one’s immunisation. The bottom line is whether you risk vaccination owing to some unscientific myths or risk getting infected with this dreaded virus and die gasping for breath,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-to-expose-myths-on-vaccination/article34485523.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||250 cases registered for violation of COVID-19 curbs||Nearly 250 cases were registered by the police across the district on Tuesday when lockdown-like restrictions kicked in. While the Ernakulam rural police registered 185 cases, Kochi city police registered 64 cases under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act for violating the COVID-19 protocol. The rural police arrested 68 persons, including eight for violating quarantine restrictions. While the Kochi police took action against 1,042 for not wearing masks and maintaining physical distance and fined 455, the rural police booked 1,850 and 1,925 for the respective offences. The rural police also seized five vehicles. The city police let off 13,979 with a warning. Their details have been collected and if they are found repeating their offence, they will be booked. Vehicle details are also being collected using CCTV images to keep track of those found moving around without genuine reasons. The Janamaithri police have also door-delivered medicines and other essential commodities in containment zones. Strict action will be taken against those violating the protocol, said Aiswarya Dongre, Deputy Commissioner (Kochi City). Special drives are being held in all five sub-divisions under the supervision of K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) for detecting violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/250-cases-registered-for-violation-of-covid-19-curbs/article34485897.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Don’t rush to blame a few: K.V. Thomas||Knee-jerk reaction will not help the Congress and the election outcome needs to be evaluated thoroughly, and weaknesses identified, party State working president K.V. Thomas has said. Those in the Congress clamouring for the ouster of a few leaders in the aftermath of the poll debacle were attempting to reap personal benefits out of the crisis, he added. “Certain organisational formalities have to be followed and one needs to wait for the process to be over instead of quickly putting the blame on some individuals,” said Mr. Thomas, referring to the demand for the replacement of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president and the Leader of Opposition. The KPCC leadership, said Mr. Thomas, alone cannot be blamed for the disastrous poll outcome as the AICC leadership was also involved in candidate selection. The party high command too had played a crucial role in the selection, he said. ‘Reasons for LDF win’ Intense factional feuds and organisational weakness of the Congress, combined with the strongman image of the Chief Minister and the manner in which the State government tided over two natural disasters and the pandemic left a good impression in people’s minds. Social benefit schemes such as enhanced pension and its timely disbursal, and distribution of food kits to people during crisis situations made people think favourably of the LDF, he said. The days of intense group rivalry are over and the party needs to be revitalised at all levels for it to stage a comeback, he said.  The KPCC leadership alone cannot be blamed for the disastrous poll outcome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dont-rush-to-blame-a-few-kv-thomas/article34485536.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks report on ‘police torture’||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court directed the State Police Chief to look into a complaint of torture of a person by police for not wearing a mask and inform the court about the veracity of the allegation. The Bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice Dr. Kauser Edappagath issued the directive on a petition filed by T.K. Vaishak of Koyilandi, seeking disciplinary action against police officers of the Munambam police station. When the petition came up for hearing, the Bench orally observed that the police had a great role to play during this pandemic. But they had to be “empathetic”. The second wave of COVID-19 was on and a section of the people were violating the protocol. The police should act only as per the law. The petitioner alleged that he was showered with invectives and subjected to torture for not wearing a mask. According to him, on April 16, when he was walking back to his workplace at Cherai beach after lunch, he took off his mask for a while to answer a call on his mobile phone. The police, who then came there, scolded him and abused him. He then apologised to the police and expressed his willingness to pay the required fine. Despite this, the police officials went on abusing him. When he asked them to stop using abusive words the police officials physically attacked him and took him to the police station in their official vehicle. He had no intention to violate any rule, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-report-on-police-torture/article34485884.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy deploys INS Shardul in Kochi to bring oxygen from Kuwait||The Navy has deployed INS Shardul, a landing ship tank based at the Southern Naval Command in Kochi, to ferry liquid oxygen-filled cryogenic containers from Kuwait to India as part of Op Samudra Sethu-II. The amphibious ship, the first of its class, is designed to carry tanks, trucks and troops. Several ships of the Navy are currently deployed as part of the initiative to bring oxygen from countries in the Indian Ocean Region. INS Shardul has earlier taken part in the repatriation of Indians stranded overseas, in the initial days of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ins-shardul-deployed-to-bring-oxygen-from-kuwait/article34485887.ece
05 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Demand for ouster of former Congress MLA||The Congress in Aluva Assembly constituency has demanded the ouster of six-time MLA K. Mohammed Ali from the primary membership of the party alleging that he tried to scuttle the chances of Anwar Sadath, candidate of the United Democratic Front. The call for expelling him is the culmination of the serious differences that emerged after the Left Democratic Front decided to field Shelna Nishad, his daughter-in-law, as its Independent candidate in the election. Mr. Sadath has won the constituency for the third consecutive time after defeating her by a margin of 18,886 votes. Babu Puthanangadi, the chief election manager of Mr. Sadath, lodged a complaint before the District Congress Committee demanding stringent action against Mr. Mohammed Ali for not protecting the interests of the party. The former Congress MLA had openly canvassed votes for the Left candidate. He had also told voters that the Left front would come back to power in the State, according to the complaint. In his response, Mr. Mohammed Ali told The Hindu on Tuesday that he was no longer a member of the party after he had severed all ties with the Congress following his electoral defeat in 2006. “The people within the party had stabbed me from the back and I had lost the election to A.M. Yousuf of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) by over 3,000 votes in 2006,” he said. Stating that the Congress leadership failed to take action against those who worked against him, Mr. Mohammed Ali alleged that the detractors were rewarded by giving them party positions.  “Groupism has resulted in the pathetic state of affairs in the Congress today. A few in the State leadership had packed the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee with those loyal to them,” he said. On supporting the candidature of his daughter-in-law, Mr. Mohammed Ali pointed out that he had not participated in any meetings or public rallies in support of Ms. Nishad. “However, I had sent out personal requests to support her,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-oust-former-congress-mla/article34485890.ece
05 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||K. Babu rebuts Chief Minister’s allegation||Congress’s K. Babu, who got elected from Thripunithura, on Tuesday took exception to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s allegation that attributed his victory to vote trade-off between the UDF and the BJP. In a statement issued here, Mr. Babu said that the allegation was baseless and amounted to an insult of people of Thripunithura. He claimed that the 29,843 votes secured by the BJP in Thripunithura in 2016 was on account of the stature of the party candidate Thuravur Vishwambaran whose credentials as a spiritual orator and college professor helped him secure the votes of the Hindu faithful. The drop of 6,087 votes for the BJP in comparison to the last election should be honestly reviewed by that party and the CPI(M). “What attraction did a candidate who had jumped ship from the Congress to join the BJP had in comparison to Thuravur Viswambaran should be given a thought. Besides, the BJP had the firm support of the BDJS in the last election and the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s campaign in the constituency had also helped the BJP then,” Mr. Babu said. Nexus allegation He also accused the CM of conveniently forgetting RSS ideologue R. Balasankar’s allegation of a CPI(M)-BJP nexus and the pandemonium it triggered in the BJP camp. He said revelation alone was enough to understand which way the BJP votes had swung. He urged CPI(M) to analyse whether the incumbent’s working style and the hurt he allegedly inflicted on the Hindu sentiments had influenced the election verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayis-allegation-refuted/article34485893.ece
05 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Council approves direct purchase of vaccine||The Maradu municipal council on Tuesday decided to explore the scope for direct purchase of COVID-19 vaccine using its own fund notwithstanding the boycott of the opposition in protest against the move. The meeting, which was held online owing to the pandemic restrictions, reached such a decision in the face of apprehensions over not being able to administer the second jab to 3,000-odd people in the municipality aged over 60 years. It was observed that though they were supposed to get the second dose after 28 days, vaccine was unavailable even after 45 days. The council decided to approach the District Collector seeking to arrange the second dose at the earliest failing which the municipality would explore the scope for the purchase of vaccine using its own fund. However, the opposition Left Democratic Front didn’t agree with the decision and insisted that the vaccine should be purchased by the State government. The municipal health standing committee had last month decided to move before the council the proposal for purchasing vaccines for those aged above 60 directly using its own fund subjected to the approval of the government. The council has also expressed its willingness to purchase vaccines even for those aged above 45 years. “The opposition decision to boycott the council meeting approving the purchase of vaccine using own fund is a challenge to the people of Maradu. They should have stood with the council disregarding political differences,” said municipal chairman Antony Ashanparambil. He said that the municipality will undertake follow-up measures for the purchase of vaccine as soon as the government approves it.  The opposition should have stood with the council disregarding political differences Antony Ashanparambil Municipal chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/council-approves-direct-purchase-of-vaccine/article34485898.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Former security guard held for torching ATM||The North police on Tuesday arrested a man on the charge of setting fire to an ATM at the Cochin University of Science and Technology campus. The arrested man was identified as Subin Sukumaran, 31, of Poonjar. He was picked up by the Shadow Police from Kaloor. He had reportedly worked as a private security for a few months on Cusat campus in 2017. He has allegedly confessed to have set the ATM on fire as vengeance for being laid off from job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-security-guard-held-for-torching-atm/article34485885.ece
05 May 2021||kochi,KERALA||New forum to aid protection of creek||The floating of Kadambrayar Samrakshana Samithy, a forum for protection of the Kadambrayar, under an initiative by P.T. Thomas, MLA, and a group of social and environmental activists is expected to give a new impetus to the efforts to save the creek, which faced serious pollution from sources ranging from dumping of household waste materials to leachate from the Brahmapuram waste dumping yard. Mr. Thomas had said that industrial pollution too was a serious issue that threatened to create an unsolvable environmental situation. General convener of the Samithy C.R. Neelakandan said that the first step he would like the Samithy to consider was making a physical verification of the sources of pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-forum-to-aid-protection-of-creek/article34486035.ece
05 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Aid for renal patients||The Ernakulam district panchayat has formulated a scheme to provide financial support to patients requiring dialysis. The scheme envisages supporting those whose annual income is less than Rs. 3 lakh. District panchayat president Ullas Thomas said that the scheme has been included in the 2021-22 financial plan and each patient is entitled to up to Rs. 48,000 a year. The scheme is drawn up in such a way that a patient will be paid Rs. 4,000 each per month for four dialysis procedures. Patients in the 82 grama panchayats in the district are entitled to benefit from the scheme, he added. Patients have to submit their applications through primary health centres in their respective grama panchayats before May 10. The district panchayat has set aside a total of Rs. 2.88 crore for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scheme-for-renal-patients/article34485889.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||33,000 Covishield doses to arrive today||The district will receive 33,000 doses of Covishield on Wednesday evening, to replenish the depleting vaccine stock. Since adequate stock is not available, the vaccination drive has slowed down considerably. Only around 5,500 doses were administered on Tuesday at 32 centres. The district earlier had a total of 199 vaccination centres, including private ones that are no longer administering doses. Dr. M. G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination, said that people who are to take their second shot are not required to pre-book a slot on the COWIN portal, since they are being prioritised at the few vaccination centres that are running. On Tuesday, the district had only a total 12,280 doses of the two vaccines remaining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/33000-covishield-doses-to-arrive-today/article34485896.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Curb crowding at vaccine centres: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed State Police Chief Loknath Behera to ensure that sufficient personnel are deployed to make certain there is no crowding or gathering at various vaccination centres in the State. The Bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice Dr. Kauser Edappagath passed the directive while initiating a suo motu case based on newspaper reports about overcrowding in some vaccination centres. The court asked the police chief not to use unnecessary force but to "empathetically persuade" people at the vaccination centres not to flout the COVID-19 protocol. It also directed the State government to inform the court about the steps taken to prevent crowding at vaccination centres.  The court observed that if uncontrolled crowding was allowed, the very purpose of vaccination would boomerang since what was intended to be a prophylactic exercise would perhaps become superspreader events. The court, therefore, could not allow any crowding or nervous congregation of people in any of the vaccine centres and directions needed to be issued to ensure that such events did not happen in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curb-crowding-at-vaccine-centres-hc/article34485533.ece
05 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC to hear labs’ plea on May 7||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday adjourned to May 7 the hearing on a writ petition filed by a group of private diagnostic laboratories in the State challenging the order of the State government reducing the charge for RT-PCR tests from Rs. 1,700 to Rs. 500 in private laboratories. When the petition came up for hearing, the court asked the government to inform the court about the power of the government to fix the rate for private laboratories. The petitioners also contended that the government had no power to issue an order fixing the charge at Rs. 500 and making it mandatory for the labs to collect only the fixed charge. The laboratory owners argued that the average cost for an RT-PCR test comes to Rs. 1,500 per test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-to-hear-labs-plea-on-may-7/article34485534.ece
05 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rationalise COVID treatment charges in private hospitals, govt. told||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday observed that the State government must step in to rationalise charges for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals. The Bench noted that hospitals could not be allowed to charge for consumables individually from patients when they were being used commonly. The court alerted the State government about an instance where a private hospital operating a first line treatment centre charged Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 20,000 for a day. The Kerala Private Hospital Association, which got impleaded in the caseauniform price could not be charged for local clinics and major private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rationalise-covid-treatment-charges-in-private-hospitals-govt-told/article34485535.ece
05 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS chief terms CM’s remarks untruthful||A day after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan accused NSS general secretary G.Sukumaran Nair of attempting to turn the community members against the LDF in the Assembly elections, the community organisation on Tuesday reacted sharply to the accusation. Mr. Nair termed the statement by the Chief Minister untruthful. Recollecting the remarks he made on the polling day, Mr. Nair also sought to stand by his statement. “It ill-behoves the Chief Minister to take these sentences out of context and use them for political gains by misleading people. The NSS has never objected to the LDF government except in matters relating to protection of faith. Neither the organisation nor its general secretary ever received any undue gains from the government,” asserted Mr. Nair. The 10% quota The implementation of the 10% reservation for the economically weaker sections among the forward communities benefits 160 communities. Nair community is just one among these. While the State government is liable to implement the decision by the Union government, the steps initiated in this direction are still incomplete. Starting with a conflict of narratives over the Sabarimala issue, the NSS and the LDF have been locked in a war of words since March this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-chief-terms-cms-remarks-untruthful/article34485538.ece
05 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||2,170 test positive in Kottayam||The district continued to witness a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases with 2,170 samples out of the 8,231 samples testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. Test positivity The test positivity rate for the day was 26.36 per cent. Of the fresh cases, 2,158 people contracted the virus through local transmission. With 282 cases, Kottayam continued to lead the tally, followed by Kumarakom with 74 cases, sources said. As many as 3,890 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total number of active cases to 14,722 while 61,702 people are under surveillance. In view of the rising number of cases and persons under quarantine, the district administration has started floating volunteer groups at the local body level. The volunteers will be deployed to ensure the welfare of those in treatment and under quarantine, said District Collector M.Anjana. Volunteer groups Meanwhile, the volunteer groups to be formed by the police will assist the force in maintaining the regulations in containment zones and other locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2170-test-positive-in-kottayam/article34485524.ece
05 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||4,788 fresh cases in Kozhikode; TPR 27.74%||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) of COVID-19 cases slumped and the number of recoveries from the infection went up in Kozhikode district on Tuesday when 4,788 people tested positive for the virus. According to the District Medical Officer, the daily TPR was 27.74%, when 18,100 samples were tested. It is much lower than the 32.9% reported on Monday. Discharged As many as 3,934 people were discharged from various hospitals and other facilities. A total of 3,382 had been discharged on Monday. The DMO said that there were 4,646 cases of local transmission of the infection, and the source of 123 others was not known. Seventeen persons had returned from other States and two from abroad. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 1,473 locally acquired infections, Vadakara 118, Velam 91 and Thamarassery 81. The active caseload in the district is 49,082, of whom 41,521 people are under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4788-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode-tpr-2774/article34485481.ece
05 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Three Kozhikode MLAs may get Cabinet berths||Balancing coalition politics and regional aspirations, Kozhikode is likely to get three ministers in the new Pinarayi Vijayan Cabinet this time. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretariat which met at the AKG Centre in the State capital on Tuesday weighed the induction of new faces from among its legislators. Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) national president P.A. Mohammed Riyas, who won from the Beypore Assembly segment, stands a reasonable chance of representing the district in the State Cabinet. Previously, senior leader T.P. Ramakrishnan represented the district. However, the names of Kanathil Jameela, Kozhikode district panchayat president, and Thottathil Raveendran, two-time mayor of Kozhikode Corporation, are doing the rounds. Ms. Jameela and Mr. Raveendran won from Koyilandy and Kozhikode North respectively. NCP decision Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader A.K. Saseendran who won from Elathur could also make the cut. In the previous Cabinet, he was Minister for Transport. However, the Central leadership of the party will take a final call on his ministership. The party also has another legislator, Thomas K. Thomas, the brother of former minister Thomas Chandy, who won the Kuttanad seat. Another probable candidate is E.K. Vijayan, CPI State council member, who won from Nadapuram. His inclusion in the Cabinet would also depend on the decision of his party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-kozhikode-mlas-may-get-cabinet-berths/article34485492.ece
05 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) accuses BJP, JIH of helping UDF||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH) overtly and covertly helped the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) candidates in Kozhikode district. A statement said here on Monday that the vote share of the BJP came down in two Assembly constituencies, Vadakara and Koduvally, which were won by the UDF-backed Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) respectively. In the 2020 local body polls, the BJP secured 18,555 votes in the district panchayat division of Vadakara. But now the party candidate got only 10,225 votes. Likewise, in the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP received 13,410 votes in Vadakara segment. In the case of Koduvally, the CPI(M) alleged that the BJP transferred its votes to IUML nominee M.K. Muneer to get him elected from the constituency. This time, the votes of the BJP decreased by 6,000 votes whereas that party had garnered 9,500 votes in the 2016 Assembly polls as well as in the 2020 local body polls in the same segment. The CPI(M) also alleged that Dr. Muneer, who enjoyed a good rapport with the Sangh Parivar outfits, had managed to win from the Kozhikode South Assembly segment earlier. The LDF emerged victorious in 11 out of the 13 Assembly constituencies in the district. According to the statement, the Front secured 1,58,396 more votes when compared to the 2016 Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-accuses-bjp-jih-of-helping-udf/article34485490.ece
05 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Surendran counters CM’s charge on vote trading||Responding to the allegations raised by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had traded votes with the United Democratic Front (UDF) nominees in the Assembly polls, BJP State president K. Surendran sought a clarification from Mr. Vijayan on the massive erosion of votes of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. At a news conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Surendran said Mr. Vijayan’s statement was unbecoming of a Chief Minister. He should not behave like a party secretary, he said. He said the CPI(M) was the biggest voter trader if the loss of votes in an election was considered vote trading. “Was it vote trading when the CPI(M) lost 2,000 votes in Manjeswaram, when the constituency polled 10,000 votes more than last time? Similarly in Palakkad, the CPI(M) lost 2,000 votes when the constituency polled over 5,000 votes more. Did the CPI(M) transfer votes to Shafi Parambil of the Congress to defeat the BJP’s E. Sreedharan,” Mr. Surendran asked. The LDF had garnered 79,047 votes in Kundara in the 2016 Assembly polls. The votes dwindled to 54,908 in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. “Did the CPI (M) transfer the 20,000 votes to the UDF candidate,” he asked. In Nemom, he said, LDF got 59,142 votes in the 2016 Assembly polls and 33,921 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He said the SDPI district president had publicly stated that the party had transferred 10,000 votes in Nemom to CPI(M) candidate V. Sivankutty to defeat the BJP this time. The LDF came to power only through communal polarisation, by garnering the support of Muslim extremist elements, Mr. Surendran alleged. He said the same pattern could be seen in Thripunithura with the LDF getting 62,697 votes in 2016. The number dwindled to 52,404 in the Lok Sabha polls. Similar was the case in Koyilandy, Kuttiyadi, and Thavanur, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surendran-counters-cms-charge-on-vote-trading/article34485478.ece
05 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||IUML experiment fails in Perambra, Kunnamangalam||The experiment of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in fielding independent candidates to capture Perambra and Kunnamangalam in Kozhikode district in the Assembly polls turned out to be a damp squib, failing to evoke a positive response from the electorate in both these constituencies. In Perambra, the IUML roped in businessman and philanthropist C.H. Ibrahim Kutty to stand as the United Democratic Front (UDF) independent against CPI(M) leader and Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan. Mr. Kutty not only lost the polls but also made a dent in the vote share of the Congress-led coalition. Mr. Ramakrishnan secured a margin of 22,592 votes against him. The last time, his victory margin was 4,101 in this constituency. Politically, the increase in votes has also been attributed to the inclusion of the Kerala Congress (M) into the Left Democratic Front fold. The party has pockets of influence among the Christian settlers in the hill region. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Congress leader K. Muraleedharan had garnered 13, 204 more votes than his CPI(M) rival P. Jayarajan in this segment of Vadakara constituency. In the case of Kunnamangalam, the IUML decided to field District Congress Committee secretary Dinesh Perumanna also as a UDF independent to take on sitting legislator P.T. A. Rahim in the segment. His candidature been able to bring down the lead of Mr. Rahim from 11,205 in 2016 Assembly to 10,276 this time. Incidentally, Congress leader M.K. Raghavan had a lead of over 11, 000 votes against the CPI(M) nominee, A. Pradeepkumar, in the Lok Sabha polls two years ago. However, the game plan of the party to field Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, M.K.Muneer, to recapture its lost Koduvally seat yielded results. He defeated sitting legislator Karat Razak by a margin of 6,344 votes. In the previous polls, Mr. Razak, a rebel local leader of the IUML, backed by the Left parties, had won the seat by a slender margin of 573 votes. Koduvally, known for its own regional politics and business, is traditionally a stronghold of the IUML. Mr. Raghavan had also secured a lead of 35,908 votes against Mr. Pradeepkumar. However, the decision of the IUML to shift Mr. Muneer from his sitting seat, Kozhikode South turned out to electorally disastrous for the party. Here, the party fielded Noorbina Rasheed, a woman, after a gap of 25 years. She could not strike a chord with the electorate despite being a councillor from the region a decade ago. She not only lost a section of conservative Muslim votes but also failed to get the votes of Hindu community in the segment. Indian National Leaue’s (INL) Ahamed Devarkovil won handsomely the seat by a margin of 12,459 votes. Mr. Muneer had won the seat by a margin of 6,327 votes the last time. At the same time, BJP candidate Navya Haridas polled 24,873 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-experiment-fails-in-perambra-kunnamangalam/article34485494.ece
05 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||How LDF hit the right spot in its ad campaign||Long before the results of the Assembly elections came out on Sunday, the LDF’s campaign had declared with confidence: LDF for sure, or Urappanu LDF in Malayalam. Even the rivals may agree that the LDF’s slogan was a catchy one. Before deciding on the pithy Urappanu LDF, several discussions had taken place, not just among the front’s leaders, but with creative minds from the advertisement field as well. Ad agency Maitri was roped in. Maitri’s campaign for the LDF in the last Assembly elections had been much appreciated. The slogan, you may recall, was LDF varum . Ellam shariyaakum (The LDF will come. Everything will be alright). Other practitioners It was in 2016 that saw the political parties in Kerala employing advertisement professionals to run their election campaigns for the first time. Something Dwight D. Eisenhower did successfully in the United States in the 1952 presidential election. Closer home, Narendra Modi had also used advertisements to his advantage in the 2014 general elections campaign. Two years later, ahead of the Kerala Assembly elections, the UDF employed Push, which came up with the slogan Valaranam e e naadu. Thudaranam ee bharanam. (The State should continue to develop. The government should continue). The BJP’s promise was Vazhi muttiya Keralam. Vazhi kaattaan BJP (Kerala has lost its way. The BJP will show the way), which was coined by its in-house creative unit headed by a former adman. The BJP’s slogan for this year’s elections was Puthiya Keralam Modikkoppam (New Kerala with Modi), while the UDF, which signed up Mediamate for its campaign, said Nadu Nannaakaan UDF. Looks like it is the LDF campaign that has truly worked. Way of the slogan “The basic idea of Urappanu LDF was first suggested by John Brittas, who led the front’s communications campaign,” a source said. “The slogan indicated the confidence of the government as well as that of the voter. Once it was approved by a committee of senior leaders, creatives were made and even the initial feedback suggested that it would click.” The last time around, Maitri had booked ad space on trains. This year, it turned to autorickshaws. Sole voice If different CPI(M) leaders were used for the campaign over phone in 2016, this time the party depended solely on Mr. Vijayan, who had become such a familiar voice thanks to his daily live television briefings on the COVID-19 crisis. The agency ensured that his messages to women, the youth, and the elderly – reached the right phone number. Such meticulousness didn’t go in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/how-the-left-got-it-right-again/article34485483.ece
05 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Despite curbs, Haritha Keralam work goes on||The Haritha Keralam Mission in the district recently honoured the authorities of St. Mary’s Jnanodayam School at Maikkavu for maintaining a green grove on the campus. Even with COVID-19 restrictions in force, the students have shown the way by setting up vegetable gardens and groves in their homes, besides maintaining the green grove set up at the school much before the lockdown. “Several schools in the district have taken an extra effort to maintain their groves even in these difficult times. Students and teachers share the responsibilities,” said P. Prakashan, district coordinator of the Mission. The poor availability of manpower due to the increased spread of COVID-19 has affected the activities of the Mission to some extent. However, most activities are still taking place in a low-key manner. “We do not carry out massive cleaning drives and awareness programmes that we did earlier. But we manage to carry out most activities that do not involve a lot of manpower with the help of local bodies,” said Mr. Prakashan. It includes pre-monsoon cleaning of drains, rivulets and other water bodies, which have been carried out during February-March under the banner of ‘Ini Njan Ozhukatte’ (Now, let me flow). Inspired by the schools’ involvement in maintaining green groves, the Mission is now planning some large-scale programmes in connection with World Environment Day on June 5. “We have made plans to source some saplings from home nurseries and also from the Social Forestry Department to distribute across the district,” said Mr. Prakashan. The Mission is currently busy preparing reports on waste management systems in local bodies in the district, based on a reality audit held recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-curbs-haritha-keralam-work-goes-on/article34485491.ece
05 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Panel seeks report on denial of PhD admission to Dalit student||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes has sought an action taken report from the Registrar, University of Calicut, on the alleged denial of admission to a Dalit student to the PhD programme in the Department of Life Sciences. The senior investigator of the commission said in a letter on April 30 to the Registrar that the report must be sent in 20 days. K.P. Lijith Chandran, the Dalit student, who is also the Malappuram district president of the Kerala Students Union, the Congress’ student wing, had secured the second rank in the PhD entrance test conducted by the university in 2020. Though the rank list is valid for a year, Mr. Chandran was denied enrolment despite a vacancy in the department because of his political affiliation and his caste, it was pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-seeks-report-on-denial-of-phd-admission-to-dalit-student/article34485495.ece
05 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Accused in train attack case arrested||The probe into the attack on a 31-year-old woman on board a moving train in Ernakulam last week received a major breakthrough when the accused landed in police custody here on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Babu Kuttan, 35, a native of Nooranadu in Alappuzha, was taken into custody from his hideout at Eettichuvadu, near Chittar, in the evening, based on a tip-off received by the local police. The accused was handed over to the railway police unit at Mavelikara. Officials said the accused had reached Eettichuvadu, where his paternal home is located, on a bus from Mavelikara. As per the case, Babu Kuttan allegedly robbed the woman, who travels to work in Chengannur on train every day, of her gold ornaments by threatening to harm her with a sharp object. Later, as he tried to grab her, the woman jumped off the train and sustained serious injuries. The incident took place on board Guruvayur-Punalur Express, near Mulanthuruthy, around 10 a.m on April 28. By the time the Railway Protection Force launched a probe, the accused had gone into hiding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-train-attack-case-arrested/article34485539.ece
05 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||1,093 cases in Pathanamthitta||COVID-19 cases continued to soar in Pathanamthitta with 1,093 people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, as many as 1,065 people contracted the disease through local transmission. Thiruvalla, which reported 125 cases, reported a sharp surge, followed by Pathanamthitta with 75 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1093-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article34485525.ece
05 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Consumerfed steps up doorstep delivery||With the government stressing on home deliveries to reduce crowding in stores and supermarkets and check the spread of COVID-19, the Kerala State Cooperatives Consumers’ Federation (Consumerfed) too has started delivering medicines, grocery, household products, and school stationery, at consumers’ doorsteps. Triveni supermarkets The service, launched in association with the city Corporation, will be provided through the Consumerfed’s 18 Triveni supermarkets, 10 mobile outlets, and four Neethi medical stores. So, once an order is placed on the contact number of the Consumerfed regional office or its outlet phone numbers, it will be fulfilled by the Consumerfed staff from the local Consumerfed outlet in the area from where the consumer has called or sent the order on WhatsApp, says Consumerfed regional manager T.S. Sindhu. Stock shortage If there is any stock shortage in an outlet, it will be picked up from any other nearest outlet. Deliveries will also be made through 10 mobile units. Besides these, if people in containment zones who are unable to step out of their homes inform their requirements on the WhatsApp group of a particular outlet, these will be delivered by the Consumerfed staff to their homes on motorcycles. Pick up and drop Along the way, if need be, they will also pick up anything that is not available in the Consumerfed outlets and drop it off at consumers’ homes. The deliveries timings are from 10 a.m. to 6 pm., though if the orders are aplenty, these will be extended, says Ms. Sindhu.  Items such as medicines, grocery, household products, and school stationery, are being delivered||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consumerfed-steps-up-delivery-at-doorstep/article34485517.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Geo-tagging in focus to track COVID positives||In an effort to monitor and arrest the spread of COVID-19 in the city, the Corporation is now going to bank on geo-tagging to track those who have tested positive. The micro-level location-wise mapping of cases will aid the civic body to study the pattern of disease spread and give more attention to the critical areas. The Corporation’s team of volunteers will be used for meeting the needs of those who have tested positive. Hard to track According to Corporation officials, with the increase in numbers, the Corporation has been finding it hard to keep track of all the patients who had turned positive. The geo-tagging method was used after the first outbreak of COVID-19 last year to track those who are in quarantine, and to ensure that they do not venture out during their quarantine period. Data obtained “The data we are now getting daily of more than 2,000 positive cases has the name and basic details. But, it is a humongous task to divide them based on wards. Now, as part of geo-tagging, our team of coordinators will call up the positive patients and get their exact address. The Corporation’s volunteer team will visit the house and feed the location details into the geo-tagging application. The volunteers will also be at hand to provide any help, including purchase of medicines or food or to arrange medical help at home or an ambulance for them to travel to a hospital or to a testing centre, in case it is needed,” said an official. Lesser challenge The challenge was comparatively lesser last time as the number of people on quarantine was much lesser than the number of positive patients now. But with this kind of mapping, the areas of spread could be more accurately mapped and controls clamped down. The Corporation already has a system in place for contact tracing with five government teachers in each of the 100 wards calling up each positive patient and tracing their contacts over the days before they become positive. This data comes in handy for more focussed testing and for isolation of probable positive cases.  The method was used after the first outbreak last year to track those who are in quarantine, and to ensure that they do not venture out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/geo-tagging-in-focus-to-track-covid-positives/article34486027.ece
05 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. begins a painful quest for answers||The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee’s (KPCC) political affairs committee will meet here on May 7 to review the party’s Assembly election defeat. The ‘humiliating’ setback has spawned far-reaching questions about the party’s future course and what lays ahead for its top leadership. The Opposition had lost for a second consecutive time. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy had chaired the KPCC’s Election Management and Strategy Committee. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran were members along with AICC office-bearers. The leaders are reportedly facing flak from within the party for the loss. Senior leader K.C. Joseph said Congress had lost more votes than it did in 2016 when the LDF ascended to power on an anti-incumbency wave. The Congress did not see the ‘writing on the wall’ when it performed dismally in the local body polls. The party should seek reports from its candidates and District Congress Committee presidents. It should address its organisational weakness at the booth level. “Overpopulated and top-heavy higher committees will not help the party,” Mr. Joseph said. A leader said the Congress felt that the BJP had voted in favour of the LDF in at least 76 constituencies. Moreover, the pandemic had diminished the anti-incumbency factor. LDF’s image In hindsight, voters were patently unwilling to change guard mid-crisis. Prompt payment of enhanced welfare pension and distribution of food kits amplified the LDF’s image. The Congress could not squeeze the anticipated advantage out of the corruption charges raised by Mr. Chennithala. The party had shed votes almost uniformly across the State. It signalled a trend in LDF's favour. The Congress had benefited from a similar wave in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. It had bagged 19 out of the 20 Parliament seats. Weak community links, shoddy campaigning and stasis at the booth level had caused the vote cave-in. A leader said voters fell for Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s projected image of a hands-on administrator. The Congress had gone into the elections with several vulnerabilities, including a paucity of funds. Dedicated workers were at a premium. The candidates were mostly left to fend for themselves. It fought a weak and disorganised campaign on the ground. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has sought a report on the debacle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-begins-a-painful-quest-for-answers/article34485543.ece
05 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||37,190 new cases at TPR of 26.08%||After the lull in cases over the weekend, Kerala again added another 37,190 new cases of COVID-19 to its tally on Tuesday, when 1,42,588 samples were tested in 24 hours. The average test positivity rate in the State which had remained around 25% last week has now climbed to 26.08%. The active case pool of the State has grown to include 3,56,872 patients. The second wave of COVID is likely to see the State’s case mortality graph climb. A record number of 57 deaths which had occurred over the past few days were added to the State’s official COVID toll. Hospital and ICU admissions are still showing a rising trend. The number of COVID patients being treated in hospitals has risen to 28,115, with 3,253 patients getting hospitalised on Tuesday. The State now has 1,975 critically ill patients in ICUs, with 756 of them requiring ventilator assistance. On Tuesday, a record 26,148 patients recovered from COVID and were let off from hospitals/institutions. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 5,030 cases, Kozhikode 4,788, Malappuram 4,323, Thrissur 3,567, Thiruvananthapuram 3,388, Palakkad 3,111, Alappuzha 2,719, Kollam 2,429, Kottayam 2,170, Kannur 1,985, Pathanamthitta 1,093, Wayanad 959, Idukki 955 and Kasaragod 673 cases. Two vaccines Meanwhile, fresh supplies of vaccine, four lakh doses of Covishield and about 75,000 doses of Covaxin, were slated to arrive late Tuesday, which will help the State tide over the imminent situation of vaccine shortage. COVID-19 vaccination in the State has been facing immense challenges in the past two weeks after the vaccine supplies from the Centre became more erratic and the demand for vaccination suddenly surged amongst the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/37190-new-cases-at-tpr-of-2608/article34485548.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New containment zones in district||The district administration has announced new containment zones. The zones are in the Karikkakom and Pangode wards of the city Corporation; Koottappana, Fort, Rameswaram, Narayanapuram, Amaravila, Pullamala, Pirayummoodu, Panangattukara, Nilamel, Puthanambalam, Bhrahmamkunnu and Town wards in Neyyatinkara municipality; Vilakulam, Parayil and Kottumala in Varkala municipality; Kuramankode in Peringamala panchayat, Kurikkakam and Kattayikkonam in Mudakkal panchayat; Mulluvila, Kanjampazhinji and Puruthivila in Thirupuram panchayat; Kulakkode, Vellanad town, Kadukkamoodu and Konganam in Vellanad panchayat; Madappad and Karilampalode in Nagaroor panchayat; Kallummalkunnu in Cherunniyoor panchayat; Alathukavu and Ponganad in Kilimanoor panchayat; Pavathiyanvila, Pulloorkonam, Adumankadu, Karumanoor, Neduvanvila, Kodavilakam, Mulluvila, Town and Ponnamkulam in Parassala panchayat; Aamcode, Alathur, Aruvikkara, Chulliyoor, Marayamuttam, Thattathumala and Pulimamcode in Perunkadavila panchayat; Kuttichal, Arukil, Utharamkode, Kodukkara, Elimala, Chonampara, Thachamkode, Manthikkulam, Kaithakkal and Pezhumoodu in Kuttichal panchayat; and Kothakkulangara and Muttakkavu in Panavoor panchayat. Adayaman-Vattalil area and Wandannoor-Payyanad area in Pazhayakunnummel gramapanchayat have been declared as micro-containment zones. Containment norms have been lifted in Kattiyadu in Mudakkal panchayat; Chavadimukku in Chemmaruthy panchayat; Adayamon in Pazhayakunnummel panchayat; and Darshanavattam and Nagaroor junction in Nagaroor panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-containment-zones-in-district/article34486030.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More beds for COVID care||The Rugmini (Ruckmoni) Memorial Hospital in Vellarada has been converted into a COVID second-line treatment centre (SLTC) considering the increasing number of positive cases in the district, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Out of the 300 beds in this hospital, 225 will be used for the CSLTC and 50 will be set apart for patients empanelled under the Karunya Suraksha project. Twenty five of the beds will be given to COVID-19 patients who directly reach the hospital. The non-COVID-19 outpatient wing will function in the blocks except the COVID-19 block. If required, all the 300 beds in the hospital will be taken over for the CSLTC. Four DCCs arranged In addition, two Domiciliary Care Centres (DCC) each have been arranged at the Thiruvananthapuram and Chirayinkeezh taluks. These will have 250 beds. According to the Collector, the respective local bodies will make the necessary arrangements in these CSLTCs and appoint the required number of personnel to run these. The district panchayat’s COVID-19 ward was opened at the district hospital in Nedumangad. MLA-elect G.R. Anil inaugurated the ward in the presence of district panchayat standing committee chairpersons. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar has said that similar wards will be opened in the district hospitals at Peroorkada and Neyyattinkara. The district panchayat will also take care of the treatment and food expenses at these wards, as well as provide PPE kits, thermal scanners, and antigen kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-beds-for-covid-care/article34486018.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID care: 3 ambulances launched||The city Corporation has launched three ambulances for transporting COVID-19 patients to hospitals. The civic body tied up with a private agency on a temporary basis to launch the services. The arrangement was made, as purchasing an ambulance will take around 15 to 20 days. The Corporation has begun the proceedings to purchase ambulances of its own through Government e-Marketplace. It currently has two ambulances, which transports dead bodies to the electric crematorium. The Corporation has also begun talks with autorickshaw unions to find those willing to take people to testing centres. According to Corporation officials, some autorickshaw drivers were reluctant to take up the work. The Corporation will be providing protective gear and arranging partition between the driver’s and the passengers’ seats in the autorickshaws. The unions also demanded health insurance for the drivers who are signing up, which the local body finds to be a financial burden. Now, councillors have been asked to identify autorickshaw drivers at the local level who are willing to be part of the initiative. Mayor Arya Rajendran will inaugurate the expanded COVID-19 control room at the Corporation on Wednesday. The training for the call centre volunteers and medical teams were conducted here on Tuesday. The Corporation will work with Consumerfed to deliver essentials and medicines at home to the city residents. The Mayor held a meeting with the Consumerfed regional manager regarding this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-care-3-ambulances-launched/article34486019.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Major drug haul in city||The City police busted a major drug racket by apprehending three people, including two Tamil Nadu natives, with alleged possession of over 155kg of ganja on Tuesday. The consignment, which was smuggled from Andhra Pradesh via. Walayar along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, was supposedly intended to cater to the increased demand for addictive substances during the possible lockdown the State stared at in view of the COVID-19 surge, official sources said. The accused, Mukhtar, 21, and Babu, 29, of Coimbatore, and Sreekuttan, 28, of Kayamkulam, apparently managed to evade detection at the inter-State border while smuggling the contraband in a vegetable-laden goods vehicle around 10 days ago. After reaching the capital city, the gang hid the contraband they brought in 72 sacks inside pipes, fabricated by the Kerala Water Authority for water supply, in Poonthi Road in Kumarapuram. They were caught by the District Anti Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF) team along with the Medical College police from the area along with the stash. A senior official said the racket aimed at making a killing through the drug sale at a time when the State downed the shutters of liquor stores. The contraband could have sold for around Rs. 80 lakh, according to a conservative estimate. This could shoot up during a lock down when public movement was curbed. Sourced from Andhra Pradesh, the consignment was primarily meant for supply among school students and youth in the city. City police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said efforts were on to nab the others involved in the drug racket. The accused were tracked down using information provided by peddlers who were arrested earlier. A special team constituted by the City police to rein in narcotics smuggling and trade had managed to confiscate around 200kg of ganja and 40 grams of synthetic drug MDMA within two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/155-kg-of-ganja-seized-in-capital-3-held/article34485520.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID claims 28 more lives||Mortality rate continued to soar in Thiruvananthapuram district that attributed 28 deaths to COVID-19 on Tuesday. The death toll jumped to 1,043, the highest in the State by a distance. The deaths, which occurred in the period from April 30 to May 3, were of people who were aged between 79 and 30. The district’s case fatality ratio (CFR) stood at 0.66. The death toll rose by 72 during the last five days. Toll elsewhere In terms of death count, Kozhikode came second with 651, while Kannur trailed in CFR at 0.44. The district recorded 3,388 COVID-19 fresh cases on the day, taking the active caseload to 29,689. A total of 1,989 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate stood at 23.8 with 14,230 people were subjected to tests. Thirteen health care workers were among those who tested positive. As many as 78,868 people were currently undergoing quarantine in the capital district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-claims-28-more-lives/article34486023.ece
05 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NSS was opposed to second Pinarayi term: Vijayaraghavan||Communist Party of India (Marxist) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said there was no ambiguity in the anti-Pinarayi Vijayan government political line publicly articulated by the Nair Service Society (NSS) leadership on polling day. When pressed that newspersons had misinterpreted NSS general secretary Sukumaran Nair’s public appeal on the polling day as anti-government, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said: “The NSS leadership was vehemently opposed to a second term for the Left Democratic Front. However, NSS members themselves rejected their leadership’s line and voted overwhelmingly for the LDF”. The LDF had surmounted long odds to author a resounding victory. The Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party, Jamaat-e-Islami, Indian Union Muslim League, and some social organisations had arrayed themselves against the Left. Seeking a short cut to victory, the Congress had bought votes from the BJP. It had the support of Islamist forces. However, Kerala pitched for secularism, welfare and development. It embraced the Left. ‘Pro-people alternative’ The people had defeated the nexus of communal forces that forced the dismissal of the first Communist government under E.M.S. Namboodiripad in 1957. They had also laid the ground for forming a secular and pro-people alternative to the BJP at the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-was-opposed-to-second-pinarayi-term-vijayaraghavan/article34485542.ece
05 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Expedite probe against SI: SHRC||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed that an inquiry against a Varkala sub-inspector (SI), who allegedly barged into a hospital and disrupted the work of health workers, be completed soon and further action taken. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed that the inquiry against the Ayiroor sub-inspector be completed at the earliest. The incident occurred on April 19 last year during the lockdown. Abin B. Saji, a pharmacist, was heading for work at the Varkala taluk hospital on April 16 when SI Sajeev stopped him and seized his two-wheeler though Abin had his identity card, testimonial, and driving licence. On April 19, the SI also entered the hospital pharmacy and behaved rudely with those on duty, a complaint by Abin’s mother Bindu Saji said. Report The commission had sought a report from the Attingal Deputy Superintendent of Police, but since it was not satisfactory, the Thiruvananthapuram Range Inspector General of Police was deputed for further probe. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural Superintendent of Police submitted a report to the commission on the directions of the Inspector General. The report says the SI barged into the hospital pharmacy and without the hospital superintendent’s permission, perused the duty register. He misused his powers when raising his voice against the women employees, and departmental action could be taken against him. An oral inquiry was under way against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complete-probe-against-varkala-si-shrc/article34485527.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Show-cause notice issued to six private hospitals||The district administration has issued show-cause notices to six private hospitals for failing to adhere to its directive to apportion half of their available beds for COVID-19 patients. The District Disaster Management Authority has threatened to initiate action under the Disaster Management Act and the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance if the institutions failed to furnish satisfactory explanation within 24 hours. District Collector Navjot Khosa had instructed private hospitals to reserve 50% of beds in their institutions for COVID-19 treatment. Private institutions were roped in by the district administration to contain the surge in COVID-19 cases. Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) G.K. Suresh Kumar said that action was initiated after it came to light that certain hospitals had adopted a lackadaisical attitude in complying with the guidelines issued by the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/show-cause-notice-issued-to-six-private-hospitals/article34486016.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 second wave hits railway staff||The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic is threatening to derail train operations in the railway network of Kerala with the frontline personnel, including 70 loco pilots in Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad Railway divisions, testing positive for the virus. Around 400 Railway personnel in the two divisions based in the State capital and Palakkad have been infected with COVID-19 and either hospitalised or subjected to quarantine or isolation as on Tuesday. The national transporter is worried over the train operations, as 42 loco pilots of Palakkad division and 28 of Thiruvananthapuram division are out of the roster due to COVID. In Palakkad division, 46 people in the Engineering and 27 of the Commercial wing have tested positive. 200 personnel In Thiruvananthapuram division, 200 personnel tested positive in various wings. Over 11 Station Masters, 11 Points Man, 12 Guards, and eight personnel of the Control Office are infected. The Commercial Manager and the Operations Manager are also among those affected. The Commercial wing has been the worst hit as 49 had tested positive. Since March 1, six deaths due to COVID-19 was reported in Thiruvananthapuram division, the last being a Section Engineer T. Anil on May 3. Station Superintendent of Thiruvananthapuram Central Shaj Kumar, Station Superintendent of Kochuveli P. Kumar, and Sujeet Kumar Dhawan, Goods Guard of Ernakulam, are among those who have succumbed to pandemic. What is worrying for the Railway authorities is that only 60% of the staff above 45 years have been vaccinated in Thiruvananthapuram division. Of the total 9,500 staff, only 3,750 above 45 years and 579 below 45 years have been vaccinated. In Palakkad, which has a staff of 6,507, only 2,547 have got the first dose and 677 the second dose. But, those who got the second dose are mainly RPF personnel and health workers. Vaccines sought Divisional Railway Manager R. Mukund told The Hindu that the State had been approached to make available vaccine for the Railway personnel on a priority basis in view of the surge in COVID-19 among its frontline staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-wave-of-covid-hits-railway-staff/article34485530.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital set to receive 40,000 doses||With yet another batch of COVID-19 vaccine having reached the State, the capital district is set to receive around 40,000 doses that will enable health authorities to overcome vaccine shortage to a certain extent. However, it is yet to be known if the new batch will be supplied to hospitals early Wednesday. The district administration has currently scheduled vaccination sessions at only 20 public health institutions, of which two – Fort Taluk Hospital and Valiyathura Coastal Speciality Hospital – will provide Covaxin. Those that will administer Covishield include Government Medical College Hospital, General Hospital, Thycaud Women and Children Hospital, Peroorkada District Model Hospital, Government Ayurveda College Hospital, Pulayanarkotta Chest Diseases Hospital, and SAT Hospital, besides a few others in Attingal, Chirayinkeezhu, Malayinkeezhu, Nedumangad, Neyyattinkara, Nemom, Parassala, Varkala and Vithura. Vaccines will be provided for only those above 45 years. A total of 7,092 people were inoculated on Tuesday, 6,558 people with Covishield and 534 with Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-set-to-receive-40000-doses/article34486026.ece
05 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Inform in advance to get treatment benefits’||Patients who are referred from primary and community health centres and other government centres to COVID-19 second-line treatment centres of private hospitals should inform the hospital authorities about it well in time to get treatment benefits and keep the referral papers safe, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Complaints The benefits will be available in hospitals empanelled under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Paddhati (KASP). The Collector’s direction follows complaints of loss of treatments benefits on patients’ failure to inform the hospital that they have been referred from a government hospital. Treatment will be free for those referred. 19 hospitals KASP beneficiaries who are Ayushman Bharat card-holders can approach these hospitals directly and seek treatment, Ms. Khosa said. Details of hospitals empanelled under the KASP are available onsha.kerala.gov.in. Nineteen hospitals in the district are empanelled under KASP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inform-in-advance-to-get-treatment-benefits/article34486015.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU to aid software development for KIIDC||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) is set to facilitate the development of a fully automated Community Micro Irrigation system for the Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (KIIDC). The irrigation system will come up in the command area of Moongilmada Lift Irrigation Scheme (LIS) in Chittur area, Palakkad. The proposed project includes design, supply, installation, testing and commissioning of community micro irrigation systems, construction of pumping stations, transmission line and necessary transformers, and control room with automated drip irrigation system including operation and maintenance. The implementation of project is expected to double crop productivity and reduce water scarcity. The project also aims to utilise competencies of engineering colleges to solve real-time problems in various government departments in the State. The KIIDC has invited ‘expression of interest’ from KTU-affiliated colleges to implement the project. The university, through its industry attachment cell, has been working to connect engineering colleges with various government departments for facilitating solutions to various government departments by utilising the competencies of faculty members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-to-aid-software-development-for-kiidc/article34486017.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police step up checking||The City police have intensified enforcement of curbs introduced in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. On the first day of the restrictions, the police initiated legal action against 972 people for violating the pandemic protocol. While 195 people were booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020, Rs. 3.87 lakh was imposed as fine on 774 for failing to wear mask. City police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay urged the public to leave their homes only for essentials. While those working in shops must wear double-layer masks, the protocol must be strictly adhered to. Only parcels and takeaway facilities would be permitted in hotels. Motorists must carry self-declaration forms and other documents while travelling, and passengers must abide by the COVID norms inside vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-step-up-checking/article34486024.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply to be disrupted||Water supply will be disrupted in Thiruvallam, Poonkulam, Vellar and Harbour divisions and in Venganoor, Kalliyoor and Pallichal panchayats from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Wednesday owing to work on the new pump at the Vellayani treatment pump house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-to-be-disrupted/article34486028.ece
05 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online lecture||G.R. Raghavender, Joint Secretary of Ministry of Law and Justice, will deliver an online lecture on ‘Copyright in Digital Networks’ as part of an event under the aegis of the Kerala University’s Law Department. The lecture will be held from 2 p.m. on Wednesday athttp://meet.google.com/fws-asdm-vrw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-lecture/article34486031.ece
05 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||3,567 cases in Thrissur||The district recorded 3,567 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, while 1,686 people recovered from the disease. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 29.34% even as most parts of the district remained containment zones. With this, the active cases in the district touched 39,520 and 106 people from the district were undergoing treatment in various other districts. So far 1,62,193 COVID-19 cases had reported from Thrissur, while 1,21,856 people made recovery since the beginning of the pandemic. According to official statistics, 3,522 people, including 17 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Tuesday. Of them, 475 people are above the age of 60 and 198 children are below the age of 10. In all, 33,170 people were under home care. Vaccine doses As many as 5,78,025 people have been administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine in the district, while 1,22,280 people took the second dose. Meanwhile, District Collector S. Shanavas said that as part of COVID-19 treatment and preventive measures adpoted, oxygen availability had been ensured in Thrissur. Directions have been issued in this regard to make available all oxygen cylinders currently in industrial use for medical purpose. It is estimated that there are 1,600 cylinders in industrial use. Procuring cylinders The owners of respective institutions had expressed willingness to lend them the cylinders for medical purposes and steps had been taken to procure them, the Collector said. The oxygen plant at the Thrissur Government Medical College would start functioning soon. Beds with oxygen facilities would be ensured in more hospitals, whereas private hospitals had been instructed to earmark 50% of beds for COVID treatment, Mr. Shanavas said. The primary objective was to reduce the spread of the disease. People had been asked to adhere to the restrictions imposed in containment zones. Restrictions had been put in place in tourist centres as well, said Mr. Shanavas, while adding that, however, there was no reason for panic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3567-cases-in-thrissur/article34485993.ece
05 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Fr. Isaac Alappat, founder of Chetana, passes away||Fr. Isaac Alappat CMI (Carmelites of Mary Immaculate), founder-director of Chetana group of institutions, died at a private hospital here on Tuesday. He was 86. Fr. Alappat, who excelled as a film director, editor, cameraman and script director, started his career as a Zoology teacher at Christ College, Irinjalakduda. After finishing higher studies in Communication Arts at Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles, USA, he launched Chetana Film and Television Institute at Chiyyaram in 1980 in the model of Hollywood film and television production studios. Sound studios He toiled alone to launch the Chetana Sound Studio, one of the best studios in South India and the only underground studio in the country in those days. Chetana later branched into seven institutions with international standards. He directed two feature films, Kunjikaikal and Chakravalangal . His script titled Kuttavum Sikshayam (crime and punishment), penned during his higher studies, was later included in the syllabus of the Loyola Marymount University. He also authored several books, including Thiruvachanam Thettidharichavar , Minnaminungu and Anuyugathile Vranitha Sabha . The funeral rites will be held at Christ Monastery Chapel at Irinjalakuda on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fr-isaac-alappat-dies/article34485485.ece
05 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Woman, baby in quarantine found dead||A young woman, who was under home quarantine after she was tested positive for COVID-19, was found dead in a well in their compound along with her 17-day-old baby at Vadakkekad on Tuesday. The deceased had been identified as Sini, wife of Rajesh Vaileripppeedika. Police said her husband and five-year-old elder son were at home when the body was discovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-baby-in-quarantine-found-dead/article34485990.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Welcome showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/welcome-showers/article34485532.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Showering relief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/showering-relief/article34486021.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hunger games||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hunger-games/article34486037.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The long way back||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-long-way-back/article34485995.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Survival net||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survival-net/article34485883.ece
05 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur runs out of ICU beds as cases surge||Even as the COVID cases continue to rise, the district on Tuesday ran out of all ICU beds in its 56 government and private hospitals authorised to treat COVID patients. The district has 217 ICU beds earmarked for COVID patients. For the second time this month, Anantapur district surpassed 2,000 cases in a span of 24 hours. Out of 8,683 samples tested, 2,168 returned positive taking the active case tally to 11,755. Of them, 2,116 are receiving treatment in hospitals, 673 in COVID Care Centres and the rest are in home isolation. The district administration has now notified another 73 hospitals for treating COVID patients to meet the ever-increasing demand. Out of over 1,100 oxygen-supported beds, the district is left with just 119 by 6 p.m. on Tuesday and the demand is increasing by minute. However, the positivity rate, which was above 30% last week, has come down to 24.97% in the district.  500-bed hospital Meanwhile, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu visited the site adjacent to the Arjas Steel Factory on the outskirts of Tadipatri in the district where the State government has planned to construct a temporary oxygen-supported 500-bed hospital. The factory has an in-house production capacity of 100 kl of oxygen through air separation. The government wishes to utilise this facility for supplying oxygen directly to the proposed hospital by June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-runs-out-of-icu-beds-as-cases-surge/article34485953.ece
05 May 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Family elated as ‘dead’ person calls from hospital||Senior officers had to exhume the body of a COVID-19 patient at Mole village in Belagavi district on Tuesday after a private hospital wrongly identified the victim. Payappa Halloli, 82, of Mole was admitted to a private hospital in Belagavi last week. The hospital called up his relatives and said he had passed away and that the hospital staff would bring the body to the village. The staff wearing PPE kits brought the body and buried it in front of the family members. But the relatives could not get to see the face of the deceased as it was wrapped in plastic. In a few hours, the octogenarian patient, who was alive and well in the hospital, called his family to ask why they had not brought his meal packet. The family was elated to learn that he was alive. They were also angry with the hospital and complained to the police. A day later, tahsildar Prameela Deshpande, the police, and others visited the village and spoke to the Halloli family members. Ms. Deshpande ordered that the body be exhumed. She said the body was of another patient from Gokak and that it would be shifted. She said that the confusion was created by the hospital staff. Halloli family members have requested Deputy Commissioner K. Harishkumar to conduct an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/family-elated-as-dead-person-calls-from-hospital/article34485281.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC inclined for probe into Chamarajanagar deaths||Taking note of the death of 23 COVID-19 patients at the Chamarajanagar district hospital and of one patient at a private hospital, allegedly due to shortage in supply of oxygen, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday indicated to the State government that it was in favour of ordering a judicial probe into the incident. The court directed the government to submit the SOP/guidelines being followed to allocate oxygen to hospitals in various cities and districts. A Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order while hearing a batch of PIL petitions on issues related to COVID-19. Though the petitions were posted for hearing on Wednesday, the Bench advanced the hearing to Tuesday by taking cognisance of the death of 24 patients in Chamarajanagar and of a few patients in Kalaburagi, allegedly due to shortage of oxygen. The Bench indicated in its order that it was inclined to appoint a retired judge of the High Court to conduct an inquiry into the matter. Earlier, Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi told the Bench that the government had appointed a senior IAS officer to conduct a preliminary inquiry and the report was expected by Thursday. The government plans to order further inquiry based on it. When they died He also said that 14 patients in Chamarajanagar died between 9 p.m. and 11 p.m. on Sunday, three patients between 11 p.m. on Sunday and 2.30 a.m. on Monday, and the remaining seven between 2.30 a.m. and 9 a.m. on Monday, as per the report received from the district hospital. Though he said the State government per se had no objection to ordering a judicial probe into the incidents, he expressed apprehension that such an inquiry might impact the machinery at the ground level engaged in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-inclined-for-probe-into-chamarajanagar-deaths/article34485283.ece
05 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five Maoists nabbed in Telangana||Five militia members of the proscribed CPI (Maoist) from neighbouring Chhattisgarh were arrested by a combined squad of police and CRPF personnel in Kurnapalli forest area in Charla mandal on Tuesday morning. Police said the arrested militia members were tasked by Maoists to conduct a recce on the movement of combing parties in remote forest fringe villages across the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border. They hail from Nimmalagudem village in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district. They were allegedly involved in subversive activities along with local militia members of the outlawed organisation in the border villages including Chennapuram and Battigudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-maoists-nabbed/article34485878.ece
05 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fear grips Chittoor as COVID deaths cross 1,000||The COVID-19 casualties crossed the 1,000-mark on Tuesday, leading to a tense atmosphere all over Chittoor district. The district has recorded the highest number of casualties in the State. The prime reason for the alarming death rate is largely attributed to continuous influx of people from the neighbouring States of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The district also leads the number of positive cases with a daily average of 2,500 since a week. On Tuesday, the number of new cases recorded was 2,318. Personnel of the COVID Task Force maintain that the sudden spike in positive cases and casualties has impacted the psyche of the public. Though people used to move around freely, often without face masks, in Chittoor and Tirupati corporations and the six municipalities of Madanapalle, Punganur, Palamaner, Puttur, Nagari and Srikalahasti, in the initial days of the second wave, the situation is quite different since a week. With more than 80% of the people seen with face masks, their movement has also drastically come down from noon. While many households are preferring to go to the vegetable market once a week, meat shops are not seeing many customers. The district administration has instructed the medical and health wing to give priority to triaging centres to tackle the growing casualties from home isolation. Though the officials have embarked on setting up triage centres at all community hospitals, some medical and paramedical staff are reportedly expressing their unwillingness to take up additional work. The COVID Care Centres too are hit by shortage of staff in many areas, the officials said. For instance, last week a COVID Care Centre had come up to address the problem of emerging positive cases. However, its operation still lingers in a dilemma with several key staff not willing to join the unit. Meanwhile, apart from the highways and public roads in towns, the COVID fear has gripped lanes and bylanes, which are deserted with growing number of positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fear-grips-chittoor-as-covid-deaths-cross-1000/article34485955.ece
05 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cabinet accords financial sanction to HNSS project works||The State Cabinet, presided over by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, has given its nod to the A.P. Industrial Electronics Policy and financial sanction to the Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi Project phases 1 and 2, and administrative and financial sanctions to create infrastructure at the Krishnapatnam Port as a part of the Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor. Minister for Information and Public Relations Perni Venkataramaiah told the media at Velagapudi on Tuesday that the Cabinet also approved the decision to credit Rs. 4,050 crore directly into the bank accounts of the farmers under the YSR Rythu Bharosa - PM Kisan on May 13. The number of beneficiaries under the scheme was now increased to 54 lakh with the inclusion of tenant farmers of BC, SC and ST communities. Under YSR Bima, Rs. 2,589.60 crore would be credited into the bank accounts of 38.30 lakh farmers so as to insulate them from the losses suffered in kharif 2020. The YSR Matsyakara Bharosa envisions annual payment of Rs. 10,000 to 1.30 lakh beneficiaries with an outlay of Rs. 130.46 crore. MoU with CBSE The other decisions included amendments to the A.P. Education Act of 1982, enabling the government to take over private aided educational institutions and cancelling all the sanctioned aided posts, and ratification of the A.P. Private Universities Act of 2016. The government also decided to sign an MoU with the CBSE, providing its affiliation to 44,369 schools. Administrative approval was accorded to obtain a World Bank loan of $250 million for ‘Supporting Andhras Learning Transformation’. The Cabinet also resolved to develop YSR Engineering College at Produttur along with Yogi Vemana University in Kadapa. Two teaching posts were sanctioned. Six non-teaching posts too were sanctioned under the outsourcing category. Sanction was also given to establish a Government Degree College at Vempalle. Revival of sick dairies The Cabinet also resolved to revive the AP Dairy Development Federation and the sick dairies that had been closed. The Cabinet also decided to set up a Veterinary Polytechnic College at Srikakulam. A budgetary allocation of Rs. 9.95 crore was also made for it. It was also decided to establish a Veterinary Polytechnic College at Chittoor. The Cabinet also resolved to provide Viability Gap Funding of Rs. 20 crore for TruJet airline for operating the Chennai-Kadapa-Vijayawada services for one more year, and change the name of airport in Kurnool to Uyyalavada Narasimha Reddy Airport. The Cabinet also resolved to allot 66.49 acres to Greenlam South India Limited in the Industrial Park at Naidupet in Nellore district at a rate of Rs. 67.10 lakh per acre. The firm would be investing Rs. 595 crore, providing direct employment to 400 persons and indirect employment to 450 others. The Cabinet also approved financial sanction of Rs. 1,148 crore for creation of infrastructure at Krishnapatnam Port. While approving the Electronics Policy, the Cabinet said it expects $ 400 million worth production. The Cabinet also approved a world-class greenfield Electronics Manufacturing Cluster in Kadapa district that would provide jobs to 39,000 people. A decision to create infrastructure from Kailasagiri to Bhogapuram International Airport was also taken. Administrative sanction was given to Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi Phase 1 works to be taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 6,182 crore. Under Phase 2, works at a cost of Rs. 9,318.14 crore would be taken up. The Cabinet also decided to lift water from the dead storage level and sanction works pertaining to the Yeleru Tandava Canal Link. The Cabinet also decided to give administrative sanction to the Polavaram project for works pertaining to the construction of earth dam, spillway channel, approach channel, pilot channel, and hydro electric power house. It also approved the decision to opt for loan to implement the YSR Palnadu Drought Mitigation Project with an outlay of Rs. 2,746 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cabinet-accords-financial-sanction-to-hnss-project-works/article34485961.ece
05 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCV tobacco farmers a worried lot as buyers shy away from auction||More than a month after FCV Tobacco auctions began amid the second wave of coronavirus pandemic, the farmers are a worried lot as major buyers continue to shy away from auctions. Thirty seven days have passed since the auction began and a meagre 23.10 million kg of tobacco was sold across the platforms in the southern black and light soils of Prakasam district and northern light Soils of West Godavari district. The target for this year is 115 million kg, but the farmers are worried about the low marketing potential of the low and medium grade varieties. With the pandemic raging, speculations are rife that the auction could close early. Farmers say that all the major global and Indian tobacco firms, the major buyers, continue to shy away from the auction platforms, citing uncertain export orders owing to the pandemic. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy took a decision to press the A.P. Markfed into action to buy the low and medium grade varieties, which offered some relief to the farmers. However, the government is yet to go for market intervention this year. Farmers who battle the vagaries of nature and price fluctuations are at their wit’s end, alleging that the Tobacco Board has failed to rein in on the corporate giants . “It is time the Tobacco Board intervened to bail out the farmers. The trade giants have been stonewalling the proposal to bring Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to the tobacco industry. A Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) has recommended for FDI in the sector, but the industry giants have managed to keep the report under the wraps,” alleges Y. Sivaji, former MP and former honourary president of Virginia Tobacco Growers Association. However, the average prices of all varieties NBS, SBS, SLS, NLS have shown some increase at Rs. 163.30 per kg as when compared to Rs. 154.45 per kg last year. The tobacco grown on NLS continues to fetch Rs. 167.39 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fcv-tobacco-farmers-a-worried-lot-as-buyers-shy-away-from-auction/article34485963.ece
05 May 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Middlemen at crematorium fleecing kin of COVID victims||With the increase in COVID-19 deaths in the city, private ambulance staff and middlemen are cashing in on the situation. The middlemen have been allegedly charging Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 to conduct the final rites of a person who died of the coronavirus. Family members of the deceased allege that the ambulance staff and the workers at the crematorium at Gnanapuram are working in cahoots. “I lost my maternal uncle a few days ago in a private hospital at Arilova. We approached an ambulance driver to shift the body to crematorium. He seems to have a link with the hospital and the workers at the crematorium. He has offered a package of Rs. 20,000 for everything, right from shifting the body to performing rites. As we bargained, he agreed to do it for Rs. 18,000. He did not even offer a PPE kit,” said B.J. Venkata Mahesh, a resident of Murali Nagar area. Kin of COVID-19 patients allege that even if they get an ambulance driver, about Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 10,000 is being charged at the crematorium. People allege that middlemen taking undue advantage of heavy rush at the crematorium. Every day, at least 60 to 70 bodies are being brought to the Gnanapuram during the second wave. They alleged that workers citing scarcity of wood and diesel to perform the final rites. A large number of people reportedly paying the amount being demanded by middlemen to avoid arguments during the final rites. People seek arrangement of CCTV cameras on the crematorium premises to check the malpractice. According to a senior official from Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), the corporation has fixed a price of Rs. 3,000 for all the procedures, including labour, wood, diesel and others, at the crematorium and they have arranged flexis at the premises to inform people about it. “We have also set up a toll-free number 180042500009 to enable people lodge complaints if excess charges are being collected,” the official said. GVMC Chief Medical and Officer of Health (CMOH) K.S.L.G. Sastry said that in order to reduce pressure on Gnanapuram crematorium, the civic body will be allotting one crematorium in every zone for performing the final rites of COVID victims. “It is the middlemen who are taking advantage of the situation and involved in corruption. In order to create awareness, we have arranged boards at the crematorium. The civic body will be taking steps to put an end to this corruption,” Mr. Sastry said. He said that sodium hypochlorite solution is being sprayed at the premises and all COVID-19 precautions are being followed. The GVMC officials are also gearing up to restart the electric crematorium at Chavulamadum and its trial run began on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/middlemen-at-crematorium-fleecing-kin-of-covid-victims/article34486059.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC notice to govt. in trespassing case||Telangana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the State government after hearing a writ petition filed by Jamuna Hatcheries, owned by family members of former minister Eatala Rajender, alleging that authorities trespassed into their lands in Medak district in the name of conducting inquiry into ownership of the lands. Justice T. Vinod Kumar, who heard the petition filed by moving House Motion, instructed the government to file counter affidavit in the matter within four weeks. After hearing contentions of senior counsel D. Prakash Reddy and Advocate General B.S. Prasad appearing for petitioners and government respectively, the judge observed “there was prima facie violation of principles of natural justice and non-adherence to provisions of the Telangana Land Revenue Acts” while conducting the inquiry. The judge directed Medak District Collector not to interfere with the lands of the Jamuna Hatcheries till further orders. The Director General of Vigilance and Enforcement and Anti-Corruption Bureau along with Medak Superintendent of Police were instructed not to initiate any coercive steps against the petitioners. The judge noted that Section 153 of Telangana Land Revenue Act mandated that land owner should be put on notice before commencing an inquiry. This was not followed in the present case. Further, they should not take into consideration the report submitted by Medak District Collector on the said lands to the Chief Secretary as the land owners were not given prior notice, the judge said in his interim directions. Referring to AG’s contentions, the judge observed that the court was not shown any evidence to confirm if the petitioners were given any notice. The government had also not furnished how the Collector was vested with powers to conduct such an inquiry. Mr. Eatala Rajender, who was minister in the Telangana Cabinet, was stripped off his Medical and Health portfolio four days ago over allegations of land grabbing. The former minister’s wife E. Jamuna and son E. Nithin Reddy, representing Jamuna Hatcheries, moved the House Motion seeking directions to restrain authorities from entering their lands and interfering with peaceful possession of the lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-notice-to-govt-in-trespassing-case/article34485279.ece
05 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||8 Asiatic lions test positive in Hyderabad zoo||Eight Asiatic lions at Hyderabad’s Nehru Zoological Park have tested positive for the deadly coronavirus, perhaps the first known case of the human infecting the felines and making them sick in India. Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology- Laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species (CCMB-LaCONES) informed the forest authorities over the phone that the RT-PCR tests of these big cats were positive. The CCMB carried out detailed investigation of the samples for genome sequencing to find out if the strain came from human beings or not. Immediate treatment The scientist cautioned the officials to take precautions and start medication at the earliest. The zoo authorities are likely to conduct a CT scan of the lions to know the impact of the infection on their lungs. Zoo Director and Curator . Siddhanand Kukrety and V.V.L. Subhadra Devi respectively did not respond to the repeated calls by this correspondent to deny or confirm the news officially. However, another source on the 380-acre campus, which houses more than 1,500 inmates, said that results from the CCMB were submitted to Ms. Subhadra Devi, and to alert them the scientists have orally told the higher-up about the results on Monday evening. “Yes, the lions were tested after displaying signs of respiratory distress and other mild symptoms. As of now they are active and are doing well,” the officer said, adding that four male and four female big cats were housed in the 40-acre Safari area. He said that on April 24, caretakers noticed that these big cats developed symptoms like dry cough, nasal discharge, and loss of appetite and soon alerted the veterinary team. Soon, the vets took oropharyngeal swab samples (collected from nose, throat and respiratory tract under anaesthesia) of the feline and sent them to CCMB-LaCONES, where the scientists are likely to do genome sequencing to find out if the strain came from human beings. Workers test positive Currently, NZP, one of the biggest zoos in Asia, has been closed for visitors as a precautionary measure. More than two dozen staffers at the zoo were tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, Central Zoo Authority on Tuesday evening confirmed that based on detailed diagnostic tests and report as shared by CCMB-LaCONES, it has now been confirmed that eight Asiatic lions housed in NZP have tested positive for SARS-CoV2 virus. “Further analyses of the samples have revealed that the infection was not caused by any variant of concern. The eight lions have been isolated and due care and necessary treatment has been provided,” they said. All the eight lions have responded well to the treatment and are recovering. The big cats are behaving normally and eating well. The CZA has taken several pre-emptive measures including issuance of guidelines and advisories to the zoos towards precautions to be undertaken in the light of increasing number of cases of SARS CoV-2 . The monitoring and guidelines for prevention, sample collection, detection in suspected cases, and safety protocols for animal keepers etc have been suggested to zoos in consultation with scientific agencies and experts of Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Uttar Pradesh and CCMB-LaCONES. “Based on experience with zoo animals elsewhere in the world that have experienced SARS-COV2 positive last year, there is no factual evidence that animals can transmit the disease to humans any further,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/8-asiatic-lions-test-positive-in-hyderabad-zoo/article34485289.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajender lashes out at Telangana CM||Former minister Eatala Rajender, who is facing allegations of encroachment of assignment and endowments lands, has targeted Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for the second day in a row by stating that even Cabinet members did not get an opportunity to go and meet the Chief Minister in Pragathi Bhavan. Speaking to newspersons at Huzurabad on Tuesday before holding a meeting with his followers he said Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao believed in people and righteousness till 2014 but left them immediately after assuming charge as the Chief Minister. Known as ‘Telangana Gandhi’, KCR was acting with vengeance against him based on wrong suggestions and false reports, he alleged. “Instead of targeting me, he (KCR) could have as well called me and told to quit. I would have happily resigned,” Mr. Rajender said and clarified he never aspired to become the Chief Minister but always wished that KCR’s son K.T. Rama Rao would succeed him. Elaborating on the ill-treatment to ministers in Pragathi Bhavan, Mr. Rajender recollected that when some ministers, including him, went there to meet the Chief Minister they were not allowed to meet him. Unable to stand the ill-treatment Gangula Kamalakar had commented to him as to how a Chief Minister could be so arrogant, Mr. Rajender said. Stating that people know the background of every politician, Mr. Rajender said he was being victimised without any reason. He attributed the decision to a rumour that he (Eatala) was planning to become the Chief Minister. Earlier in the day, Mr. Rajender spoke to several non-resident Indians from Telangana, who extended support to him, over video-conference. Meanwhile, TRS-NRI founder Anil Kurmachalam, in a statement, said the NRIs with whom Mr. Rajender had spoken on Tuesday were not members of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and in fact were antagonistic to the TRS and affiliated to other political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eatala-lashes-out-at-telangana-cm/article34485277.ece
05 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTU-K campus converted into 1,000-bed COVID facility||As cases surge in the district, the State government has converted the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU-Kakinada) campus into a 1,000-bed COVID Care Centre to accommodate patients with mild or moderate symptoms. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and Kakinada Municipal Corporation Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar on Tuesday inaugurated the centre on the JNTU-K campus and services began on Tuesday. Patients who do not have facilities to isolate at home would be sheltered here. They would be only shifted to the government hospital on doctors’ recommendation. “The requirement of beds in the COVID Care Centres is growing by the day. As many as 6,000 beds have been arranged in the three COVID Care Centres set up at JNTU-K, Bodasakkurru that covers the Konaseema region and Bommuru that covers the Rajamahendravaram and surrounding areas,” said Mr. Muralidhar. The district has 72 designated COVID hospitals. Only two beds vacant By Tuesday, only two Intensive Critical Care(ICU) beds were vacant of the total capacity of 62 at the Government General Hospital (GGH-Kakinada). In case of beds with oxygen supply, a total of 111 beds are vacant of the total 794 beds. In Rajamahendravaram, the District Government Hospital has stopped admitting new patients as all 53 ICU beds and all 347 beds with oxygen supply have been occupied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntu-k-campus-converted-into-1000-bed-covid-facility/article34486008.ece
05 May 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 children injured as bomb goes off||Two children, including a one-and-a-half-year-old, suffered minor injuries, when a crude bomb they were playing with exploded at their house near Iritty in the district on Tuesday. According to the police, the children found the crude bomb in their field and they brought it home to play, thinking it was a ball. However, it suddenly exploded when they bounced it on the ground. In the incident, the brothers Muhammad Ameen, 5, Muhammad Raheed, one-and-a-half-year-old, were injured. They were immediately taken to a private hospital in Iritty and Ameen was later shifted to the Kannur Medical College Hospital. While Ameen had bruises on his chest and legs, Raheed was discharged after treatment. The police have started an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-children-injured-as-bomb-goes-off/article34485292.ece
05 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteer goes extra mile to hand over pension||A volunteer, who travelled close to 600 km to hand over the old-age pension to a woman beneficiary in Ahmednagar of Maharashtra, was felicitated by District Collector G. Veerapandian for his exemplary dedication to duty. The volunteer, identified as Sreenivasulu, from Gondiparla village in Kurnool district, set off on a journey to reach M. Lakshmi Devi(60), also a resident of Gondiparla, so that he could take her biometric scan and hand over the three months’ pension amount of Rs. 6,750. Ms. Lakshmi Devi had gone to Ahmednagar to be with her son three months ago and was stuck due to the lockdown. Mr. Sreenivasulu, who returned to Kurnool on Tuesday after completing the task, said if she did not take pension for three months consecutively, she would be ineligible for a pension. He said he went the extra mile to ensure that the woman does not get disqualified for receiving pension. The Collector appreciated his penchant to serve the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteer-goes-the-extra-mile-to-hand-over-pension/article34485332.ece
05 May 2021||NANDIGAMA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rider dies after hitting deer||K. Gopi, 22, of Jonnalagadda village, died of injuries he suffered when he fell off the two-wheeler he was riding after hitting a deer, at Magallu village in Krishna district. The accident occurred when Gopi, working in a supermarket, was returning from Nandigama to Jonnalagadda on Monday. He died while being shifted to Vijayawada. The deer, which came on to the road suddenly, died on the spot. The police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rider-dies-after-hitting-deer/article34485341.ece
05 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five killed in accident||Sajjapuram village head A. Penchalaiah and four labourers were killed when a tractor-trailer overturned and fell into a fish pond, at Sajjapuram in Nellore Rural mandal, on Tuesday. The vehicle was carrying labourers to a farm for harvest when the accident occurred. The 60-year-old sarpanch and four workers who were seated on the front portion of the tractor got trapped under the mangled vehicle and suffocated to death, the Nellore Rural police said. Passers-by removed the five from the pond but they could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-killed-in-accident/article34485957.ece
05 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. reports nearly 3,000 cases in one day||There was no respite for people from COVID-19 scourge in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as 11 more persons succumbed to the pandemic and over 2,900 persons got infected in a span of 24 hours. The toll rose to 1,281 in the region as seven patients died in SPSR Nellore district and four in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday, according to a health bulletin. So far, 631 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 650 in Prakasam district had died. Health professionals had a tough time in treating the patients as the number of active cases touched the 25,000-mark, as 1,160 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 1,741 in Prakasam district tested positive for the virus. With this, the overall cases tally crossed the 1.62 lakh mark in the region including 85,780 in SPSR Nellore district. Meanwhile, a pall of gloom descended on Moolapet area in Nellore city, where chief priest of the famous Rukmini Samedha Venugopala Swamy temple Sampath Kumar Acharyulu died of COVID. Distressing scenes Rush at the Government General Hospital in Ongole continued with patients and their relatives anxiously waiting for allotment of beds. A 50-year-old man and his wife were seen weeping inconsolably as they lost their 30-year-old son to the virus. Alarmed over the rapid rise in fresh cases, SPSR Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu held a video conference with mandal level officials to handle the health situation more efficiently. He exhorted the medical staff to ensure results of the tested persons within 24 hours. COVID-19 Care Centres should be run in all the mandals to provide better treatment to patients as home isolation of the positive cases contributed to further increase in fresh cases. In a noble gesture, a group of persons in Kumarole, performed the funeral of one of their friends who died of COVID, as relatives failed to take the body of their deceased friend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-reports-nearly-3000-cases-in-one-day/article34485956.ece
05 May 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Undertrial ‘ends life’ in central prison||A 32-year-old remand prisoner, Kalyanam Venkanna, on Tuesday allegedly ended his life by hanging with a towel in the bathroom in Rajamahendravaram Central Prison. Venkanna of Chatti village in Chintoor Agency was remanded to the prison in a case of harassment of his wife. According to Rajamahendravaram Central Prison Superintendent S. Raja Rao, Venkanna was declared brought dead by the doctors at District Government Hospital in Rajamahendravaram. He said the undertrial entered the bathroom in the barracks with his towel stating that he would wash it and allegedly ended his life with it. Helpline number The body has been sent to District Government Hospital for post- mortem. Those in distress and suicidal tendencies can contact 100 for counselling and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/undertrial-ends-life-in-central-prison/article34486009.ece
05 May 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVRAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sangam Dairy MD tests positive for COVID-19||P. Gopala Krishna, Managing Director of Sangam Milk Producers’ Company Limited (Sangam Dairy - Guntur), tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday night, and was said to be battling for life at the District Government Hospital here. Mr. Gopala Krishna was brought from the custody of the ACB in Vijayawada to the Rajamahendravaram Central Prison on May 1. He had complained of breathing problem on Monday, but tested negative for the virus, the prison authorities said. As be began showing symptoms of COVID-19 from Monday evening, he was rushed to the District Government Hospital. “Mr. Gopala Krishna has tested positive for COVID-19 and is battling for life in the DGH. His condition is said be to be serious as per preliminary medical reports,” prison Superintendent S. Raja Rao told The Hindu . Hailing from Guntur district, Mr. Gopala Krishna is one of the three accused arrested in connection with the Sangam Dairy scandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sangam-dairy-md-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34485964.ece
05 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam MP launches helpline||Srikakulam MP and TDP senior leader Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu on Tuesday launched an exclusive COVID-19 helpline at his office to provide information about doctors, hospitals and availability of beds. WhatsApp number He urged people to send their grievances to WhatsApp number 7207387931. He said that the State government had failed to extend medical aid to the distressed COVID-19 victims in the district. Mr. Rammohan Naidu urged the Union government and Visakhapatnam Steel Plant to supply 10 kilolitres of medical oxygen to Srikakulam district where more than 20,000 COVID-19 victims were waiting for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikakulam-mp-launches-helpline/article34486011.ece
05 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 patients to get home isolation kits||Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas directed all mandal special officers and municipal commissioners to supply home isolation kits to COVID-19 patients at the earliest. In a press release, Mr. Nivas said that the medical kits would ensure quick recovery of patients even in home isolation while instilling confidence among them. Currently, 15,031 patients were in home isolation out of 17,770 active COVID-19 infection cases. He said that evidence of the submission of kits should be sent immediately to the Collectorate office for cross-verification Mr. Nivas has also directed officials to arrange an exclusive vehicle in each mandal for transporting COVID-19 patients to their respective villages and towns as they were being denied transport by others due to fear of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-patients-to-get-home-isolation-kits/article34486010.ece
05 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Speaker, wife recovering from infection’||The health condition of Legislative Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam and his wife Vani, who are reportedly undergoing treatment for COVID-19, is said to be stable, according to the sources in the office of the Speaker here. Though initially in home isolation, they have been admitted to a private hospital for better treatment later. District Collector J. Nivas and other officials are reportedly monitoring their health condition. The doctors have reportedly informed the public representatives, local leaders and well wishers that there is no need for worry as they are recovering under the supervision of senior medical experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speaker-wife-recovering-from-infection/article34485965.ece
05 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veterans, new faces likely in Kerala Cabinet||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan on Tuesday hinted that a mix of new faces and experienced hands would set apart the next Pinarayi Vijayan Cabinet. When pressed whether high-profile CPI(M) members in the earlier government would return to the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said, “The party had withdrawn an array of veteran comrades from the electoral field to allow a new generation of party members to compete in the Assembly polls and gain legislative experience. The gambit paid off. Voters backed it overwhelmingly”. Mr. Vijayaraghavan seemed to stop short of suggesting that not all CPI(M) Ministers in the previous Cabinet would find a berth in the next government. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) would convene here on May 17 to formulate the make-up of the next LDF government. Once the LDF reached a decision, the CPI(M) would know its share of seats. Subsequently, the State secretariat and later the State committee would assign select legislators for public office. The CPI(M) State secretariat had met here for a post-election analysis. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Polit Bureau members from Kerala were present. The closed-door meeting triggered intense speculation about the make-up of the next government. Names of several hopefuls were being bandied about on television channels. By one account, the party leadership had considered at least three CPI(M) State secretariat members, newly elected to the Assembly, for a Cabinet position. They are former Speaker K. Radhakrishnan, K.N. Balagopal, political secretary to former Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan, and P. Rajeev, chief editor, Deshabhimani , the party newspaper. Focus on pandemic There were reports that the Communist Party of India (CPI) had staked claim for four Cabinet berths, including the post of Deputy Speaker. Some quarters suggested the Kerala Congress (M) had demanded two Cabinet posts. Mr. Vijayaraghavan scotched such reports. He said the CPI(M) secretariat focussed on the pandemic situation primarily. The party would examine other issues, including unexpected defeats in Thripunithara and Kundara. LDF supporters would celebrate the victory by lighting lamps in front of their houses on May 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mix-of-veterans-new-faces-in-kerala-cabinet/article34485287.ece
05 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth charred to death in Tirumala||Six shops were gutted and two others were partially damaged when a fire broke out at TTD Asthana Mandapam on Tuesday. The charred body of an unidentified youth was found in one of the shops during the clearing of debris. The fire broke out at one of the shops selling electrical photo frames and plastic fancy items, and spread to other shops. Soon thick clouds of smoke and spiralling flames leapt out of the basement of the monolithic structure housing the shops. Local shopkeepers, who first noticed the fire, immediately alerted the fire officials and fetched water from the nearby areas to put out the fire along with TTD vigilance and security staff. With the building situated less than a furlong from the main temple complex, three fire tenders struggled for over an hour to bring the situation under control. Congested lanes and petty shops proved a hurdle for the fire personnel to reach the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-dead-shops-gutted-in-tirumala-fire/article34485284.ece
05 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big cats on watch at SV Zoo Park||With news of COVID-19 spreading to lions at the Hyderabad zoo creating a flutter, authorities of Sri Venkateswara Zoological Park (SVZP) have began a vigil on the health of wild animals in its enclosures. After securing clearance from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and the State government, the zoological park officially closed its doors to the public. Though no cases were reported, the big cats are being watched for abnormalities in behaviour and physical symptoms. “We have not found any symptoms in the animals and no test has been conducted so far, but our animals are on watch,” SVZP Curator M. Hima Sailaja told The Hindu . The zoo has 14 lions, three Royal Bengal tigers, ten white tigers, two male jaguars and four leopards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/big-cats-on-watch-at-sv-zoo-park/article34485333.ece
05 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||VRV dispatches 2 oxygen tanks to Tirupati||Sri City-based VRV Asia Pacifichas dispatched two more medical oxygen tanks of 13,000 litres and 10,000 litres capacity to Tirupati, for use in BIRRD and SV Ramnarain Ruia Government General Hospital respectively. The truck, carrying the two tanks, was flagged off by VRV managing director G.L. Rangnekar on Monday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vrv-dispatches-2-oxygen-tanks-to-tirupati/article34485958.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Serpentine queues at shops ahead of partial lockdown||Panic buying was witnessed across the city on Tuesday as thousands of people lined up outside grocery stores and vegetable markets ahead of a partial lockdown that comes into force across the State from May 5. Serpentine queues were witnessed outside government banks and ATM kiosks, in scenes reminiscent of the nationwide lockdown imposed by the Centre in March last year. For the most part, people wore masks and followed physical distancing while standing in queues, aware of the gravity of the COVID situation. A heavy rush was witnessed at wholesale shops in One Town, Kaleswara Rao Market, Bhavanipuram, Kothapeta, and Patamata on Tuesday. “There is a possibility of a total lockdown being imposed as COVID cases are on the rise. Many patients are succumbing to the virus,” said C. Seetha, who had come to buy vegetables at Patamata Rythu Bazaar. Long queues were seen at rice and oil mills, with people buying provisions for three months. A huge rush was witnessed at wholesale egg traders, dry fruit shops and fruit stalls. Curfew-like situation A lockdown-like situation prevailed at many places in Krishna, West Godavari and East Godavari districts, as police mobilised forces to prevent public gathering and to implement the curfew. In West Godavari district, Secretariat staff were making door-to-door visits to identify positive cases and primary contacts in villages. Barricades were arranged in containment zones at Kalla, Bhimavaram, Undi, Palakol, Narsapuram and other mandals. Public announcements Police intensified patrolling in Tanuku, Eluru, Polavaram, Kovvur, Jangareddygudem, Buttaigudem, Jeelugumilli, Rajamahendravaram and other places, said Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao. Police used public addressing systems to caution people not to come out of their homes unnecessarily. “There is no need to panic as essential services will be exempted from the curfew. All medical shops, milk booths, drinking water kiosks and other emergency services will be open. We request the public not to gather at shops,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/serpentine-queues-at-shops-ahead-of-partial-lockdown/article34485339.ece
05 May 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka, Kerala grapple with high case numbers||Continuing the trend of high incidence of COVID-19, Karnataka on Tuesday reported 44,631 new cases, of which 20,870 were from Bengaluru Urban, and 292 deaths. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 29.03% and 1,53,707 tests were conducted, including 1,40,609 RT-PCR tests. The Health Department said it had adequate stocks of vaccine, but several centres in Bengaluru put up ‘no vaccine’boards. Karnataka had vaccinated 99,45,889 people on Tuesday evening, of which 3,475 were in the 18-44 years age group. On Tuesday, 43,885 beneficiaries took the jab. After the weekend lull, Kerala added 37,190 new cases on Tuesday after testing 1,42,588 samples. The average TPR rose to 26.08% and active case pool to 3,56,872. A record number of 57 deaths from the past few days were added to the official toll. COVID patients in hospitals in the State rose to 28,115, and 3,253 were hospitalised on Tuesday. Ernakulam had the highest number of active cases at 54,586. Telangana recorded 59 COVID-19 deaths on Monday, the highest daily toll. Daily testing remained below 80,000 since April 28. On Monday, 70,961 samples were tested, and 6,876 infections detected. The TPR hovered at around 10%. The highest of 1,029 cases were in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region. Andhra Pradesh witnessed 82 deaths and 20,034 infections on Tuesday morning. Over 1.15 lakh samples were tested with a TPR of 17.30%. West Godavari had a surge in cases and deaths with 12 deaths in the district in a day. Srikakulam reported 2,398 new infections, the highest among the districts. Andhra Pradesh would be under an 18-hour curfew between noon and 6 a.m. up to May 18 from Wednesday. Between 6 a.m. and noon, all business activity and public movement would be allowed and Section 144 of the Cr.P.C. would be in force. Essential services, including hospitals, diagnostic labs, pharmacies, print and electronic media, telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting services, IT and ITeS, fuel stations including CNG outlets, LPG outlets, power generation, transmission and distribution, water supply and sanitation, cold storage and warehousing services and private security services would be exempt. Manufacturing industries and agricultural operations were also exempted. Tamil Nadu’s daily tally of COVID-19 cases surged past 21,000 on Tuesday. A total of 21,228 people tested positive for the infection while 144 people died, taking the case count to 12,49,292 and the toll to 14,612. Fresh infections have been on the rise since March 5. The surge in daily cases pushed the number of active cases to 1,25,230. As many as 19,112 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 11,09,450. In Chennai, 6,228 people tested positive for COVID-19. Chengalpattu and Coimbatore recorded 1,608 and 1,509 cases, respectively. There were 1,152 cases in Tiruvallur, 787 in Madurai, 747 in Ranipet and 719 in Tirunelveli. Salem recorded 624 cases. Four districts had less than 100 cases each — Ariyalur (35), Perambalur (31), Pudukottai (72) and Ramanathapuram (90). Among those who tested positive were 34 returnees.   (With inputs from Hyderabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-kerala-grapple-with-high-case-numbers/article34485295.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buses will not operate after noon from today||As per the Government decision, ratified by the Cabinet that met on Tuesday, no public or private transport would be allowed to operate in the State after 12 noon from Wednesday. All inter-State bus operations have been cancelled. “It's a very tricky situation for the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC). We have to cater to the transport needs of the common man, but at the same time, we need to think of our feeble economic condition as well,” said corporation’s Vice-Chancellor and Managing Director R.P. Thakur. Taking a dynamic view of the situation, the corporation officials were trying to strike a fine balance. Occupancy ratio slumps The occupancy ratio in the RTC buses had dwindled to 40 % in view of the spike in COVID infections resulting in people avoiding commuting through public transport. “The number of trains operating now are also fewer and we can’t completely stop our operations. Merger of operations is helping us to some extent,” said Mr. Thakur, informing that the corporation had also cut down on the number of its employees’ presence in the bus depots keeping in view the need for physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/buses-will-not-operate-after-noon-from-today/article34485972.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine lakh vaccine doses will arrive by May 15, says Singhal||The State will receive 9 lakh vaccine doses by May 15, and priority will be to complete vaccination of those who are partially vaccinated, according to Anil Kumar Singhal, Principal Secretary, Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Mr. Singhal said the Central government allocated 9 lakh doses for the first half of the month, and vaccination drive would be conducted accordingly. He said once all the 45+ people due to receive the second dose complete vaccination, first dose inoculation for the remaining in the age group would begin. People working in the media, banks, APSRTC and other such organisations would be given priority, he said. Mr. Singhal said that out of 21,858 oxygen beds available in the State, 20,108 were occupied. Of the 6,319 ICU beds, 5,743 were occupied. He said the government supplied 14,030 vials of Remdesivir injections to private hospitals and over 21,000 were available with the government hospitals. He said COVID helpline ‘104’ received over 16,000 calls from the public in the past one day. New PHCs Mr. Singhal said the government was setting up 176 new PHCs at a cost of Rs. 346 crore to improve infrastructure and healthcare access in the mandals where there were fewer PHCs. He said 166 mandals had only one PHC. Apart from infrastructure, the government would recruit over 1,400 medical personnel, including doctors, nurses and other staff. The State would spend Rs. 165 crore for the same every year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nine-lakh-vaccine-doses-will-arrive-by-may-15-says-singhal/article34485959.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exclusive COVID hospitals for advocates sought||Members of the State chapter of All India Lawyers Union (AILU) on Tuesday urged the government to identify at least one or two hospitals in each district and provide COVID treatment, exclusively for advocates, clerks and their family members. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the union’s State unit president S. Rajendra Prasad and general secretary N. Srinivasa Rao sought allocation of one or two quarantine centres in each district, exclusively for advocates. They said advocates were officers of the court and since they served the cause of litigants and assisted in administration of justice, they should be treated as frontline warriors. Stating that the lawyer community was one of the worst hit by the pandemic, they informed that more than 500 advocates had died in the State since March 2020 when COVID-19 first surfaced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exclusive-covid-hospitals-for-advocates-sought/article34486055.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New electronics policy to aid women empowerment||The State Cabinet on Tuesday has approved the Andhra Pradesh Electronics Policy 2021-24, which facilitates creation of world-class electronics manufacturing infrastructure to offer a host of incentives to reduce the cost of doing business in the State. In a statement, Principal Secretary, Information Technology, Electronics and Communications, G. Jaya Lakshmi, said the policy was aimed at transforming the State into a global hub for electronics manufacturing, with a focus on the manufacturing value chain-assembly operations, electronics components manufacturing, research and development, semiconductor and display fabrication. The salient features of the policy framework, she said, included promotion of world class greenfield Electronics Manufacturing Cluster (EMC) namely YSR EMC being developed at Kopparthy in Kadapa district, introduction of a production-linked incentive scheme in the greenfield clusters which dovetails with the Central schemes and incentivises electronics manufacturers who wants to expand their operations in the State and increase their production, leading to higher employment generation. Job creation She said the State was expected to benefit from this scheme by creating at least 39,000 direct jobs in the electronics manufacturing sector. A majority of these jobs would create women workforce, thus contributing to women empowerment. Ms. Jaya Lakshmi said the department was currently engaging with major electronics manufacturers for establishment of their facilities in the State, with a potential of generating 20,000 direct jobs. She said the department was confident that the policy would expedite the grounding of investments and provide jobs to people of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-unveils-electronics-policy/article34485864.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. failed to tackle pandemic: Congress||APCC working president N. Thulasi Reddy on Tuesday said the YSRCP government, which was unable to save people’s lives by providing them medical oxygen, wanted to rule from three capitals in the State. In a statement, he ridiculed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s three-capital formula. “The Chief Minister, who is unable to cater to a need as fundamental as oxygen, is talking of setting up three capitals in the State,” said Mr. Thulasi Reddy. Referring to the deaths due to lack of medical oxygen, Mr. Thulasi Reddy said the government was doing nothing to alleviate people’s sufferings on account of the rapid spread of virus. The vaccination drive was also moving at a slow pace. Many people who had contracted the virus, were resorting to suicide, he said. Mr. Thulasi Reddy demanded immediate steps to expedite the vaccination drive and address the problem of shortage of beds in hospitals and ensure adequate supply of oxygen and other medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-to-tackle-pandemic-congress/article34485973.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. recommends appointment of two info commissioners||The State government has recommended that senior journalist Ulchala Hari Prasad and advocate Kakarla Chenna Reddy be appointed as Information Commissioners under Right to Information Act. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the Secretariat on Tuesday. The recommendation was sent to the Governor for his approval. Mr. Hari Prasad holds a master’s degree in history from Central University, Hyderabad, and has been working in the field of journalism for the last two decades. Mr. Chenna Reddy is a post-graduate and holds a degree in law. He has been working as a lawyer in several district and high courts in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for the past 15 years. Members of the Information Commissioners’ Selection Committee M. Sucharitha (Home Minister), Adityanath Das (Chief Secretary), Neerab Kumar Prasad (CCLA), Praveen Kumar (Special Chief Secretary), and Praveen Prakash (Principal Secretary - GAD) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-recommends-appointment-of-two-info-commissioners/article34485969.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Halt distribution of school kits: UTF||Leaders of the A.P. United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) on Tuesday urged the government to halt supply of school kits, being distributed to students under the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, in view of the sharp spike in COVID-19 cases in the State. In a statement, federation’s State president N. Venkateswarlu and general secretary K.S.S. Prasad said the unprecedented rise in infections triggered panic among the teachers tasked with arranging the kits for distribution. They said the pandemic had so far claimed the lives of nearly 200 teachers in the State. Many teachers and their family members were undergoing treatment for the virus. Going by the seriousness of the situation, the government too had decided to impose partial curfew, they said. “Under these circumstances, the directive of the State Project Director of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan that teachers be present in schools to receive the Vidya Kanuka material from May 3 is causing worry,” they said. In some districts, the complexes housing upper primary schools did not have additional rooms to store the material, they said. In such cases, permission should be given to store the material in the high schools located nearby, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/halt-distribution-of-school-kits-utf/article34486056.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revive distribution of ration in State: TDP||TDP MLC P. Ashok Babu has asked the State government to revive the distribution of essential commodities under the public distribution system immediately for the benefit of the poor who have been struggling to make ends meet due to the second wave of COIVD-19. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday, Mr. Ashok Babu stressed the need for resolving the problems of the ration vehicle operators and dealers. Finding fault with the government’s approach, he said that not even 10% ration was distributed so far. The free ration announced by the Centre had been stopped for the last three days, he alleged. “The door delivery programme has badly hit over 30,000 ration dealers,” he said. The government had spent Rs. 539 crore for procuring the mobile dispensing units. Another Rs. 230 crore was being paid as wages. “These unemployed youth have been turned into workers meant for handing over ration to the beneficiaries. They have been on strike for the last four days demanding COVID insurance, vaccine, masks and sanitisers,” the TDP leader said. As the ration dealers were stripped off their work to pave way for the door delivery system, they were not ready to take part in distribution during the pandemic. “The dealers are threatening to go on strike if the government pressurises them to distribute ration. They are upset as their login access has been removed ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revive-distribution-of-ration-in-state-tdp/article34485967.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh seeks justice for APPSC candidates||Extending his support to the APPSC candidates who are alleging discrepancies in the conduct of the examinations, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary N. Lokesh has demanded that the State government must respond to the grievances. He also warned of agitation, if the concerns of the candidates are not addressed. Mr. Lokesh, in his tweets on Tuesday, said that huge discrepancies in the conduct of the APPSC examinations held last year were brought to his notice. He said the government should take note of the ‘undue haste in adopting a digital evaluation.’ “No trial was conducted and the candidates were selected arbitrarily. No arrangements were made prior to the examinations for digitisation,” he alleged. The TDP MLC further said that it was not just about the fate of more than 6,000 candidates, but about the credibility of the system that selects the future administrators. “The APPSC and the government must take immediate steps to correct the glitches in the evaluation method that have been brought to their notice,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-seeks-justice-for-appsc-candiates/article34485970.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Covishield second dose special drive today||In a special drive, the State government will provide the second dose of Covishield vaccine to protect against COVID-19 on Wednesday to those who have already received the first dose of the vaccine. In a release, District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that the drive would be conducted simultaneously at 140 session sites, mostly Primary Health Centres, across the district. He said only people aged above 45 who got the first dose at least 40 days ago could get the second dose on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covishield-second-dose-special-drive-today/article34486053.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Darshan timings at Durga temple changed||Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam has decided to restrict darshan timings in view of the second wave of COVID-19. Kanaka Durga temple Executive Officer D. Bhramaramba, in a statement on Tuesday, said that the darshan timings would be from 6.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. in view of the curfew imposed by the government. The curfew would be enforced from 12 noon onwards. Temple priests, however, would perform all rituals as per regular schedule. The arjita sevas would be performed in the name of devotees if necessary tickets are purchased. In another release, Patha Sivalayam authorities said the darshan timings would be from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/darshan-timings-at-durga-temple-changed/article34485334.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan, Naidu mourn freedom fighter||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday expressed grief over the passing away of Pavuluri Sivaramakrishnaiah, freedom fighter and social reformer, and conveyed his condolences to the family. Telugu Desam Party national president N Chandrababu Naidu expressed his grief over the demise of Sivaramakrishnaiah. Sivaramakrishnaiah was an inspiration for the present generation as well for his Gandhian philosophy, Mr. Naidu said. He was known as ‘rythu bandhavudu’, Mr. Naidu said. Rajya Sabha member Sujana Choudary said that Sivaramakrishnaiah went to jail many times during the freedom struggle and hailed his services to the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-naidu-mourn-freedom-fighter/article34486054.ece
05 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurious sanitisers seized, one arrested||The One Town police conducted a raid on a fake sanitiser unit in Old City, and arrested a man named Deepa Ram, said to be the kingpin. West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) K. Hanumantha Rao said police intercepted Deepa Ram during a regular vehicle check while he was carrying fake sanitiser bottles. Later, police raided the manufacturing unit and the godown and found fake labels, bottles and other material. An investigation is on, the ACP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spurious-sanitisers-seized-one-arrested/article34485340.ece
05 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily wagers return to their villages ahead of partial curfew||The partial curfew, being imposed by the State government from April 5, has evoked mixed response in the city. While most people say that it is necessary to halt the second wave surge at least to some extent, a few feel that though it is necessary, it would deprive daily wage earners of their livelihood. A large number of daily wage workers from the rural areas of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, living in the city, started leaving for their native places in RTC buses from the Dwaraka Bus Station (DBS) Complex on Tuesday. Hailing from Ichchapuram, Tekkali and Palasa in Srikakulam district and from Bobbili, Parvathipuram and Gummalakshmipuram in Vizianagaram district, many of them work at construction sites or as workers in hotels and daily wage earners in the city. They were seen at the RTC Complex with their trunk boxes and sacks full of luggage. They believe the lockdown (curfew) from 12 noon to 6 a.m. from Wednesday would deprive them work. “The general feeling among government employees is that partial curfew is important as it will help in breaking the chain. The common public do not seem to understand the seriousness of the problem and are not listening to appeals from doctors and officials to maintain social distance, use masks properly and to sanitise their hand frequently. They will listen only when strict orders are passed and implemented,” said an official, who did not want to be named. Office-goers, who do not have personal vehicles, wondered as to how they would return home from work as there would be no autorickshaws and RTC buses from 12 noon onwards. Others feel that they could form car pools or travel with their colleagues on motorcycles. “We will know the benefits after implementation of the curfew. The infection is spreading rapidly and affected persons may have problems in moving to the testing centres and collection of test reports,” says the general secretary of Praja Arogya Vedika T. Kameswara Rao. The patients are turning super spreaders due to delays in the issue of test reports. The testing centres should be increased for quick issue of test results, he said. “The operation of city buses will be only from 6 a.m. to 12 noon from Wednesday. The guidelines are yet be received regarding other services,” said an RTC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-wagers-return-to-their-villages-ahead-of-partial-curfew/article34486062.ece
05 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure oxygen storage points are near hospitals: Collector||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has directed the official concerned to ensure that the oxygen storage points are near the hospitals. The Collector reviewed the oxygen supply issues, COVID-19 admissions and conduct of tests at a review meeting through teleconference from the Collectorate on Tuesday. He directed the General Manager of the District Industries Centre (DIC) Ramalinga Raju to ensure that the storage points were close to the hospitals. He said that the Central government has sought proposals for the setting up of oxygen plants and directed the Andhra Pradesh Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) Executive Engineer D.A. Naidu to prepare the proposals for setting up of oxygen plants near the CSR Block of KGH, VIMS, Chest Hospital, Anakapalle Area Hospital and at Narsipatnam, Araku, Paderu and at Gayatri, GITAM and NRI Medical Colleges. Mr. Vinay Chand directed the officials to ensure early completion of the building being constructed near the Government Hospital for Mental Care for arranging COVID beds there as it already has pipes for supply of oxygen.  Daily requirement The planning should be done so that each plant could meet the needs of two or three hospitals. He also discussed on the way forward to set up an oxygen plant to meet the needs of hospitals in the Health City at Arilova. He enquired from the Drugs Control Administration Assistant Director K. Rajitha on the supply of oxygen to rural areas and the average daily requirement of oxygen. ‘Procure materials’ He enquired from the officials on the availability of COVID-19 materials like gloves, N 95 masks, PPE kits, NIV masks and surgical masks. He directed the Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar and District Medical and Health Officer P. Suryanarayana to make arrangements for purchase of materials in accordance with the guidelines. District Rural Development Agency Project Director Visweswara Rao and Arogyasri Coordinator Rajesh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-oxygen-storage-points-are-near-hospitals-collector/article34486065.ece
05 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1,976 new COVID cases, 9 deaths||The district recorded over 1,900 cases and nine deaths for the second consecutive day. On Tuesday, as many as 1,976 positive cases were recorded taking the total cases to 87,512 and active cases to 14,116. The district also recorded nine deaths taking the total toll to 644. A total of 986 persons were discharged, taking the total discharges to 72,752.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-1976-new-covid-cases-9-deaths/article34486069.ece
05 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Raipur, Puri-Gunupur special trains cancelled||Due to steep rise in coronavirus infection leading to poor patronisation, train no. 08417/ 08418 Puri-Gunupur-Puri special trains are cancelled. Train no. 08417 Puri- Gunupur special train is being cancelled with effect from May 5 and 08418 Gunupur- Puri special train will be cancelled with effect from May 6, according to the Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. In view of safety-related modernisation works, bridge rebuilding works in Sambalpur Division of East Coast Railway, 08528 Visakhapatnam-Raipur special, leaving Visakhapatnam on May 5, and 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam special, leaving Raipur on May 5 are cancelled. Modernisation works Public are requested to bear with the administration as these modernisation works are essential for safety enhancement and passenger comfort. The railways have decided to run 06216 Mysuru – Danapur one-way summer special express. Train no. 06216 Mysuru – Danapur summer special express, will leave Mysuru at 11 a.m. on May 6 (Thursday) and will reach Danapur at 8:45 p.m. on May 8 (Saturday) for one trip only. The one way special will have halt at Visakhapatnam – 19:55/20:15 hrs (on May 7) and Khurda Road – 01:40/01:50 hours, Bhadrak – 05:43/05:45 hours(on May 8) over East Coast Railway. The train will have a composition of 20 coaches comprising 14 Sleeper coaches, four Second Class coaches and two Second Class Luggage-cum-Brake-Vans. In view of the increasing cases of COVID-19 and to contain the spread of the infection, railways has decided to reduce the number of the services of 06597/ 06598 Yesvantpur-Howrah-Yesvantpur special trains to three trips only. Earlier these trains were announced to run from April 22 to June 29 but now it has been decided to run for only three trips. Train no. 06597 Yesvantpur-Howrah special train will run on May 6 and 06598 Howrah-Yesvantpur special train will run on May 11 (Tuesday) with the existing stoppages and composition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-raipur-puri-gunupur-special-trains-cancelled/article34486057.ece
05 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourist places in Agency to be closed from today||Integrated Tribal Development Agency(ITDA) Project Officer Venkateswar Salijamula has announced that tourist places in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district will be closed from May 5 in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Dr. Venkateswar said that the entry of tourists at Giri Grama Darshini at Peda labudu in Araku Valley mandal, Tribal Museum at Araku, Padmapuram Gardens, Chaparai Waterfall in Dumbriguda mandal and the Kothapalli Waterfall in G. Madugula mandal have been stopped. He directed the officials concerned not to allow tourists. He also advised the people of the Agency areas to observe social distance and to invariably wear a mask when going out of their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourist-places-in-agency-to-be-closed-from-today/article34486063.ece
05 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City police gear up to enforce restrictions||The city police are all set to impose the restrictions from Wednesday, according to the orders issued by the State government, in wake of the surge in COVID -19 cases. According to the orders, Cr Pc Section 144 will be imposed from 6 a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 12 p.m., movement will be restricted. Only shops selling essential supplies will be allowed to open after 12 p.m. and movement of people will be restricted, said Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha. Employees working in the Central Public Sector Units (CPSU) and the State government sector, essential services and IT and ITES will be allowed to move and they have to carry their ID cards. Notices have been served on owners of super markets and grocery stores to observe COVID protocol and engage security guards to control panic buyers. Special watch will be kept at wine shops, chicken and fish markets.For contact-less policing, CC TV and drones will be used during the peak hours to monitor crowd and traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-police-gear-up-to-enforce-restrictions/article34486070.ece
05 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health assistant, son killed in road accident||An health assistant and his eight-year-old son were killed in a road accident at Mudigunta in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The police said the accident occurred when health assistant M. Ravi Kumar and his son were coming from Chintapalli on a motorcycle. An unidentified vehicle hit the motorcycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-assistant-son-killed-in-road-accident/article34486064.ece
05 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo closed till further orders||In view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic situation, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park here will remain closed from May 4, until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-closed-till-further-orders/article34486066.ece
05 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HSL’s gesture||Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), has contributed Rs. 10 lakh from its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), for setting up of a dedicated 500-bed COVID hospital in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. The HSL is also supplying oxygen cylinders to the designated COVID hospitals, as referred by the district administration. The first lot of 50 cylinders has been supplied to Siddhartha Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hsls-gesture/article34486067.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stocking up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stocking-up/article34486073.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Everyday sight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/everyday-sight/article34486052.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur judge dies of COVID at 51||Principal Senior Civil Judge of Anantapur P. Tirumala Rao (51) died of coronavirus infection on Tuesday. Tirumala Rao was admitted to the KIMS Saveera COVID Hospital in Anantapur a week ago and breathed his last while undergoing treatment. Hailing from Vuyyuru in Krishna district, Tirumala Rao had worked as a judge since 2004 in Mehboobnagar, Nandyal, Kuppam and Tanuku. He was posted to Anantapur District Court some three years ago. A divorcee, Tirumala Rao is survived by a son. He took part in Lok Adalats in Anantapur and lent helping hand to the District Legal Services Authority programmes. During the Anantapur District Court centenary celebrations on March 28, Tirumala Rao played a key role in the event organised in strict adherence to COVID19 protocols .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-judge-dies-of-covid-at-51/article34485330.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dangerous practice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dangerous-practice/article34485337.ece
05 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Diversion of Remdesivir alleged||The Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam, the 200-bed major public healthcare facility in Telangana’s tribal heartland, has been rocked by allegations of large-scale diversion of COVID-19 anti-viral drug Remdesivir to private hospitals in the undivided Khammam district. The scam has come to light after two aggrieved persons approached the officials concerned seeking action against those involved in the sale of Remdesivir injections from the drug stocks allotted to the Government Area Hospital in the black market at an exorbitant price a few days ago. Taking a serious note of the alleged racket involving the diversion of the essential drugs used in the treatment of COVID-19 patients, a host of Adivasi organisations wanted the district authorities to order a CB-CID probe into the whole episode to unravel the role of the culprits behind the scam. Based on the complaint by two aggrieved persons, the Bhadrachalam police registered a case and initiated a detailed investigation last week. During the course of investigation, the police found that Dr Krishna Prasad, a contract doctor working in the COVID ward of the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam, was allegedly involved in the diversion of Remdesivir injections to his private hospital in the temple town, police sources said. Bhadrachalam town police also booked two others including the hospital superintendent and a pharmacist in connection with the case. The police on Monday arrested Dr Krishna Prasad on charges of “diversion” of COVID-19 anti-viral drugs from the government area hospital. The police are yet to establish the exact volume and value of the COVID-19 drugs diverted. It was suspected that the accused diverted several vials of Remdesivir injections by manipulating the records and sold them in the black market at an exorbitant price to make a quick buck by exploiting the pandemic situation, sources added. Krishna Prasad was booked under the IPC and the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, for admitting COVID-19 patients at his private hospital, which was not notified as COVID hospital, Bhadrachalam Circle Inspector of Police T Swamy said. “We will examine the drug stock records at the area hospital and also check with the agency concerned on the exact quantity of COVID-19 drugs supplied to the hospital in recent weeks, the Circle Inspector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/diversion-of-remdesivir-in-bhadradri-alleged/article34485874.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Admit only moderate and severe patients’||Private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients have been directed to admit COVID-19 patients with moderate and severe symptoms only. Mild and asymptomatic cases having oxygen saturation at room air of more than 94% are recommended to be kept in home or institutional isolation in COVID Care Centres, said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao in guidelines issued recently. “All private hospitals are further directed to keep a display board at the entrance, furnishing updated details of availability of regular beds, oxygen beds and ICU beds (ventilator/CPAP) on real-time basis,” Dr Srinivasa Rao said. The senior official advised them not to wait or ask for COVID test result to admit patients with moderate or severe symptoms. The guidelines have been issued in the wake of a sharp surge in cases over the past few weeks. As cases continue to increase in the State, there will be more severe cases. This means an increasing number of people would need critical medical attention. The State government has opened COVID Care Centres, which are listed according to districts in the daily media bulletin. Besides, some major corporate hospitals have started isolation or quarantine facilities at hotels. People who can spend high amounts and wish to stay away from family after testing positive for the virus are opting for the service. If mild and asymptomatic cases occupy beds in hospitals, it becomes challenging to arrange one for patients with moderate and severe symptoms. In fact, as major government and corporate hospitals are full, attendants of severe COVID-19 patients have been posting SOS messages across social media platforms for leads on bed availability. In desperation, many people make the rounds of several hospitals within a matter of hours, hoping to find a bed for someone requiring critical care. Citizens and health volunteers have pointed out that the State government website ‘health.telangana.gov.in’ does not have dynamic data on bed status. Displaying bed status outside hospitals could be of some help, they believe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/admit-only-moderate-and-severe-patients/article34485849.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS leaders slam Eatala for his outbursts||A day after former minister Eatala Rajender trained his guns directly on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao following an inquiry ordered by the government into the alleged encroachment and land-grabbing by the former, senior Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders have come down heavily against their former colleague. Minister Koppula Eshwar said Mr. Rajender had himself admitted that he (his family concern) had purchased assigned lands and endowments lands in Achampet-Hakimpet and at Devarayamjal, respectively, and when the government had ordered a probe he was unable to digest it and crying hoarse. “Rajender joined the party (TRS) in 2003, two years after its formation, and was given ticket to contest 2004 Assembly elections. His contention that he was not given respect in the party is completely false. His allegations against the party and its leadership amount to violation of party discipline in spite of given respect and recognition from day one”, Mr. Eshwar said. Stating that Mr. Rajender had benefited in different ways, Mr. Eshwar faulted the former’s purchase of assignment lands for his business interests. Only the government had the right to resume (acquire) assigned lands in large public interest and others were not entitled to do that. He stated that Mr. Rajender was in discontentment for the last four years. Another Minister Gangula Kamalakar accused Mr. Rajender of being a “wolf in sheep’s clothing” as he never worked for the Backward Classes but tried to gain personally in their name. He went to late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy for his Devarayamjal lands but not for any scheme for BCs, Mr. Kamalakar said and alleged that Mr. Rajender had tried to send leaders of Huzurabad into other parties. There was also no truth in Mr. Rajender’s allegation that even Ministers were ill-treated in Pragathi Bhavan. Instead, the fact was that the Chief Minister would spend long hours with them at review meetings. Vice-Chairman of the Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar said Mr. Rajender’s spitting venom against the party that had given political life to him was condemnable. He said TRS had given Kamalapur constituency to Mr. Rajender on a platter as Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) had won ZPTC, MPP seats even before he joined it. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had given floor leadership to Mr. Rajender twice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-leaders-slam-eatala-for-his-outbursts/article34485866.ece
05 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Help continues, second year in a row||The nearly half an hour conversation is interrupted by calls that come in requesting help — for food and oxygen cylinder refills. Jeevan Kumar, Hyderabad-based actor and chef who had helped with relief work in summer 2020 when the pandemic first struck India, is back in action, with support from friends and well wishers. In April last week, as COVID-19 cases continued to rise, he announced on Instagram (@jeevankumar.a) that he is ready to do his bit to help. Co-owner and chef at Charcoal BBQ, Madhapur, Jeevan and his friends helped provide meals for more than 2.5 lakh people in 2020, when lockdown had unsettled migrant labour and daily wage earners. As lockdown restrictions eased, essentials were also distributed to the needy. With the learnings from 2020, and knowing that the second wave is bringing in further challenges, Jeevan decided to streamline the method of relief work, with the help of a four-member team. A dedicated e-mail address (jeevankumarhelpline@gmail.com) was created and requests for help are vetted by Jeevan’s sister Deepika: “Anyone who needs help or knows someone who needs help can e-mail us. We verify the patient’s name, address and medical reports and provide free food for those who require it. Deepika keeps tabs on the emails and tries to respond within 20 to 30 minutes,” says Jeevan. Before film shootings were stalled owing to the second wave, Jeevan acted in a few Telugu films including Pushpa and Virata Parvam and says his earnings are now used for the relief work. “I worked in a cruise line before I turned an actor. So I have friends in other countries, who also pitch in with financial help,” he adds. Jeevan’s team has tied up with a few kitchens. He says: “As a chef, I am particular about hygiene. I visited these kitchens before partnering with them.” He intends to continue providing free food for COVID-19 affected people as long as he can. Requests also keep pouring in for locating hospital beds and refilling oxygen cylinders. Keeping tabs on government dashboards and through his contacts, he directs people to hospitals where beds are available. Oxygen challenge Jeevan admits that helping with oxygen is proving to be a challenge: “With the help of my friend Abhinav Chitneni of RGA Industrial and Specialty Gases, I was able to help a few people. I am worried that I will end up getting 10 times more requests than I can fulfil and the guilt of being unable to help will give me sleepless nights.” On what prompted him to help those in distress, Jeevan reflects, “I lost my mother at a young age and had my share of struggles. I know the value of food. With difficulty, I did a hotel management course. I became a transformed person after I worked in director Tharun Bhascker’s films. He, his wife Lata and mother Geetha are my backbone. They motivate me to keep doing the good work and offer their continuous support.” Jeevan has acted in films such as Ee Nagaraniki Emaindi, Falaknuma Das , Saaho and Meeku Maathrame Cheptha , among other projects.  I lost my mother at a young age and had my share of struggles. I know the value of food... As a chef, I am particular about hygiene. Jeevan Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/help-continues-second-year-in-a-row/article34485855.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||At 59 deaths, daily toll hits new record||The State recorded 59 COVID-19 deaths on Monday, the highest daily toll since the outbreak of the pandemic. The number of coronavirus-related fatalities, according to official figures, was in single digit since October 8 last year, but that changed post April 15 as the second wave of the pandemic started to intensify. From April 26, more than 50 deaths a day had become the norm, barring on May 2, when it stood at 49. The total number of deaths in the State is 2,476. Meanwhile, daily testing continues to be below the 80,000-mark since April 28. On Monday, a total of 70,961 samples were examined, leading to the detection of 6,876 new infections. With the results of 3,864 persons awaited, the test positivity rate for the day hovered around 10%. The highest of 1,029 cases were detected in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 502 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 402 in Nalgonda and 387 from Rangareddy. The lowest of 29 cases were logged in Narayanpet while Medak posted 30 infections. So far, the State has tested more than 1.31 crore samples, and the overall case tally stands at 4,63,361. The number of active cases came down marginally from more than 80,000 in the past few days to 79,520 on Monday with 7,432 persons recovering, putting the total recoveries at 3,81,365.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/at-59-deaths-daily-toll-hits-new-record/article34485846.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gig workers raise alarm||Gig workers have raised an alarm in Hyderabad after the reported death of five drivers due to SARS-CoV2 over the past few days. “Md Mustafa Hussain died on April 26 at TIMS, Gachibowli he was aged about 48 he leaves behind wife and four girls. Who will now take care of the family that lives in Amberpet,” asks Shaik Salauddin of Telangana Gig and Platform Workers Union. The Telegram groups that most drivers and gig workers use for communication are abuzz with reports of drivers and delivery executives testing positive for the Covid-19. Till May 4, five cab drivers succumbed to the disease while 549 drivers have tested positive and 311 delivery executives have tested positive. Caught between zero earnings, backlog of Equated Monthly Instalment payments for vehicles and serious illness, the families of app-based cab drivers are staring at economic ruin and social distress. “Today is the 10th day my husband is in ICU at a private hospital. I have already paid Rs. 3.5 lakhs at two hospitals by borrowing money. I don’t know where to turn,” says B. Saroja, whose husband who drives a cab for both Uber and Ola, is on a ventilator at medicare facility near Kukatpally. “My family is taking care of our 9 and 11 year old girls,” says Saroja tearing up with helplessness. One Uber partner even shared his plight on Twitter by tagging Uber boss Dara Khosrowshah. "@dkhos I am Uber driver partner name Gaurav from New Delhi, India. Sir, I am suffering from Covid. I tested positive on April 22. As Uber policy says there is financial help for drivers for 14 days if found Covid positive. I mail, tweet, message and call but no response from Uber team (sic),” In April 2020, Uber had announced a policy change to help drivers during the Covid-19 pandemic. “We’ve waived lease rentals, facilitated Equated Monthly Instalment relief, and offered driver partners access to online medical services, such as DocsApp, at no charge. Additionally, will be rolling out a Hospital Cash Insurance policy to benefit driver partners, and cover COVID-19 and other illnesses that need hospitalisation, for up to 14 days,” said a release by Uber India in April 2020. But on the ground, the drivers are being left to fend for themselves. The drivers’ union is demanding a fixed daily compensation of Rs. 1,175 to those who contract the disease. Pay the driver’s hospital expenses if they are hospitalised due to Covid-19 complications. Provide PPE kits to all drivers, including sanitisers, disinfectants and screens between the driver and passenger in the vehicle as developed for vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gig-workers-raise-alarm/article34485876.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination of 18+ citizens in TS inordinately delayed||If you are 18 or older and eager for COVID-19 vaccination, be prepared to wait longer. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has said that vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years shall be taken up in due course of time and informed accordingly. Health officials, however, are yet to give even an idea of the expected date from which jabs will be administered to the target beneficiaries. Dr Srinivasa Rao said that private COVID vaccination centres shall be permitted to inoculate only for those aged 45 years and above. He has issued ‘Guidelines on COVID-19 vaccination at private COVID vaccination centres for 45-years and above’, and a press note on Tuesday where he detailed conditions for the immunisation drive and vaccine procurement by private players, among other details. Last month, the officials informed private centres that the State government will stop supplying the doses to them from May 1. Now the onus of procuring the vaccine doses is on the private players. “The private vaccination centres are required to procure vaccines on their own, directly from the manufacturers,” the Director of Public Health stated categorically in the press note. No walk-ins The senior official reiterated that walk-in registrations for COVID-19 vaccination will not be allowed. People aged 45 years or above have to register and book slots on Co-WIN portal. “Vaccination will not be administered for those who don’t pre-book a slot. Beneficiaries will not be entertained offline,” he stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-of-18-citizens-in-ts-inordinately-delayed/article34485850.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Busy April for NGO with over 2,500 calls seeking COVID care||Hyderabad-based NGO Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), which has been running tele-medicine services for COVID-positive persons in home isolation, received more than 2,500 calls last month for help with care. The organisation also provides doorstep delivery of health resources such as oxygen and nursing care. Of the total calls, 70% were from Hyderabad and the remaining from other districts of Telangana. From the State capital, over 45% calls related to requirement for oxygen cylinders, 5% for Remdesivir injections for patients admitted to hospitals, and rest for online consultation.  HHF members clarified that they do not deliver Remdesivir injections. In fact, senior officials of the State Health department and medical experts have been stressing that Remdesivir is used indiscriminately in some cases, and that doctors have to evaluate its need before prescribing it. While requests for oxygen and Remdesivir to HHF were negligible from other districts in early part of April, they steadily increased towards the month-end.  “Over 200 patients have received free oxygen supplies. Nursing care at home was provided to patients for help with administering injections and IV fluids apart from monitoring vitals,” a HHF member said. ‘95% responding well’ Around 95% patients in home isolation care are responding well and are on path of recovery, the volunteers said, adding that around 2% were critical and were hospitalised. “It is beyond doubt that the virus has behaved differently in the core city when compared to districts,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari of HHF. Their helpline numbers are 78931-91193 , 87906-79505 and 73864-94043.    Over 200 patients have received free oxygen supplies. Nursing care was provided to patients for help with giving injections. A HHF volunteer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/busy-april-for-ngo-with-over-2500-calls-seeking-covid-care/article34485851.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FDC to provide 1k tonne wood for cremation||The Forest Development Corporation has come up with a unique proposal for contributing its share in providing relief to the families of victims of COVID-19 pandemic. Amid reports on the overcrowding of cremation grounds and shortage of wood required for performing the last rites, the corporation has announced that it will donate 1,000 tonne wood available in its possession for those in need. The announcement made on humanitarian grounds provides relief to families of victims who are finding it hard to perform the last rites of the deceased in a traditional manner. The corporation had in its possession 1,000 tonne wood that was left over with it after catering to the requirements of paper mills and other industries. Forest Development Corporation chairman V. Pratap Reddy said the decision has been taken in the light of reports over shortage of wood faced by the people as well as incidents of exorbitant charges levied by the dealers who were trying to cash in on the situation. The quantum of wood pledged by the corporation would cost more than Rs. 20 lakh and steps would be taken to provide the required quantity to the cremation grounds in and around the Greater Hyderabad limits in coordination with the Municipal Administration authorities. According to the officials, the department had in its possession 350 tonne wood in Rangareddy division, Khammam-Sattupalli-Aswaraopet-Bhadrachalam division (400 tonne), Mancherial-Kagaznagar (860 tonne) and Warangal division (200 tonne). The department would start moving the required quantity to the cremation grounds in GHMC limits initially and this would be followed by the dispatches to other areas. Local lorry owners associations had also come forward to help the department in shifting the commodity, he said adding people could contact the concerned Municipal authorities to secure the timber required by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fdc-to-provide-1k-tonne-wood-for-cremation/article34485861.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Resume all assigned lands: Jeevan Reddy||Senior Congress leader and Member of the Legislative Council T. Jeevan Reddy has demanded that the State government resume all assignment lands which were either encroached upon by others or in the possession of persons or entities other than beneficiaries or their heirs and redistribute them among Dalits. A large of extent of such lands were transferred (sold) to others illegally and the encroachment of assigned lands had increased after the issuance of new pattadar passbooks, the MLC said, speaking to reporters here on Tuesday. Recalling that distribution of land to Dalits was launched by Indira Gandhi, he said such lands were being transacted illegally. Stating that the government has every right to resume assigned lands On Devarayamjal lands, the Congress leader said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao appears to have resolved to target Eatala Rajender by showing encroachment and land-grabbing as the reasons. He sought to know in whose possession were over 900 acres of Endowments lands if Mr. Rajender was in possession of 600 acres. He alleged that most of the remaining lands were in the possession of other TRS leaders. He asked the government to protect the Endowments lands and questioned why the State government had failed to invest judicial powers in the Wakf Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/resume-all-assigned-lands-jeevan-reddy/article34485868.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Campaign to identify new cases||Teams of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation have started testing people for coronavirus (COVID-19). As many as 641 teams of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and the Health department conducted door-to-door campaign in the GHMC limits to check for COVID-19 symptoms on Tuesday. The teams comprised an ANM, ASHA worker and members from the entomology wing of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation . The teams equipped with thermo scanners visited over 40,000 houses and identified 1,487 people with ever-related symptoms. The team members supplied COVID-19 management kits to over 1,400 patients and took steps to ensure that the health conditions of people suffering from fever were monitored on a daily basis. The teams took up measures for sanitation like spraying of anti-larval chemicals in suspected areas. The drive followed the State government’s instructions for setting up outpatient services in health institutions, including urban health centres and basti dawakhanas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/campaign-to-identify-new-cases/article34485871.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Hospitals seek clarity||Heads of most corporate hospitals in Hyderabad said that they were expecting COVID vaccine doses in one or two weeks. They have been trying to procure the doses at least as people who took the first dose at private hospitals have questioned why was second dose not kept in reserve. There were een constant enquiries. “It would have been better if some channel was established for all the hospitals to place the orders. Now, we are on our own,” said head of a corporate hospital. “We are hoping to get some doses in two weeks,” said the chief executive officer (CEO) of another corporate hospital in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospitals-seek-clarity-on-vaccine-supply/article34485856.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM tests negative for COVID-19||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has completely recovered from the coronavirus (COVID-19) impact. The Chief Minister had been in isolation in his farm house at Erravelli ever since he tested positive for the virus. A team of doctors headed by his personal physician M.V. Rao conducted tests on the Chief Minister on Tuesday and declared that Mr. Rao had tested negative. The team confirmed that the Chief Minister had tested negative for both Rapid Antigen Test and the RTPCR tests late on Tuesday evening. The blood reports of the Chief Minister were also declared normal, the doctors’ team said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-tests-negative-for-covid-19/article34485870.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Second Oxygen Express brings four more tankers||The South Central Railway (SCR) second ‘Oxygen Express’ to Hyderabad reached Sanathnagar goods complex bringing 60.23 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) filled in four tankers on Tuesday. These tanks were earlier sent in empty condition from here on April 29 to Angul, Odisha for a distance of 1,334 km in a short period of around 31 hours, with the train travelling at an average speed of 43 kmph from its starting station. A green corridor route has been arranged for uninterrupted movement of these oxygen special trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-oxygen-express-brings-four-more-tankers/article34485860.ece
05 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Oxygen sought for patient||Close associates of a 74-year-old woman patient suffering from shortness of breath took to Twitter on Tuesday night with a fervent appeal to the authorities concerned for replenishing the fast-exhausting oxygen stocks in a private hospital in the town, where the ailing elderly woman was admitted. They identified the woman as Akhtar Jahan, an inpatient at Orange hospital, Wyra road, Khammam. They tweeted a message quoting the hospital staff saying oxygen supply would last till 1 am and urged all the concerned to intervene to ensure continued supply of high flow of oxygen to the 74-year-old woman. However, officials were not available for comment. Earlier in the day, the CPI (ML-ND) district committee sought urgent steps to replenish oxygen stocks in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oxygen-sought-for-patient/article34485869.ece
05 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||No major trees chopped off by Jamuna Hatcheries!||Are there no major violations as far as forest land is concerned by Jamuna Hatcheries owned by family members of former health minister Eatala Rajender at Achampet and Hakimpet in Masaipet mandal? Yes was the answer from sources in the district administration who want not to be identified. It was alleged that Jumuna Hatcheries had encroached upon assigned lands in these two villages and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao directed Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to get report from the Collector on the allegations. Medak Collector A. Harish, in his report submitted to the State government on May 2, stated that “It is observed that 66.01 acres of assigned land in survey numbers 97 of Hakimpet village and survey numbers 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82 and 130 of Achampet village as shown in annexure enclosed has been illegally occupied and the same Jamuna Hatcheries Limited has constructed certain sheds and buildings and also roads were laid for the same purpose. District Forest Officer, Medak, has submitted that a katcha road was formed and many trees were many trees were felled without any permission. Hence, detailed enumeration of trees felt will be taken immediately and legal action will be taken against the responsible persons as per Forest Conservation Act – 1980.” However, some officials from the district stated that there were no major violations as far as forest department was concerned. “The hatchery was located adjacent to forest area and it looks as if it was constructed in forest area. As per directions of the Collector we have conducted a survey and it was not forest area. All the activities are out side of the forest. Cart- road, already laid and being used, was a little bit expanded on either side. No aged trees were chopped by the Jamuna Hatcheries while laying the road. Only bushes, shrubs and poll trees were removed. We have applied Water, Land and Trees (WALTA) Act. We will impose a fine and issues notices for the company,” said the officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-major-trees-chopped-off-by-jamuna-hatcheries/article34485880.ece
05 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Partial voluntary lockdown in Medak town||Though the State government has been indecisive in imposing lockdown to check the corona pandemic, the local bodies become pro-active and were taking decision. For instance, for the second time, the Medak Municipality has decided to impose voluntary partial lockdown for one week from May 5 to May 11. During these week days shops will remain open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. All traders and other businessmen were asked to follow the instructions without fail. The Medak town followed the same restrictions after passing a resolution from April 28 to May 4. “Only one person from one home should come out for any emergency with mask. Action will be taken against those who violate the norm under prescribed Act,” said a release by Chandrapal, chairperson of the municipality. Narayanakhed Municipality also passed a resolution to impose restrictions for one week from May 3. However, the decision was cancelled as per directions of the Collector. According to sources, the municipality of Andol- Jogipet also passed a similar resolution. However, when one shop was opened, municipal officials reportedly misbehaved and manhandled shop-owner, creating an embarrassing situation there by forcing municipal officials to change the decision. On the other hand, the border checking with Karntaka has increased. “We are checking at borders and not allowing people from the neighbouring State to enter. The number of cases has relatively come down. Night curfew is being imposed strictly. People from the villages who come here will leave by the evening as they have to reach destinations. The town will be calm by 8.30 p.m.,” said Ravinder Reddy, Circle Inspector, Narayanakhed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/partial-voluntary-lockdown-in-medak-town/article34486013.ece
05 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||All meetings cancelled in Sangareddy||In view of the corona pandemic, district Collector M. Hanumantha Rao declared that all the meetings were cancelled with immediate effect. In a release here on Tuesday, Mr. Hanumantha Rao said all public meetings, village panchayat meetings, general body meetings of local bodies and public hearings stood cancelled till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/meetings-cancelled/article34485872.ece
05 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two sarpanches suspended||Taking serious view of illegal constructions in the district, Collector M Hanumantha Rao suspended A Krishna and Fayim, sarpanch and vice- sarpanch of Kishtareddypet in Ameenpur mandal, D Narasimhulu and N.M. Shivakumar of sarpanch and vice-president of Indresham village in Patancheru mandal. Village secretaries of the two villages were already suspended. The Collector said they were suspended for six months from their positions as they had encouraged illegal constructions in these villages. At Kishtareddypet 62 illegal constructions were identified and 24 were demolished. Similarly, 10 illegal constructions at Indresham out of 56, four illegal constructions at Patelguda were demolished, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-sarpanches-suspended/article34485873.ece
05 May 2021||V. GeetanathHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Universal vaccination, expediting first dose drive need of the hour||Public health experts are now pressing for a ‘Universal COVID vaccination drive’ just like the universal immunisation drive for childhood immunisations like DPT, measles and polio to quickly contain the transmission spread and vaccinate more people. About 140 million doses were administered but we don’t know what proportion of the population has been vaccinated as the strategy was to offer the vaccine to priority groups. But, “in the face of a horrendous second wave gripping the country a strategic plan is necessary to quickly immunise the vulnerable, high-risk groups and others to control deaths and transmission”, asserted Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad Director G.V.S. Murthy. “Even a single dose gives an efficacy of 65-70% within 2-3 weeks of the vaccine dose and this will quickly bring down the susceptible pool of potentially infected people. So, the first dose should be administered at the earliest to flatten the curve quickly,” he said, in an exclusive interaction on Tuesday. “I call this a ‘minesweeper strategy’ where you systematically search every inch of an area for landmines. It will be an effective way of dealing with ‘COVID mines’ especially when we don’t know where they are located and whom they are potentially infecting each time they breathe, eat or interact with,” he explained. Evidence available shows that if 70% of the population is vaccinated, the risk of COVID transmission can be reduced significantly to manageable levels. This cannot be achieved by fragmented vaccination campaigns mounted from hospital set-ups, hence the urgent need to quickly devise strategies to deliver vaccines at ward or village level, said the director. COVID vaccines can be stored at 4-8 degrees Celsius and are already been used to transport in vaccine carriers used for childhood vaccinations. “We will know who are the people getting vaccinated and what percentage of population is getting covered. Social leaders and local volunteers can list out 18+ people in their areas along with AADHAR numbers and share the same with the designated vaccinators for their area,” he suggests. Vaccinators can be from the government but hospitals desirous of making a difference can be subsidised for their efforts to help cover more people. “This will also reduce wastage as the beneficiaries’ number and sessions can be scheduled based on vaccine availability. First it should be for population aged 30+ and once stocks are available, others can be covered another day. The campaign can be started in different zones of cities/ towns/ villages at the same time so that there is no discrimination in vaccine access,” explained Dr. Murthy. Such an approach will reduce crowding at vaccine centres which otherwise can be hubs of transmission without adequate distancing or protection. Since many are currently working from home, staggered vaccination timings will also reduce crowding, he said and affirmed that vaccines used across the globe have “dramatically reduced mortality and severe COVID”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/universal-vaccination-expediting-first-dose-drive-need-of-the-hour/article34485858.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU teachers urge administration to set up COVID care facilities for staffers||In wake of the rising number of cases and a lack of resources, several teachers of the Delhi University have urged the administration to set up COVID care facilities for staffers. While a few colleges have taken up initiatives to create COVID Care Centres and facilities, several professors and teachers’ bodies have been demanding that the health centres of the university be converted into COVID facilities. The Laxmibai college, which had set up a COVID Care Centre last week, from Tuesday began a facility to get RT-PCR tests done. Two booths at Laxmibai College principal Pratyush Vatsala said: “We have begun sample collection booths at the college. One such booth is inside the premises — to be availed by college staff and volunteers working at the COVID Care facility. Another one is set up outside the gate — this will help those from the neighbouring areas.” The COVID Care Centre inside the facility, which started with 50 beds last week, can be expanded depending on the availability of medical staff, Ms. Vatsala said. “The facility is completely free and with the help of NGOs, we have the provision of oxygen cylinders. Patients are not asked to arrange for anything themselves. This facility has been set up in collaboration with the North West district administration and was mostly because of initiatives taken by residential societies,” she added. Urging the DU administration to upgrade the VP Chest Institute as a COVID facility, the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA), had on April 27, said: “This expansion will be of great help to the university community. It will be unfortunate if teachers and their families have to wait to get relief in these difficult times.” Speaking to The Hindu , DU Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi said he had communicated the issue to the Union Health Minister. “There are already 11 doctors, who are COVID positive, at VP Chest institute. I have even spoken to the Health Minister about creating the facility. However, there are a few facilities in Laxmibai college and Deen Dayal Upadhayay college — both functional at the moment.” Shriram Oberoi, a retired DU professor, said: “The university can utilise the resources it already has, including health centres and sports complex to set up isolation facilities at least. Where are the thousands of staff members supposed to go in times of need?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-teachers-urge-administration-to-set-up-covid-care-facilities-for-staffers/article34485603.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Moolchand nurse, three others arrested for selling Remdesivir at Rs. 70K each||Four persons, including a nurse at Moolchand hospital and another employee at IHBAS, have been arrested for allegedly stealing unused Remdesivir injections and selling them at Rs. 70,000 each. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Guriqbal Singh Sidhu said the accused have been identified as Lalitesh (24), a nurse at Moolchand Hospital, Vipul Verma, record clerk at IHBAS, Vishal Kashyap, and Shubham. Acting on a tip-off, a trap was laid near Haiderpur Bus Stand and Vipul was arrested. Other three were held subsequently. Lalitesh was deployed in the COVID ward of the hospital and used to procure unused Remdesivir injections of patients after they would get discharged. She would show that they have been used. Following this, she would give the injections to her former classmate Shubham, who further sold it with the help of his accomplices — Vishal and Vipul. 7 injections recovered The police claimed to have recovered seven injections from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/moolchand-nurse-three-others-arrested-for-selling-remdesivir-at-rs-70k-each/article34485598.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||100 persons arrested for COVID-19-related crimes||The police on Tuesday said they have registered 113 FIRs in connection with COVID-related malpractices with the arrest of 100 persons. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said out of 113 FIRs, 61 cases pertain to cheating and fraud in the name of providing COVID medicines or oxygen etc while 52 cases pertain to black-marketing, hoarding or overcharging. The police said, in the last two days, they have identified 200 mobile numbers, 95 bank accounts, 33 UTR and 17 UPI/Wallet involved in this crime. They said in coordination with National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) and I4C of MHA, they have managed to stop a few transactions as well. They said their cyber unit has aligned with Cyber &Information Security Division of the Ministry of Home Affairs or a pilot project to create an integrated platform for law enforcement agencies and financial intermediaries like banks, wallets, merchants etc. for real-time incident reporting, transmission, escalation, estoppels and resolution. Victims have to call on the helpline number — 155260 — to report fraud and then formally lodge a complaint within the next 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/100-persons-arrested-for-covid-19-related-crimes/article34485595.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||L-G seeks report on steps to ensure COVID norms||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday directed the Divisional Commissioner and Delhi Police Commissioner to review the COVID situation in the Capital on a daily basis. The L-G also directed them to submit a consolidated report regarding steps taken to ensure COVID-compliant behaviour in the city to him every day with a copy to the Chief Secretary by 7 p.m daily. He told them to take “all-out measures” for the effective implementation of the COVID lockdown in the city. “The L-G is of the view that strict enforcement of curfew regulations/guidelines is the key to break the transmission chain of virus and to reduce COVID-19 cases in Delhi,” a government official said. “Commissioner Police and Divisional Commissioner have been asked to take all-out measures for the implementation of the curfew order in letter and spirit, strengthen and upscale the entire enforcement efforts with an objective to ensure that the residents of Delhi follow and imbibe COVID-appropriate behaviour,” the official also said. The Chief Secretary, according to the official, has also been requested to monitor the overall situation on a regular basis and issue appropriate directions, if required, to the District Magistrates and District DCPs for strict compliance with the L-G’s directions.  Commissioner Police and Divisional Commissioner have been asked to take all-out measures for the implementation of the curfew order Government official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/l-g-seeks-report-on-steps-to-ensure-covid-norms/article34485599.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Schemes related to children, pregnant, lactating women must remain functional’||The Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan (DRRAA) on Tuesday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, demanding that all schemes related to children, pregnant and lactating women should remain functional and be considered essential services. In view of several children being affected by COVID, the DRRAA has also demanded that there should be a special mechanism in place to track children who test positive, test their families and provide care. In its letter to Mr. Kejriwal, the DRRAA said: “Children who need institutional care should be identified proactively and ensured access. This can be done in coordination with the child welfare committees and Anganwadi centres and monitored by Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights [DCPCR]. Masks should be distributed in the communities and the message needs to be given that even children need to wear mask.” The DRRAA also said growth monitoring, identification and follow-up of severely malnourished children must continue and depending on the local situation, a provision for cooked meals that are delivered at home be made available. Additionally, the DRRAA also suggested that mohalla clinics should be converted into vaccine centres with priority given to adults in households with children and pregnant women. Group on vaccination Stating that the Anganwadi workers and helpers must be provided with safety and sanitisation kits, the DRRAA said: “Full vaccination [both doses] of all front-line workers must be ensured as soon as possible. ASHA, Anganwadi workers and helpers should receive an additional payment for their work during this period as they are underpaid and not considered full-time employees.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/schemes-related-to-children-pregnant-lactating-women-must-remain-functional/article34485602.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||Centre’s stand sought on PIL on GNCTD Amendment Act||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to reply on a PIL for striking down the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Amendment Act, which increases powers of the Lieutenant Governor. An HC Bench issued notice to the Ministries of Law and Home Affairs, seeking their stand on the plea. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma and Central Government Standing Counsel Ajay Digpaul accepted the notice on behalf of the Ministries. The plea by law student Skrikant Prasad has claimed that the Act, which came into force on April 27, “re-defines Delhi government as the Lt Governor” and curbs the Delhi Assembly’s power to conduct proceedings. “Further, the Act provides that the opinion of the L-G must be obtained before taking any executive action on decisions of the Delhi government, on such matters as may be specified by the LG,” the petition claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-seeks-centres-stand-on-pil-to-strike-down-gnctd-amendment-act/article34485594.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU suspends online classes till May 16||The Delhi University on Tuesday suspended online classes till May 16 in view of the surge in COVID cases across the country. Surge in cases The university issued a notification saying: “In view of sudden surge in COVID-19 cases, the online teaching shall remain suspended till May 16 in the departments and colleges of the university.” Earlier, several students and teachers’ bodies had urged the university to suspend online classes and postpone examinations in view of the second COVID-19 wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-suspends-online-classes-till-may-16/article34485604.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Blaze at city’s COVID facility||A fire broke out at a COVID facility in Vikaspuri on Tuesday night, said DFS. A fire official said a call was recieved at 11.01 p.m. regarding the fire at UK Nursing Home. He said: “Eight fire tenders were pressed into service. No casualties reported. All patients rescued safely.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/blaze-at-citys-covid-facility/article34485834.ece
05 May 2021||Noida,||Fire breaks out in Noida slum||A fire broke out Tuesday in a slum in Noida where firefighting is under way, said officials. The police said they were alerted about the fire in Sector 50 at 8.30 p.m. and officials from the Sector 49 police station were immediately deployed. “The chief of the Fire Department along with his teams also rushed to the site where firefighting is under way,” an officer said at 9 p.m. There was no report of any casualty, the officer added.  The chief of the Fire Department and his teams rushed to the site where firefighting is under way Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fire-breaks-out-in-noida-slum/article34485833.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Death and despair as finding ambulances remains an ordeal||After a 30-year-old resident of Ashok Vihar lost his parents — in a span of a few hours — he had to go through an ordeal arranging for ambulances, said his cousin Kriti Sharma. Ms. Sharma, from north Delhi, said her 62-year-old aunt’s oxygen started dropping in the last week of April and she needed an ambulance to be taken to a hospital. “There were no beds available in any hospital and we had to physically check a few hospitals,” she said. A group of eight cousins started gathering information on ambulances on Twitter, Instagram and Google and were frantically dialing numbers. ‘Govt. helpline busy’ “We first tried government helpline ‘108’ but it was busy all along. Then we tried private ambulances operators, but they said they need confirmation on the exact drop location. At this point when no hospitals are admitting, how could we tell?” she said. Eventually, her cousin —the aunt’s son — decided to take her to a private nursing home, using his own vehicle. The facility agreed to admit her. However, the facility allegedly told them that they should take her home because she needs an ICU, which they didn’t have after which the family arranged a BiPAP machine. But “my aunt died in a couple of hours. Thankfully, the private nursing home where she had been earlier taken arranged for the ambulance to take her body to cremation ground”. The next morning, when Ms. Sharma’s cousin went into his father’s room to wake him up, he found that he had died. He died in his sleep, the family believes. But arranging an ambulance to take his body to cremation ground was “unimaginably tough”. Ambulance asks for Rs. 1L “While making calls, one of the private ambulance companies asked for Rs. 1 lakh to transport the body from Ashok Vihar to Punjabi Bagh. We were shocked and obviously refused. Most denied us. Finally, one of my father’s contacts helped us,” she said. But two women, Ms. Kriti said, got lucky last Thursday when the 108-helpline number responded to their call. The women were transported to hospitals and got admission without any hiccups. Another 26-year-old resident of south Delhi and member of a citizen support group, who has been trying to arrange resources for people in Delhi, said one of her friend’s father from Vasant Kunj was to be transported to Punjab because of the unavailability of beds in city hospitals. Admission out of city “Can’t remember the number of calls made for this case, but nothing worked. We are finding it extremely tough to arrange ambulance within city...out of State ambulance became impossible,” she said, adding that the friend’s father got lucky because one ambulance from the Punjab hospital had come to Delhi after a patient’s discharge. “But he had to wait 12 hours for the ambulance to take him. Anything could have happened in that period,” she said. Sharing another experience, she said another friend’s father’s oxygen levels dropped to 70 and he had to be rushed to a Lok Nayak Hospital, but it took them three hours to find an ambulance. “All the numbers we tried either denied availability or asked more than Rs. 25,000. Finally, the company — my friend works at — arranged an ambulance at Rs. 15,000. We agreed to it as he needed to be hospitalised immediately,” she said. After losing his brother, Anil Kumar from Central Delhi was informed by the hospital in Nangloi on Saturday night that they had to move the body from the facility. “We were clueless on what to do...where would we keep the body all night? The hospital gave us a number of an ambulance driver, who asked for Rs. 20,000 to keep the body all night. According to guidelines, the hospital has to arrange the disposal of bodies, but they put everything on us,” he said. Eventually, the hospital agreed to keep the body for the night and charged Rs. 7,000 to transport the body from the hospital to cremation ground. “The ambulance driver took Rs. 1,000 extra to take the body out of the car and keep it on the pyre,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/death-and-despair-as-finding-ambulances-remains-an-ordeal/article34485597.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Early summer vacation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/early-summer-vacation/article34485601.ece
05 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Deaths no less than ‘genocide’: Allahabad HC||Deaths of COVID-19 patients due to lack of supply of oxygen to hospitals “is a criminal act and not less than a genocide by those who have been entrusted the task to ensure continuous procurement and supply chain of the liquid medical oxygen,” the Allahabad High Court said on Tuesday while asking the district administration in two districts in Uttar Pradesh to verify reports of shortage of oxygen in hospitals. “How can we let our people die in this way when science is so advanced that even heart transplantation and brain surgery are taking place these days,” the court further asked. A division bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar made the observations while taking note of the death of five patients in the ICU of the new trauma centre of Medical College Meerut last Sunday and reports of two hospitals, one each in Meerut and Lucknow, allegedly taking their hands off the admitted COVID-19 patients only for the reason that they did not get oxygen supply despite demanding it. “We find these news items showing a quite contrary picture to one claimed by the Government that there was sufficient supply of oxygen,” the court said. The judges also noted the “stories of hoarding of oxygen cylinders and harassment meted out to those poor citizens who were begging for an oxygen cylinder to save the life of their near and dear ones” by the police and district administration. The court directed the district magistrates of Meerut and Lucknow to enquire into the reports within 48 hours and submit their reports on the next day, May 7.  CCTV footage The court also directed the State Election commission to produce the CCTV footage of the designated counting areas and centres in Agra, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gautam Buddha Nagar during the counting for the panchayat polls, which concluded on May 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/deaths-no-less-than-genocide-allahabad-hc/article34485836.ece
05 May 2021||Mumbai,||Create paediatric care ward: Aaditya||As Maharashtra shows signs of plateauing of COVID-19 cases, the civic administration in Mumbai has been directed to start preparations anticipating the third wave of the novel coronavirus, with a special focus on paediatric wards. Mumbai (city) Guardian Minister Aaditya Thackeray said that he was in discussions with the civic administration to “prepare for third wave capacity building in Maharashtra”. “I have suggested to him that we create a paediatric COVID-19 care ward anticipating the next wave and the demographic it may target. Along with paediatric covid care centre, another aspect we are now focussed on is to create a network of crèches for those parents who may have to be in covid care centres and may not have support to look after their children, that aren’t infected by covid,” Mr. Thackeray wrote on Twitter after meeting additional municipal commissioner Subodh Jaiswal of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The minister added that the civic administration as well as the State government were focused on increasing COVID-19 care capacity. Shiv Sena Lok Sabha member Rahul Shewale too has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Chief Minister, requesting them to seriously look into the growing infection in children below 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/create-paediatric-care-ward-aaditya/article34485353.ece
05 May 2021||Mumbai,||HC seeks medical report of Stan Swamy on May 15||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to submit the medical report of Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, on May 15. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing an appeal filed by Fr. Swamy against the rejection of his bail by the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on March 22 and the rejection of his interim medical bail plea on October 22, 2020. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, representing Fr. Swamy, told the court that his client had been in jail since October 8, 2020, and that he had been arrested two years after a raid was conducted in his house in Ranchi. Mr. Desai said even the charges against his client had not been framed yet. The court enquired if all the medical papers had been submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-seeks-medical-report-of-stan-swamy-on-may-15/article34485355.ece
05 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||No home isolation for 50+ patients||As more than 80% of COVID-19 fatalities are in the 50-plus age group, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has decided to not let such patients remain home isolated. The task force set up by the civic body had a detailed discussion with doctors on various issues related to COVID-19 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-home-isolation-for-50-patients/article34485350.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Getting around 40% of oxygen demanded from Centre: govt.||The Delhi government said it was getting an average of 40% of the total demand of oxygen for the Capital from the Central government in the first oxygen bulletin that it released on Tuesday. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha, releasing the bulletin, said: “We need 976 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, while what we received on Monday from the Centre was only 433 MT. This is only 44% of what we need and what we have demanded from them.” He added that over the past seven days, the average oxygen supply received by the city is 393 MT against the demand of 976 MT which is 40% of the total demand. ‘By hook or by crook’ Sharing details about how the government was trying to overcome the shortage of oxygen through better management so that no lives are lost, Mr. Chadha said that on Monday, the government responded to 41 SOS calls, which were raised through various mediums, including social media, phone calls, and helplines from hospitals, and ensured that oxygen was supplied to all of them by “hook or crook”. “We have made a few SOS reserves, through which we supply the oxygen to those hospitals who are on the verge of exhaustion. Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) is supplied through oxygen tankers to large-scale hospitals. In small-scale hospitals, which have fewer than 50 beds and can suffice with oxygen cylinders, we supply the big D-type oxygen cylinder in an adequate amount. This lets them comfortably overcome the crisis and emergency situation and ensure that the proceeding supply is made regular,” Mr. Chadha said. On Monday, he said the 41 hospitals that raised an SOS had 7,142 patients on oxygen support beds and 21.3 MT of oxygen was supplied from emergency reserves. Utmost transparency The government, he said, had decided that it was necessary to put out all the figures with utmost transparency in front of the people. “[Like] The amount of oxygen we received in the past week, the number of SOS calls we addressed, and how we are actually dealing with them on a 24x7 basis through adequate communication, facilitation of oxygen, and successfully tackling the concerns of people,” he said, adding that the oxygen bulletin is an attempt to make every detail public. Mr. Chadha said the gap of 56% between demand and supply in oxygen supply still exists, and the faster we bridge it, the quicker the SOS calls will decrease. He added that the shortage of oxygen in the city was coming in the way of setting up more oxygen beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/getting-around-40-of-oxygen-demanded-from-centre-govt/article34485508.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||Low oxygen supply and stock continue to cripple hospitals||At least three hospitals raised alarms over low oxygen stock on Tuesday while other hospitals too are facing difficulties in getting enough oxygen. Triton Hospital, which has about 10 babies in the NICU, said at 9.30 a.m. they only have one backup oxygen cylinder left. “We have 10-12 babies in the NICU and almost all of them require oxygen. Currently, we have only one backup cylinder left, apart from the one connected to the central oxygen system. For the past one week, every day has been like this and we have to send SOS to get oxygen,” said Dr. Deepali Gupta. The hospital later got three type D cylinders from the government, but they were unable to fill their cylinders. “Right now we have oxygen to last till around 12.30 a.m. We are yet to get more cylinders and we are in touch with the authorities. But we are really hoping that the system of oxygen supply gets streamlined soon,” said Ritu Gupta, a hospital official, said at 8.30 p.m. The oxygen stock of Madhukar Rainbow Children’s Hospital will last only till 11 p.m. on Tuesday, as per the hospital. “We have about 80-100 patients including 18 newborns, of which four are on ventilator and need constant oxygen supply. They won’t survive without oxygen. Our stock will last only for another hour and we are in touch with the Delhi government for oxygen,” said Dinesh Vashist, vice president (operations) of the hospital. Fortunately, the hospital received oxygen supply after 11.30. The city has received a slightly better oxygen supply on Tuesday, compared to Monday, said the Delhi government spokesperson. “Most hospitals are running on a minimum of two hours and a maximum of eight hours of oxygen. But none of the hospitals have backup oxygen stock for 2-3 days, which is actually required,” the spokesperson said. Unceasing troubles Around 1 a.m. on Tuesday, the Indian Spinal Injuries Centre (ISIC) raised an alarm that the lives of 160 COVID-19 patients were at risk. The hospital later got the oxygen supply at 2 a.m., but by Tuesday evening they were still struggling. “In the morning, around 9 a.m., we received another oxygen supply, which will finish by 12 in the night. Till now we haven’t received any supply. It’s a daily struggle to get oxygen,” a hospital spokesperson said. Other hospitals are also facing difficulties but said the condition is slightly better. “We are also facing difficulties and the oxygen supply is not smooth. Sometimes we have to reduce admissions in our hospitals,” an official of Max Healthcare said. At the same time, an oxygen plant donated by France has been installed at the COVID Care Centre in CWG Village, due to which more people were taken in. The current occupancy of patients at the CCC is 175 and the govt. is waiting for more oxygen supply to increase it to 500 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/low-oxygen-supply-and-stock-continue-to-cripple-hospitals/article34485512.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||CM announces free ration to cardholders||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that the Delhi government will provide free ration to all the 72 lakh ration cardholders of the Capital for the next two months. He also announced that the government will provide financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to every auto and taxi driver in the city like last year, wherein 1.56 lakh drivers had received one-time financial assistance. During a digital press briefing, he said: “We have taken two major decisions. Firstly, free ration will be provided to the around 72 lakh ration cardholders of Delhi for the next two months. One should not assume that the lockdown will continue for the next two months. Let us hope that the cases begin to decrease and the lockdown is lifted early.” He harped on the financial implications of the lockdown. “To deal with COVID-19, we have imposed a lockdown in Delhi and this was essential to curtail the number of cases and to break the chain. We’re well aware that any lockdown creates a financial crisis for people, especially for the poor. It hits the daily wage workers particularly hard following which it becomes difficult for them to run their homes,” he said. Last week, Mr. Kejriwal also said, the Delhi government had made a special announcement for labourers regarding depositing Rs. 5,000 each in their accounts and this had been done. The government, he said, had also announced that it would help those labourers falling ill and whose RT-PCR reports turned out positive. Taking undue credit All the same, the Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri accused Kejriwal of misleading the people regarding the free ration scheme, saying it was announced by the Modi government last week. “The Chief Minister needs to clarify that this free ration scheme is a centrally sponsored scheme and if the Delhi government was giving anything else apart from this, it needs to be made clear,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-announces-free-ration-to-cardholders/article34485510.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||Examine plea on politicians procuring Remdesivir: HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the police to examine the instances of politicians allegedly procuring and distributing Remdesivir, used for treating COVID-19 patients, in the national capital and take steps for lodging of FIR in case of offence. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the court was not inclined however to direct any enquiry proceedings by the CBI at this stage into these allegations. “However, in relation to instances falling within the jurisdiction of this court, we direct the petitioner to place his grievances before the Commissioner of Delhi Police who shall examine the same and respond to the petitioner,” the Bench said. It added that in case commission of an offence is found to have taken place, the police shall take steps to register an FIR and asked Delhi Police to file a status report within a week and listed the matter for further hearing on May 17. The High Court was hearing a PIL seeking lodging of an FIR and CBI investigation into politicians being able to procure and distribute Remdesivir, even as patients were running from pillar to post to get the medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/examine-plea-on-politicians-procuring-remdesivir-hc/article34485504.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||DRDO plants at RML Hospital, AIIMS to be ready by today||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is setting up Medical Oxygen Plants (MOP) at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital and will be ready by Wednesday evening. These are the first two of the five MOPs to be established in Delhi and Haryana within this week. “The installation of the MOP at AIIMS and RML Hospital has already started and is likely to be completed by tonight [Tuesday night],” a statement by the Press Information Bureau said on Tuesday. With the piping connection and testing of the plant ensured through a dry run scheduled for Wednesday, the two plants will start functioning latest by Wednesday evening, it stated. The other three plants are being installed at Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College and at AIIMS, Jhajjar in Haryana. Last week, DRDO announced that 500 MOPs would be set up across the country under PM-CARES fund within three months. The MOP is based on technology developed for onboard oxygen generation on the Light Combat Aircraft Tejas. It is designed for a flow rate of 1,000 litre per minute (LPM) and can cater to 190 patients at a flow rate of 5 LPM and charge 195 cylinders per day, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/drdo-plants-at-rml-hospital-aiims-to-be-ready-by-today/article34485513.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi to get 244 MT more oxygen: Centre||Delhi would receive 244 metric tonnes more of oxygen on Tuesday, the Ministry of Railways said in a statement. Two oxygen express trains of the Railways carrying over 244 MT of liquid medical oxygen were on their way from Hapa and Mundra and were expected to reach Delhi on Tuesday, it said. “With the arrival of two more oxygen expresses, Delhi would see nearly 450MT of LMO in 24 hours beginning early hours to May 4. Of the total 382 MT of LMO being delivered by Railways, nearly 244 MT would be meant for Delhi, which is nearly 64% of total load being delivered on Tuesday,” it said. In addition, Telangana received its second oxygen express from Angul carrying 60.23 MT LMO and Lucknow would receive 79 MT from Bokaro on Tuesday, it said.  “It is Indian Railways endeavour to deliver as much LMO as possible in the shortest time possible to the requesting States,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-to-get-244-mt-more-oxygen-centre/article34485505.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Free ration scheme came too late, says Congress||Responding to the Delhi government’s announcement to give a two-month free ration to cardholders, the Delhi Congress on Tuesday said that the announcement was too little and had come too late. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that the Delhi government’s belated announcement to give a two-month free ration to cardholders would keep out more people than those who benefit. He demanded that the Delhi government provide free ration irrespective of any document to those in need. He alleged that in the Capital, only 72 lakh people have ration cards and that more than 54 lakh people’s applications for new ration cards have been pending with the government for the past six years. Ground reality He said that the government should understand the ground reality where millions have lost jobs, daily wagers have nothing left to feed their family. “Lakhs of people have been severely affected by the sudden unplanned lockout that was put in place as the government was solely responsible for the lack of planning to deal with the sudden spike in the number of infections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/free-ration-scheme-came-too-late-says-congress/article34485506.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||Brief||Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) depots will store oxygen cylinders to be supplied to COVID patients in home isolation as well as in case of an emergency at hospitals in their vicinity, transport department said in an order on Tuesday. As many as 20 cylinders will be stored at a DTC depot in each district to begin with and the number of cylinders will increase over the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/brief/article34485503.ece
05 May 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 case positivity rate down, says Tope||Stating that there had been a decline in COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said that the State’s case positivity had come down from 27% to 22% without any change in the high number of samples being tested daily. Mr. Tope said that the State had the highest recovery rate — above 85% — in the country. “While 15 districts, including Mumbai and areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region like Thane, are seeing a decrease in daily cases, others like Satara, Kolhapur, and those in Marathwada and Vidarbha are showing an upward trend,” he said. Mr. Tope also said that the State government was in talks with the manufacturer of Russian vaccine Sputnik V to negotiate a purchase price. Commenting that Maharashtra’s high sample testing number remained unchanged, the Health Minister said, “Our daily test figures range between 2.5 lakh and 2.8 lakh samples of which RT-PCR (lab technique) accounts for 65% and rapid antigen tests are conducted for the rest.” Mr. Tope said that the shortage of Remdesivir would be addressed soon with the State expecting around 3.5 lakh vials. “We are also expecting 20,000 oxygen concentrators…it is the Chief Minister’s fervent wish that the State be self-sufficient in oxygen generation before we are hit by a ‘third wave’,” he said. Stating that vaccine shortage remained a critical problem, Mr. Tope said nine lakh vaccine doses of Covishield were received on Tuesday for the 45-plus age group. Mr. Tope said that the State had also managed to vaccinate nearly one lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group since the third phase commenced on May 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-covid-19-case-positivity-rate-down-says-tope/article34485352.ece
05 May 2021||Pune,||Kolhapur goes under 10-day lockdown||The Kolhapur district in Maharashtra will go under a stringent 10-day lockdown from May 5 in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases in western Maharashtra, Guardian Minister Satej Patil said on Tuesday. All shops, grocery stores, business establishments and other enterprises, barring medical stores and milk booths, would remain completely shut in Kolhapur, authorities said. Meanwhile, a seven-day lockdown began in the neighbouring Satara district on Tuesday, which has been reporting more than 2,000 cases and 40 deaths daily. Police were seen confiscating vehicles of errant citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kolhapur-goes-under-10-day-lockdown/article34485354.ece
05 May 2021||Washington,||FDA to approve shot for adolescents||The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is set to approve the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech two-dose mRNA COVID-19 vaccine for adolescents aged between 12 and 15 years, according to reports in the American press. The roll-out could begin as early as next week. More than 131 million shots of the Pfizer vaccine have been used to date in the U.S., and the extension to adolescents could assist with school re-opening later this year. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine — one of two mRNA vaccines (the other is from Moderna) that have Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) fin the U.S. for use in people 16 years and older — is likely to be cleared for EUA for adolescents as early as this week, as per reports, which were based on comments from FDA officials. The day after the FDA’s expected approval, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will likely meet to give the vaccine the go-ahead for use in adolescents, the New York Times reported. The FDA declined to put a timeline to the approval. “The FDA’s review of Pfizer’s request to amend its emergency use authorisation (EUA) in order to expand the age range for its COVID-19 vaccine to include individuals 12-15 years of age is ongoing,” Stephanie Caccomo, an FDA spokesperson, said, as per the Washington Post . Of 2,260 adolescents who participated in a Pfizer clinical study, none who were fully vaccinated got COVID-19, compared to 18 cases in the group that got placebos, the company had reported in March. Less susceptible While children can get COVID-19, data available over the past year indicates that they are significantly less susceptible than adults. However, the proportion of children in overall infections has been rising in the U.S., partly because older adults are getting vaccinated. Moderna is also expected to release the results of a U.S. vaccine study on 12-17-year-olds in the summer. Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech trials for children 6 months and older are also under way. Another company, Novavax, which expects to seek approval for its vaccine in the second quarter of this year, has also expanded its clinical trials to include children in the 12-17 age group. Pfizer was seeking an “expedited approval pathway” for its vaccine in India, Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said in a May 3 social media post. The vaccine is currently not approved for any age group in India.“Unfortunately, our vaccine is not registered in India, although our application was submitted months ago,” Mr. Bourla said in the post. In April, the government relaxed conditions for foreign vaccine use in the country, by permitting foreign vaccine manufactures to conduct clinical trials in India within 30 days of being given EUA (rather than before the fact). Pfizer announced in February that it had withdrawn an earlier application for EUA in India where it had not met the drug trial requirements in place at the time .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fda-to-approve-shot-for-adolescents/article34485225.ece
05 May 2021||Washington,||Biden quadruples Trump refugee cap after backlash||President Joe Biden formally raised the nation’s cap on refugee admissions to 62,500 this year, weeks after facing bipartisan blowback for his delay in replacing the record-low ceiling set by former President Donald Trump. Refugee resettlement agencies have waited for Mr. Biden to quadruple the number of refugees allowed into the United States this year since February 12, when a presidential proposal was submitted to Congress saying he planned to do so. But the presidential determination went unsigned until Monday. Mr. Biden said he first needed to expand the narrow eligibility criteria put in place by Mr. Trump that had kept out most refugees. He did that last month in an emergency determination. But it also stated that Mr. Trump’s cap of up to 15,000 refugees this year “remains justified by humanitarian concerns and is otherwise in the national interest”, indicating that Mr. Biden intended to keep it. That brought sharp pushback for not at least taking the symbolic step of authorising more refugees to enter the U.S. this year. The second-ranking Senate Democrat, Dick Durbin of Illinois, called that initial limit “unacceptable” and within hours the White House made a quick course correction. The administration vowed to increase the historically low cap by May 15 — but the White House said it probably would not hit the 62,500 mark Mr. Biden had previously outlined. In the end, Mr. Biden returned to that figure. Mr. Biden said he received additional information that led him to sign the emergency presidential determination setting the cap at 62,500. “It is important to take this action today to remove any lingering doubt in the minds of refugees around the world who have suffered so much, and who are anxiously waiting for their new lives to begin,” Mr. Biden stated before signing it. He said Mr. Trump’s cap “did not reflect America’s values as a nation that welcomes and supports refugees”. But he acknowledged the “sad truth” that the U.S. would not meet the 62,500 cap by the end of the fiscal year in September, given the pandemic and limitations on the country’s resettlement capabilities — some of which his administration has attributed to the Trump administration’s policies to restrict immigration. The White House insisted it was unable to act until now because the administration was being taxed by a sharp increase in unaccompanied young migrants from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras arriving at the southern U.S. border, though any link between the border and the government’s decision on refugees was not immediately clear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-quadruples-trump-refugee-cap-after-backlash/article34485222.ece
05 May 2021||London,||G7 seeks common front on China||The Group of Seven wealthy democracies on Tuesday discussed how to form a common front towards an increasingly assertive China in the Foreign Ministers’ first in-person talks in two years. Backing U.S. President Joe Biden’s calls for a deeper alliance of democracies, host Britain invited guests, including India, South Korea and Australia, for talks in central London stretched out over three days. After a welcome dinner on Monday focused on the nuclear programmes of Iran and North Korea, the Foreign Ministers opened formal talks at Lancaster House, a West End mansion, welcoming one another with COVID-friendly elbow-bumps and minimal staff. The G7 devoted its first session on Tuesday to China, whose growing military and economic clout and willingness to exert its influence at home and abroad have increasingly unnerved Western democracies. “It is not our purpose to try to contain China or to hold China down,” U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken told reporters on Monday. “What we are trying to do is to uphold the international rules-based order that our countries have invested so much in over so many decades to the benefit, I would argue, not just of our own citizens, but of people around the world — including, by the way, China.” Mr. Blinken pledged “robust cooperation” with Britain in pressuring China over the Xinjiang region, where Beijing’s incarceration of one million Uighurs and other Muslims has been labelled genocide by Washington, and over a clampdown against civil rights in Hong Kong. ‘Respect commitments’ British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab called for “holding Beijing to the commitments that they’ve made”, including on Hong Kong, which was promised a separate system before London handed over the colony in 1997. But in line with the Biden administration, which has shifted the tone if not substance of former President Donald Trump’s hawkish stance on China, Mr. Raab also called for “finding constructive ways to work with China in a sensible and positive manner where that’s possible” — including on climate change. “We want to see China stepping up to the plate and playing its full role,” Mr. Raab said. The nations of the G7 — which also include Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan — mostly share concerns about China but some have different approaches. Japan has historic tensions with China but has held off on joining Western nations with sanctions, wary of inflaming relations with its trading partner. Italy has been seen as one of the most Beijing-friendly nations in the West, in 2019 signing up for the Belt and Road Initiative. But Rome joined EU peers in March in summoning the Chinese Ambassador in a row triggered by concerns over treatment of the Uighurs.  The Ministers later held a session on the spiralling crisis in Myanmar and were also due to discuss Russia, Libya, Syria, and climate change among other topics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/g7-seeks-common-front-on-china/article34485218.ece
05 May 2021||Mexico city,||23 killed, 79 injured in Metro overpass collapse in Mexico||An elevated section of the Mexico City Metro collapsed and sent a train plunging toward a busy boulevard late on Monday, killing at least 23 persons and injuring nearly 70, city officials said. Rescuers initially searched a carriage left dangling from the overpass for anyone who might be trapped. Those efforts were suspended early on Tuesday, however, because of safety concerns for those working near the precariously dangling carriage. A crane was brought in to help shore it up. “We don’t know if they are alive,” Mayor Claudia Sheinbaum said of the people possibly trapped inside the carriage following one of the deadliest accidents for the city’s subway system, which is among the busiest in the world. Earlier Ms Sheinbaum said one person had been pulled alive from a car that was trapped on the road below. She said 49 of the injured were hospitalised, and that seven were in serious condition and undergoing surgery. “There are unfortunately children among the dead,” Ms. Sheinbaum said, without specifying how many. The overpass was about 5 meters above the road in the borough of Tlahuac, but the train ran above a concrete median strip, which apparently lessened the casualties among motorists on the road below. “A support beam gave way” just as the train passed over it, Ms. Sheinbaum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/23-killed-70-injured-in-metro-overpass-collapse-in-mexico/article34485223.ece
05 May 2021||Cairo,||Egypt buys 30 Rafale fighter aircraft from France||Egypt’s military has confirmed that it ordered 30 Rafale jets from French defence firm Dassault Aviation to shore up “national security”. The order, which follows the 2015 purchase of 24 Rafale jets, will be financed through a 10-year loan, the military said in a statement late on Monday. Investigative site Disclose had reported earlier on Monday that the order was part of a secret mega-defence deal worth almost four billion euros. Egypt is the world’s third biggest arms importer after Saudi Arabia and India, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Its arms purchases grew by 136% over the last decade and it has diversified its sourcing beyond the United States, buying military equipment from France, Germany and Russia, the institute said in a report released earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/egypt-buys-30-rafale-fighter-aircraft-from-france/article34485217.ece
05 May 2021||Kandahar,||Fighting erupts as U.S. troops start leaving Afghanistan||Thousands of Afghans were forced to flee homes as fierce fighting erupted between government forces and the Taliban in a southern province after the U.S. military began withdrawing its remaining troops from Afghanistan, officials said on Tuesday. Afghan forces pushed back insurgent attacks on multiple checkpoints in the past 24 hours in the province of Helmand, where the U.S. military on Sunday handed over a base to government forces as part of its formal pullout that began on May 1. U.S. officials on Tuesday said they had completed 2%-6% of withdrawal from Afghanistan, with the equivalent of 60 cargo planes of material so far removed ahead of the September deadline. About 1,000 families had fled their homes to escape the fighting that erupted on the outskirts of Lashkar Gah, the capital of Helmand, and other parts of the province, said Sayed Mohammad Ramin, the region’s director for refugees. He said the families had taken refuge in Lashkar Gah. Fighting also erupted in several other provinces. The U.S. has downplayed the latest fighting and said the withdrawal process was unaffected as it removes its final 2,500 troops from the country. “We’ve seen nothing thus far that has affected the drawdown, or had any significant impact on the mission at hand in Afghanistan,” U.S. Department of Defence spokesman John Kirby said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fighting-erupts-as-us-troops-start-leaving-afghanistan/article34485745.ece
05 May 2021||Berlin,||Far-right crimes spike in Germany||The number of crimes committed by right-wing extremists in post-war Germany jumped to its highest level ever recorded in 2020, according to official figures released on Tuesday. The police recorded 23,604 crimes of a far-right nature last year, a jump of over 5% on the previous year, and the highest figure since records began in 2001. “Right-wing extremism remains the biggest threat to our country," said Interior Minister Horst Seehofer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/far-right-crimes-spike-in-germany/article34485219.ece
05 May 2021||Lahore,||Devotees defy COVID-19 ban in Pakistan||Thousands of Shia Muslim devotees — many not wearing masks — gathered in Pakistan’s eastern city of Lahore for a religious procession on Tuesday, fanning fears about the spread of the coronavirus. The federal government had issued a notice banning mass gatherings commemorating the death of Prophet Muhammad’s companion and son-in-law Imam Ali, but local negotiations with religious leaders failed.  “I have attended this procession every year for as long as I can remember,” said Ali Kazmi, 28, who took part in Lahore, where officials estimated between eight and ten thousand worshippers participated. “They just try to stop Shia mourning ceremonies and processions using different excuses.” Members of the Shia sect make up around 20% of the Islamic republic’s 220 million population. Smaller processions were also held in major cities across the country.    Pakistan is struggling to contain a third wave of infections, with more than 8,00,000 cases and 18,000 deaths declared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/devotees-defy-covid-19-ban-in-pakistan/article34485220.ece
05 May 2021||Strasbourg,||Europe court backs Turkish reporter||Turkey violated the rights of a prominent journalist by denying her access to information into corruption allegations against four Ministers in the government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the European Court of Human Rights said on Tuesday. Turkish journalist Banu Guven brought the complaint to the ECHR, based in the French city of Strasbourg, after Turkish courts imposed a blackout on information about a parliamentary inquiry into the graft allegations. The allegations of top-level graft, which emerged in December 2013, were seen as a major embarrassment for then Prime Minister Mr. Erdogan. Turkish authorities dismissed the claims as a plot by U.S.-based preacher Fethullah Gulen, a former ally of Mr. Erdogan whom Ankara accused three years later of fomenting a failed coup. The ECHR found that the court injunction banning the dissemination of information over the inquiry had violated Ms. Guven’s rights to freedom of expression. The injunction “had had major repercussions on the applicant’s exercise of her right to freedom of expression on a topical issue”, it found. It “prevented Ms. Guven from enjoying a sufficient level of protection as required by the rule of law in a democratic society”, it added. It ordered Turkey to pay Ms. Guven 1,500 euros in respect of costs and expenses. “Press freedom has won!” tweeted Ms. Guven, welcoming the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-court-backs-turkish-reporter/article34485226.ece
05 May 2021||Washington,||Bill and Melinda Gates to divorce after 27 years||Billionaire philanthropists Bill and Melinda Gates said they are divorcing after 27 years of marriage, raising questions over how they will split their $130 billion fortune and the future of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bill-and-melinda-gates-to-divorce-after-27-years/article34485216.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The land of the rising sun||The Tamil Nadu voter has ushered in a change of guard. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led alliance was voted to power after 10 years of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) being the ruling party. In a largely bipolar contest, the gap between the two alliances was six percentage points. The two major alliances secured more than 85% of the votes polled. Nonetheless, the presence of two new alliances — the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK)-led alliance and the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM)-led alliance — secured between themselves 6% of the votes. The CSDS-Lokniti post-poll analysis provides some useful insights to explain the verdict of the Tamil Nadu voter. Issue-based election? Tamil Nadu has always seen the impact of the leadership factor in its elections. For the last five decades, the Dravidian politics of the State revolved around stalwarts like C.N. Annadurai, M. Karunanidhi, M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa. Other electoral issues such as unemployment, price rise and the like did not appear to directly determine voting choice in the State. This time around, while four of every 10 respondents (43%) preferred not to reveal the key factor that influenced their voting decision, development and linked issues seemed to be at the back of the mind of at least three of every 10 voters in the State (Table 2). Possibly, the absence of leader-centred politics has given way to issue-awareness.  Two-term fatigue? While there was no single issue that overwhelmingly appeared to determine voter choice, a strong anti-incumbency sentiment against the ruling AIADMK was visible. This could be garnered from the fact that close to half (49%) the respondents said they did not want to give another chance to the ruling party even as one-third (33%) were in favour of giving another chance to the incumbent government. The last time around (in 2016), the gap between those who wanted to give the ruling party a second chance and those who did not was much narrower (Table 3). The anti-incumbency sentiment could also be read from the figures of the level of satisfaction with the incumbent government. The anti-incumbency wave was clearly visible during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Measures such as the announcement of farmer loan waivers and 10.5% separate reservation for Vanniyars possibly helped to marginally reduce the anti-incumbency sentiment. The AIADMK tactfully chose to ally with the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) in northern Tamil Nadu, which helped strengthen the fight against the DMK-led alliance. As compared to the mood at the time of the last Assembly polls, there is a decrease in the level of satisfaction with the incumbent government. The net satisfaction (fully satisfied minus fully dissatisfied) was four percentage points lower than the last time around (Table 3). Data from the CSDS-Lokniti post-poll study indicates that among those who were satisfied with the incumbent government, close to six of every 10 of them voted for the AIADMK-led alliance while three of every 10 gave preference to the DMK-led alliance. On the contrary, among those who were dissatisfied with the government, close to two-thirds (63%) voted for the DMK-led alliance and less than two of every 10 voted for the AIADMK-led alliance (Table 1). Performance Voters were also asked to assess the work done by the AIADMK-led government in the last five years. Overall, people gave a mixed opinion on this. On basic infrastructure in the State, the government was rated positively. On the other hand, when it came to the condition of fishing communities, condition of farmers, job opportunities and the law and order situation, the government scored negative marks. People were asked about their opinion on the party that would be best for the betterment of Tamil Nadu on a range of indicators. Respondents preferred the DMK over the AIADMK. The Lokniti-CSDS post-poll survey has consistently sought to track the vote preference of the swing voters. This time around, more than two-fifths (42%) of the swing voters voted for the DMK-led alliance whereas a little over one-third (36%) of the swing voters voted for the AIADMK-led alliance. In the last Assembly elections, there was more or less an equal divide in the swing voters between the two major alliances (Table 4). The leadership factor Leadership appeared to have a limited role this time. The DMK alliance voters saw M.K. Stalin as the true inheritor of Karunanidhi’s legacy while in the AIADMK alliance, the outgoing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami did not get the overwhelming support of its voters as representing the legacy of Jayalalithaa. This could have been one key factor that swayed the trend in favour of the DMK-led alliance. The election results were not determined by any single electoral issue. Voters were clearly in favour of changing the ruling party. The anti-incumbency sentiment in the State was strongly visible. The rating of the government on various development indicators was not satisfactory. Thus, the victory of the DMK-led alliance had a lot to do with the anti-incumbency factor, dissatisfaction with the ruling parties’ performance, and an endorsement of Mr. Stalin by the DMK voters of being the true inheritor of his father’s legacy. P. Ramajayam is Principal and Assistant Professor at Bharathidasan University Constituent Arts & Science College, Nannilam, Thiruvarur; Gladston Xavier teaches at Loyola College, Chennai; Sandeep Shastri is Vice Chancellor, Jagran Lakecity University, Bhopal, and the National Co-ordinator of the Lokniti Network; and Jyoti Mishra is a Research Associate at Lokniti-CSDS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-land-of-the-rising-sun/article34485214.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A COVID blot on India’s foreign policy canvas||The second wave of COVID-19 and its agonising consequences, prompting the country to accept foreign aid after a gap of 17 years, is bound to have far-reaching strategic implications for India. While the world realises that India is too important to ignore, which perhaps explains the rush to help, there is little doubt that the country will not be the toast of the western world until it is able to get back on its feet. As a direct consequence of the pandemic, New Delhi’s claim to regional primacy and leadership will take a major hit, its ‘leading power’ aspirations will be dented, and accentuate its domestic political contestations. These in turn will impact the content and conduct of India’s foreign policy in the years to come. Regional primacy COVID 2.0 has quickened the demise of India’s regional primacy. Regrettably, the country’s geopolitical decline is likely to begin in the neighbourhood itself, a strategic space which New Delhi has been forced to cede to Beijing over the past decade or so, a phenomenon that was intensified by the aggressive regional policies of Modi 1.0. India’s traditional primacy in the region was built on a mix of material aid, political influence and historical ties. Its political influence is steadily declining, its ability to materially help the neighbourhood will shrink in the wake of COVID-19, and its historical ties alone may not do wonders to hold on to a region hungry for development assistance and political autonomy. As a result, South Asian states are likely to board the Chinese bandwagon, if they haven’t already. COVID-19, therefore, comes at a time when India’s standing in the region is already shrinking: the pandemic will unfortunately quicken the inevitable. In July 2015, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, who was then the Foreign Secretary, stated that India aspires to be a “leading power, rather than just a balancing power”. How will COVID-19 impact India’s great power/leading power aspirations? Being boxed in a China-dominated region will provide New Delhi with little space to pursue its regional, let alone global, geopolitical ambitions except in the Indo-Pacific region. While the Indo-Pacific is geopolitically keen and ready to engage with India, the pandemic could adversely impact India’s ability and desire to contribute to the Indo-Pacific and the Quad. COVID-19, for instance, will prevent any ambitious military spending or modernisation plans (called for in the wake of the stand-off at the Line of Actual Control (LAC)) and limit the country’s attention on global diplomacy and regional geopolitics, be it Afghanistan or Sri Lanka or the Indo-Pacific. With reduced military spending and lesser diplomatic attention to regional geopolitics, New Delhi’s ability to project power and contribute to the growth of the Quad will be uncertain. While the outpouring of global aid to India shows that the world realises India is too important to fail, the international community might also reach the conclusion that post-COVID-19 India is too fragile to lead and be a ‘leading power’. New Delhi is pivotal to the Indo-Pacific project, but with India’s inability to take a lead role and China wooing smaller states in the region away from the Indo-Pacific with aid and threats, the Indo-Pacific balance of power could eventually turn in Beijing’s favour. Domestic politics Domestic political contestations in the wake of the COVID-19 devastation in the country could also limit New Delhi’s strategic ambitions. General economic distress, a fall in foreign direct investment and industrial production, and a rise in unemployment have already lowered the mood in the country. The central political leadership, therefore, is likely to focus on COVID-19 recovery and the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2022. The U.P. election and the run up to the 2024 general election, both crucial for the Narendra Modi regime, could fan communal tensions in the country, triggering more political violence. A depressed economy, politically volatile domestic space combined with a lack of elite consensus on strategic matters would hardly inspire confidence in the international system about India. Domestic political preoccupations will further shrink the political elite’s appetite for foreign policy innovation or initiatives. Post-COVID-19, Indian foreign policy is therefore likely to be a holding operation. These strategic consequences of the pandemic will shape the content and conduct of India’s foreign policy in several important ways.  India-China equations One potential impact of COVID-19’s devastating return and the damage it has done would be that India might be forced to be more conciliatory towards China, albeit reluctantly. From competing with China’s vaccine diplomacy a few months ago, New Delhi today is forced to seek help from the international community, if not China, to deal with the worsening COVID-19 situation at home. For one, China has, compared to most other countries, emerged stronger in the wake of the pandemic. Second, the world, notwithstanding its anti-China rhetoric, will continue to do business with Beijing — it already has been, and it will only increase. Third, while one is yet unsure of the nature of China-U.S. relations in the days ahead, the rise of China and India’s COVID-19-related troubles could prompt Washington to hedge its bets on Beijing. Finally, claims that India could compete with China as a global investment and manufacturing destination would remain just that — claims. Thanks to its monumental mismanagement of the second wave, India’s ability to stand up to China stands vastly diminished today: in material power, in terms of balance of power considerations, and political will. This might require New Delhi to be more conciliatory towards China.  If the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s rather muted response to the LAC stand-off in the summer of 2020 is anything to go by, we are likely to see a conciliatory China policy from here on. Depressed foreign policy Post-COVID-19, Indian foreign policy is unlikely to be business as usual. Given the much reduced political capital within the Modi government to pursue ambitious foreign policy goals, the diplomatic bandwidth for expansive foreign policy goals would be limited, leading thereby to a much depressed Indian foreign policy. The remainder of Mr. Modi’s current term is unlikely to emerge unscathed from such acute foreign policy depression. This, however, might take the aggressive edge off of India’s foreign policy under Mr. Modi. Less aggression could potentially translate into more accommodation, reconciliation and cooperation especially in the neighbourhood, with Pakistan on the one hand and within the broader South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) framework on the other. The aftermath of the pandemic may kindle such a conciliatory tone in Indian foreign policy for other reasons as well. For one, COVID-19 has forced us to reimagine, to some extent at least, the friend enemy equations in global geopolitics. While the United States seemed hesitant, at least initially, to assist India even as the pandemic was wreaking havoc in the country, Moscow was quick to come to New Delhi’s aid. Even though New Delhi did not accept the aid offers from Pakistan and China, these offers sounded more than the usual diplomatic grandstanding that states engage in during natural calamities. The argument here is not that these will lead to fundamental shifts in India’s strategic partnerships, but that they could definitely moderate the sharp edges of India’s pre-existing geopolitical articulations. Strategic autonomy Finally, the pandemic would, at the very least indirectly, impact India’s policy of maintaining strategic autonomy. As pointed out above, the strategic consequences of the pandemic are bound to shape and structure New Delhi’s foreign policy choices as well as constrain India’s foreign policy agency. It could, for instance, become more susceptible to external criticism for, after all, New Delhi cannot say ‘yes’ to just aid and ‘no’ to criticism. A post-COVID-19 New Delhi might find it harder to resist demands of a closer military relationship with the U.S. And yet, every crisis opens up the possibility for change and new thinking. What COVID-19 will also do is open up new regional opportunities for cooperation especially under the ambit of SAARC, an initiative that already saw some small beginnings during the first wave of the pandemic. New Delhi might do well to get the region’s collective focus on ‘regional health multilateralism’ to promote mutual assistance and joint action on health emergencies such as this. Classical geopolitics should be brought on a par with health diplomacy, environmental concerns and regional connectivity in South Asia. COVID-19 may have opened precisely such an opportunity to the world’s least integrated region. Happymon Jacob is Associate Professor, Centre for International Politics, Organization and Disarmament, School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-covid-blot-on-indias-foreign-policy-canvas/article34485197.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||An issue of lives versus livelihoods||Strict to moderate lockdowns are being imposed again, this time in April 2021, terminating jobs in many an establishment employing large numbers of informal workers. Of those employed in the informal category, large numbers include migrants who face, like they did in March-April of 2020, a bleak future, with job losses, loss of rented accommodations, a lack of sustainable income and savings to ensure food, transportation back to villages or any other emergency including falling victim to COVI-19. Grim to grimmer Given their bitter experiences last year, migrants have already begun their journeys back to villages, paying exorbitant sums for their travel. Of course, no bright prospect awaits them there given the state of rural distress which initially pushed them to seek a better future in the urban areas. Nor do they expect new job opportunities, especially under shrinking National Rural Employment Guarantee Act allotments by the government. The continuing exodus unofficially records figures upward of 4 lakh (Western Railway) between April 1 and 12, while the Central Railways sent back 4.7 lakh migrants, all from Maharashtra, over the last few weeks. Such journeys will be recorded in history as those of destitution, offering no prospects of a better state. With multiple issues of serious sufferings on account of COVID-19- related distress, the country has less time to discuss the fate of these unwanted migrants on their path of reverse migration, fleeing from centres of livelihood toward dark holes of rural helplessness and poverty. To provide a narrative of who these people are, we may describe them as ‘mobile by default’, with growing rural distress and inadequate official policies failing to support the ailing rural economy. Providing a mirror image of the previous tragedy in 2020, this unwanted trek back to where they came from provides them no future worth mentioning. The conditions faced by these workers under a ‘curfew-to-lockdown’ status include the immediate termination of their livelihoods in terms of jobs, access to accommodation and near insolvency. That the situations faced by migrants are not a matter of concern in policy making is quite apparent. There has been no attempt to have an official estimate of such flows, either incoming or reverse. Nor has any thought, going by official announcements, been made visible to redress the miseries that await the returning migrants. The recent official announcement of free ration of 5 kg cereals to 80 crore families is the only sop visible so far. Questions for the state Questions abound. It may not be too far-fetched to ask if this measure of using lockdowns and curfews to save lives also, simultaneously, take away the means of livelihood for the rootless and roofless migrants. If so, what are the measures the state has offered even to redress to some degree of their sufferings? Would it not have been more fair to provide for some short-term relief for these workers and their families not wanted any more in the urban areas? One can count the impact on urban centres. The flow provided a reserve army of cheap labour waiting to be hired at wages which, often, could dip lower than the statutory minimum, especially after meeting the demands of the mediating contractor who arranged for the migration from villages. With the formal organised industry employing as many as one half or more of employees with casual or informal status, it proved rather opportune for enterprises in factories, construction sites and other labour-intensive activities to make use of these migrants in their cost-cutting exercises. On the whole, the presence of the rural migrants benefited the urban economy by providing cheap labour to manufacturing units and cheap services to households. However, these jobs provided did not entail further obligations on the part of the employers or the state, given that the ‘footloose’ migrants never had any legal status as a working population. No labour safeguards One last question. Has there been any attempt ever to ensure some legal safeguards to these people? Pieces of legislation, as available, do not provide any evidence of addressing the issue especially in the current crisis, a pattern indicative of a minimalist state with close alliances with capital in the process. The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970 conferred on casual labour a legal status by providing a mechanism for registration of contractors engaging 20 or more workers. While it was never effective, the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 has replaced all such Acts. Seeking, rather ineffectively, to regulate the health and safety conditions of workers in establishments with 10 or more workers, the Code has replaced 13 prevailing labour laws. One can raise questions as to what happened to the various laws still operative. It is thus more than obvious that none of the so-called corrective measures was of any significance in relation to what the migrants have been experiencing today since partial or total lockdowns have been imposed over the last few weeks. Can we justify the situation as a step to save lives when it does not work for large sections of migrant people who also experience a loss of their livelihoods at the same time? Could there be some safeguards for such people before sending them off to such a bleak future? Sunanda Sen is a former Professor of Economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-issue-of-lives-versus-livelihoods/article34485200.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Did last-minute sops help the AIADMK?||On February 26, the AIADMK government made a series of last-minute populist announcements. The Legislative Assembly passed a bill to provide 10.5% reservation for the Vanniyar community in education and jobs within the 20% quota for the Most Backward Classes and denotified communities. Just a day earlier, the government had decided to increase the age of retirement to 60 years for all those working in the government sector. The farming community too was wooed by the government. Following up its early February announcement of waiving outstanding crop loans of Rs. 12,000 crore, the government announced on February 26 that gold loans against up to six sovereigns given by cooperative banks to farmers and the poor would be waived. It is important to look at the impact these sops may have had on voting choices. Vanniyar quota The decision to provide 10.5% reservation for the Vanniyar community was widely viewed as a move that would help the AIADMK firm up its alliance with the PMK and strengthen its election prospects in the Vanniyar-concentrated constituencies. The Lokniti-CSDS post-poll data, however, suggest that the step may not have produced the desired results for the AIADMK, even though in overall terms more people supported the decision of the government than opposed it. Nearly half the respondents supported the government’s decision (22% fully and 28% moderately) and around four of every 10 opposed it (12% fully and 26% moderately). However, when we look at their voting preferences, we find that the AIADMK alliance did not get any major vote advantage over the DMK alliance among those who supported the quota decision (Table 1). A little less than half ended up voting for the AIADMK alliance and about four of every 10 for the DMK alliance. The AIADMK managed just a seven percentage point vote lead over the DMK among this segment. On the other hand, the remaining 50% who either opposed the quota or were ambivalent about it were more decisive in their voting preferences – 51% voted for the DMK and only 33% for the AIADMK. In fact, even among the Vanniyar community, there was no great advantage that went to the AIADMK on account of this support. This is because at least a third of the 79% of Vanniyars who supported the quota move actually ended up voting for the DMK alliance. Crop loan waiver While post-poll data indicate that the decision to waive crop and gold loans given to farmers by cooperative banks may not have improved the prospects of the AIADMK as much as it would have liked, it may have still ended up softening the farmer anger towards the ruling party. In the survey, one in every four farming households (households where a member was in the farming sector) reported having benefited from or availed of the crop or gold loan waiver (Table 2). Of them, 47% ended up favouring the AIADMK alliance and 39% preferred the DMK. It appears thus that the AIADMK’s decision did pay some dividends but only among this small section. A majority of farming households had yet not benefited from/availed of the crop or gold loan waiver (or were not eligible). Thus the government’s decision may have come a bit too late in the day for the ruling party to make any major gains. Further, even though the farmers have split their vote evenly between the DMK and the AIADMK alliances, this does not mean that they were satisfied with how the State government had addressed their condition. On being asked specifically about whether the condition of farmers had improved or deteriorated under the AIADMK government, close to half (46%) of the respondents who belonged to farming households said that the farmers’ condition had worsened (Table 3). Retirement age extension The AIADMK government’s decision to increase the retirement age of government employees to 60 years does not seem to have had much of an impact in making government employees vote for the ruling party, at least not on the scale as it would have liked (Table 4). To begin with, only 8% of our respondents reported having a household member who worked in the government sector. Furthermore, only half of them expressed support for the government’s decision to increase the retirement age with the rest being either opposed to the move or ambivalent on the issue (Table 4). Further, even this 4% who supported the government’s decision to extend the retirement age did not vote much for the AIADMK. If anything, we find that a plurality of them actually ended up voting for the DMK. Shreyas Sardesai is a Research Associate at Lokniti-CSDS, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/did-last-minute-sops-help-the-aiadmk/article34485208.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||BJP: a liability rather than asset||Apart from the fatigue of two terms and the public’s general dissatisfaction with the State government on various counts, one of the major reasons for the AIADMK alliance’s disastrous performance seems to have been the presence of the BJP in the alliance. The BJP, it seems, ended up being far more of an electoral liability for the AIADMK+ than an asset, and dragged their seat tally down. Not only does the election result bear this out, given that the AIADMK-led alliance did far worse in the BJP-contested seats than seats contested by its other constituents, the evidence from our post-poll survey also confirms this. A negative sentiment According to the Lokniti-CSDS post-poll survey, twice as many voters in the State held a negative sentiment about the BJP than a positive one. On being asked whether the BJP’s rise will be detrimental or good for the State’s social fabric, four of every 10 said it would be bad and less than two of every 10 said it would be good for the State. Four of every 10 felt it would not make a difference or refused to take a stand on the issue (Table 1). Significantly, not only was this apprehension about the BJP seen among the DMK alliance’s voters, but also among AIADMK+’s voters. Voters of most other parties and fronts (barring MNM+) held a similar opinion although their degree of opposition to the BJP varied. The anti-BJP sentiment was also found to be quite widespread across all regions of Tamil Nadu with respondents in the Cauvery delta region expressing the strongest apprehensions about the BJP. The only region where the sentiment against the BJP was less intense was the western region (Table 2). This is also the region where the AIADMK alliance ended up doing much better. Socio-demographics The strongest apprehension about the BJP’s rise was seen among Christians, followed by Dalits, Thevars and the upper castes. Muslims, however, were found to be quite indifferent (Table 2). A stark difference in opinion was also noticed when one disaggregated the responses by Tamil and non-Tamil speaking voters – the former were 10 points more likely to view the BJP as being bad for the State’s social fabric than the latter. The AIADMK was banking on the BJP’s strength as the dominant party at the Centre and hoping that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal would extend to Tamil Nadu. However, the party seems to have badly miscalculated on this count. Shreyas Sardesai is a Research Associate at Lokniti-CSDS, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bjp-a-liability-rather-than-asset/article34485203.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping Left||The spectacular victory of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the Kerala Assembly election has put the spotlight on its lead author, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. His resolute leadership style and daring political experiments found resounding approval among the State’s electorate that re-elected an incumbent government for the first time in four decades. With this historic victory, Mr. Vijayan has further reinforced his already unassailable status as the supreme leader of the CPI(M) and the LDF. At 75, his challenge now will be to use his authority to transform the party so that its current dynamism outlasts his position in command. By replacing several old warhorses with fresh faces in the polls, he has already set the ball in motion. A transition in the CPI(M) — and the LDF — is under way and this will also be reflected in the choice of new Ministers. K.N. Balagopal, P. Rajeev and M.B. Rajesh could make the cut. Administrative challenges will be immense for the government, starting with the COVID-19 pandemic. The second successive defeat for the Congress and the United Democratic Front (UDF) is not a warning signal, but a marching order for its listless, self-serving leaders. The current crop of Congress leaders is out of touch with the evolving Malayali. Instead of exchanging chairs with one another, they must all go at once and pave the way for imaginative and inspiring leaders. The BJP’s grand plans for Kerala have been dashed, and how. From 14.93% in 2016 to 12.47% this time, the BJP-led NDA vote share plummeted, but more notably, it got 4.29 lakh votes fewer. The BJP leaders are out of sync with Kerala, but the party’s slide is more because the people find its politics unacceptable. Centrist voters who considered the BJP as an option have been taken aback by its politics in Kerala and beyond. Some refreshing trends that run contrary to the national slant of BJP politics are evident. The new Kerala Assembly is a cross-section of the State’s religious diversity — with Hindu, Christian and Muslim communities finding representation in proportion to their populations. In terms of caste and gender this may not be true. A Hindu-majority constituency in Kerala chose a Muslim candidate (Congress) against the BJP’s Chief Ministerial face E. Sreedharan. The Indian Union Muslim League, a constituent of the UDF, saw its support shrinking, as the current generation of the community seeks new options. The CPI(M) has been relatively more successful in appreciating the myriad changes that are under way in Kerala and in responding to them. The Congress, which swept the Lok Sabha poll, will have opportunities to reinvent itself to pose a challenge to the Left in the Assembly election. But for the BJP, without a metamorphosis, Kerala will remain a nightmare, not a dream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/keeping-left/article34485192.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||DMK returns||Some elections are decided on key issues, some on the incumbent’s performance, and others on alliance arithmetic and local factors. The outcome of the Tamil Nadu Assembly election, in which the DMK emerged triumphant and its leader, M.K. Stalin, is set to be sworn in as Chief Minister, seems to be an unequal mix of all these. The DMK’s comeback was a foregone conclusion after the alliance led by it scored a landslide victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, and a third successive term for the AIADMK was unlikely. Mr. Stalin has been rewarded for his patience. He has led the party successfully for the second time after the demise of M. Karunanidhi, his father and the party’s towering figure for over four decades. The DMK rode mainly on a popular desire for change, to win 133 seats on its own, including some secured by allies who contested on the DMK symbol. The front ended up with 159 seats. The Congress’s performance is more impressive, as it won 18 of the 25 seats allotted to it. The two Left parties won two seats each, and the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) won four seats, of which two were in the general category, showing that it draws its appeal from a base wider than the Dalits it represents. Amid expectations that the Tamil Nadu voter would reject the idea of an alliance with the BJP, the AIADMK managed to win 66 seats, while five seats went to its ally, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK); the BJP re-enters the Assembly after 20 years with a tally of four. The results may be difficult to interpret in terms of whether the voters accepted the DMK’s campaign point that the AIADMK, led by Edappadi K. Palaniswami, surrendered the State’s rights to the Centre, but it may indicate that Mr. Palaniswami managed to mitigate the adverse impact of having a tie-up with the BJP. In the ultimate analysis, the DMK cadre’s fieldwork prevailed over the AIADMK’s mass appeal. The AIADMK has retained much of its vote base, and its bastion in the western region is intact. The outgoing regime’s handling of the COVID-19 situation, farmers’ loan waiver and the 7.5% quota for government school students in medical admissions seem to have stood Mr. Palaniswami in good stead. However, the sub-quota for the Vanniyar community seems to have had only limited impact, as the AIADMK-PMK alliance performed below par in the northern districts, where most of the seats went to the DMK. The entry of the Left parties, the VCK and the MDMK — which were part of an unsuccessful third front in 2016 — to the DMK front has added to the DMK front’s tally. The DMK front’s vote percentage went up from about 39% in the last poll to 45% now. Tamil Nadu remains a two-front arena, with aspirants such as the Naam Tamilar Katchi, whose share has jumped to 6.58%, the Makkal Needhi Maiam and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam consigned to the fringe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dmk-returns/article34485193.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||MFIs flag rural borrower distress to RBI||The pandemic’s second wave is affecting rural households far more than last year, with a large number of microfinance staffers, borrowers and their families hit by COVID-19, impacting many more livelihoods than during the first wave. The trend, which poses a higher risk of loan delinquencies if the rising infections don’t taper off by the end of May along with mobility restrictions, was flagged by microfinance institutions (MFIs) to the Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das on Monday, according to two industry representatives who attended the meeting. Urging the central bank to grant forbearance for borrowers unable to pay instalments with some flexibility for the MFIs to restructure affected loans, industry representatives observed that while collections had been normal till early April -- in the wake of the gradual recovery -- they had slowed down since then. “A larger proportion of borrowers and their families are affected by the illness, even in rural areas, in contrast to last year,” an industry executive said, speaking on condition of anonymity. “Many of our borrowers’ livelihoods are getting affected and they intend to conserve cash to tide through this phase,” he added. The official said that a significant section of MFI staff working with borrowers had also been infected, triggering fear among employees. “Instead of an across-the-board moratorium... it would be better to give MFIs freedom to restructure loans based on requests without attracting the provisioning norms,” said another MFI official. “We have suggested to the RBI to consider this, while invoking relief provisions that are applied for natural calamities,” he said. In a statement after Monday’s meeting, the RBI said that the Governor had discussed the current economic situation and the outlook on potential stress on MFIs’ balance sheets, as well as credit flows to their borrowers. ICRA cautioned on Tuesday that MFIs face a ‘high risk’ perception amid the sharp surge in infections. Though some States have classified the industry as an essential activity, borrowers’ cash flows may be affected due to restrictions. “Rapidly rising infections and mobility restrictions are... impacting MFIs’ field operations,” noted Sachin Sachdeva, sector head, financial sector ratings at ICRA. “Consequently, the industry is witnessing a reduction in collections,” he said. “We estimate a sequential drop of 8%-10% in collections in April 2021 and the same may dip further,” Mr. Sachdeva cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mfis-flag-rural-borrower-distress-to-rbi/article34485181.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘E-com, logistics, healthcare driving blue, grey collar jobs’||India reported a significant rise in e-commerce delivery, logistics and healthcare job placements in April this year, said industry observers. Blue and grey collar job platform Apna.co alone facilitated more than 20 million candidate-recruiter interactions since the pandemic started in March 2020, of which more than 5 million dialogues took place in the last 30 days. OLX People, QuikrJobs and other social media-based blue and grey collar job recruitment channels are also seeing a surge in demand for such jobs. “More than [one] lakh companies including Apollo Hospitals, Fortis, Pharmeasy, Zomato, Flipkart, BigBasket, Urban Company, Swiggy, and Byju’s, have used our platform to post jobs and find suitable talent in the last one-and-a-half years, mostly after the pandemic hit us,” Nirmit Parikh, founder and CEO, Apna.co, said. India emerged as one of the biggest countries for gig and platform workers as e-commerce platforms created huge job opportunities even in the midst of the pandemic, he added. According to Assocham, the country’s gig economy will be $455 billion by 2024, growing at a CAGR of 17%. The country currently has more than 250 million blue and grey collar workers and logistics alone is expected to create about three million jobs by 2022. “The demand for delivery executives, for e-commerce, logistics and healthcare, has increased by 19% in the second half of April when compared to the first 15 days of the month,” confirmed Olive Sen, head of product marketing at OLX People.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/e-com-logistics-healthcare-driving-blue-grey-collar-jobs/article34485183.ece
05 May 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Bulk tea firms may see a financial slump in FY22’||North Indian bulk tea players may witness contraction in financial performance in FY22 due to interim wage enhancement of plantation workers and a likely decline in prices in the second half of the year, according to a report. The Assam government had notified an interim enhancement of wages for tea plantation workers by Rs. 50 a day with effect from February 22, 2021, till the finalisation of the revised minimum wages proposed earlier, ICRA said in a report. However, the wage rate increase was stayed by the Gauhati High Court on March 16, while hearing a petition filed by the Indian Tea Association and several other bulk tea companies. The court also allowed the tea companies to set the enhancement until the final hearing was concluded. Based on these instructions, the Indian Tea Association, by end-March, decided to increase the daily wages in Assam by Rs. 26 per day, in line with the wage rate increase announced in West Bengal in January. The report further said while initial bulk tea prices are robust, a negative bias was likely from August, once the teas of the peak production months are available. The extent of the decline in prices in the second half of the year would determine the level of financial performance in FY22, it noted.  While initial bulk prices are robust, a negative bias is likely from August||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bulk-tea-firms-may-see-a-financial-slump-in-fy22/article34485185.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Foxconn, Dell apply for PLI under IT hardware||Apple’s contract manufacturers Foxconn and Wistron, computer firm Dell and domestic company Lava are among the 19 companies that have applied for investments under the production-linked incentive scheme for IT hardware manufacturing, the Ministry of Electronics and IT said. According to the Ministry, the scheme is expected to lead to total production worth about Rs. 1.6 lakh crore. Out of the total production, IT hardware companies have proposed production worth more than Rs. 1.35 lakh crore, and domestic companies have proposed production to the tune of more than Rs. 25,000 crore, Meity said in a statement. “The electronics hardware manufacturing companies that have applied under category IT hardware companies are Dell, ICT (Wistron), Flextronics, Rising Stars Hi-Tech (Foxconn) and Lava,” Meity said. Fourteen other companies have also filed applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/foxconn-dell-apply-for-pli-under-it-hardware/article34485188.ece
05 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Infosys, Mphasis to add U.K. jobs||Infosys said it plans to create 1,000 digital jobs in the U.K. in the next 3 years. The new recruits would be scheduled to join Infosys’ design studio in Shoreditch, innovation centre in Canary Wharf, and proximity centres in Nottingham. “While the talent gap has been looming, the events of the past year have exacerbated the need for vital digital skills as businesses have rapidly accelerated their digital transformation,” CEO Salil Parekh said. Separately, Mphasis said it is expanding its footprint in the U.K. by establishing a nearshore centre, outside of London. The IT solutions provider expects to create close to 1,000 U.K. jobs. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-mphasis-to-add-uk-jobs/article34485184.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||Production may be hit if lockdowns continue: Maruti Suzuki||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) expects some impact on its production if lockdowns and curfews continue amid the second wave of COVID-19.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/production-may-be-hit-if-lockdowns-continue-maruti-suzuki/article34485186.ece
05 May 2021||MUMBAI,||How the Indian Premier League bubble burst — and what’s next||With the COVID-19 virus being detected in four biosecure IPL bubbles, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) had no option but to indefinitely postpone the 2021 edition of the T20 league on Tuesday. “These are difficult times, especially in India and while we have tried to bring in some positivity and cheer, it is imperative that the tournament is now suspended and everyone goes back to their families and loved ones in these trying times,” read a statement issued by IPL on Tuesday morning. Monday had served a severe warning. The match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Royal Challengers Bangalore was called off after two KKR players — Varun Chakravarthy and Sandeep Warrier — tested positive for COVID-19. In addition, at least two members of the Chennai Super Kings entourage, including bowling coach L. Balaji, were confirmed to have contracted the virus. The final straw, however, was when Sunrisers Hyderabad wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha and Delhi Capitals leg-spinner Amit Mishra were diagnosed COVID-19 positive on Tuesday. It meant every member of four of the eight participating franchises had to serve at least a six-day isolation period. As a result, an emergent meeting of the IPL governing council and the BCCI office-bearers, which had until a few hours earlier hoped to discuss the modalities of shifting the remaining IPL games to Mumbai, had to make the inevitable decision to suspend the edition. While IPL executives were trying their best to ensure a “safe passage” for Indian cricketers in the other four teams, BCCI office-bearers were “hoping” to create a window for the IPL. The most plausible window appears to be the period after the T20 World Cup, scheduled in October-November, provided English and Australian cricketers are available ahead of the Ashes at the end of the year. “We just hope that somehow the IPL season resumes at some point later this year. Yes, availability of window is a huge factor but from everyone’s perspective — the players, managements and fans — it will be unfair if IPL 2021 has to be abandoned without seeing a winner,” said a franchise executive, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/how-the-indian-premier-league-bubble-burst-and-whats-next/article34485311.ece
05 May 2021||Madrid,||Big blow to Sevilla’s LaLiga title hopes||Sevilla’s chances of winning LaLiga could be over after it suffered a heartbreaking defeat 1-0 against Athletic Bilbao on Monday, with Inaki Williams scoring a 90th-minute winner at the Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan. The loss leaves Sevilla six points adrift of leader Atletico Madrid, with four games left to play.  In the Premier League, Michail Antonio marked his comeback game after nearly a month out with two goals as West Ham rallied to beat Burnley 2-1 and move within three points of fourth-placed Chelsea with four games left.  The results:   LaLiga: Sevilla 0 lost to Athletic Bilbao 1 (Williams 90).   Premier League: West Brom 1 (Diagne 62) drew with Wolves 1 (Fabio Silva 45+2); Burnley 1 (Wood 19-pen) lost to West Ham 2 (Antonio 21, 29).   Serie A: Torino 1 (Vojvoda 63) bt Parma 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-blow-to-sevillas-laliga-title-hopes/article34485359.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||IPL: late call, but the right one as things spiral down rapidly||Calling off the IPL was the right — if delayed — decision, even if the Board of Control for Cricket in India had its hand forced by the rapid developments once the bio-bubble had been breached, exposing players in what, technically, was the safest real estate in the country. Players from three franchises tested positive, matches had to be rescheduled, and the venues chosen had some of the highest number of COVID cases in India. There were murmurs too that players were finding it difficult to focus on the games or motivate themselves, and talked openly of returning home. It would have been surprising if it had been otherwise. These are difficult times, and the BCCI did well finally to cut its losses and do the humane thing. I suspect this might not be a popular decision among hardcore fans, judging by some of the reaction to this column last week where I suggested the IPL be called off. Cricket cannot exist in a vacuum untouched by the events around it. The ‘distraction’ argument favoured by many doesn’t work when those providing the distraction begin to fall ill themselves. A year from now, five years, ten years later this break won’t matter at all. Trivial, frivolous Sport is trivial, almost frivolous at a time like this. It is not the end of the world if a cricket tournament is called off at the halfway stage. To keep it going when nearly half a million Indians are contracting the COVID virus every day and the death count is rising worryingly would have been insulting to those suffering and dangerous for those playing. There is a point in every crisis when quick decisions and rapid moves keep it from sliding into a catastrophe. What works against such decision-making is usually the ego, and the determination to prove that the original judgements were right. There is a Gresham’s Law (“bad money drives out good”) operating in poor decision-making too. Bad decisions tend to take over, narrowing the space for good ones. It happened at the national level when we were asked to believe the pandemic was over and governments did little to prepare for the predicted second wave. To project normalcy Had the BCCI not wanted to make a point of everything being hunky dory in India, it could have played the tournament in the UAE like it did last year. That would have been safer in a small country where a majority of the citizens have been vaccinated. The desire to show the (cricketing) world that India could host the World T20 in October may have been a factor too. But the BCCI might have overplayed its hand. And nearly paid the price. The uncertainty and alarm in the IPL reflected the uncertainty and alarm in the country as a whole. It is little consolation that the sport lived up to its reputation as one that mirrors society. In the end, the BCCI got it right, and now has to deal with the mopping up operations. The stakes are not insignificant. In the life versus livelihood debate, it weighed in on the side of life, which for a long time looked unlikely, given the huge sums of money involved. Matched perhaps only by the huge egos. The decision, however, comes with its own peculiar problems. In the short term, there’s the question of ensuring that all the players return home safely. This will involve dealing with the governments of countries like England, Australia, New Zealand, Bangladesh who have banned flights from India and have stringent quarantine rules in place. Then there is the matter of sorting out sponsorships, television rights and other deals for the truncated season while ensuring that future tournaments do not suffer. It will be as much about diplomacy and tact as about reminding the actors involved who the boss is, a tactic that has been at the bottom of many of BCCI’s recent successes. Just a week ago, BCCI’s interim chief executive officer Hemang Amin had sent out an email to the franchises saying three important things. One, that they were totally safe in the bubble. Two, that they were playing not just to win, but for humanity. And three, that the BCCI would do everything to ensure they reached their homes safely. The first two turned out to be mirages. But he could still regain some of the lost face by ensuring the third comes true.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-late-call-but-the-right-one-as-things-spiral-down-rapidly/article34485297.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CSK batting coach Hussey diagnosed with COVID-19||Chennai Super Kings batting coach Michael Hussey on Tuesday tested positive for COVID-19, a day after the team's bowling coach L. Balaji returned positive for the virus. This was confirmed by the IPL sources hours after the 14th edition of the T20 league was indefinitely suspended due to a COVID-19 outbreak in its bio-bubble. Hussey's test reports came on Tuesday. “Hussey was tested and his sample came positive. We sent it for retesting but that has also come positive," said an IPL source. On Tuesday, SRH’s Wriddhiman Saha and DC’s Amit Mishra turned positive. On Monday, KKR bowlers Varun Chakravarthy and Sandeep Warrier returned with positive results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-kings-batting-coach-hussey-tests-positive/article34485301.ece
05 May 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI to facilitate ‘safe passage’||IPL officials have reiterated their commitment to ensuring that all the stakeholders of the event return home safely. “The BCCI will do everything in its powers to arrange for the secure and safe passage of all the participants in IPL 2021,” said the IPL release that announced the suspension of the tournament on Tuesday. It was the second time in as many weeks that the IPL made such a promise. Last week, after five players had left their respective biosecure bubbles, IPL chief executive Hemang Amin had expressed similar sentiments. However, not all the players and support staff members can return home immediately. The representatives of four franchises that have COVID-19 cases — Kolkata Knight Riders, Chennai Super Kings, Sunrisers Hyderabad and Delhi Capitals — have to serve a six-day isolation period and clear three tests before being allowed to check out of the hotels. As do match officials involved in the most recent games involving these teams. The Indian cricketers in the other four teams have started the process of returning home, depending on the available modes of transport. For overseas cricketers, The Hindu understands that the BCCI has touched base with Indian embassies of various countries whose citizens are involved in the IPL. Efforts are being made to ensure that all participants — players, coaches, support staff, commentators, broadcast crew — can travel in groups to their respective countries. With the Australian government having barred entry of inbound passengers from India until May 15, the BCCI has asked the Australian players to choose a destination — India or overseas — where they feel safe. In the interim, the Australian cricketers are hoping that their government relaxes the rules and allows them to return at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-to-facilitate-safe-passage/article34485305.ece
05 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Suspension may force T20 WC shift||The BCCI’s decision to suspend the IPL midway through the edition could lead to the T20 World Cup being moved out of the country later this year. India has been awarded the 16-team marquee event, scheduled to be played in October-November. But tournament director Dhiraj Malhotra had recently confirmed that the United Arab Emirates was a back-up venue for the tournament. The IPL’s suspension will be a major roadblock in convincing the International Cricket Council (ICC) and participating cricket associations about the case for staging the event in India. Indeed, a BCCI official conceded that “it will be a miracle” if they agree to travel. “It’s a major roadblock, with everyone being apprehensive. We are still confident of hosting the tournament and hope that the wave subsides and teams agree to travel to India. At the moment, it appears a distant possibility and we may have to host the event in UAE,” the official added. The ICC Annual Conference in June is set to finalise the venue for the tournament. Dry run Despite multiple stakeholders, including key personnel in organising the event, having expressed apprehensions about hosting IPL 2021 in India during the pandemic, the BCCI went ahead with its plan to treat the event as a dry run for the T20 World Cup. Even in early March, a plan for staging the tournament in four venues in the Mumbai-Pune corridor, avoiding air travel, was presented to the BCCI top brass. But the Board decided to take a calculated risk and finalised a caravan format with six host cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suspension-may-force-t20-wc-shift/article34485307.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pro League matches postponed||The Indian men’s hockey team’s competitive international assignments ahead of the Tokyo Olympics are effectively over. The team’s upcoming FIH Hockey Pro League away matches against Spain and Germany, scheduled on May 15-16 and May 22-23 respectively, have been officially postponed due to the COVID-induced travel restrictions. “The FIH, Hockey India as well as the National Associations of Germany, Spain and Great Britain are currently looking at all potential options to rearrange these matches at a later date,” the International Hockey Federation said in a statement. With matches against Great Britain, initially scheduled in London on May 8-9 also postponed, India’s only remaining international assignment before the Tokyo Olympics was expected to be home Pro League matches against New Zealand on May 29-30. But while the FIH hasn’t officially called them off, the games have already been marked as postponed on its website. Many countries have paused flights from India as a consequence of the second wave of the pandemic, Germany being one of them. If these ties are not rescheduled before Tokyo, which looks highly unlikely at the moment given the massive surge in COVID cases in the country, the men are likely to be training at home till their departure for the Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pro-league-matches-postponed/article34485362.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hosting IPL-14 in India the right decision, says Wadia||Punjab Kings co-owner Ness Wadia on Tuesday backed the BCCI's decision to host IPL-14 in India amid the COVID-19 threat, saying that was the “right call” before the situation deteriorated quickly. Wadia welcomed the decision to suspend the league for the time being. “The best decision has been taken given the circumstances. Lots of people are suffering in India,” said Wadia. As far as hosting the event was concerned, he said: “Due diligence was done before the IPL but no one is perfect. The right call was taken to hold it in India ahead of the World Cup. It is just unfortunate that the situation deteriorated so quickly. “If the ground staff wasn’t part of the whole bubble then that needs to be fixed. Also cutting down the venues also needs to be considered forward to reduce the risk.” He said holding the league in the UAE, which hosted it last year due to the pandemic back home, would not have made any difference. “I don’t think this has got anything to do in a specific country (India or UAE) would have made a difference. Everyone tried their best... sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn’t.” Speaking of criticism by foreign players such as Australia's Adam Zampa and Andrew Tye, who had flown back to their country after withdrawing midway through the league, Wadia pointed out that the situation was very different when the tournament started. “Hats off to the Indian players who have been playing non-top in bubbles and not complained unlike some of the foreign players. “With due respect to the international cricketers, including Zampa, the situation was very different a month ago. They should study the fact that cases were very less when we started. “During the Australian Open tennis tournament, they shut the city down. People didn't complain then, why now,” asked Wadia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hosting-ipl-14-in-india-the-right-call-says-ness-wadia/article34485303.ece
05 May 2021||Madrid,||Mertens knocks out World No. 3 Halep||World No. 3 Simona Halep was dumped out on Tuesday, losing 4-6, 7-5, 7-5 in the round of 16 to Belgian Elise Mertens at the Madrid Open. Halep had sailed through the first two rounds on the Spanish clay without dropping a set but she ended up second best in a match which yielded 15 breaks of serve. Halep produced 10 double faults in the match to Mertens’ nine.   The results: Men: Second round: Andrey Rublev bt Tommy Paul 6-7(5), 6-3, 6-4; Alexander Bublik bt Denis Shapovalov 6-4, 5-7, 6-4.   First round: Jannik Sinner bt Guido Pella 6-2, 4-4 (retired); Casper Ruud bt Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-1, 6-4; Kei Nishikori bt Karen Khachanov 6-7(6), 6-2, 6-2; John Millman bt Hubert Hurkacz 5-7, 7-6(7), 6-3; Yoshihito Nishioka bt Filip Krajinovic 6-2, 6-4; Alejandro Davidovich Fokina bt Pierre-Hugues Herbert 6-7(5), 7-6(4), 7-6(4); Alexei Popyrin bt Jan-Lennard Struff 6-3, 7-6(4).   Women (round-of-16): Elise Mertens bt Simona Halep 4-6, 7-5, 7-5; Aryna Sabalenka bt Jessica Pegula 6-1, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mertens-knocks-out-world-no-3-halep/article34485313.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian side to play in AFC Women’s Club Championship||An Indian side will feature in the prestigious AFC Women’s Club Championship 2021 to be held later this year, the national federation said on Tuesday. The Indian Women’s League champion will represent the country in the eight-team pilot tournament of Asian Football Confederation (AFC), to be played between October 30 and November 14. Group A (East) will consist of clubs from Chinese Taipei, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam, while Group B (West) will have teams from India, Iran, Jordan and Uzbekistan. All India Football Federation General Secretary Kushal Das said the competition will provide a “huge boost” to the women’s game in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-side-to-play-in-afc-womens-club-championship/article34485592.ece
05 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sania launches campaign to raise funds||Sania Mirza has embarked on a fund-raising campaign to help those in need of medical oxygen. “Our country is in the midst of the second wave of the pandemic and the number of cases are rising at an alarming rate. There is an acute shortage of medical oxygen, which many COVID-19 patients require,” the 34-year-old said in a statement. Around this time last year, Sania had joined hands with NGO Safa Society to help daily-wage earners who were badly hit by the lockdown. “Family members of COVID-19 patients are running from pillar to post to arrange for oxygen cylinders, which could help save the lives of their loved ones. All of us must stand together to fight against this deadly virus!,” she said. The campaign which will run for the next 46 days, is targeting Rs. 25,00,000. By Tuesday afternoon, Sania had already raised about Rs. 46,000. “If you are wondering how you can stay home and help fight the pandemic, then here’s how. Today, I appeal to all of you to join in my mission to help India breathe. Let us raise funds to support the Hemkunt Foundation-Ketto, which is working relentlessly to provide medical oxygen to COVID-19 positive patients. “It doesn’t matter how big or small the donation is! Come, let’s help India breathe!” Sania said in her message. Interested can send donations to Virtual A/c No. 6999413500387761, Hemkunt Foundation-Ketto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-launches-campaign-to-raise-funds/article34485839.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Olympics-bound team to train in Zagreb||The Olympic shooting team will be based in Zagreb, Croatia, for training and competition, to prepare in right earnest for Tokyo, without being distracted by the raging pandemic. The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI), after many brainstorming sessions with the coaches and other stakeholders for about a month, finally found the best path ahead. The national federation has opted to charter a flight for the team, and also get everyone vaccinated prior to departure. The federation and government have roped not only the national team coaches and support staff, but also individual coaches who have been working with the Olympic qualified shooters. There will be nine coaches for the 13 rifle and pistol shooters. The rifle coaches outnumbered the two pistol coaches because some of the coaches like Samaresh Jung, Jaspal Rana and Ronak Pandit were unable to take up such a long stint abroad for various reasons. The two foreign coaches Oleg Mikhailov and Pavel Smirnov, along with Deepali Deshpande, Manoj Kumar, Suma Shirur, Ved Prakash Pilaniya have been drafted into the squad. Divyansh Singh Panwar’s coach Deepak Kumar Dubey, Elavenil Valarivan’s coach from Gun for Glory, Neha Chavan, and Apurvi Chandela’s coach Rakesh Manpat will be part of the training squad. There will be four physiotherapists Sumit Arora, Zeinia Samar, Sumita Jain and Shloka Varvatkar, apart from two physical trainers Akshay Bhapkar and Har Kaur. Apurvi, Elavenil, Anjum Moudgil, Tejaswini Sawant, Manu Bhaker, Yashaswini Singh Deswal and Rahi Sarnobat will be the women shooters. Divyansh Sigh, Deepak Kumar, Sanjeev Rajput, Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar, Saurabh Chaudhary and Abhishevk Verma will be the men. Reserves lose out Even though the NRAI had announced reserves and assured matching training for them along with the Tokyo bound squad, they could not be fitted into this plan. The two Olympics bound skeet shooters Angad Vir Singh Bajwa and Mairaj Ahmad Khan will be based in Italy. The Indian team is scheduled to leave on May 11, after training at the Dr. Karni Singh Range here. The team will also participate in the European Championship in Osjek, Croatia, from May 20 to June 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-bound-team-to-train-in-zagreb/article34485367.ece
05 May 2021||KOLKATA,||BFI official Sacheti passes away||Boxing Federation of India (BFI) executive director and seasoned sports administrator Raj Kumar Sacheti passed away on Tuesday. He was 55. Sacheti, who was admitted to a hospital following COVID-19 infection, suffered a cardiac arrest, according to the BFI. Sacheti was a member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Boxing Task Force for the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. He also worked as an assistant joint secretary of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA).  “R.K. Sacheti was the life and soul of the BFI. Indian boxing reaching such heights in the last few years was largely his contribution. We will miss him dearly,” said BFI president Ajay Singh in his condolence message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfi-official-sacheti-passes-away/article34485357.ece
05 May 2021||London,||Bedraggled Real Madrid faces uphill task||Real Madrid could see the return of captain Sergio Ramos for its Champions League second leg against Chelsea in London on Wednesday. The central defender has returned to training after a muscle injury and might make it back to the squad at Stamford Bridge. Left back Ferland Mendy may also return to the squad after not playing in the first leg because of injury, and Eden Hazard could start against his former club after playing a few minutes last week in Madrid. Coach Zinedine Zidane will be without his other regular central defender, Raphael Varane, who is also injured. Chelsea, whose last final appearance was when it clinched the European title in 2012, should have most of its regular starters available for the return match. Coach Thomas Tuchel’s team dominated most of the first leg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bedraggled-real-madrid-faces-uphill-task/article34485370.ece
05 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||AIFF thanks AFC||The All India Football Federation (AIFF), on Tuesday, thanked the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) for giving it an opportunity to host the Group E matches of the AFC Champions League. All the group matches, which featured FC Goa’s games, were held in Margao. “The AIFF is extremely grateful to the AFC for their support and belief in AIFF’s organisation capabilities in successfully hosting the Group E matches of the AFC Champions League 2021 in Goa from April 14-29, 2021,” the AIFF said in a statement. It also thanked the Central and State Governments for their support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiff-thanks-afc/article34485358.ece
05 May 2021||Hyderabad,||HCA goes ahead with Apex Council meet||The meeting of Apex Council of the Hyderabad Cricket Association, convened by secretary R. Vijayanand here on Tuesday was held even as its president Mohd. Azharuddin, who raised serious objections against it, stayed away on Tuesday. Vijayanand said the meeting, chaired by vice-president K. John Manoj decided to put in abeyance all cricketing matters including commencement of cricket camps because of the pandemic. Financial assistance “However, the Council has taken a decision to give financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakhs to former Hyderabad Ranji fast bowler Ashwin Yadav who passed away recently,” the secretary told The Hindu . “All the five members of the Apex Council, including K. John Manoj, Surender Agarwal, Naresh Sharma and I have attended the meeting, while councillor P. Anurdha joined through Zoom as her family member was not well. Players’ representatives Parth Satwalekar, Subhadra Suri and CAG nominee Santosh V. Daware could not attend,” Vijayanand said. “The meeting also decided to issue letters regarding the appointments finalised at the last AGM and also pay pension to about 30 former cricketers with retrospective effect from December last year,” he said. Insurance for employees “We have also taken a final call to ensure that all the employees of HCA including ground staff have insurance cover,” he added. However, Azhar in a statement today said he had already communicated on April 30 clearly mentioning why the meeting cannot be convened now. “I am given to understand that some tainted members of the Apex Council, who are facing an enquiry under 41(1)(b) of the HCA constitution, are scheduling meetings in violation of 7(1)(a) of the constitution which is self-indicative of collapse of administration in the HCA,” Azhar said. “All I want to say is, let's go by the constitution, those facing an enquiry should get their names cleared before administration can resume,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-goes-ahead-with-apex-council-meet/article34485837.ece
05 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Naha Sameer wins title||Naha Sameer has won the Sreedevi Varma Aadaram women’s online Grand Prix tournament, organised by Chess Kerala. Naha kept a clean slate to finish with seven points, ahead of A. Nafila (6.5) and Anupam Sreekumar (6). Naha qualified for the mega final. The second tournament of the eight Grand Prix series — Sethu Varma Aadram GP tournament — will be held on May 8.  The standings: 1. Naha Sameer (7 points), 2. A. Nafila (6.5), 3. A.J. Athira (6), 4. Anupam Sreekumar (6), 5. Meenu Rajendran (6), 6. M.S. Sree Lakshmi (6), 7. Swara Lakshmi S. Nair (6), 8. Shybi Binoj (6), 9. C.G. Theertha (6), 10. Prasanna Swamy (6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/naha-sameer-wins-title/article34485472.ece
05 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Sports scribe Ruchir Mishra passes away||Seasoned sports journalist Ruchir Mishra passed away in Nagpur in the wee hours of Tuesday after contracting COVID-19. Mishra, 42, was associated with The Times of India in Nagpur for over a decade, having earlier worked with Dainik Bhaskar and The Hitavada . Mishra was one of the most authoritative voices on domestic cricket in Central India region. The cricketing fraternity, including Test stars Murali Kartik, Umesh Yadav, Wasim Jaffer and Naman Ojha, condoled his death. He is survived by wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-scribe-ruchir-mishra-passes-away/article34485361.ece
05 May 2021||BENGALURU,||Padukone recovering after testing positive||Indian badminton legend Prakash Padukone is recovering in hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. Padukone, 65, showed mild symptoms and was admitted to a city hospital as a precautionary measure. He is stable and is expected to be discharged in a few days, a source said. In 1980, Padukone became the first Indian to win the All England Open badminton championships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/padukone-recovering-after-testing-positive/article34485299.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Born to Devaki||If this world is thought of as a lotus, then the connection between Lord Krishna and the earth may be likened to that between the Sun and a lotus. Krishna’s birth took place in the East, the direction in which the Sun rises. So the sun-lotus analogy is apt. In fact, the word used for Krishna’s appearance is Avirbhava, which means a manifestation. His birth on the earth was no ordinary occurrence. Bhagavata Purana refers to Krishna as Indu, which means the moon. This too is apt, because Krishna was born in the Lunar dynasty. But there is a significance to His birth, over and above all this, and to merely compare His avatara to the appearance of the sun or the moon does not do justice to His intentions. In fact, Vaishnava Acharyas were not happy with seeing Him as just the Sun or Moon, explained M.A.Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. So what were these aims of His which we must pay attention to? Azhvars, while describing His avatara, say He was born. This is to indicate His spending months in Devaki’s womb and then being born as any other child is. This was entirely His choice. He decided that it should be this way, and so to say He took an avatara and was like the Sun or Moon does not show His saulabhya, which caused Him to spend months in the cramped space of a womb. There was no need for the Supreme One to go through all this, but He went through it of His own accord. He wanted to be like other mortals, going through the same experiences and problems that they faced. In fact, in His case, He faced far more threats than any child ever would. Even when He was an infant, He was targeted by Putana, but killing her was literally child’s play to Him. He was born like humans, lived among them, and showed that it was important to keep to dharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/born-to-devaki/article34485263.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 09:56 IST,||Sudoku — May 5, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-5-2021/article34486749.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Patch update 2.0||It had to be asked: if Rob McElhenney’s two iconic characters, Mac from It’s Always Sunny and Ian from Mythic Quest: Raven’s Banquet , met in real life, what does the actor-producer think would happen? He laughs, thinks for a minute and responds, “I think there would be a fist fight; it would be very hyper-masculine which means they’d bark at each other but also run away as quickly as they could. They’d have a crush on each other, both are egomaniacs and look very similar.” Starring in and co-creating Apple TV+ series Mythic Quest: Raven’s Banquet , McElhenney plays creative director Ian (Rob McElhenney), working on an open-world role-playing game called Mythic Quest: Raven’s Banquet. McElhenney is joined by Danny Pudi as Brad Bakshi, the studio’s head of monetisation, Charlotte Nicdao as Poppy Li, a socially-awkward MIT-educated game designer, David Hornsby as David, the studio’s often-overlooked executive producer, and F Murray Abraham as CW Longbottom, a fantasy novelist-turned-MQ lead writer. The series has, in its own special way, shown non-gaming audiences the complexities of ‘creative versus technical’ debates, the constant pressure felt by developers, diversity issues in the industry and more, while staying away from the typical geek genre tropes. The end of season one, production-wise, came on the cusp of the pandemic and so the creators and cast managed to film the last episode conference-call style, touching on sleepless nights, anxiety, boredom, and virtual team spirit. Dimensions of storytelling Season two sees Poppy and Ian stepping up as co-creative directors, but not necessarily getting along as they plan for an expansion pack for Mythic Quest: Raven’s Banquet. McElhenney, says the biggest inspiration for the second season was “putting the pandemic behind them and making a show that looks to an optimistic future while understanding a return to normalcy is not easy”. He elaborates on the value of showing a different side to the gaming industry, which has boomed during the pandemic. “It’s also a show about interpersonal dynamics of people who are forced to work together, and this transcends culture. We also knew the gaming industry was exploding and we noticed a lot of stories that haven’t been told in this world that felt authentic, and so often they are derisive or poking fun at the industry and gamers themselves. They don’t convey the full dimensionality of who these people are.” Fans of the series had long been waiting for Poppy to take up a role of power, and as it turns out, so was Nicdao. “There are so many challenging aspects of the character because even though she is a pretty outrageous and goofy person, she is grounded in the reality of what it’s like to be a woman in a position of power in any workplace. I loved playing with ‘the idea of success’ this season. In season one, she had this clear goal of wanting more creative control over the game. Now she has that control, she doesn’t quite know how to handle it yet. She’s a genius when it comes to programming but not so much when it comes to being a leader.” Pudi’s role as Brad is a far cry from his lovable character Abed in Community . Commercial positions in gaming are often seen as nefarious and agenda-driven, but they are needed for the industry to thrive as much as it does. Pudi, who is looking forward to audiences see him share a scene in season two with Snoop Dogg, says, “A large part of the game’s success is Brad’s work, and he prides himself on finding all the nooks and crannies where he can monetise the game. At the same time, there is friction between him and the creatives.It’s fun to play someone who’s not concerned about being liked, high-fives and hugs.” Probably one of the most surprising character arcs has been that of CW Longbottom, a writer who continues to live in his past-glory days. According to co-creator Megan Ganz, conversations with the series’ casting director involved a need for ‘an F Murray Abraham-type’ to which the casting director recommended F Murray Abraham himself, much to McElhenney and Ganz’s delight. “Each character has a great sense of humanity in this show, and if there were any way for you guys to come watch us do the show, you would fall in love with it. And they pay me,” Murray Abraham laughs. There have been many TV crossovers lately so when asked about the likelihood of a Ted Lasso (an Apple TV+ runaway success) and Mythic Quest crossover, McElhenney simply asks (jokingly, we hope), “What’s Ted Lasso ? I’m not aware of it. Is that a TV show? We spend enough time working on Mythic Quest , we don’t need to help with some small silly thing. What is that called again?”  The second season of Mythic Quest: Raven’s Banquet streams on Apple TV+ from May 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/patch-update-20/article34485347.ece
05 May 2021||May 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The myriad tastes of iftar||It is not vada , but vaadaa — a crunchy evening snack — served for iftar at Tamil-speaking Ravuthar Muslim homes in coastal Tamil Nadu. “This deep-fried snack migrated from Sri Lanka through the Ravuthar Muslim men who travelled there for business centuries ago, bringing back food stories that would eventually find their way into Ravuthar kitchens,” says Hazeena Seyad, who has documented hundreds of such recipes in her book Ravuthar Recipes- with a pinch of love (Hitech Universal Printers and Publishers). Shaped like a spacecraft, this deep-fried vaadaa is crunchy outside and chewy inside. Every coastal village has its own variant, she explains. Sri Lankan w atalappam : a cardamom-spiced coconut custard sweetened with jaggery, and thakkadi : rice flour dumplings in mutton curry are other celebrated iftar dishes in Tamil Muslim homes. “The recipe of thakkadi is over two centuries old. The mutton curry is a hearty dish made with aromatic spices, coconut milk and poppy seeds to which the dumplings poached in mutton broth are added,” adds Haseena. This month, Muslims world over observe a daily fast that begins with a pre-dawn breakfast or sehri , usually at 4 am, and ends with an evening meal or iftar around 7 p.m. or 7.30 p.m. The iftar meals give them a chance to reconnect with their heritage through food. Along with favourites like kanjis , haleems and kebabs, communities across the country bring to the table a diverse and exciting fare that celebrate their unique cultural influences. For the Konkani Muslim community in Goa and Maharashtra, an iftar meal is incomplete without sandan — fluffy, steamed rice flour cakes made with yeast-fermented batter of rice and coconut. “We slice it and smear it with malai [cream] and dry fruits, or have it plain with chicken curry,” says Shabana Salauddin, a home chef who dishes out authentic Konkani-style Muslim fare through her venture, Ammeez Kitchen. The majority of Konkani Muslims trace their ancestry to Arab merchants who arrived in the region over a millennium ago, married local women and settled along the Konkan coast. “Konkani cuisine is a blend of coastal Maharashtrian flavours and Middle Eastern influences. Our cuisine keeps changing from one village to another, unlike the Bohra Muslim cuisine which remains the same across the world,” points out Shabana. This cuisine also includes badam ki kanji (crushed almonds boiled in milk with sugar and cardamom powder) that packs an instant punch and sabudane ki kheer ( sago boiled with a few spoons of milk and sugar) to bring down the body temperature after an entire day of fasting. The cuisine of Kutchi Memons, an ethnic group that traces its roots to Kutch, Gujarat, has signature iftar specials that include bajre ka kebab made with millets, an one-pot dish called dhokray (steamed bajra dumplings in mutton gravy) and khichada with rice and dhal. “You can find the recipes only at Kutchi Memon households. The recipes are considered sacred, and guarded zealously,” says Anisa Arif, from Gujarat and is now settled in Chennai. The drink of love At MKM Faiyaz Ahmed’s home in Hyderabad, popular dishes are gulabi jalebi , Arabian rice and mohabbat ka sharbat . “Yes, you heard it right. This drink is a a blend of milk, watermelon, cream and dry fruits. While Hyderabadi haleem forms an important part of iftar for Dakhni Muslims, other specialities include maash ke wadey (boiled and mashed dal), mutton shammi kebab and fruit salads, a hangover of the Awadhi and Nawab cultures,” he says. Bohra Muslims, who are said to have migrated originally from Yemen to Gujarat, draw from their Gujarati roots, balancing savoury with a little sweet. “Bohras always eat in a communal setting, which is basically nine people around a big round thaali, called a thaal ,” says Sakina Sabunwala, based in California. “Our popular dishes are kaari and chawal : a nuts and coconut-based mutton gravy with rice, and dal chawal palidu , a rice-based authentic Bohra dish. Gol paani or rosemilk is a common drink used to quench our thirst after breaking the fast.” In one region, the cuisine is strikingly distinct. Moplahs, the Muslim community in Malabar, in the northern districts of Kerala, carry on the legacies of the merchant traders who visited the region centuries ago. Chennai-based Gazeena Sulu Kunhamed, who is from Malappuram, recalls how women would sit in a circle and roll innumerable ari pathiri , a thin chapati made out of rice flour, believed to be innovated by the women for their Arabian paramours, who were used to a bread-based diet. “Our iftar table will be laid out with Malabar dishes like chatti pathiri , meen pathiri , chicken cake, Iranian pola , and kaipola ... those were the days,” recalls Haseena Yaseen from Ernakulam wistfully. She adds that for sehri , her grandmother ( ummacha ) made a sweet dish for children with njaalipoovan , a variety of banana, milk and sugar. It was called madura paal . Other iftar staples at Moplah Muslim homes include Jeerkakanji made with coconut milk and shallots, and godambu kanji made with wheat, chicken, coconut milk and other ingredients. Says Gazeena, “Our snack mutta mala (egg garland made with yolk) descended from the Portuguese who lived in huge numbers in parts of Kozhikode. Every year, we spend the last 10 days of Ramzan month in Kerala for ‘ nonbuthura’ at homes of our friends and relatives. We are missing the togetherness.”  The Konkani Muslim cuisine is a blend of coastal Maharashtrian flavours and West Asian influences||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-myriad-tastes-of-iftar/article34485349.ece
05 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab CM writes to PM Modi, Shah to ensure oxygen supply||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sought the immediate intervention of Prime Minister Narendra and Home Minister Amit Shah in ensuring uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen to the State. The Chief Minister sent separate letters to Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah, as the number of COVID-19 patients on oxygen support went up to 10,000 in the State. Expressing concern over the imminent loss of lives due to oxygen shortage, Capt. Amarinder said with a mounting caseload, he was unable to increase the number of Level 2 and Level 3 beds due to oxygen availability constraints. The State was facing the prospect of shortage of oxygen beds, he said, pointing out that the Government of India had expressed its inability to even allow Punjab’s local industry to undertake commercial import of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) from Pakistan through the Wagah-Attari border. Despite assurances from the Centre that “adequate supply would be ensured to us from other sources, I regret to point out that this has not happened,” said Captain Amarinder. The total allocation of LMO from outside the State is currently 195 metric tonnes (MT) per day, of which 90 MT is from Bokaro in eastern India. The remaining 105 MT comes from facilities in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Punjab is not getting its daily allocated quota, said the Chief Minister.  Existing backlog The existing backlog for Punjab from these facilities is 5.6 MT from Panipat (Haryana), 100 MT from Sela Qui, Dehradun (Uttarakhand) and 10 MT from Roorkee (Uttarakhand), he added. Pointing out that Punjab had now been given to understand by the Centre that there would be likely disruption of oxygen supply from May 4 from Panipat and Barotiwala, the Chief Minister said this would cause great stress on the already limited availability, thus causing a medical emergency, including risk of loss of life for a large number of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-shah-to-ensure-oxygen-supply/article34485499.ece
05 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19: Assam shops to shut by 2 p.m.||The Assam Government has issued a fresh set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of the rising cases of COVID-19 in the State. According to the State’s Health and Family Welfare Department, 29 people died on Monday and the positivity rate was 8.02%.  Night curfew The new of SOPs issued by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said all shops and business establishments should close by 2 p.m. from Wednesday until further notice. Night curfew will also be enforced from 6 p.m. to 5 a.m. An earlier SOP had sought closure of shops and business establishments by 6 p.m. with night curfew from 8 p.m. Other restrictions include only the religious part of marriages in presence of 20 people at most, a maximum of five people at a time in religious places, 20 or fewer people for last rites, 50% employees except for officers in government and private offices, and 50% passengers in public vehicles. The Assam government also announced that journalists in the State would be regarded as front-line workers in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Journalists under 45 years of age have accordingly been made eligible for a symbolic launch of the COVID-19 vaccination on Wednesday. The eligible will get vaccinated at the Gauhati Press Club, the State’s Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. He also said the State has received a fresh batch of 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-assam-shops-to-shut-by-2-pm/article34485501.ece
05 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Pass must for traffic movement during lockdown in Haryana||Carrying a departmental I-card or government issued pass was mandatory for traffic movement during the lockdown, said Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday, adding that strict action would be taken against those who are commuting without it.  Meeting with officers Mr. Vij said this in a meeting with senior police officers in Chandigarh. He elaborated that the Deputy Commissioners were asked to issue online traffic passes. For this, interested people can apply online atsaralharyana.gov.in. People should not leave their homes unnecessarily and those who are permitted to commute during the lockdown would have to carry a pass or I-card, he said. The Home Minister also directed to make a roster of grocery stores, pharmacy shops and othersin the State. All such shops should not be allowed to open every day, but on rotation basis, said Mr.Vij.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pass-must-for-traffic-movement-during-lockdown-in-haryana/article34485502.ece
05 May 2021||New Delhi,||Riots: bail granted to man due to delay in witness statement||A court here has granted bail to an accused in two cases pertaining to north-east Delhi riots in February last, noting that the police recorded the statement of public witnesses and recovered the weapon after a “humongous delay” with no plausible explanation. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted bail to 30-year-old Deepak Kumar on furnishing a personal bond of Rs. 20,000 and one surety of the like amount on conditions that he shall maintain peace and harmony in the locality. “Admittedly, the applicant is not seen or visible in any CCTV footage,” the sessions judge noted while granting the bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riots-bail-granted-to-man-due-to-delay-in-witness-statement/article34485593.ece
05 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Mob violence accused wins U.P. panchayat election||A Bajrang Dal activist, who is one of the main accused in the 2018 mob violence in Bulandshahr in which a police officer was killed, has been elected as a member in the Zilla panchayat polls. Yogesh Raj won the Zilla Panchayat election from Ward 5 in Bulandshahr. According to the State Election Commission, he secured 10,351 votes, around 37%. Police officer Subodh Singh was among two persons killed in mob violence that took place following allegations of cow slaughter in a village in Bulandshahr in December 2018. Mr. Raj was accusedas one of the main instigators of the mob. Talking to the media after his win, Mr. Raj said he had beaten his nearest opponent by 2,150 votes. On the criminal allegations against him, he said, “I am accused of only instigating violence not for murder.” In 2019, the Allahabad High Court granted him bail. Mr. Raj claimed that he was no longer in any outfit as the Bajrang Dal had relived him of his post of district convenor a year ago. Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary said Mr. Raj’s win was a matter of worry. “Voters will have to defeat the politics of hate and frenzy,” Mr. Chaudhary tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mob-violence-accused-wins-up-panchayat-election/article34485497.ece
