07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC wants formula on oxygen supply ahead of third wave||The Supreme Court on Thursday highlighted the need for the Union government to start preparations for oxygen allocation to the States and its supply and distribution ahead of a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The court drew the attention of the government to reports that children may be affected in the next wave. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said the government needed to finalise a formula for allocation, supply and distribution of oxygen in a “scientific manner” ahead of the coming wave. It said the “rough-and-ready” formula devised presently on the “oxygen-for-bed” arrangement would hardly work. The current formula of allocating oxygen to Delhi, for example, on the basis of the number of ICU/non-ICU beds grossly underestimated need for oxygen. “Also, not everyone who went to a hospital required an oxygen bed and not everyone required ICU or ventilator. There are many who have been asked to stay at home and quarantine,” Justice Chandrachud said, picking holes in the formula. The court said the formula for allocation and distribution of oxygen should be based, among other things, on an “oxygen audit”, that is, to determine the actual need of oxygen in a State.  “We need to reassess the basis for oxygen allocation. We are in stage two of the pandemic. Stage three might have very different parameters… But, if we prepare today, we will be able to handle stage three. It is about proper allocation of oxygen and working out the modalities, including proper distribution. A buffer stock has also to be created,” Justice Chandrachud pointed out. The court underlined the importance of vaccination. “Children are going to be affected. They will be taken into hospitals. They will be accompanied by parents. Vaccination needs to be done,” it stated. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, while informing the court that 730.7 MT (metric tonnes) of oxygen was received in Delhi on Wednesday as directed by the Bench, agreed that a “minimum fault prone formula” for oxygen supply, allocation and distribution was the need of the hour. The government agreed to revisit the formula. At one point, the court suggested incentivising young doctors, who have completed their courses, and young trained nurses to augment the fatigued healthcare professionals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-wants-formula-on-oxygen-supply-ahead-of-third-wave/article34503285.ece
07 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Nine-day lockdown in State from tomorrow||A Statewide lockdown will be enforced from May 8 to 16 to contain disease transmission in the second wave of COVID-19. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan ordered the lockdown against the backdrop of 42,464 new cases on Thursday. The nine-day lockdown from 6 a.m. on May 8 has been notified by the Chief Secretary in exercise of powers conferred under Section 20 (3) of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and in his capacity as Chairperson, State Executive Committee, State Disaster Management Authority. All educational, training, research, and coaching institutions and places of worship will remain closed. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious, gatherings stand barred. All roadway and waterway transport services will remain suspended. Air and rail services, except metro, will remain operational. Goods transport, Fire and Rescue Services, law and order, and emergency services will be functional. Taxis and autorickshaws, including cab aggregators, will be permitted only for procurement of essential commodities, medicines, attending to medical emergencies and to proceed to airports/ railway stations. Private vehicles will be allowed only for procuring essential commodities, medicines, and for travelling for vaccination against COVID-19. Interstate travel Interstate road transport will be allowed for goods and emergency services. For interstate road transport of individuals for emergency purposes, registration on the Jagratha portal is mandatory. In case of funerals, only 20 persons will be permitted after registering on the portal. For marriages, 20 persons will be allowed. Intimation to the police station and registration on the portal are needed. Hospitals and related establishments can function. Commercial and private establishments will remain closed. But, shops including ration shops, those dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy products, meat and fish, fodder, poultry and cattle feed, and bakeries can function till 7.30 p.m. Home delivery will be encouraged. Offices of the Government of India and that of the State, its autonomous and subordinate offices, and public corporations will remain closed. Essential departments will function with minimal staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-day-lockdown-in-state-from-tomorrow/article34503443.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court declines EC plea to restrain media reports||Real-time reportage of court proceedings, including the oral exchanges in courtrooms between judges and lawyers, is part of the right to freedom of speech, the Supreme Court held in a judgment. “With the advent of technology, we are seeing reporting proliferate through social media forums which provide real-time updates to a much wider audience. This is an extension of the freedom of speech and expression that the media possesses. This constitutes a virtual extension of the open court,” a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud observed in a judgment. Such live reporting of court proceedings is a cause of celebration rather than apprehension. Madras HC remarks The court declined a plea made by the Election Commission of India to restrain the media from reporting oral remarks made by a Division Bench of the Madras High court. The HC judges had said that poll body officials should be charged with “murder” for allowing rallies and mass gatherings during the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. The judges had remarked that the EC was solely responsible for the COVID surge. In the judgment, Justice Chandrachud said the case posed a delicate balancing of powers between the HC and the ECI, which are both constitutional authorities. The court said that except in cases of child sexual abuse and marital issues, the phenomenon of free press should extend to court proceedings. “Citizens have a right to know about what transpires in the course of judicial proceedings. The dialogue in a court indicates the manner in which a judicial proceeding is structured... Arguments addressed before the court, the response of opposing counsel and issues raised by the court are matters on which citizens have a legitimate right to be informed,” Justice Chandrachud observed. The court referred to how the Gujarat High Court had recently introduced live-streaming of its proceedings in a bid to enhance public participation in the dispensation of justice. “In this backdrop, it would be retrograde for this court to promote the rule of law and access to justice on one hand, and shield the daily operations of the High Courts and this court from the media in all its forms, by gagging the reporting of proceedings,” Justice Chandrachud said. The court said oral observations made during course of a hearing do not bind the parties and do not form a part of the judgment. An exchange of views was intrinsic to the applicability of mind and the process of judging. On the nature of the remarks made by the Madras HC, the apex court said “a degree of caution and circumspection would have allayed the problems in the present case. All said and done, this is in the past and does not constitute a part of the record”. The court said the remarks may have been a manifestation of anguish at the rising cases of COVID. “We must emphasise the need for judges to exercise caution in off-the-cuff remarks in open court, which may be susceptible to misinterpretation. Language, both on the Bench and in judgments, must comport with judicial propriety. Language is an important instrument of a judicial process which is sensitive to constitutional values,” Justice Chandrachud noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supreme-court-declines-ec-plea-to-restrain-media-reports/article34503838.ece
07 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||KCR rules out lockdown in TS||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asserted that there is no scope for imposing lockdown in the State as it will lead to destabilisation of normal life and cripple the economy. KCR cited previous experiences as well as the impact of the lockdown in different states which did not yield any fruitful results in reducing the COVID-19 surge before arriving at the decision against imposing lockdown in the State. Mr. Rao conducted a detailed review of the COVID situation in the State with senior officials of the Health and allied departments here on Thursday. The review follows resumption of duties by the CM who had tested COVID positive on April 19 and had been in isolation at his farm house in Yerravelli in Medak district till he tested negative. The CM returned to Pragati Bhavan on Thursday evening and convened a meeting of senior officials to review the COVID situation. In the process, he spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure adequate supply of oxygen and Remdesivir doses to the State. He told the PM that the oxygen supplies assured from Sriperambadur in Tamil Nadu and Bellari in Karnatakia were not reaching the State in time. The influx of increasing number of patients from Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and other States into the city for COVID treatment imposed additional demand for medical resources and facilities in the city. As a result, there was pressure on the supply of key essentials like oxygen and Remdesivir to meet the demand. In spite of the ever increasing demand for oxygen, there was availability of 440 metric tonne of oxygen in the State while the Statereceived 4,900 doses of Remdesivir. He wanted Mr Modi to ensure at least 500 metric tonne of oxygen and 25,000 doses of Remdesivir were supplied to the State. The Centre has supplied 50 lakh doses of the vaccine to the State so far, but the State would require at least 2.5 lakh doses on daily basis, he said urging the PM to ensure adequate supply of the vaccine to the State. Following the request of KCR, Union Minister Piyush Goyal spoke to the CM and assured that steps would be initiated to meet the request at the earliest. Mr Goyal assured that steps would be taken to ensure adequate supply of Remdisivir to Telangana. In addition, instructions would be issued to Karnataka and Tamil Nadu for ensuring supply of oxygen to Telangana. The CM’s request to the Centre follows the review of the existing situation in the State. Mr. Rao also enquired about the availability of oxygen equipped beds with senior officials besides speaking to the manufacturers of Remdisivir personally requesting them to augment supplies of the medicine to meet the requirements of the State. The Chief Minister wanted the strength of oxygen equipped beds in the hospitals to be increased by 5,000 more in the next one week besides ensuring that quality oxygen was airlifted from China through 12 cryogenic tankers at a cost of Rs. 1 crore each. The government has set up 5,980 COVID outpatient centres across the State and the people should utiliSe the services of these centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-rules-out-lockdown-in-ts/article34503864.ece
07 May 2021||Chennai,||Stalin retains veterans, includes 15 new faces||DMK president M.K. Stalin, who will be sworn in Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on Friday, will head a 34-member Cabinet that includes veterans and 15 new faces and just two women. The Cabinet size is four more than that of the outgoing Edappadi K. Palaniswami Ministry. While old warhorse and party general secretary Duraimurugan will be the number two in the Cabinet handling the newly established Department of Water Resources, the limelight in the midst of the raging second wave of COVID-19 pandemic is on former Chennai Mayor Ma Subramanian, who has been appointed Minister for Medical and Family Welfare including the Health portfolio. In the pecking order of the Cabinet, though, he is at number 22. Mr. Duraimurugan will also handle the subjects of Minor Irrigation, Assembly, Governor and Cabinet, Elections, passport, Minerals and Mines. Palanivel Thiagarajan, son of former Speaker PTR Palanivel Rajan, who holds an MBA in Finance from the Sloan School of Management at MIT and was an investment banker with the Lehmann Brothers and later with Standard Chartered in Singapore, is set to make his debut in the Cabinet holding the key portfolio of Finance and Human Resource Management. He will equally have his task cut out trying with the State’s debt burden projected to cross Rs. 5 lakh crore in 2021-22. Interestingly, Mr. Stalin has retained Special Initiatives and Special Programme Implementation portfolios indicating that he would like to directly monitor these. He will also hold the portfolio of Welfare of Differently Abed Persons.  Women representatives The women representatives are P. Geetha Jeevan (Minister for Social Welfare and Women Empowerment), who was part of the DMK Cabinet between 2006 and 2011 and Kayalvizhi Selvaraj (number 34 in the Cabinet order), who will handle the Ministry of Adi Dravidar Welfare. The first meeting of the Cabinet will be held on Friday evening, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-retains-veterans-includes-15-new-faces/article34503840.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Keep 50% beds in empanelled hospitals for COVID patients’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday instructed the officials to increase the availability of beds for treating COVID patients and to provide 50% of the beds to Aarogyasri patients in the YSR Aarogyasri-empanelled hospitals and non-empanelled hospitals notified by the District Collectors. In a review meeting on COVID and vaccination, Mr. Jagan said COVID treatment should be provided free of cost in all the empanelled hospitals and there should be clarity on the beds available in Aarogyasri hospitals. He wanted COVID Care Centres to be set up near all COVID hospitals. Officials said that there were currently 108 government hospitals, 349 corporate empanelled hospitals, 47 corporate temporary empanelled hospitals and 94 private category hospitals in the State rendering COVID treatment. The total number of beds in 598 hospitals stood at 48,439, of which 41,517 were occupied and 6,922 beds were vacant. A total of 24,500 COVID patients were being treated under Aarogyasri scheme. Oxygen production The Chief Minister ordered that the officials should explore all the options for augmenting the production of oxygen while trying to procure additional quantities from the Centre. Officials said that up to 500 Metric Tonnes (MT) of oxygen was being used per day in COVID hospitals and it was expected to reach 1,000 MT by May 15. The State-level storage capacity was only 515 MT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/keep-50-beds-in-empanelled-hospitals-for-covid-patients/article34503292.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Family lands up at CM’s house, but despite help patient dies||In a desperate attempt to get beds for their loved ones who had COVID-19, two families on Thursday landed at the highest seat of power seeking help. One family reached Vidhana Soudha and the other the Chief Minister’s residence on Kumara Krupa Road. However, help came too late and one patient succumbed on the way to a hospital. One family, from Chikkalur near Kengeri, brought the patient in an ambulance to the Chief Minister’s residence after calling all the helplines and check-in with hospitals and finding no bed. “In desperation, the patient’s family directed the ambulance to the Chief Minister’s official residence. Police personnel, baffled by the development, managed to arrange for a bed at M.S. Ramaiah Hospital,” said a senior police officer. However, the patient succumbed before he could reach the hospital. In the second instance, after failing to get a bed for his ailing mother, a man and his relatives took the patient to the Vidhana Soudha gates and started pleading with the police to allow them into the high security zone so that the Chief Minister could get them a bed. The son said she was suffering from breathlessness and low oxygen level. “My mother has not been keeping well for four days. We have visited many hospitals in the city, but all are saying ICU beds are full. We could not generate a BU number. There has been no response from the BBMP helpline. I am begging everyone for a bed. I want to save my mother. I begged doctors to admit her, but they could not provide a bed,” said the man. Family members, who live in Hesaraghatta, said that they had admitted the woman to a private hospital in Hoskote. “My mother has not been keeping well for four days. We have visited many hospitals in the city, but all are saying ICU beds are full. We could not generate a BU number. There has been no response from the BBMP helpline. I am begging everyone for a bed. I want to save my mother. I begged doctors to admit her, but they could not provide a bed,” said the man who was in tears. Family members, who live in Hesaraghatta, said that they had admitted the woman to a private hospital in Hoskote. When her condition worsened, the doctors informed that she needed ventilator support, but they were unable to find one. Youth Congress leader Mohammed Nalapad arrived at the spot to help the family. After staging a protest and appealing to the government, the son was able to get a bed for his mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/family-lands-up-at-cms-house-but-despite-help-patient-dies/article34503328.ece
07 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Death toll zooms in weeks in 15 U.P. districts||While major districts such as Lucknow, Varanasi, Prayagraj and Kanpur continue to be the worst affected by the pandemic, recorded deaths due to COVID-19 doubled or tripled in 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh, including many smaller and relatively rural centres, over the past three weeks. In another three dozen-odd districts, the death toll also increased substantially over the same period. U.P. has 75 districts. From April 15 to May 5, the death count doubled or tripled in Hathras, Kasganj, Mahoba, Chitrakoot, Bhadohi, Hamirpur, Baghpat, Amethi, Auraiya, Jalaun, Banda, Ghaziabad, Sonbhadra, Chandauli and Gautam Buddha Nagar, as per the official data of the State health department. The death toll in Kasganj increased fivefold from 6 to 30; Mahoba 13 to 34; Chitrakoot 17 to 50; Bhadohi 31 to 63; Hamirpur 21 to 61; Auraiya 50 to 106; Jalaun 53 to 136; Banda 48 to 118; Baghpat 36 to 76; Amethi 44 to 88; Chandauli 76 to 204; Sonbhadra 82 to 161. While the death toll almost tripled in Ghaziabad from 104 to 288, a similar trajectory was seen in neighbouring Gautam Buddha Nagar, where the recorded deaths rose from 98 to 271. Mahoba, Banda, Hamirpur, Chitrakoot and Jalaun are all in the drought-prone region of Bundelkhand, while Auraiya, Sonbhadra, Chandauli are among the backward and rural-dominated districts in the State. Rural polls link In more than three dozen other districts, including many small and backward centres, the deaths due to COVID-19 have seen a steady and substantial rise. In the last two weeks, opponents of the ruling BJP as well its own MLAs and teachers’ unions have said that COVID-19 was rapidly spreading in rural U.P., with many blaming the recently concluded panchayat polls for the increase in cases and deaths. In Kannauj, the deaths rose from 55 to 86; Basti 100 to 82; Hapur 68 to 105 and Etawah 111 to 208. The State government on May 5 launched a testing drive for COVID-19 in all 97,000 revenue villages. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials to carry out door-to-door screening and checking of temperature and oxygen levels of people and tests of people with symptoms. U.P. on May 6 recorded 26,789 fresh positive cases out of 2.25 lakh samples tested, as against 31,165 positive cases out of 2.32 lakh samples on May 5. However, the number of daily deaths only dropped marginally over the 24 hours, from 357 to 353. On May 6, Lucknow recorded 65 deaths while 49 died in Kanpur, which has officially recorded 161 deaths in three days.  Monitoring panels CM Adityanath said in the screening by monitoring committees in the villages 69,474 persons were found to be symptomatic and when tested, 3,551 were found positive. They were provided medical kits for home isolation, the government said. “Doctors should be in constant contact with these patients through tele-consultation. Advanced medical facility should also be provided to them as per the requirement,” Mr. Adityanath instructed officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/death-toll-zooms-in-weeks-in-15-up-districts/article34503836.ece
07 May 2021||GENEVA,||EU to discuss U.S. vaccine patent plan at Friday summit||France joined the United States on Thursday in supporting an easing of patent and other protections on COVID-19 vaccines that could help poorer countries get more doses and speed up the end of the pandemic. The move to support waiving intellectual property protections on vaccines under World Trade Organization rules marked a dramatic shift for the United States — and drew cheers from activists, complaints from Big Pharma, and a lot of questions about what comes next. Washington had previously lined up with many other developed nations opposed to the idea floated by India and South Africa in October. Attention is now turning to those richer nations, notably in the European Union, and France was the first to voice its support. “I completely favour this opening up of the intellectual property,” French President Emmanuel Macron said on Thursday on a visit to a vaccine centre. The EU Commission President, Ursula von der Leyen, said the 27-nation bloc was ready to talk about the U.S. proposal. “We are ready to discuss how the U.S. proposal for waiver could help” end the crisis, she said in a video address. Russian President Vladimir Putin also said he supported the idea of a waiver on patent protections for coronavirus vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eu-to-discuss-us-vaccine-patent-plan-at-friday-summit/article34503282.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||HC directs Centre to consider A.P. request for 300 tonnes of oxygen||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, led by Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and comprising Justice C. Praveen Kumar, has asked the Union government to consider the letter written by the State government seeking an additional allocation of 300 tonnes of oxygen to meet the rising demand for it in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The court on Thursday directed the State government to file an affidavit, detailing the steps taken to contain the pandemic, and posted the matter for further hearing by a Vacation Bench later this month. Taking up the public interest litigation petitions filed by the A.P. Civil Liberties Association and others, it sought a report on the death of COVID-19 patients in the Government General Hospital in Anantapur. Mr. Justice Goswami questioned what steps had been taken to streamline the vaccination drive, citing reports of shortages across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-directs-centre-to-consider-ap-request-for-300-tonnes-of-oxygen/article34503290.ece
07 May 2021||Mumbai,||Air ambulance makes emergency landing in Mumbai||An air ambulance carrying a critical patient from Bagdogra in West Bengal made an emergency landing at Mumbai airport on Thursday night after its landing gear fell during take-off at Nagpur, where it had stopped for refuelling. The Beechcraft aircraft landed safely at 9.09 p.m. on its belly at Mumbai airport and all five people on board were reported safe. “A full emergency was declared for a non-scheduled Beechcraft VT-JIL aircraft on route from Nagpur to Mumbai,” the Mumbai airport said in a statement. The flight had two crew members, a patient, relative and a doctor, the statement said. The airport’s emergency response team was activated instantly. “All passengers were evacuated safely and flights operating in and out of CSMIA were on schedule,” the statement added. The unidentified patient has been rushed to Nanavati Hospital in Juhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/air-ambulance-makes-emergency-landing/article34503406.ece
07 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||Five held for impersonation in recruitment||The Dharwad District Police have arrested five persons in connection with a case of fraud committed through impersonation following which a candidate had secured a job in the Armed Reserve Police. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Thursday, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant said that a candidate, Shivappa F. Padeppanavar, secured the post of Armed Police Constable (APC) in Dharwad district by getting another person appear for him for the Endurance Test (ET) and Physical Standard Test (PST) for the purpose of selection. He gave the names of the arrested as Shivappa Padeppanavar, Manjunath Karigar, Basavaraj Melmatti, Basavaraj Devaramani and Anand Kolur. Dharwad District Police conducted the recruitment drive for filling posts of Armed Police Constance in the Armed Reserve Police Wing during 2020-21 and after ET and PST on December 19 and medical examination on January 1. The candidate [Shivappa Padeppanavar] reported for duty on April 3. The fraud came to light during matching of finger prints of candidates taken during the ET and PST, medical examination and while reporting for duty. Subsequent investigation revealed that the candidate [Shivappa Padeppanavar] had approached Manjunath Karigar to get another candidate to appear for the tests and he, in turn, introduced him to Basavaraj Melmatti and his team. Subsequently, Basavaraj Melmatti agreed to do the work for Rs. 2.30 lakh and got Anand Kolur to appear for the tests on Shivappa Padeppanavar’s behalf. Anand Kolur subsequently cleared all the tests following which Shivappa Padeppanavar received the appointment order. And, the fraud came to light after the fingerprints of Shivappa Padeppanavar failed to match those taken during the tests. Mr. Krishnakant said that investigation is being carried out about Anand Kolur’s involvement in a similar case in Hassan Police Station. He said that the Dharwad Suburban Police have registered a complaint and taken up further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-held-for-impersonation-in-recruitment/article34503353.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||‘COVID surge has exposed Capital infra’||The Delhi High Court on Thursday observed that the current COVID-19 surge has “completely exposed” the existing medical infrastructure of the Capital and that the Delhi government’s counsel was “behaving like the ostrich with its head in the sand”. The observation came when Delhi government urged it not to include certain remarks.Page 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-surge-has-exposed-capital-infra/article34503835.ece
07 May 2021||COLOMBO,||Nasheed hurt in IED blast near residence||Speaker and former President of the Maldives Mohamed Nasheed was injured in an explosion in capital Male on Thursday night. He sustained injuries and was admitted to a local hospital. Deputy Speaker Eva Abdulla tweeted, “Following an explosion near his residence, Speaker of Parliament President Mohamed Nasheed has sustained injuries and is currently receiving treatment at ADK Hospital. We will keep the public informed on President Nasheed’s condition as we receive updates.” According to sources, the explosion took place when Mr. Nasheed was about to get into his car, just after 8.30 p.m. local time, near his residence. Preliminary reports indicated that an Improvised Explosive Device (IED), apparently fastened to a two-wheeler parked nearby, had blown up, injuring the Speaker and one of his bodyguards. Tweeting on the development, Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid said: “Strongly condemn the attack on Speaker of Parliament, President @MohamedNasheed this evening. Cowardly attacks like these have no place in our society. My thoughts and prayers are with President Nasheed and others injured in this attack, as well as their families.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nasheed-hurt-in-ied-blast-near-residence/article34503283.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||HC fumes as govt. refuses to drop GST||The government should review its resistance to exempting the GST levied on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use, the Delhi High Court observed on Thursday, after the Finance Ministry conveyed its inability to accept the court’s order issued on Wednesday. The Bench also critiqued the Centre’s PR exercise amidst the pandemic.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-fumes-as-govt-refuses-to-drop-gst/article34503293.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||SC declines EC plea to restrain media reports||Real-time reportage of court proceedings, including oral exchanges in courtrooms between judges and lawyers, is part of the right to freedom of speech, the Supreme Court held in a judgment. “With the advent of technology, we are seeing reporting proliferate through social media forums, which provide real-time updates to a much wider audience,” it said.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-declines-ec-plea-to-restrain-media-reports/article34503294.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t want a single death over oxygen: HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday appreciated Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ‘Mumbai model’ to contain COVID-19 cases and asked all municipal corporations of the State to use the model in their areas. A Division Bench told the State to ensure adequate supply and that it did not want a “single death for want of oxygen”.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-want-a-single-death-over-oxygen-hc/article34503917.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t want a single death over oxygen: HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday appreciated Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ‘Mumbai model’ to contain COVID-19 cases and asked all municipal corporations of the State to use the model in their areas. A Division Bench told the State to ensure adequate supply and that it did not want a “single death for want of oxygen”.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-want-a-single-death-over-oxygen-hc/article34503407.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Active cases breach 5 lakh mark in State||Active COVID-19 cases in the State breached the 5 lakh mark on Thursday,touching 5,17,075. Over 91% (4,71,968) of the total active caseload was reported in the last one month alone, from April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-cases-breach-5-lakh-mark-in-state/article34503324.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Post-expose, war rooms hit by attrition||Emergency response in the city was hit following search operations by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police, which is investigating the bed allotment scam. A day after police teams raided all eight zonal war rooms, seized data storage devices and questioned staff, a large attrition rate was reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/post-expose-war-rooms-hit-by-attrition/article34503325.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Vaccination scenario in State is shocking: HC||Describing the current COVID-19 situation in State as “shocking to say the least”, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to immediately get in touch with the Central government in connection with an order for vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-scenario-in-state-is-shocking-hc/article34503326.ece
07 May 2021||Mumbai,||Shortage puts the brakes on vaccination in State||Even though Maharashtra tops the chart in the number of individuals receiving the double dose of COVID-19 vaccines, the inoculation has slowed down over the past week. Despite the shortage, the overcrowding at vaccination centres in urban areas of the State, especially Mumbai and Thane, has triggered fear of these centres turning into hotspots for COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shortage-puts-the-brakes-on-vaccination-in-state/article34503918.ece
07 May 2021||Pune,||‘Centre slow in clearing imported essential items’||Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday claimed that the Centre’s Department of Pharmaceuticals was slow in granting clearance to essential items imported by the State government. He complained again about the lack of vaccine supplies from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-slow-in-clearing-imported-essential-items/article34503920.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 335 COVID-19 deaths||Delhi reported 335 COVID-19-related deaths over 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 18,398, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 19,133 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 12,73,035. A total of 78,780 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 11,64,008 people have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-335-covid-19-deaths/article34503841.ece
07 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||FIR against Lucknow hospital for false alarm||A private hospital in Lucknow has been booked for putting up a notice stating oxygen shortage in the facility and “creating an atmosphere of fear”, said officials on Thursday. The administration claimed that the hospital had sufficient stock of oxygen cylinders and was allegedly trying to hoard them. The director of Sun Hospital was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fir-against-lucknow-hospital-for-false-alarm/article34503842.ece
07 May 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata flays Central team’s visit to State||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the BJP of inciting violence and criticised the Union government for sending a team to the State within 24 hours of her government formation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-flays-central-teams-visit-to-state/article34503411.ece
07 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Burial of COVID-19 victim opposed in Manipur||A Manipur-based group has opposed the burial of a COVID-19 victim who taught in a Haryana university but was born in adjoining Myanmar. The United Naga Council (UNC) mourned the death of the 42-year-old Nehginpao Kipgen at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi on May 2 but questioned his citizenship and the “legal ground” for the burial of his body in Manipur’s Kangpokpi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/burial-of-covid-19-victim-opposed-in-manipur/article34503412.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre to retain GST on concentrators||The Central government should review its resistance to exempting the Goods and Services Tax (GST) levied on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use, the Delhi High Court observed on Thursday after the Finance Ministry conveyed its inability to accept the Court’s order issued on Wednesday. A High Court Bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh also critiqued the Centre’s PR exercise amidst the pandemic, and mooted that it was time to be more humane, while mentioning that even President Joe Biden had dropped the U.S. administration’s resistance to intellectual property waivers for COVID-19 vaccines after “good sense prevailed”. The petitioner in the case, a senior citizen whose nephew had shipped him a concentrator as a gift, had challenged a May 1 notification that levied 12% GST on such imports from 28% earlier. He invoked Article 21 of the Constitution, which enshrines the fundamental right to life. The government counsel said the Court’s order had been escalated to the highest levels, but the decision was that the maximum possible relief had already been given by reducing the GST rate. While the plea was only for GST exemption on gifts, the Court said the government should consider the exemption for all such imports till the pandemic subsides. “Just one small single item is being reported on this, last few days. I won’t call it bad publicity, they are just narrating the facts as they are happening in the court. They will do more damage to your PR exercise… We are not saying that any PR exercise is required in COVID times… Let us be more humane, this is my request to you. It will win so many hearts for the government — people will feel comforted,” Justice Singh said. “Everybody doesn’t have a relative abroad, no? Suppose a judge of this court wants to import, he doesn’t have a relative. But he has a friend who says I will arrange it for you, but you bear the cost. Should the State, in these circumstances, be imposing a tax? How much are you gaining out of this collection?” Justice Shakdher asked the government counsel. “I don’t know why there is this resistance to this, which from every angle seems right? I can assure you that this will give us an opportunity to decide whether Article 21 is applicable and maybe it will set a new trend,” he said. “We want to keep our hands off… Good sense may prevail on them, which is what we hope, against all odds,” Justice Singh noted, while Justice Shakdher observed that the U.S. administration had also acted in a similar way. Referring to the difficulties being faced by all in similar circumstances as the petitioner, the judges mentioned the suffering of a lawyer “colleague” and remarked that the bureaucracy “just doesn’t seem to be understanding this”, despite losing very senior officers. Justice Singh also said he had been searching for concentrators himself and they were not available in many countries. Questioning the government on how much revenue it hoped to raise from such GST levies, the Court noted its law officers’ fees may be more than the revenue generated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-retain-gst-on-concentrators/article34503208.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||In Kerala, a shift in social basis of voting||The traditional social basis of voting in Kerala underwent some important changes this time, contributing to the larger-than-expected victory of the LDF over the UDF. A modest but significant shift was noticed among the Muslim and Christian communities, who constitute 27% and 18% of the State’s population, respectively. While the two communities have traditionally voted for the UDF and continued to do so this time as well, they also warmed up to the LDF at the expense of smaller players, giving the LDF a further edge over the UDF. According to Lokniti-CSDS’s post-poll survey data, nearly two-fifths (39%) of Muslims and Christians voted for the LDF this time, as opposed to about one-thirds (35%) in the 2016 election. The UDF, on the other hand, got the same level of support among Muslims (58%) and an increased share among Christians (57%). Support for the UDF, however, considerably declined among the two minority communities in comparison to the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Back then, at least two-thirds of Muslims and Christians had voted for it. For the LDF, the vote gains compared to the Lok Sabha poll were nine and 14 percentage points, respectively. In regional terms, while Muslim support for the UDF this time continued to be quite high (at about two-thirds) in the Malabar region (an area mostly contested by the UDF constituent — the IUML), it fell drastically to less than half in the Cochin region, way below the levels recorded in 2016. It is here that the LDF scored over the UDF among Muslims. Interestingly, all of the gain among Christians for the LDF and the UDF came at the expense of the BJP and other players. The BJP, which had secured around 10% of the votes from the Christian community in the 2016 election, managed only about 2% this time. This decline is significant given that the party had actively raised the spectre of ‘love jihad’ and conversions to woo Christian voters in the run-up to the election and the fact that the BJP’s top leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had held discussions with several church leaders to find a solution to the long-standing feud between Orthodox and Jacobite sects of the Malankara Syrian Church. However, none of that seems to have worked. For the shift of Christian and Muslim votes towards the LDF this time, we found that there was a clear class aspect to it. Support for the LDF among lower-class and poor Muslims increased from 35% to 46%, and among lower class and poor Christians from 36% to 44%. As far as the majority Hindu community is concerned, its voting pattern remained more or less unchanged compared to the 2016 election, with the LDF, the UDF and the NDA drawing almost similar levels of support as they had done the last time, but for a slight uptick in support for the LDF. However, there were some significant caste-wise variations that bear mention — the most significant of them being with respect to the Scheduled Caste or Dalits. Dalit support for the LDF increased massively this time to over two thirds (69%), an 18-percentage-point rise compared to the 2016 election. The BJP saw a 16 percentage point decline in Dalit support. The other major area of gain among Hindus for the LDF came from the non-Ezahava OBCs, whose support for the LDF climbed from 49% to 61%, and this was largely at the expense of the UDF. The Ezhavas, who have traditionally supported the LDF, continued to do so this time as well. The BJP also made some gains among Ezhavas, which seems to have come at the cost of the UDF. For the UDF, the only significant gains came from the Nair community. The front managed to net about two-fifths of their support as opposed to one-fifth in 2016. Nairs and other upper castes were, in fact, the only communities among whom the LDF did not perform well. The author is a Research Associate at Lokniti-CSDS, Delhi  The decline in the BJP’s Christian vote is significant as the party had raised the spectre of ‘love jihad’ and conversions to woo Christian voters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-kerala-a-shift-in-social-basis-of-voting/article34503219.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,||4,06,749 new cases, 3,783 fatalities||India recorded 4,06,749 new COVID-19 cases and 3,783 fatalities as of 9.30 p.m. on Thursday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,14,77,323 cases and 2,33,932 deaths. Maharashtra reported 62,194 infections, followed by Karnataka (49,058) and Kerala (42,464). Maharashtra also recorded 853 casualties, followed by Uttar Pradesh (350) and Delhi (335). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh. The data are sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily figures. About 20.19 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Thursday, about 4.5 lakh doses higher than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 1.74 lakh doses lower than what was recorded in the same period, a week ago. The number of daily doses has been on a declining trend since mid-April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/406749-new-cases-3783-fatalities/article34503206.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Sabarimala issue did not affect voters’ preferences||One of the many reasons for the defeat of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala in the 2019 Lok Sabha election was believed to be the State government’s handling of the Sabarimala temple entry issue. A final verdict in the case is still pending, but the fact that the issue had remained unresolved and the opposition kept up the pressure on the Pinarayi Vijayan government led to the speculation that the LDF’s prospects might get affected again. But its resounding victory makes it clear that the issue failed to make any dent to the Left’s performance. The Lokniti-CSDS’s post-poll survey found that the Sabarimala issue was not a priority for most voters anymore. Instead, development, government performance and corruption mattered more. Second, even though people continued to hold strong opinions about the issue, they do not seem to have punished the Left for it in the same way they did in 2019. Among the six of every ten (58%) people who said that they fully opposed the Sabarimala verdict, the UDF got 42% of their votes and the LDF was very close behind at 38%. However, the survey also found that most people continue to be unhappy with the way the LDF has dealt with the matter. Public opinion on the issue was found to have hardened further, with both the general public and Hindus, in particular, taking an even stronger stand than in 2019. Whereas 48% had fully opposed the judgment in 2019, this time the figure was even higher at 58%. The author is a Research Associate at Lokniti-CSDS, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-issue-did-not-affect-voters-preferences/article34503223.ece
07 May 2021||KOCHI,||Lack of income causing anxiety||Shanthi M., a 53-year-old from a family dependent on dairy farming in the Rayamangalam panchayat along the eastern suburbs of Ernakulam district, has dumped down the drain nearly 17 litres of milk daily ever since two members of her family tested positive for COVID-19. There are no takers for milk from an infected household. Nor is the family at liberty to cut grass from the neighbourhood to feed the cattle. While the second wave forces through rural Kerala, it is loss of livelihood that are worrying many. Baburaj Kothamuttath of Chenoli near Perambra in Kozhikode, who earns a living by renting out utensils and generators for public and private events, has been in dire straits ever since the pandemic hit in March 2020. His hopes of a recovery has now been dashed by the second wave-induced cancellation or postponement of events. P.C. Sathyan, who runs a printing press in Nochad, says the pandemic put a stop to arrival of paper from China, which led to price rise and a fall in quality. There is loss of business too, he said. Shibu, 40, an auto-rickshaw driver who used to take tourists around Kovalam and Vizhinjam in Thiruvananthapuram, is among the many casual workers whose livelihoods have been derailed. He has been working in plantations lately. Free ration has helped his family.   (With inputs from M.P. Praveen, A.S. Jayanth and Sarath Babu George)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lack-of-income-causing-anxiety/article34503238.ece
07 May 2021||Sangareddy,||Bring up the bodies: a morbid tale||Families are being crippled financially in their struggle to get treatment for loved ones suffering from COVID-19. In Telangana, the family of 65-year-old B. Yellaiah (name changed) of Pulkal have had a harrowing time. When Mr. Yellaiah developed symptoms, he was taken to the Government Hospital at Sangareddy where a test confirmed he was COVID-19 positive. The hospital started his treatment. The family felt that Mr. Yellaiah would get better treatment in a private hospital and shifted him to one. Mr. Yellaiah battled for his life for nearly a week and died on Wednesday due to COVID-related complications. The kin were presented with a bill for Rs. 13 lakh. “Soon after the death, we were told to arrange for Rs. 13 lakh towards a final settlement. We pleaded that we could not pay that much. They refused to hand over the body. Finally, a district-level officer intervened to give the body for the last rites,” a relative, preferring not to be named, told The Hindu on Thursday. The family was told to sign an agreement with a person in their village for sale of a part of their land to clear the hospital bills. Only then could they take the mortal remains for the funeral. Sources said many private hospitals were not issuing complete bills. Government employee V. Kumar (name changed) of Narsapur was taken to Hyderabad for COVID treatment. Some private hospitals did not agree to admit him stating that the government servants insist on comprehensive bills for reimbursement, which these hospitals were not ready to give. Mr. Kumar had to bring his plight to the notice of senior government officials who spoke to a private hospital, where he got admission. But, after seven days of treatment, Mr. Kumar passed away. After a great amount of pressure was exerted on the hospital by officials, the family of Mr. Kumar got bills for the Rs. 8 lakh they had paid towards the treatment. “None of the hospitals are collecting the charges as prescribed by the government. There is no one acting tough against the private hospitals looting patients. We are collapsing financially,” said the son of a man who recently passed away after contracting COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bring-up-the-bodies-a-morbid-tale/article34503240.ece
07 May 2021||Kolkata,||‘BJP should accept people’s verdict’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the BJP of inciting violence and criticised the Union government for sending a team to the State within 24 hours of her government formation. “Within 24 hours of the swearing-in of the new government, a Central team came to the State. The BJP should accept the mandate of people,” she said at a press conference at the State Secretariat. “I have not seen such a thing in my life. May good sense prevail. Such threats will not work,” she said. Some fake videos were being circulated on the social media and police would take strong action against those spreading them. A four-member team of the Ministry of Home Affairs arrived in West Bengal on Thursday to take stock of the post-election violence. It held a meeting with senior State officials at the State Secretariat, Nabanna Buildings.  Earlier in the day, a delegation of the State BJP met the members of the team and gave a list of the areas affected by violence. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh alleged that the Chief Secretary had advised the Central team not to visit the violence-affected areas. The members of the team visited the Bhatpara constituency in North 24 Parganas and met the families affected by violence. During the day, Union Minister V. Muraleedharan’s convoy was attacked in Paschim Medinipur district. Mr. Muraleedharan, Minister of State for External Affairs, was visiting Ghatal. He said his convoy was attacked by Trinamool supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-should-accept-peoples-verdict/article34503232.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Ajit Singh dies of COVID-19||Former Union Minister and chief of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) Ajit Singh passed away on Thursday from COVID-19 complications at a Gurugram hospital. He was admitted to the hospital on April 20, a statement put out by his son, former MP Jayant Chaudhary, said. Mr. Singh, 82, a computer engineer by training, was one of the first IIT graduates to enter politics. He became a Rajya Sabha member after his father, former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, fell ill. In his chequered political career, Mr. Singh’s political party and his alignments went through several avatars — from heading the Lok Dal(A) and the Janata Party in 1987 and 1988, becoming the general secretary of the Janata Dal in 1989 with V.P. Singh, establishing the RLD in 1996, becoming a Minister in the Vajpayee government from 2001 to 2003 and in the Congress-led second United Progressive Alliance government till 2014. Drew strength All political formations he headed or was part of saw him drawing strength from the rural hinterland of western Uttar Pradesh. The frequent changes in his political alliances did not add much to his heft, but kept him relevant in the coalition era of the 1990s and the early 2000s. He was elected to the Lok Sabha from Baghpat from 1989 to 2009, losing the seat only in the bypoll of 1998 and the general election of 2014. Jat, Muslim support The strong support base of the Jats and the Muslims in western Uttar Pradesh, the State that sends the largest contingent of Lok Sabha members, made him an essential part of many of the coalition governments in the 1990s and 2000s. The communal riots in Muzaffarnagar in 2013, however, saw this support base splinter and his party suffered a major defeat in 2014 without a single seat. In the last year or so, his party vigorously campaigned against the three controversial farm laws, an issue that is of concern to agrarian communities over and above communal considerations. Former colleagues of Mr. Singh recalled his personal warmth towards them, whatever his political alignment happened to be at a particular time. One of the first calls that former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah made to a Union Minister in Delhi after becoming the Chief Minister was to Mr. Singh, a gesture underlining the fact that it was on a Lok Dal ticket in the 1970s that the former had fought his first election. Bashishstha Narayan Singh, Rajya Sabha member and former Bihar unit president of the Janata Dal, had been a close associate of both Chaudhary Charan Singh and Mr. Singh. ‘Personal warmth’ “What stood out with Ajit Singh ji was his personal warmth and courtesy to colleagues and former colleagues. I have visited his home and his attitude would be the same warm one, whether you were political fellow travellers at that point or not.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to Mr. Singh, stating that the latter was always at the forefront of fighting for the interests of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rashtriya-lok-dal-chief-ajit-singh-dies-of-covid-19/article34503211.ece
07 May 2021||Srinagar,||Three militants killed, one surrenders in Shopian||Three Al-Badr militants were killed by the security forces in a pre-dawn operation in south Kashmir’s Shopian on Thursday. Another militant who surrendered was arrested. “After the presence of terrorists was ascertained, the family members of the trapped ultras were called to the encounter site to persuade them to surrender. One of the trapped terrorists, Tausif Ahmad, surrendered. He also appealed to his trapped companions to surrender. However, they turned down the offer and fired indiscriminately, leading to an encounter,” said Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar. The militants were encircled in the Kanigam area of Shopian by a joint team of the police, the Army and the CRPF. The slain militants were identified as Danish Mir, Umer Bhat, both from the Khajapora area of Shopian, and Zaid Bashir Reshi from Raben Shopian. “They were affiliated with the Al-Badr outfit,” the police said. “We make a fervent appeal to all misguided youth, who have joined terror ranks, to shun the path of violence and return to mainstream as the society needs them and most importantly their parents. We will welcome and accept them with open arms,” said Mr. Kumar. The last rites of the slain militants will be allowed to be attended by the nearest of family members, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-militants-killed-one-surrenders-in-shopian/article34503227.ece
07 May 2021||Mumbai,||Don’t want a single death in State for want of oxygen: HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday appreciated Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ‘Mumbai model’ to contain COVID-19 cases and asked all municipal corporations of the State to use the model. This observation — a day after the Supreme Court also took note of BMC’s efficacy — by a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni, made this observation while hearing a bunch of petitions on the COVID-19 induced crisis in the State. The Bench told the State that it did not want a “single death for want of oxygen”. Chief Justice Datta said, “We have read in newspapers that people in other States are dying without oxygen. We don’t want such a situation in our state. Cases are decreasing in Maharashtra, so ensure that you use oxygen wisely.” The Bench was perusing affidavits filed by the State and BMC, when it found that cases in Pune were far higher than in Mumbai. “Pune has double the cases than Mumbai. If cases can be controlled in Mumbai, Pune too can follow the ‘Mumbai Model’,” said Chief Justice Datta and suggested a complete lockdown in Pune. Chief Justice Datta then said, “Let Mr Iqbal Chahal (BMC commissioner) conduct a video conference meet with other civic corporations. He can guide others and tell them what model he has followed. We aren’t disrespecting other civic chiefs, they are all responsible IAS officers. But this is a matter of death and life of patients. When one officer has worked out a better model, why can’t his model be replicated in all districts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-want-a-single-death-in-state-for-want-of-oxygen-hc/article34503415.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Oxygen saturation of 92 or 93 must not be considered critical’||An oxygen saturation of 92 or 93 in COVID-19 patients should not be considered critical. Instead, this level is only a buffer that enables the patient to reach the hospital for treatment on time, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director Randeep Guleria said on Thursday. In a statement released by the Health Ministry, he said the judicious use of oxygen was the need of the hour. “Misuse of oxygen cylinders is a serious matter of concern these days. A few people stock oxygen cylinders at home, fearing that they may need it later. This is not advisable. If your oxygen saturation level is 94% or above, it still means there is sufficient oxygen in the body. There is no need to panic. Misusing the same by a person with normal levels of oxygen can deprive someone whose saturation level is well below 90 or 80,” he stated. Oxygen therapy The Ministry statement said, “Oxygen is crucial for the treatment of patients with severe COVID-19, since the disease affects lung functioning. Shortness of breath or difficulty of breathing is one of the most common symptoms in patients with severe COVID-19. It also hampers the supply of oxygen to various parts of the body. They, hence, need oxygen therapy, to be supplied through medical oxygen.” According to a World Health Organization training manual on pulse oximetry, if the oxygen saturation is 94% or lower, the patient needs to be treated quickly. A saturation of less than 90% is a clinical emergency. The latest clinical guidance for management of adult COVID-19 patients, issued by the Health Ministry, stated that an oxygen concentration less than or equal to 93% on room air requires hospital admission, while that below 90% is classified as a severe disease, requiring admission in the intensive care unit (ICU).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oxygen-saturation-of-92-or-93-must-not-be-considered-critical/article34503191.ece
07 May 2021||CHITTOOR,||Stress, fear and the healing touch||After some Class X students tested COVID-19 positive on April 29, Ravi Kumar (41), a biology teacher at the municipal high school at Nagari was gripped with fear. Mr. Kumar, who has a physical challenge from polio, had travelled 20 km from home to the school several days last month. The fact that three of his colleagues had succumbed to COVID had whipped up his worst fears.  When he too tested positive, Mr. Kumar said, “I thought my days were numbered. I wept like a child. My wife and children were shaken.” In the next two days, all the family members tested positive. But timely help came from the field staff at a primary health centre.  “We were taken to the triage Centre at Nagari. We were advised home isolation and given medicine kits. Till last night, it was hell for my father with body pains and severe headache,” Mr. Kumar’s 17-year-old daughter Geetha said. Deputy District Medical and Health Officer and District Nodal Officer (Triage Centres) P. Ravi Raju said: “We urge the COVID field staff to instil confidence among the patients and help them shed the fears.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stress-fear-and-the-healing-touch/article34503235.ece
07 May 2021||Pune,||City folk walk away with Narayangaon’s precious doses||Bhibhaji Vitthal Pokharkar, 64, a farmer in Narayangaon village in rural Pune, is anxiously waiting of his second dose of the Covishield vaccine. More than six weeks have since elapsed since he took his first dose on March 20. The acute vaccine crunch across Maharashtra has especially aggravated the pandemic in Pune. The rising cases and deaths in rural areas have alarmed Mr. Pokharkar. “My wife, Savita, too, has to take her second dose. But there are no vaccines available. Worse, people from urban areas are coming here to take their jabs…this must stop,” he says. Each day, he enquires at the vaccination centre in Narayangaon in Junnar taluk, only to be disappointed. An acute crunch in the urban pockets of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad has prompted a scramble among residents there, some of whom travel hundreds of kilometres to get their doses from rural areas. This has stirred anger among rural folk who find it tough to access vaccines. Pune Zilla Parishad member Ashatai Buchke has warned that she will not allow any urban residents to come and get doses which “rightfully belonged” to the rural residents. “Given that vaccines are in short supply, we will not allow any more cars from Pune or Pimpri-Chinchwad,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/city-folk-walk-away-with-narayangaons-precious-doses/article34503242.ece
07 May 2021||Kalaburagi/Mysuru,||Poor vaccine coverage in Karnataka’s villages||Bandarwad gram panchayat in the Kalaburagi district in north Karantaka has so far reported 56 COVID-19 cases, all of them in the second wave. Four persons have succumbed to the virus so far. However, of the population of approximately 7,800 in the villages of Sirasagi, Teggelli, Huvanahalli and Bandarwad, only 226 people had been vaccinated on Wednesday. The poor vaccination coverage in the villages is attributed to a lack of awareness and shortage of vaccines. “A man developed some complications after he received COVID-19 vaccination recently. He had to spend a lot of money to get treated at a private hospital in Kalaburagi. This has led to fear of vaccination and of potential expenses,” said Rajendra Sardar, an advocate from the village. On Wednesday, there was no stock of vaccines in the lone Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Bandarwad village. The PHC has a staff nurse and the doctor comes only occasionally from Gabbur, a neighbouring village. Most people travel to the district headquarters of Kalaburagi, 40 km away, for their medical needs. The situation is not very different in Chamrajnagar district in south Karnataka, which was in the limelight recently, with 24 people dying in a span of 24 hours, allegedly due to the lack of oxygen. Dr. N.S. Prashanth of the Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, who has worked extensively in Chamarajanagar, said there were issues related to testing, tracking and isolating patients in a village setting. Citing one example, he said there were no toilet facilities, leave alone a separate toilet for patients, as a result of which there could be community transmission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poor-vaccine-coverage-in-karnatakas-villages/article34503245.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on new age career options||A webinar on ‘New Age Career Options After School’ will be held on Sunday. The webinar is the third of a 15-part webinar series — SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021 — conducted by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology in association with The Hindu . The focus of the seminar is on science, engineering and technology courses and their relevance to the 2020s workplace. Sunday’s seminar, to be held at 5 p.m., will touch on opportunities for students, skills required and the need for upskilling and reskilling. There will be a Q and A with the speakers at the end of the session. The panelists include Vinesh Menon, CEO, Education, Skilling and Consulting Services, Ampersand Group; Richa Dwivedi Saklani, Founder CEO Inomi Learning LLP; and T.V. Gopal, Dean, CET, SRMIST. Radhika Santhanam, assistant editor, The Hindu will moderate the session. To register for the free webinar visit http://bit.ly/SRMTHE3 or scan the QR Code. SRMJEE will be held in two phases. The first phase will on May 23 and 24 and the second phase will be on July 25 and 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-new-age-career-options/article34503200.ece
07 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Chrysostom laid to rest||The mortal remains of Philipose Mar Chrysostom, Metropolitan Emeritus of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, were laid to rest with State honours at the St. Thomas Mar Thoma Church courtyard in Thiruvalla on Thursday. The final phase of the funeral service, led by Mar Theodosius Mar Thoma Metropolitan, began by 3 p.m. All the Bishops of the Mar Thoma Church were the co-celebrants. Heads of various other Churches and a wide array of leaders across all political parties attended the funeral service, carried out in four phases over a span of two days. Earlier on Thursday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Governor Arif Mohammad Khan visited the church headquarters in Thiruvalla and paid their last respects to the departed Metropolitan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chrysostom-laid-to-rest/article34503844.ece
07 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Hospital booked for trying to hoard oxygen||A private hospital in Lucknow, which put up a notice saying it had a shortage of oxygen, was booked on charges of creating “an atmosphere of fear” after the administration claimed it had sufficient stock of cylinders and was trying to hoard oxygen. The director of Sun Hospital was booked at the Vibhuti Khand police station. On May 3, the hospital had allegedly put out a notice, signed by administrator Udit Singhal, on social media, asking the family members of patients who were on oxygen support to take them elsewhere. The Lucknow administration said it had carried out an inspection and found that the hospital had sufficient supply of oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospital-booked-for-trying-to-hoard-oxygen/article34503195.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress Parliamentary Party to meet virtually||The Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP), headed by Sonia Gandhi, will meet virtually on Friday to discuss the COVID-19 situation. But a section of the party is asking why the leadership has not conducted a post-mortem of the Assembly election results yet. It is the first time the CPP will be meeting virtually after the Budget session of Parliament ended on March 25. While some prominent members of the G-23 like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal had publicly said the debate on poll performance can wait in the face of a public health emergency, others maintain that the pandemic should not be used to “cover up the leadership’s failure to address organisational issues”. “It is almost delusional to think that it is business as usual. Responsibility should be fixed as to why we lost Kerala and Assam,” an MP said on Thursday. Several party leaders have also questioned the Bengal unit’s decision to “boycott” the swearing in of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday, which put the Congress on the same page as the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-parliamentary-party-to-meet-virtually/article34503197.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||EU to discuss U.S. vaccine patent plan at summit||The EU Commission President, Ursula von der Leyen, said the 27-nation bloc was ready to talk about the U.S. proposal — but cagily remained non-committal for now. “We are ready to discuss how the U.S. proposal for waiver could help” end the crisis, she said in a video address. “In the short run, however, we call upon all vaccine producing countries to allow exports and to avoid measures that disrupt supply chains.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eu-to-discuss-us-vaccine-patent-plan-at-summit/article34503212.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||SC wants formula on oxygen issue||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, while informing the court that 730.7 MT (metric tonnes) of oxygen was received in Delhi on Wednesday as directed by the Bench, agreed that a “minimum fault prone formula” for oxygen supply, allocation and distribution was the need of the hour. The government agreed to revisit the formula. At one point, the court suggested incentivising young doctors, who have completed their courses, and young trained nurses to augment the fatigued healthcare professionals.It said that offering them a few 1,000 rupees for their services would not incentivise them to pitch in. The Bench suggested giving them grace marks as a reward for their services in combating the pandemic. “Today, you have 1.5 lakh doctors who are waiting for NEET and have completed their courses. If you give them Rs. 5000, nobody will come serve… Likewise, 2.5 lakh nurses are trained and sitting at home,” the Bench noted. During the hearing, Justice Shah asked about the care given in rural areas of the nation. At the moment we are only looking at Delhi. But what about the rural areas where most of the people are suffering, Justice Shah asked the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-wants-formula-on-oxygen-issue/article34503213.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC declines EC plea to restrain media from reporting HC’s oral remarks||Real-time reportage of court proceedings, including oral exchanges in courtrooms between judges and lawyers, is part of the right to freedom of speech, the Supreme Court held in a judgment. “With the advent of technology, we are seeing reporting proliferate through social media forums, which provide real-time updates to a much wider audience. This is an extension of the freedom of speech and expression that the media possesses. This constitutes a virtual extension of the open court,” a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud observed in the judgment. Such live reporting of court proceedings is a cause of celebration rather than apprehension. The court declined a plea made by the Election Commission of India (ECI) to restrain the media from reporting oral remarks made by a Division Bench of the Madras High court. The HC judges had said that poll body officials should be charged with “murder” for allowing rallies and mass gatherings during the Tamil Nadu Assembly election. The Chief Election Commissioner had appealed to the Supreme Court after the High Court did not restrain the media from reporting the remarks nor make any of them take back the remarks. The ECI said cases had been filed against its officials for “murder”. In the judgment, Justice Chandrachud said the case posed a delicate balancing of powers between the High Court and the ECI, which were both constitutional authorities. The case also featured prominently the power of the media to report judicial proceedings honestly and fairly in real time.The court said that except in cases of child sexual abuse and marital issues, the phenomenon of free Press should extend to court proceedings. “Citizens have a right to know about what transpires in the course of judicial proceedings. The dialogue in a court indicates the manner in which a judicial proceeding is structured... Arguments addressed before the court, the response of opposing counsel and issues raised by the court are matters on which citizens have a legitimate right to be informed,” Justice Chandrachud observed. Right of the media to report and disseminate issues and events, including court proceedings that were a part of the public domain, augmented the integrity of the judiciary. The court referred to how the Gujarat High Court recently introduced live-streaming of its proceedings in a bid to enhance public participation in the dispensation of justice. “In this backdrop, it would be retrograde for this court to promote the rule of law and access to justice on one hand, and shield the daily operations of the High Courts and this court from the media in all its forms, by gagging the reporting of proceedings,” Justice Chandrachud said. The court said oral observations made during the course of the hearing did not bind the parties and did not form a part of the judgment. An exchange of views was intrinsic to the applicability of mind and process of judging. On the nature of the remarks made by the Madras High Court, the Supreme Court said “a degree of caution and circumspection would have allayed the problems in the present case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-declines-ec-plea-to-restrain-media-from-reporting-hcs-oral-remarks/article34503229.ece
07 May 2021||Coimbatore,||For Anamalai tribes, it’s still an urban blight||Residents of two tribal settlements within the limits of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), around 100 km from Coimbatore city, were gearing up for the annual festival of their local deity, Vairapattan, on Thursday. The Kattupatti and Kuzhipatti settlements of the Pulayar community, together having 150 families, have barely heard of COVID-19. But residents are aware that people living outside the forests, especially in cities, have been affected by a disease called “corona”. Though the tribal families live a secluded life, the fear of the pandemic has gripped them, too. “Very few people from our settlements go to the towns and that too only for emergency needs. After coming to know about the new disease due to which people are wearing masks, we have reduced such visits,” says S. Selvi, 37, a mother of three from the Kattupatti settlement. She said it was a 7-km walk through the jungle to reach Upper Aliyar, from where they took buses to Attakatti. To reach the Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Erisinampatti, coming under Udumalpet block of Tiruppur district, they had to travel about 34 km. Nurses from the PHC made monthly visits to the settlement for the care of pregnant women and newborns. “We were told that the PHC would enroll us for a new thaduppoosi (vaccine). But we do not know much about it,” added another resident. Very few people from these settlements have had school education like Ms. Selvi’s second son Murali, who completed his SSLC and an ITI course. “First of all, residents of remote tribal settlements lack awareness about COVID-19. The Health Department should take efforts to have a dialogue with them to create awareness about the pandemic,” said S. Thanraj from the Ekta Parishad, Tamil Nadu, which recently distributed cotton washable masks to tribal families in the ATR. Meanwhile, the Forest Department arranged for the vaccination of 300 men from different tribal communities who work as frontline staff, according to Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR. “Efforts are being made to take the initiative in all settlements in the Pollachi Division of the ATR,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-anamalai-tribes-its-still-an-urban-blight/article34503237.ece
07 May 2021||Guwahati,||Few face problems in getting jabs in Assam||Few in Assam have faced problems in getting COVID-19 vaccine jabs. Some like J. Choudhury of Doomdooma in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district faced some anxious moments when he and his wife, both past 50 years, went to the government hospital on April 14 to get their second doses. The hospital turned them away because of a shortage of vaccines but they got vaccinated five days later. Health and Family Welfare (HFW) officials said there had been some “rationalisation” of vaccines but “there is an instruction from the highest level that the second dose should not be stopped while the first dose should also be administered.” The HFW officials, however, have taken note of some private hospitals having administered both doses to people below 45 years in March-April. This came to light after a 39-year-old swimmer and his wife posted the news of their vaccination on social media. “It seems the hospital authorities have violated guidelines and age bar restrictions. We are looking into the matter with utmost priority,” Director of Health Services (Family Welfare) Munindra Nath Ngatey said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/few-face-problems-in-getting-jabs-in-assam/article34503243.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Death toll zooms in weeks in 15 U.P. districts||In more than three dozen other districts, including many small and backward centres, the deaths due to COVID-19 have seen a steady and substantial rise. In the last two weeks, opponents of the ruling BJP as well its own MLAs and teachers’ unions have said that COVID-19 was rapidly spreading in rural U.P., with many blaming the recently concluded panchayat polls for the increase in cases and deaths. In Kannauj, the deaths rose from 55 to 86; Basti 100 to 82; Hapur 68 to 105; Balrampur 38 to 78; Rae Bareli 127 to 205; Shahjahanpur 127 to 203; Ballia 119 to 179; Hardoi 119 to 190 and Etawah 111 to 208. The State government on May 5 launched a testing drive for COVID-19 in all 97,000 revenue villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-toll-zooms-in-weeks-in-15-up-districts/article34503414.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Repository of mercy||Kooratazhvan, in his Varadaraja Stavam refers to Lord Varadaraja of Kanchi as Srinidhim and also Dayanidhim. The description of the Lord as Srinidhim reminds us of the role of Goddess Mahalakshmi in bringing us close to the Lord, and thereby paving the way for our eventual liberation. He is also Dayanidhim — He is the repository of daya (mercy). His mercy is not finite. It is a wealth of mercy, which is what saves His devotees. Kooratazhvan also uses the description ‘sarva bhoota suhrdam’ for Lord Varadaraja. That means He has no enemies. But if that were so, then why did He kill during His avataras? Those He killed were inimical to His devotees, and this earned His wrath. They were punished for the sin of tormenting His devotees, elaborated P.B. Rajahamsam in a discourse. Once during one of Parasara Bhatta’s discourses, a sishya told him that he wanted to see Lord Narasimha and offer prayers. Parasra Bhatta told him that he could pray to Lord Ranganatha, with a request for His appearance in the form of Narasimha. The Lord would oblige, provided, of course, that there was a Prahlada among the people there. Could anyone consider himself the equal of Prahlada? He came as Narasimha, because of the unshakeable bhakti of Prahlada, in the face of torture and attempts to kill him. Anyone else would have given up his devotion and fallen in line with Hiranyakasipu’s orders. But the child remained steadfast. That kind of devotion, naturally, was rewarded by the Lord. One way to know the Supreme One is through a study of the Vedas. This lustrous One made Hastigiri His abode. Even the Vedas are unable to fully reveal His glory. But Hastigiri, the hill one which He stays in Kanchipuram, shows all His luminousness to the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/repository-of-mercy/article34503234.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM reviews response to COVID-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday undertook a comprehensive review of the COVID-19 situation and directed that States be given help and guidance about leading indicators to ramp up healthcare infrastructure. “The PM noted that an advisory was sent to the States to identify districts of concern where case positivity is 10% or more and bed occupancy is more than 60% on either oxygen supported or ICU beds. PM also reviewed the availability of medicines,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-reviews-response-to-covid-19/article34503192.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||Patent waiver will help fight virus: govt.||India on Thursday said a temporary waiver of certain provisions of the intellectual property rights under a World Trade Organization (WTO) agreement would be an important step to enable the scaling up of manufacturing and the timely availability of affordable COVID-19 vaccines and essential medical products. In view of COVID-19, India and South Africa had on October 2 last year proposed a relaxation in the norms of the TRIPS agreement to ensure quick and affordable access to vaccines and medicines for developing countries. India welcomed the U.S. government’s support for this initiative. “We are hopeful that with a consensus-based approach, the waiver can be approved quickly at the WTO,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patent-waiver-will-help-fight-virus-govt/article34503196.ece
07 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab hit by confusion over vaccine doses||Serious supply constraints in COVID-19 vaccine doses have forced the Punjab government to limit vaccination for the 18-44 years age group to major urban centres. The vaccine shortage has even hit the ongoing vaccination programme for people above 45 years in the State. In Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar district, Rishi Raina, 48, who works in a private firm, is anxious as the date for the second dose of vaccination inches closer. “I was administered the first dose of the COVID vaccine on April 5. It’s been a month, but I have not yet received the message confirming my vaccination,” said Mr. Raina. Om Prakash, a retired government employee, said that while he had taken two doses of the vaccine, with the second dose administered on April 28, he had received a message on May 5 stating that his vaccination was still due. “ I am so puzzled after reading the message. I got vaccinated at Mohali’s Civil Hospital. Now, if I have to go to the hospital again for checking on the message discrepancy, it would mean exposing myself to the virus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-hit-by-confusion-over-vaccine-doses/article34503246.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||Collective work led to Kerala win: CPI(M)||The credit for the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M)-led Left front’s victory in Kerala Assembly polls should not be “solely” be given to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, said the latest editorial of party mouthpiece People’s Democracy, edited by former party general secretary Prakash Karat.  The editorial notes, “There is an effort by sections of the media and some political commentators to reduce this historic victory solely to the personality and role of Pinarayi Vijayan. According to them, it is the emergence of a ‘supreme leader’ or ‘strong man’ that was the main reason for the electoral success of the LDF.” “The victory is the result of both individual and collective efforts,” the editorial added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/collective-work-led-to-kerala-win-cpim/article34503228.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre issues guidelines for vaccination camps at airports||The Centre on Thursday issued guidelines for setting up of vaccination camps at airports for aviation personnel. The guidelines from the Ministry of Civil Aviation require airport operators to tie up with State governments or private service providers such as hospitals for setting up COVID-19 vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-issues-guidelines-for-vaccination-camps-at-airports/article34503194.ece
07 May 2021||Patna,||Lalu likely to hold virtual meeting with party leaders on COVID-19 situation||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, who recently received bail and came out of jail in the fodder scam case, is likely to hold a virtual meeting with party leaders on May 9 on the COVID-19 situation in Bihar. If party sources are to be believed, Mr. Prasad, who, after being released from jail was staying at the residence of his elder daughter and Rajya Sabha MP, Misa Bharti, in Delhi, would attend a virtual meeting with party MLAs, MPs, MLCs and other leaders regarding the COVID-19 situation in the State. His younger son and Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, would also participate in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalu-likely-to-hold-virtual-meeting-with-party-leaders-on-covid-19-situation/article34503201.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Disability certificates to be issued online from June 1||The Centre this week notified June 1 as the date from which all disability certificates would be issued online, a requirement under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. The notification published on Wednesday made it mandatory for all States and Union Territories to issue the certificates to persons with disabilities (PwD) through the Department of Empowerment of PwD (DEPwD) portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disability-certificates-to-be-issued-online-from-june-1/article34503202.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bangladesh gifts 10,000 Remdesivir vials||Bangladesh on Thursday handed over 10,000 vials of Remdesivir injection to an Indian government representative. The consignment of Remdesivir, which is used for treating COVID-19, was handed over by the Bangladesh Deputy High Commissioner in Kolkata at the Indian border port of Petrapole. The supply of the medicine took place days after the Ministry of External Affairs announced that India had been offered essential drugs and other necessary items by Dhaka to fight the second wave. This is a part of the ongoing international mobilisation to help India overcome the spike in the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangladesh-gifts-10000-remdesivir-vials/article34503203.ece
07 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana launches ‘Ayurvedic Telemedicine’ for COVID-19 patients||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Thursday said Ayurvedic medicines are very effective against COVID-19 and a facility for ‘Ayurvedic Telemedicine’ has been started by the government for patients. “Those interested in taking Ayurvedic Telemedicine in the State can call 1075 and consult Ayurvedic physicians,” he said in a statement. “A team of senior Ayurvedic doctors have been put on duty,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-launches-ayurvedic-telemedicine-for-covid-19-patients/article34503204.ece
07 May 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC adjourns Deshmukh’s plea for four weeks||The Bombay High Court on Thursday adjourned for four weeks the plea by former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh seeking to quash the FIR against him filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Separately, the Bench directed former police commissioner Param Bir Singh to approach the Vacation Bench of the court for his plea seeking to quash the FIR against him by the Thane Police in an atrocities case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-adjourns-deshmukhs-plea-for-four-weeks/article34503225.ece
07 May 2021||Mumbai,||2 held for possessing 7 kg of uranium, ATS files FIR||An FIR was registered by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) unit at Nagpada in Maharashtra against two men for illegally possessing seven kilograms and 100 grams of uranium. The seized uranium was sent to the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Trombay, for analysis. The report concluded that the substance is natural. Uranium is highly radioactive and dangerous to human life. An ATS officer said further investigation into the case was being carried out to determine the motive behind carrying the substance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-held-for-possessing-7-kg-of-uranium-ats-files-fir/article34503230.ece
07 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Himachal Pradesh HC rejects bail plea of rape accused||“No means no — the simplest of sentences has become the most difficult for some men to understand,” was the observation made by Himachal Pradesh High Court as it rejected a bail plea of a rape accused on Wednesday. Dismissing the petition, Jusctice Anoop Chitkara in his judgement observed: “No means no — the simplest of sentences has become the most difficult for some men to understand. ‘No’ does not mean ‘yes,’ it does not mean that the girl is shy, it does not mean that the girl is asking a man to convince her, it does not mean that he has to keep pursuing her. The word ‘no’ doesn’t need any further explanation or justification. It ends there, and the man has to stop. Be that as it may, the victim, in this case, said ‘no’ to the accused when he started touching her, but he continued. It nowhere implies consent, or zeal and desire to explore and feel each other in romantic love.” “...Neither the absence of resistance nor the unwilling submission implies consent in any language. She explicitly said ‘no’ to the accused, but he did not stop. When the curriculum does not include proper sex education, the children raised by such societies fail the women time and again,” he added. The accused, Suresh Kumar, 26, has been in custody since December 18, 2020, for allegedly offering the victim aged 17 a lift on his vehicle, and after that, instead of allowing her to alight, took the vehicle to an isolated place, and then after intimidation raped her despite her protests. The incident took place in Rajgarh area of district Solan in Himachal Pradesh on December 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himachal-pradesh-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-rape-accused/article34503233.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||195 more fatalities take State’s toll to 14,974||Tamil Nadu on Thursday logged a high number of fatalities, with 195 more people succumbing to COVID-19. This took the toll to 14,974. The State added 24,898 more cases, taking the tally to 12,97,500. Chennai accounted for the most number of deaths at 69, taking its toll past the 5,000-mark. A total of 5,021 people have died due to COVID-19 in the city. Chennai reported 6,678 fresh cases, taking its tally to 3,70,596. There were 16 deaths in Chengalpattu, 14 in Kanniyakumari, 13 in Kancheepuram and 12 in Tiruvallur. Of the 195 deceased, 45 did not have co-morbidities. The youngest among the deceased was a 25-year-old man from Chennai who had anaemia, morbid obesity and autism. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 1, and died on May 4 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Ten people in their 30s and 26 in their 40s succumbed to the infection. A 30-year-old woman from Cuddalore with diabetes and diabetic ketoacidosis died at the Rajah Muthiah Medical College Hospital, Chidambaram, due to COVID-19 pneumonia on May 3. There were 2,000-plus cases in Chengalpattu and Coimbatore. A total of 2,039 people tested positive in Chengalpattu and 2,068 in Coimbatore. Tiruvallur reported 1,560 cases, while Madurai had 996. Kancheepuram recorded 836 cases. Thoothukudi saw 796 cases, Tiruchi 746, Tirunelveli 688, Salem 614 and Vellore 614. Among those who tested positive in the State were 27 returnees. With 21,546 people were discharged after treatment, the total figure touched 11,51,058. Of these, 6,047 people were discharged in Chennai. The active caseload rose to 1,31,468, with Chennai accounting for 33,316 people, followed by Chengalpattu (11,174) and Coimbatore (9,845). In the last 24 hours, 1,52,130 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 2,35,45,987. Nearly a lakh inoculated Tamil Nadu received another one lakh doses of Covishield on Thursday. The State’s overall vaccination coverage reached 62,36,742, with 99,529 more people getting inoculated in 3,276 sessions. This included 50,489 people aged 45-59 and 33,177 senior citizens. A total of 2,656 healthcare workers, 8,098 frontline workers, 40,210 people aged 45-59 and 26,450 senior citizens received Covishield, while 1,182 healthcare workers, 3,927 frontline workers, 10,279 people aged 45-59 and 6,727 senior citizens received Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/195-more-fatalities-take-states-toll-to-14974/article34503816.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ambulances pile up outside govt. hospitals as beds turn scarce||At midnight, when most of the roads in the city were deserted, the stretches of road adjoining some of the major government hospitals had a line of ambulances and private vehicles waiting to take in patients with COVID-19. On Wednesday midnight, at least 15 ambulances — both government and private — were waiting outside one of the government hospitals in the city. Some patients had come to the hospitals in autorickshaws. A section of autorickshaw drivers waiting outside one of the hospitals said ambulances waiting in line outside the facility had become a regular scene, especially at night. Shortage of beds had led to ambulances queuing up outside the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, including at midnight, resulting in longer waiting periods for patients. Long queues A doctor, who was on night duty, said one day, only three beds were available, while 20 ambulances were waiting outside with patients. “Each floor gives the bed census only when patients can be moved. Many need to wait for at least an hour. The situation is very grim,” he said. “The situation is chaotic,” said a doctor on COVID-19 duty at another city government hospital. “Sick patients are put in a triage ward immediately. But getting a bed in the ward takes six to eight hours, or even longer. They are somehow accommodated to be treated. It takes a longer time for stable patients to get a bed,” he added. A senior doctor, also on COVID-19 duty, said ambulances lined up throughout the day. “The inflow is more in the evening as referrals are done late. Our manpower is stretched out,” he observed. A postgraduate medical student said irrespective of the time, several ambulances were constantly bringing in patients with COVID-19. “We are seeing an increased inflow in the last two weeks,” he said. “Private hospitals should provide ambulance services after confirming vacancy in hospitals if any patient is referred to a government facility,” the postgraduate added. A doctor working in one of the screening centres said at times, ambulances were caught up in hospitals and they had to wait for the vehicles to return to move patients from the screening facility to the hospital. “At times, this takes at least two hours,” he said. Official sources said the turnaround time for an ambulance was around one to 1.5 hours. “108 ambulances are making multiple trips for patients with COVID-19,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambulances-queue-up-outside-hospitals-as-beds-turn-scarce/article34503531.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guvi, AICTE create record with ‘AI for India’ event||A total of 1,12,314 persons participated in ‘AI for India’ initiative organised on April 24 and 25 by Guvi and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). The event was aimed at up-skilling Indians in Python programming language. The event saw the most number of users taking a programming lesson in 24 hours, beating the previous record by 50 times. As many as 1.43 lakh users also took part in the online training session to build a face recognition app during the event. Guvi, the AICTE, the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras Research Park and BUDDI.AI, the clinical and revenue cycle automation platform, conducted the programme. Guvi was incubated in IIT-M Research Park. The event targeted students, IT professionals and those in the age group of 8 to 80 years interested in coding. The Guinness World Records’s official adjudicator Swapnil Dangarikar presented the certificate during an online event held on April 30. The participants included middle school and high school students, graduates, job seekers and experienced IT and non-IT professionals. AICTE member-secretary Rajive Kumar said the event was the second world record in which the Council had been involved in one year. Council Chairman Anil D. Sahasrabudhe urged Guvi to provide another opportunity for people to learn through such events. “AI has huge applications.... A lot of potential exists in areas such as decision making, where data analysis can play a huge role,” he said. According to AICTE Vice-Chairman M.P. Poonia there were participants from remote villages in Rajasthan near Pakistan border. The sessions were conducted in Tamil, Telugu and Hindi. Guvi will offer courses on Python and Face recognition for free for learning until May-end. The IIT-M certification for Python course will be available for a fee of Rs. 1,770.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guvi-aicte-create-record-with-ai-for-india-event/article34503930.ece
07 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine vendors paid in advance, Govt. tells HC||The State government on Thursday told the Madras High Court that the Centre had allotted 10.3 lakh COVID-19 vaccines to Tamil Nadu for the universal adult inoculation drive and instructed it to purchase the vaccines only from two private vendors. The vendors, in turn, insisted on payment of 100% advance amount. The government paid the entire money on Tuesday and is awaiting the supplies to commence vaccination for those above 18 years of age. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy through virtual mode, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said there were certain limitations in procuring the vaccines since the Centre was deciding the allocation, and stated that Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Managing Director P. Umanath would explain the issue in detail to the court since he was the purchase officer for the vaccines. New policy Mr. Umanath said the Centre had been supplying vaccines free of cost to all States for inoculating those above 45 years of age. However, now the Centre had come up with a new policy for vaccinating those between 18 to 45 years of age and made it the responsibility of the State governments to get them vaccinated. The Centre had determined the allocation of vaccines for each State, and ordered that they should be procured from two vendors. “In the first allotment, Tamil Nadu has been allotted 7.65 lakh vaccines from one vendor and 2.65 lakh from the other vendor. Since the vendors wanted 100% advance amount for the purchase, we have paid them the total cost for 10.3 lakh vaccines as per the Government of India’s instructions and we are waiting for supply of vaccines from these two vendors. Once the vaccines arrive, we will commence vaccination for the 18 to 45 age group,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-vendors-paid-in-advance/article34503820.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||95% of oxygen supported beds in T.N. occupied, govt. tells HC||The State government on Thursday told the Madras High Court that 95% of the oxygen supported beds, including Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds, in the State had been occupied since the number of new COVID-19 positive cases being reported had touched nearly 25,000 and the number of active cases in the State had gone beyond 1.31 lakh. The government hoped that the strict lockdown measures put in place from May 6 to 20 would bring down the numbers considerably. During the hearing of a public interest litigation petition taken up suo motu by the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said there were 38,378 oxygen supported beds, including 7,743 ICU beds, in government as well as private hospitals which treat COVID-19 patients. A total of 6,517 ventilators were also available, in both government and private hospitals put together, to treat the patients. On May 4, the overall bed occupancy rate was 67.62% in government hospitals and 71.22% in private hospitals. However, the occupancy rate of oxygen and ICU beds was 95% and steps were being taken to increase the oxygen beds with the assistance of the Public Works Department. It was planned to add 12,915 oxygen beds and so far 3,752 beds had been put to use. The rest of the 8,129 oxygen beds were expected to get ready by May 8, Mr. Radhakrishnan informed the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/95-of-oxygen-supported-beds-in-tn-occupied-govt-tells-hc/article34503818.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM vice-president, top office-bearers quit||Top office-bearers of actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), including its vice-president R. Mahendran tendered their resignations on Thursday, days after the party’s rout in the Assembly election. Mr. Mahendran accused Mr. Haasan of not changing his approach towards the party and its cadre even after the electoral defeat. He also accused election management company, Sankhya Solutions, of creating blocks between Mr. Haasan, the office-bearers and the party cadre. Mr. Haasan hit back at Mr. Mahendran, terming his leaving the party as “a weed removing itself”. He said the vice-president had quit, knowing full well that he was going to be sacked and was trying to gain sympathy by blaming others. “Our party will only have a phase of growth from now,” he said in a statement on Twitter. Mr. Haasan also accused Mr. Mahendran of not allowing “good people” who wanted to work for the party to rise. Apart from Mr. Mahendran, top office-bearers of the party — M. Muruganandam, former IPS officer A.G. Maurya, Thangavel, Umadevi, C.K. Kumaravel, Sekar and Suresh Iyer (who runs Sankhya Solutions) — also quit. Mr. Mahendran, in his resignation letter, said, “Today, I am sad to say that there is a decline in your [Mr. Haasan’s] tenacity of purpose, which lies buried under a style of operation that reeks of a non-democratic manner of running a political party.” Attacking Sankhya Solutions and Mr. Haasan’s key adviser Mahendran (former television professional), he said by mid-2020, they were only dividing the party and employing “authoritarian techniques” to get their job done. ‘Suggestions ignored’ Mr. Mahendran said when Mr. Haasan chose to contest from Coimbatore South, he sought to lead the campaign as he knew the constituency well, but Mr. Haasan chose to trust the poll managers. Course corrections suggested by him during the campaign were ignored, which led to Mr. Haasan’s defeat by a slender margin, he said. Despite all these, Mr. Mahendran said he expected a change in Mr. Haasan’s attitude towards the party after the election, but in vain. Mr. Mahendran said if his leaving the party would lead Mr. Haasan to introspect and go back to being the leader that he was in 2018, he would take pride in being the catalyst for the change. “If the present way of handling people, policy and party workers continue, then there is no future to speak of,” Mr. Mahendran said. Mr. Haasan, however, said Mr. Mahendran had said that there was no democracy within the party but that “democracy too loses sometimes. He is a very good example of that. Those who were given an address are now trying to usurp the faces of those who gave them that identity.” He added, “The doors of Makkal Needhi Maiam are always open for those who are dishonest and untalented to leave.”  If the present way of handling people, policy and party workers continue, then there is no future to speak of R. Mahendran Former vice-president, MNM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-vice-president-top-office-bearers-quit/article34503810.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elaborate bandobust arrangements put in place for today’s swearing-in ceremony||The police have made elaborate bandobust arrangements for the swearing-in ceremony of the new government, headed by DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday. Personnel will be deployed along the route from Mr. Stalin’s residence at Chitranjan Salai, Teynampet, to Raj Bhavan. There will be two entries for invitees, who come to attend the ceremony, to be held on the lawns of the Raj Bhavan. A senior police officer said, “Necessary security has been arranged in the Raj Bhavan as per protocol. Entry points and alighting points are marked and adequate manpower will be deployed to provide bandobust. The Chief Minister-designate himself has appealed to party cadre and the public to not gather to witness the swearing-in, in view of pandemic.” A convoy has been deployed to the Chief Minister as per protocol. After the conclusion of the ceremony, he will proceed to Anna Memorial and the Karunanidhi Memorial. Police bandobust will be provided from Raj Bhavan to the memorial and uniformed personnel will be on duty on the road. After paying tributes at the memorials, the Chief Minister and his Council of Ministers will proceed to the State Secretariat. Adequate bandobust arrangements would be made on the route to the Secretariat, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elaborate-bandobust-arrangements-put-in-place-for-todays-swearing-in-ceremony/article34503532.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD plans to request release of Krishna water for city’s needs||As water levels in the city’s reservoirs, which feed Chennai’s drinking water needs, have receded, the Water Resources Department plans to write to the Andhra Pradesh authorities in a few days, seeking release of Krishna water by the end of this month. The five reservoirs, including the recently inaugurated reservoir formed by the combination of the Thervoy Kandigai and Kannankottai lakes, had a total storage of 8,146 million cubic feet of water as on Thursday. This is nearly 69% of their total capacity. Officials of the WRD said the present storage was sufficient to supply drinking water to Chennai until the onset of this year’s northeast monsoon. “But we are planning to seek our share of Krishna water to refill the declining storage and save resources for next year. We plan to write to the Andhra Pradesh authorities next week, asking water from the Kandaleru reservoir by the end of May,” an official said. This follows a request from Metrowater to step up storage in waterbodies, particularly the Poondi reservoir that now only has one-third of its storage capacity. At present, water is transmitted from the Poondi reservoir to those at Chembarambakkam and Red Hills, from where drinking water is distributed to the city. Some reservoirs were also losing out on storage by 30-40 mcft daily by way of evaporation. “A meeting needs to be convened with the Krishna River Management Board on the date and amount of water to be released from Kandaleru. We will have to discuss the modalities of the meeting owing to the pandemic,” an official said. Improvement work on the vulnerable 4 km-stretch of the Kandaleru-Poondi Canal within Tamil Nadu limits will be stopped temporarily to facilitate the flow of Krishna water. At present, Metrowater supplies nearly 830.82 million litres of water daily, including to industries and local bodies, around the city. Residents of the core areas receive piped water supply daily and those in added areas get water on alternate days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wrd-plans-to-request-release-of-krishna-water-for-citys-needs/article34503535.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre should take immediate call on supplying oxygen to State: HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday ordered that the Centre “should take immediate steps” to ensure adequate supply of oxygen to Tamil Nadu so that the reserves in the State do not run out by Saturday, as apprehended by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Managing Director P. Umanath. “It is critical, and requires the attention of the highest offices so that lives are not lost for want of oxygen,” the court observed. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the interim order on a public interest litigation petition, taken up by the court suo motu , to monitor the measures taken by the government to fight the raging second wave of COVID-19. Immediately after the order was passed, Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan informed the court that he had communicated the order to the Union Health Ministry, on phone, without waiting for the order copy. Senior counsel P. Wilson, also a DMK Rajya Sabha member, urged the court to grant him permission for seeking an urgent hearing of the case on Friday if the Centre does not issue appropriate orders to ensure the seamless supply of oxygen to Tamil Nadu. The Chief Justice agreed to it. Oxygen production Earlier, Mr. Radhakrishnan told the court that Tamil Nadu produces 400 tonnes of oxygen every day. Its requirement now ranges between 400 and 450 tonnes a day, since the number of active cases has increased to 1.28 lakh. Nevertheless, the Centre had, in the beginning, unilaterally fixed the allocation for Tamil Nadu at 220 tonnes and planned to divert the rest of the oxygen to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Immediately, the State government had objected to it. The Centre was of the view that Tamil Nadu could get oxygen from Karnataka and Odisha, but the State government pointed out that it was illogical. Therefore, a meeting was held between officials from the Centre and the States of Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, and it was mutually agreed upon in the meeting to allocate 475 tonnes of oxygen a day to Tamil Nadu, after considering the increasing number of cases in the State. The Health Secretary also told the court that INOX Air Products Private Limited in Sriperumbudur was serving as the lifeline for government and private hospitals in Chennai and parts of Chengalpattu, supplying 150 tonnes of oxygen a day. However, the Centre diverted 60 tonnes of oxygen produced by INOX to the neighbouring States. On its part, Telangana was kind enough to give up the supply of 35 tonnes from INOX Sriperumbudur. This agreement was reached with the mutual consent of all stakeholders, including the Centre. Apart from this, it was also agreed that Kerala would continue to supply 40 tonnes of oxygen from INOX Kanjikode in Palakkad district to private hospitals in the western and southern districts of Tamil Nadu. Despite such mutual agreement, the Centre did not release the revised Central allocation plan. Shockingly, a plan released on Thursday did not have any mention about allocations made to Tamil Nadu and Telangana, the Health Secretary told the court. Pitching in during the submissions, Mr. Umanath said: “Our plea is that the plan, agreed to mutually between the Government of India and two other States be published,” he told the Division Bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-should-take-immediate-call-on-supplying-oxygen-to-state-hc/article34503808.ece
07 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Remdesivir sale counters to open in Coimbatore and Madurai soon’||Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) will establish counters in Madurai and Coimbatore also to sell drugs such as Remdesivir to patients of private hospitals too on production of COVID-19 positive report, requisition from a doctor and CT scan report showing severe lung involvement. The counters will be established in a day or two as instructed by Chief Minister designate M.K. Stalin, TNMSC Managing Director P. Umanath told the Madras High Court on Thursday. Apprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy of the steps being taken by the State government to ensure seamless supply of drugs to save COVID-19 patients, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the State government was purchasing Remdesivir directly from the pharmaceutical companies till March but after that the Central government intervened and centralised the sales by fixing the allocation for each State and Union Territory. Though the State government had initially ordered 2.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir and added one more lakh recently, so far the Centre had allocated only 1,35,500 vials to Tamil Nadu. Nevertheless, the TNMSC had pitched in and decided to sell its reserve stocks, meant for government hospital patients, to the patients of private hospitals too since the need of the hour was to save lives, the Health Secretary said. A counter was also established at Kilpauk Medical College campus in Chennai and it had sold over 24,000 vials so far at cost price, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remdesivir-sale-counters-to-open-in-coimbatore-and-madurai-soon/article34503933.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors’ associations call for a lockdown||With cases continuing to surge in Tamil Nadu, doctors’ associations are worried about the “overburdened” healthcare infrastructure and have called for an intense lockdown to cut down disease transmission and step up infrastructural requirements. Government doctors’ associations have already submitted representations, recommending a lockdown. K. Senthil, president of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association, said medical institutions were almost overwhelmed, and supplies were becoming scarce and were high in demand, with oxygen being one of the most essential components. A total lockdown for 15 days is necessary to break the chain of transmission, he said, adding, “Patient load is high in government hospitals. We, as doctors, are scared and worried. How can we manage when the inflow of patients keeps on increasing? Effective use of a lockdown is necessary.” Noting that healthcare providers/workers were exhausted, he said, “It is our responsibility to care for people. The disproportionate load of patients is demoralising.” A. Ramalingam, general secretary of the Service Doctors’ and Postgraduates’ Association, said the healthcare system was on the verge of collapse. “There is no adequate manpower. Doctors and nurses should be recruited immediately,” he said. He said a lockdown would act like a pause button. “It will give us some time to prepare healthcare infrastructure adequately. It will delay the peak in cases. To flatten the curve, we need to reduce incidence, which is possible only if the movement of people is brought down. We need to restrict the movement and gathering of people in urban areas,” he said. The Doctors’ Association for Social Equality had raised the need for a lockdown earlier, G.R. Ravindranath, its general secretary, said. “A 14-day complete lockdown is essential. The new government should consider a lockdown as it will reduce the speed of transmission, during which we can build up hospital capacity. We need to strengthen the healthcare system as it is already collapsing,” he noted. P. Ramakrishnan, president of the Indian Medical Association, Tamil Nadu, said, “There is poor adherence to COVID-19 norms. So if we need to break the chain of transmission, a lockdown is essential.” A government doctor on COVID-19 duty said a lockdown might help offload hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-associations-call-for-a-lockdown/article34503807.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arrange uninterrupted oxygen supply: Stalin||Chief Minister-designate M.K. Stalin on Thursday held talks with officials to make arrangements for uninterrupted supply of oxygen to COVID-19 patients in government and private hospitals. As the number of people infected by the virus on Thursday was 24,898, he advised officials to fully make use of oxygen produced in the State and to source it from other States too. He wanted officials to take steps to increase Tamil Nadu’s share of oxygen supply from from the all-India quota. Earlier in the day, DMK MP T.R. Baalu urged the Union Health Minister and the Railways Minister to send 50 metric tonnes of oxygen from INOX in Kanjikode for the next five days. He also requested them to allow Tamil Nadu to fully utilise 25 metric tonnes produced in Sriperumpudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrange-uninterrupted-oxygen-supply-stalin/article34503814.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Remdesivir sale counters in Madurai, Coimbatore in a day or two’||Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) will establish counters in Madurai and Coimbatore also to sell drugs such as Remdesivir to patients of private hospitals too on production of COVID-19 positive report, requisition from a doctor and CT scan report showing severe lung involvement. The counters will be established in a day or two as instructed by Chief Minister designate M.K. Stalin, TNMSC Managing Director P. Umanath told the Madras High Court on Thursday. Sales centralised Apprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy of the steps being taken by the State government to ensure seamless supply of drugs to save COVID-19 patients, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the State government was purchasing Remdesivir directly from the pharmaceutical companies till March but after that the Central government intervened and centralised the sales by fixing the allocation for each State and Union Territory. Though the State government had initially ordered 2.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir and added one more lakh recently, so far the Centre had allocated only 1,35,500 vials to Tamil Nadu. Reserve stocks Nevertheless, the TNMSC had pitched in and decided to sell its reserve stocks, meant for government hospital patients, to the patients of private hospitals too since the need of the hour was to save lives. A counter was established on Kilpauk Medical College campus in Chennai and it sold over 24,000 vials so far at cost price. Critical care drug On his part, Mr. Umanath said the allocation of critical care drug Tocilizumab, administered only to critically ill patients, had also been centralised and that the Centre allocated only 315 vials to Tamil Nadu. TNMSC immediately purchased the drug and supplied 120 vials to private hospitals after ranking the institutions according to the number of critical beds they had. The hospitals had also been instructed to bill for the drug at the same rate at which they had purchased it from TNMSC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remdesivir-sale-counters-in-madurai-coimbatore-in-a-day-or-two/article34503832.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Remdesivir counters to open in Madurai, Coimbatore soon’||Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) will establish counters in Madurai and Coimbatore to sell drugs such as Remdesivir to patients of private hospitals too on production of COVID-19 positive report, requisition from a doctor and CT scan report showing severe lung involvement. The counters will be established in a day or two as instructed by Chief Minister designate M.K. Stalin, TNMSC Managing Director P. Umanath told the Madras High Court on Thursday. Apprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy of the steps being taken by the government to ensure seamless supply of drugs to save COVID-19 patients, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the State was purchasing Remdesivir directly from pharmaceutical companies till March, before the Central government centralised the sales by fixing allocation for each State and Union Territory. Though the State had ordered 2.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir and added one more lakh later, so far the Centre had allocated only 1,35,500 vials to Tamil Nadu. However, the TNMSC decided to sell its reserve stocks, meant for government hospital patients, to the patients of private hospitals too to save lives. A counter was established at Kilpauk Medical College, Chennai, and it sold over 24,000 vials so far at cost price. Mr. Umanath said allocation of Tocilizumab, administered only to critically ill patients, had also been centralised and that the Centre allocated only 315 vials to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remdesivir-counters-to-open-in-madurai-coimbatore-soon/article34503904.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayabaskar tests positive for COVID-19||Former Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. In a Twitter post, he said he had isolated himself on testing positive for the infection and requested everyone who came in contact with him to get tested. He urged the people to follow COVID-19 guidelines and to stay safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayabaskar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34503822.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor Pandu dies||Actor Pandu, 74, who starred in several Tamil films and who designed the AIADMK flag at the request of MGR, died here on Thursday. He was hospitalised after he tested positive for COVID-19. He is survived by his wife and three sons. Mr. Pandu made his acting debut in the 1981 film Karaiyellam Shenbagapoo and went on to essay comedy roles in hundreds of films including Kadal Meengal, Muthu, Kaadhal Kottai, Badri, Citizen, Pammal K. Samandham and Kanchana 2 . A well known artist, Mr. Pandu designed the ‘two leaves’ symbol and the flag of the AIADMK. In a 2016 interview to The Hindu , he recalled how he had been summoned by AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran, on the day of the announcement of floating the party, to design the party flag. Before the 1977 election, he was once again called by MGR to design the party’s ‘two leaves’ symbol.   Mr. Pandu also ran a company, Capital Letters, and designed name boards for residences and offices of several members of the Tamil film fraternity. Offering his condolences, Chief Minister-designate M.K. Stalin said Mr. Pandu had received a doctorate for art research and had also carved a niche for himself as a comedy actor. “His death is a huge loss for both the world of art and cinema,” he said. In a joint statement, AIADMK leaders O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled the death of Mr. Pandu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-who-designed-two-leaves-dies/article34503824.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||International award for team from Ganga Hospital||The Spine research team of Coimbatore-based Ganga Hospital has bagged the prestigious North American Spine Society's award for the third consecutive year. This year, the team has won the award for the research ‘Why do modic changes result in poor clinical outcomes? - Novel insights from proteomic analysis of lumbar discs with modic changes’, according to a hospital release. Headed by S.Rajasekaran, the team has been performing pioneering research in the field of spine surgery. The award is presented jointly by North American Spine Society and The Spine Journal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-award-for-team-from-ganga-hospital/article34503801.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM Tech and AUTOSAR sign partnership||SRM Technologies has partnered with Automotive Open System Architecture (AUTOSAR) to come up with new business models, enhanced product ideation, develop futuristic technology and introduce organisational change management for the benefit of customers. SRM Technologies chief executive officer Anand Kashyap said the partnership would allow the company to leverage the ecosystem and develop solutions that would revolutionise the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-tech-and-autosar-sign-partnership/article34503536.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Watch the swearing-in from home’||DMK president M.K. Stalin, who will be sworn in as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on Friday, called upon partymen to watch the ceremony on television channels as the COVID-19 pandemic had prevented the organising of a public event. In a statement in Chennai on Thursday, Mr. Stalin said he had planned a public event in the presence of party cadres, whose relentless work had ensured victory for the party. “But since the second wave of the pandemic has emerged, a public function is not possible,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/watch-the-swearing-in-from-home/article34503821.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Priority is putting an end to COVID-19’||Medical Minister-designate Ma. Subramanian has said the priority of his Ministry would be to successfully combat COVID-19 and put an end to it. “I hope we can achieve it through the leadership of Chief Minister-designate M.K. Stalin and the efficiency of officials. Even before assuming office, he [Mr. Stalin] has held meetings to find ways to save people from the infection,” Mr. Subramanian told The Hindu on Thursday. Creating awareness The former Chennai Mayor said saving people’s lives and creating awareness of the disease and safeguards were very important. “After the fight against COVID-19 is won, we will shift our focus on making Tamil Nadu a model State in medical treatment. Other States should emulate us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priority-is-putting-an-end-to-covid-19/article34503811.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM-designate renames departments||Chief Minister-designate M.K. Stalin has changed the names of various departments to reflect the dynamic changes that have taken place globally and to shape the vision and future of Tamil Nadu, according to officials. He appointed a separate Minister for Water Resources, delinking it from Public Works, to address the water requirements of the State. “The Department will ensure continous supply of water to farmers and improve the water table. It will also desilt waterbodies, remove encroachments and coordinate with other departments for the purpose,” an official release said. The Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has been set up not only to improve agricultural production but also to protect the welfare of farmers. Likewise, Climate Change has been added to the Environment Department to prepare the State to face challenges and create awareness. The Health and Family Welfare Department is now the Department of Medical and Family Welfare. The Fisheries Department now includes fishermen welfare and likewise, skill development is part of the Department of Labour. The Information and Public Relations Department has been renamed Information and Public Department. Tamil Nadu will now have a Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment. The Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department will be called the Human Resources Management Department. The Department of Non-Resident Indians will be known as the Non-Resident Tamils Welfare, with a vision to improve relations with Tamils globally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-designate-renames-departments/article34503812.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||M.J.C. Comagan no more||M.J.C. Comagan, a visually impaired singer and founder of the Raaga Priya orchestra, died here on Thursday. He was 48 and is survived by his wife and two children. Mr. Comagan and his orchestra, whose members were visually-impaired as well, had featured in the hugely popular Tamil song Ovvoru Pookalume from director Cheran’s 2004 film Autograph . The song was picturised on the Raaga Priya orchestra with actor Sneha singing along. Mr. Cheran, in a tweet, said that Mr. Comagan was someone who instilled belief and confidence through his voice and mind. “For the 25 members of his troupe and their families, he was their eyes. My heart is shattered after hearing about his demise,” he said. Actor Sneha too, in a post on her social media page, said Comagan was an important part of Ovvoru Pookalume song, which she regards as one of the cherished memories of her life. “I extend my condolences to members of his troupe and his family,” she said. Raaga Priya, started in 1991 by Mr. Comagan with nine members, soon grew to a 25-member orchestra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/musician-comagan-dead/article34503817.ece
07 May 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs 3 deaths||Cuddalore district reported three more COVID-19 deaths and 366 new cases on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 32,198. Two women, aged 30 and 60 years and a 79-year-old man died of the disease, taking the toll to 343. The district saw 29,764 recoveries and 1,603 were active cases. The COVID-19 toll in Villupuram district rose to 132 with two more deaths reported in Villupuram while 466 new cases took the overall tally to 21,166. Kallakurichi district reported 175 positive cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 13,343.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-3-deaths/article34503793.ece
07 May 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Caretaker of a patient attacks doctor||A doctor was allegedly assaulted by a caretaker of a patient at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Thursday. The caretaker, it was alleged, was agitated by the death of a family member at the COVID care. The assault angered the doctors at the hospital, causing a brief halt to their work. Dean of the Medical College Hospital K. Amudavalli told The Hindu , that a complaint has been lodged with the Superintendent of Police against the assaulter. The assault comes in the wake of 8 PG doctors testing positive and stepped into isolation. “The PG doctors were working at the COVID ward. Everyday we see infections in doctors and nurses. Amid routine cases of infections to our doctors, they are putting in work round the clock,” Dr. Amudavalli said. The hospital’s COVID ward has a roll call of 35 doctors and many PG doctors to provide COVID care. With the number of infections among the doctors and nurses, the strain is showing on the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caretaker-of-a-patient-attacks-doctor/article34503382.ece
07 May 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul bags two berths||Veteran politician I Periasami, who emerged victorious with the highest margin of over 1.25 lakh votes against his rival in the Assembly election, has been given a berth in the State cabinet as Minister for Cooperation. Likewise, for the first time, an elected MLA from Oddanchatram Assembly Constituency is getting a berth in the cabinet. R. Chakkrapani of DMK, who has won multiple times since 1996, has got Food portfolio. Though candidates of diferent parties such as AIADMK, Congress and DMK have won from Oddanchatram in the past, it is now that the seat has got the status of a ‘minister’s constituency’. Mr Chakrapani was the government whip during 2006-11 and now he has been rewarded with a minister’s post, according to DMK cadre. Out of the seven Assembly constituencies, DMK won in four — Athur, Palani, Oddanchatram and Vedasandur. While the DMK cadre are in an upbeat mood, the people of Dindigul are hopeful that the district would get more attention from the government over the next five years. Among pending projects, the most is Balakrishnapuram bridge work and implementation of the combined drinking water scheme. Both Mr. Periasami and Mr. Chakrapani are aware of the issues and the people are sure of getting more infrastructure for the district. District secretary andThirupathur MLA K.R. Periakaruppan has been given the Rural Development portfolio in Mr. Stalin’ss cabinet. When Karunanidhi was Chief Minister, he held the HR&CE portfolio. In Ramanathapuram district, DMK has a reason to celebrate as they have not only got a minister, but Mudukalathur MLA Raja Kannappan has been vested with the coveted Transport portfolio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dindigul-bags-two-berths/article34503905.ece
07 May 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance on inter-State borders to be intensified||In view of fresh the fresh restrictions, Collector V.Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy convened a review meeting with the line departments to take stock of the arrangements. Addressing the line departments, The Collector said that government offices will function with 50% strength and on rotation basis. For the public, the district administration has once again underlined the key guidelines on weddings and funerals, where weddings shall take place with not more than 50 attendees, and funerals with not exceeding 20 attendees. With the district sharing borders with Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the administration has stated that there is surge in cases in North of the district, with the strain similar to the one in Bengaluru. In its wake, the nine flying squads earlier constituted by the administration will increase monitoring of the inter-State borders. The Collector has asked the government staff to get themselves vaccinated. Dr. Bhanu Reddy has also directed officials to enforce mask protocol especially in villages. The 22 containment zones in the district will be specially monitored and necessary support be provided to those form the containment zones, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surveillance-on-inter-state-borders-to-be-intensified/article34503383.ece
07 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Couple murdered||A couple was hacked to death in their home here by their nephew allegedly over a property disputeon Thursday. According to the police, Pugalendi (55) and Pappi Rani (45) had a dispute over property with Pugalendi’s elder brother Elangovan. On Thursday, Elangovan’s son Lokesh (18), along with his friend Sathish, entered Pugalendi’s house at Veerapan Nagar and picked a quarrel. The duo reportedly hacked the couple to death. The accused, second year college students, were arrested, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-murdered/article34503834.ece
07 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Call for probe into rescue of children from bonded labour||Taking cognisance of the rescue of several children along with their families from bonded labour, and the gaps in the processes of the rescue, a member of the State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) has called for an independent inquiry by the Child Rights Commission. The member, V. Ramaraj, recommended constitution of a two-member inquiry bench to look into the matter. “Children were rescued, but the authorities did not produce them before the district Child Protection Committee. There is prima facie case that children were kept captive as bonded labour, which is modern slavery,” Mr. Ramaraj told The Hindu . This was a fit case for the Commission to take suo motu cognisance and constitute a two-member independent inquiry and also file a complaint. “I have sent the recommendations to the Commission,” he said. According to him, there shall also be an inquiry into the rescue of children from bonded labour, and the status of those cases in the last five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-probe-into-rescue-of-children-from-bonded-labour/article34503384.ece
07 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special control room to monitor oxygen use||A special control room has been set up comprising officials of the Joint Director of Health and Factories Inspector to monitor and manage usage of oxygen for COVID-19 patients in Madurai district, said Collector T. Anbalagan here on Thursday. Addressing mediapersons after inspecting oxygen facilities available at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), the Collector said there were two private oxygen production units in the district. These units were working round-the-clock to provide oxygen to the optimum capacity to private and government hospitals. “In a meeting with these two companies, it was instructed that they must provide oxygen to hospitals without any discrimination. Currently they are providing oxygen based on their previous contracts with these hospitals,” he said. In addition, these two units supply oxygen to government hospitals in neighbouring districts, he added. From Thoothukudi Mr. Anbalagan said the district administration has asked for additional oxygen supply from other districts. “The Thoothukudi Collector has promised to supply oxygen to Madurai,” he said. Many COVID-19 patients from neighbouring districts receive treatment at the GRH and other major private hospitals in Madurai. “Out of the 1,100 oxygen beds in GRH, nearly 400 are occupied by patients from the southern districts,” he said. The special control room is monitoring the oxygen need in the hospitals in Madurai and divert oxygen supply to hospitals on a priority basis. In GRH, around 1,000 out of 1,100 oxygen beds are occupied on a daily basis. "Discussions aere held regarding how to ramp up oxygen capacity and how to use it efficiently,” he said. Compared to the first wave, more number of patients required oxygen support in the second wave. “Nearly 30% to 40% of the patients require oxygen support. But another 30% of the patients are eligible to go for home isolation,” the Collector said. Triaging for all Triaging is done for every positive patient to classify them as those with mild, moderate and severe infection. “Asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms are treated at COVID-19 Care Centre and currently only 30% of beds at these centres are occupied. The patients with moderate symptoms are treated at the COVID-19 Health Centres to reduce the burden on the GRH,” he said. The Collector also inspected the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-control-room-to-monitor-oxygen-use/article34503483.ece
07 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Trains cancelled||Nine more pair of trains connecting Chennai with southern districts, including Tejas, Vaigai, Pallavan and Palaruvi specials have been cancelled for the month of May due to poor patronage. Train No. 02636 Madurai - Chennai Vaigai special is cancelled between May 8 and 31 and Train No. 02635 Chennai - Madurai Vaigai specialis cancelled between May 9 and June 1. Train No. 02606 Karaikudi - Chennai Pallavan special is cancelled between May 9 and June 1 and Train No. 02605 Chennai - Karaikudi Pallavan special is cancelled between May 8 and 31. Train No. 02613/02614 Chennai - Madurai - Chennai Tejas specialis cancelled between May 8 and 31. Train No. 06157 Chennai - Madurai bi-weekly special is cancelled on May 14, 16, 21, 23, 28, 30 and Train No. 06158 Madurai - Chennai bi-weekly special is cancelled on May 13 15, 20, 22, 27 and 29. Train No. 06019 Dr. MGR Chennai Central - Madurai tri-weekly special is cancelled on May 10, 12, 14, 17, 19, 21, 24, 26, 28 and Train No. 06020 Madurai - Dr.MGR Chennai Central tri-weekly special is cancelled on May 11, 13, 16, 18, 20, 23, 25, 27 and 30. Train No. 06063 Chennai - Nagercoil weekly special is cancelled on May 13, 20, 27 and Train No. 06064 Nagercoil - Chennai weekly specialis cancelled on May 14, 21 and 28. Train No. 06191 Tambaram - Nagercoil specialis cancelled from May 8 to May 31 and Train No. 06192 Nagercoil - Tambaram special is cancelled from May 9 to June 1. Train No. 06065 Tambaram - Nagercoil tri-weekly specialis cancelled on 9, 10, 12, 16, 17, 19, 23, 24, 26, 30 and 31 and Train No. 06066 Nagercoil - Tambaram tri-weekly special is cancelled May 10, 11, 13, 17, 18, 20, 24, 25, 27, 31 & June 1. Train No. 06791 Tirunelveli - Palakkadu Palaruvi special is cancelled from May 8 to May 31 and Train No. 06792 Palakkadu - Tirunelveli Palaruvi special is cancelled from May 9 to June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-cancelled/article34503477.ece
07 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Head Constable dies||Head Constable A. Paramasamy, 48, attached to Madurai City Traffic Police died due to COVID at Tirumangalam on Wednesday evening. He is the fourth police personnel from Madurai City to succumb to the viral infection since 2020. A 1997-II batch police constable, Paramasamy was admitted to a private hospital on April 27 with a complaint of chest congestion. This is the second time he had contracted the infection after having been infected in 2020. He had recently taken the first dose of COVID vaccine. Meanwhile, Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said that all those police personnel with serious co-morbidities, pregnant personnel and those who had recently undergone surgeries have been asked to avail themselves of leave as a precautionary measure. The city police have posted 10 flying squads, two each for five ranges, headed by an Inspector, to implement lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-dies/article34503471.ece
07 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two Ministers from Madurai||Two DMK MLAs from Madurai have been chosen to be Ministers of the new government that will take charge on Friday. Madurai Central Assembly constituency MLA P. T.R.P. Thiagarajan has been chosen as Minister for Finance and Human Resource Management and Madurai East MLA P. Moorthy has been chosen as Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration. Mr. Thiagarajan has been elected from Madurai Central constituency for the second consecutive time. He defeated AIADMK alliance candidate N. Jothi Muthuramalingam by 33,915 votes. He quit his corporate job and won the 2016 Assembly elections from Madurai Central constituency. Mr. Moorthy defeated AIADMK candidate R. Gopalakrishnan by 49,604 votes. He secured 51.59% of votes to continue his second term representing the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-ministers-from-madurai/article34503478.ece
07 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||M. K. Alagiri greets Stalin||Setting aside personal differences, former Union Minister M.K. Alagiri on Thursday greeted his younger brother and DMK leader M.K. Stalin ahead of the latter being sworn in the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on Friday. In a message from Madurai, he congratulated the DMK and those elected MLAs for their victory. Mr. Alagiri said he had wished his brother but due to the COVID-19 situation, preferred to remain home. However, it is expected that his son and daughter might attend the swearing-in ceremony. In the run-up to the election, he had said that his brother would never become the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/m-k-alagiri-greets-stalin/article34503804.ece
07 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||State left out in oxygen supply plan, says MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has expressed shock over Tamil Nadu being left out of the supply plan for medical oxygen released by Dr. Sanjay Roy, Director, National Health Mission. In a letter addressed to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Mr. Venkatesan pointed out that the supply plan had listed several States that would get increased quantity of medical oxygen due to “increasing demand.” The supply plan had been prepared under the overall guidance of the Empowered Group-II by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade in consultation with the Ministries concerned, State, oxygen manufacturers and All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association. Mr. Venkatesan said that allocation for Tamil Nadu was 280 MT 10 days ago. “Now the demand has increased due to steep rise in COVID cases. According to medical experts, the demand is close to 500 MT. The reports of Central government itself acknowledge this fact and estimated the demand to be at 400 MT,” he said. Yet, the Centre was silent about Tamil Nadu’s oxygen requirements and additional allocation was not made. Mr. Venkatesan recalled that 13 deaths were reported in Government Medical College Hospital in Chengalpattu on the night of Tuesday due to lack of oxygen. “This is not an isolated example and this is the situation in many parts of Tamil Nadu,” the MP said. Many government and private hospitals were now sending back patients with lot of complications due to fear of losing lives. Stating that the situation could become worse in the coming days, the MP said that the supply plan had not done justice and ignored Tamil Nadu even after repeated appeals by the State government seeking increased allocation. The MP said and sought the Union Health Minister’s immediate intervention into the issue. “Perilous” situation In another statement, the MP said Madurai and its surrounding districts have reached a “perilous” situation as oxygenated beds in government and private hospitals remain occupied. “Only if a patient under oxygen support vacated a bed, it could be given to another patient. Even as Tamil Nadu government had submitted that existing oxygen supply in the State could last only till Friday in the High Court, Mr. Venkatesan said that 40 metric tonnes of oxygen that was being supplied to southern districts of Tamil Nadu from Kerala had been stopped by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-left-out-of-medical-oxygen-allocation-plan/article34503476.ece
07 May 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||‘No shortage of beds in Namakkal district’||The monitoring officer for Namakkal district, Dayanand Kataria, said there is sufficient availability of beds, medicines and other essentials in the district. He was reviewing the arrangements made for treating COVID-19 patients. Mr. Kataria visited the COVID-19 care centres set up in Rasipuram and the Primary Health Centre at Budhan Santhai and spoke with patients on treatment and other facilities. Medical team He said that patients are recovering well at COVID-19 care centres and municipal staff and medical team are available round-the-clock. He also said that there is sufficient oxygen supply in the district. District Collector K. Megraj said that 43% beds in the district are occupied and they would be increasing the bed strength by another 1,000 in a week. Mr. Megraj said that patients with mild symptoms would be admitted to Covid-19 Care Centres and patients who have recovered would be monitored for three-four days. Medical oxygen He said that 1.5k liquid medical oxygen is being used on a day at the district. He said that there are 81 ventilator beds in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-shortage-of-beds-in-namakkal-district/article34503390.ece
07 May 2021||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Flower prices plummet owing to low demand||Prices of flowers, including ‘Madurai Malli,’ have come down drastically in Madurai in the wake of imposition of new COVID-19 restrictions. The restrictions such as barring entry into temples and absence of grand weddings have also attributed to the price fall, resulting in severe loss for the farmers. S. Ramachandran, president of a flowers vendors’ association at Mattuthavani Flower Market, said that on Thursday ‘Madurai Malli’ (jasmine) was sold at around Rs. 100 a kg while last week it was sold at Rs. 400. Similarly, prices of other flowers have also dropped - ‘sampangi’ was selling at Rs. 10 (Rs. 20); ‘arali’ at Rs. 40; and ‘Madurai marikolunthu’ at Rs. 40. Now the supply is more than the demand, said Mr. Ramachandran. “The ban on entry into temples is a major reason for the fall in demand for flowers. The restriction on limiting the number of participants in a wedding has also contributed to the fall in demand. Besides, the Mattuthavani flower market is allowed to function only till 12 noon,” he added. Flower farmers have suffered huge losses due to the fall in prices, said Sasikumar, a jasmine farmer from Usilampatti. The labour charges for plucking flowers and transportation charges are higher than the price at which jasmine is sold in the market, resulting in a loss for the farmers. Unviable “In addition, many farmers from the Usilampatti region are buying water from tankers to cultivate jasmine. So it is financially not viable for us to sell the jasmine at low prices,” he said. Last year too the farmers suffered a huge financial loss due to the imposition of COVID-19 lockdown, said S. Rajanarayanan, a ‘sampangi’ farmer from Sivaganga district who sells his flower at the market in Madurai. “Due to the financial crisis, many farmers have shifted from cultivating flowers this year. But none of us anticipated that the restrictions will be imposed this year too,” he said. Mr. Rajanarayanan said that many disheartened farmers have stopped plucking flowers. Hence the flowers are left to wilt on the fields. “If the farmers stop plucking flowers, then it would destroy the whole crop,” he added. Perfume factories also procure jasmine for a low price, said Mr. Sasikumar. The farmers and flower vendors have petitioned the Collector to extend the functioning of the Mattuthavani flower market until 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-prices-plummet-owing-to-low-demand/article34503473.ece
07 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy to be sworn-in CM today||All India N.R. Congress chief N. Rangasamy will be sworn in as the Chief Minister of the Union Territory for the fourth time. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan will administer the oath of office to Mr. Rangasamy at a simple function to be held at the Raj Nivas around 1.20 p.m. As per the earlier plan, the swearing-in ceremony was scheduled to be conducted on Beach Road near the Gandhi Statue. But the administration decided to shift the venue to Raj Nivas due to apprehensions over crowd management on the Beach Road. According to an official source, the number of invitees would be restricted to around 50, due to the pandemic, for the function at Raj Nivas. After AINRC and Bharatiya Janata Party together garnered a simple majority of 16 seats in the 30-member house in the Assembly poll, Mr. Rangasamy, along with the BJP leaders, met Ms. Soundararajan to stake claim to form the government. However, it was not yet clear whether the BJP members were also taking oath as Ministers along with Mr. Rangasamy. The saffron party was keen on the Deputy Chief Minister’s post and two ministerial berths. Mr. Rangasamy, while talking to mediapersons in Salem on Wednesday, however, did not give a direct reply on whether the BJP’s demand for a Deputy Chief Minister’s post was agreeable to him. He merely said there was no precedent for the appointment of a Deputy Chief Minister in the Union Territory, but he would consider the demand if the Centre created such a post. The BJP leaders, however, maintained a stoic silence on the swearing-in ceremony. In the 30-member Assembly, the AINRC has 10 members, the BJP 6, the DMK, 6, Independents 6 and the Congress 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-to-be-sworn-in-cm-today/article34503795.ece
07 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CII vows to work closely with govt. towards growth||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in Puducherry has congratulated Chief Minister-designate N. Rangasamy. In a press note, C.K. Ranganathan, chairman, CII, Southern Region, said the CII would work closely with the new government towards achieving all-round growth with emphasis on manufacturing and MSMEs, Smart Cities, agriculture and food processing, infrastructure, healthcare, education and skill development, entrepreneurship and tourism. “CII looks forward in forging a strong partnership with the government and industry towards achieving a robust socio-economic growth, which is sustainable and inclusive,” Mr. Ranganathan said. Vijay Ganesh K., chairman, CII, Puducherry, said, “CII is working closely with the Government of Puducherry in the fight against the COVID-19 second wave. CII and its members in Puducherry are committed to working hand in hand with the government in coming out of the crisis soon.” The CII is looking to continue its partnership with the State Government and work with a stronger synergy in creating and enabling an ecosystem through specific policy interventions towards attracting investments and creating new jobs across the sectors and also to facilitate ease of doing business in the Union Territory, the press note said. “CII is confident that the new government would be industry-friendly and strengthen Puducherry’s pre-eminent position, both economically and socially,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-vows-to-work-closely-with-govt-towards-growth/article34503798.ece
07 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen bed infrastructure being ramped up to treat rise in cases||Oxygen bed infrastructure in hospitals is being increased to cope with the increased demand from coronavirus patients requiring medical oxygen support, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Thursday. Addressing the media after inspecting an oxygen production plant at the Government General Hospital, Ms. Soundararajan said oxygen beds would be arranged additionally in many makeshift hospitals. The plan is to upgrade small hospitals and improve the beds with oxygen. Private medical colleges have already allocated 300 beds each to the government. Currently, there are 100 more oxygen beds that have arranged with the help of the government. There is no shortage of oxygen, beds and drugs in the Union Territory, the Lt. Governor said. She pointed out that the Indira Gandhi Medical College had been upgraded from 300 beds with oxygen facilities to 659 beds. Similarly, there are 100 beds in the Government Dental College, 160 beds in the Chest Hospital, 100 beds in the Government General Hospital and 100 beds in private hospitals equipped with oxygen facility. While 1,276 beds were already equipped with oxygen, another 800 beds were currently being built with oxygen. Besides, 50 beds in Karaikal and 20 beds each in Mahe and Yanam were being equipped with oxygen. The Lt. Governor said health workers would be given an incentive of Rs. 5 crore, taking into account the tireless efforts of doctors, nurses and healthcare staff for well over a year now. Medical students were involved in the task of monitoring those isolated at home. Bed facilities had been increased to accommodate those admitted to hospitals. A total of 40 metric tonnes of oxygen were available from Inox. “For now, this is adequate,” she said. The Lt. Governor stressed the point that though facilities and manpower could be augmented, ultimately the coronavirus could be controlled only with the cooperation of the people. Resources can be quickly depleted if the people do not adopt COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Pointing out that about 60% of those infected with the virus last week were in the 30 to 50 years age segments, she said this was a singular feature of the second wave. She appealed to the youth to not venture out unnecessarily. Advisers to the Lt. Governor C. Chandramouli and A.P. Maheshwari, Health Secretary T. Arun, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-bed-infrastructure-being-ramped-up-to-treat-rise-in-cases/article34503800.ece
07 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry sees 1,510 cases||The Union Territory recorded 18 COVID-19 deaths for the second straight day as the cumulative toll crossed the 900-mark on Thursday even as 1,510 new cases got added to the overall tally in the last 24 hours. Puducherry recorded 17 deaths and Yanam one to raise the aggregate of fatalities to 901. The patients, including five women, were in the 42-85 years age range. Of the patients, six had no co-morbidities while one was categorised as brought dead. With this, the region-wise toll was Puducherry (737), Karaikal (96), Yanam (54) and Mahe (14). Of the new cases which were confirmed from 7,150 tests, Puducherry accounted for 1,190 cases, Karaikal 149, Yanam 129 and Mahe 42. The test positivity rate was 21.11%, case fatality rate 1.35% and recovery rate 79.99%. With 779 patients recording recovery, the active cases aggregated to 12,430. Of this, 2,036 were in hospitals and 10,394 in home isolation. The aggregate caseload in the Union Territory was 66,627 while 53,296 patients have recovered to date. In Puducherry, the bed occupancy status was JIPMER (413), IGMCRI (344) and Covid Care Centres (845). Of an estimated 8.31 lakh tests carried out by the Health Department so far, over 7.52 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 159 healthcare workers, 97 frontline staff and 582 members of the public took their first shots of the Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The total number of people vaccinated in the Union Territory stood at 2,08,731, including 32,700 healthcare workers, 19,203 frontline personnel and 1,56,828 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-18-deaths-tally-stands-at-1510/article34503797.ece
07 May 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Holding a tea ‘moi virundhu’ for COVID care||A tea seller in Pudukottai district conducted a unique ‘moi virundhu’ (feast to mobilise money) at his tea stall to raise funds for COVID-19 relief in the district. S. Sivakumar was already known for raising funds during the Gaja cyclone. Mr. Sivakumar who owns Bhagwan Tea Stall on Vamban Main Road had been contemplating on ways to contribute to COVID care in the district for months. With ‘moi virundhu’ banned to avoid large gatherings, Mr. Sivakumar decided to sell his tea in return for moi. “Usually, we sell tea for Rs. 6. But when we offer it with ‘moi’ provision, they will give at least Rs. 10. There are people who will give Rs. 50 also,” he said. On Wednesday from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. Mr. Sivakumar sold tea at his shop and placed a vessel to collect the ‘moi’ in front of his shop. He was able to collect Rs. 14,420 from ‘tea moi virundhu’, and has received an additional Rs. 7,000 from his friends and relatives. He hopes to hand the money over to the District Collector. “I have asked for permission to meet her in person and will hand over my contribution”, he said. “I have been running this shop for at least 10 years. So, my friends, relatives and others also know me well. They trust me and give the money,” he said. Mr. Sivakumar is well known in the village for his philanthropic gestures. He had waived off all the pending dues of his customers at his tea stall during the Gaja cyclone. Mr. Sivakumar also gives free milk to children who come to the shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holding-a-tea-moi-virundhu-for-covid-care/article34503941.ece
07 May 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Man gets death sentence for murdering wife||The Mahila Court in Pudukottai on Thursday awarded death sentence to a 52-year-old man for murdering his second wife and sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment for sexually assaulting his minor daughter repeatedly during 2019. The court slapped Rs. 1 lakh fine on A. Murugesan under IPC 302 (murder) and imposed Rs. lakh fine under the POCSO Amendment Act, 2019. Prosecution sources said Murugesan had married three women and had 11 children. The victim Bhanu alias Bhanumathy was his second wife. Murugesan had repeatedly sexually assaulted his 17-year-old daughter born to him and Bhanumathy and threatened the minor girl that he would murder Bhanumathy if she disclosed it to her. Bhanumathy chided Murugesan after she came to know about the crime. Murugesan thereafter murdered Bhanumathy. The Ganesh Nagar Police had registered a case against Murugesan under IPC sections 302 (murder) 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) and under sections including 5 (n) read with section 6 (1) of the POCSO Amendment Act, 2019. The sources said 20 prosecution witnesses were examined during the course of the trial that was held at the Mahila Court. The court ordered the State government to provide Rs. 5 lakh as compensation to the minor girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-death-sentence-for-murdering-wife/article34503946.ece
07 May 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not indulge in such acts’||A 28-year-old woman, who cut off her tongue as fulfilment of her vow after DMK’s victory in the Assembly election, is recovering at Government Hospital. Vanitha, a resident of Puduvakudi near Paramakudi in the district, was rushed to hospital after she cut off a portion of her tongue in front of a temple and fell unconscious. Doctors sutured the tongue and she was on the road to recovery, sources said. Former DMK MP A.K.S. Vijayan visited her in the hospital and advised her not to indulge in such acts. He also gave her Rs. 10,000. Former Minister Suba Thangavelan also visited her at the hospital. Vanitha, a DMK worker, was married and had two children. She was separated from her husband for the last two years, the sources added. Paramakudi Town Police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-indulge-in-such-acts/article34503906.ece
07 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Southern Rly. cancels spl. trains||The Salem division of Southern Railway has announced cancellation of several special train services temporarily in view of poor occupancy. According to a release, Train no.06009 Mettupalayam – Coimbatore Jn. MEMU and Train no.06010 Coimbatore Jn. – Mettupalayam MEMU special train, Train no.06121 Vriddhachalam – Salem Jn. DEMU, Train no. 06122 Salem Jn. – Vriddhachalam DEMU special train, and Train no.06123 Tiruchchirappalli Jn. – Karur DEMU daily special train will remain cancelled from May 8 to 31. Train no.02649 Chennai Central – Erode daily special train, Train no.02650 Erode – Chennai Central daily special train, Train no.02673 Chennai Central – Coimbatore daily special train, Train no.02674 Coimbatore – Chennai Central daily special train, Train no.02679 Chennai Central – Coimbatore Intercity daily special train, Train no.02680 Coimbatore – Chennai Central Intercity daily special train, Train no.06628 Mangalore – Chennai Central daily special train, Train no.02695 Chennai Central – Thiruvananthapuram daily special train, Train no.02678 Ernakulam – KSR Bengaluru daily special train, Train no.06843 Tiruchirappalli – Palakkad Town daily special train and Train no.06843 Tiruchirappalli – Palakkad Town daily special train will remain cancelled from May 8 to 31. Train no.06124 Karur – Tiruchchirappalli Jn. DEMU daily special train will remain cancelled temporarily from May 9 to June 1. Train no.06087 Arakkonam – Salem MEMU special train, Train no.06088 Salem – Arakkonam MEMU special train and Train no.06162 Banaswadi – Ernakulam weekly special train will remain cancelled from May 10 to 31. Train no.02681 Chennai Central – Coimbatore weekly special train will remain cancelled from May 15 to 29. Train no.02682 Coimbatore – Chennai Central weekly special train will remain cancelled from May 14 to 28. Train no.02697 Chennai Central – Thiruvananthapuram weekly special train will remain cancelled from May 9 to 30. Train no.02698 Thiruvananthapuram – Chennai Central weekly special train will remain cancelled from May 8 to 29. Train no. 06019 Chennai Central – Madurai special train will remain cancelled from May 10 to 28, Train no.06020 Madurai – Chennai Central will remain cancelled from May 11 to 30. Train no.06627 Chennai Central – Mangalore daily special train, Train no.02696 Thiruvananthapuram – Chennai Central daily special train, Train no.02677 KSR Bengaluru – Ernakulam daily special train and Train no.06844 Palakkad Town – Tiruchchirappalli daily special train will remain cancelled from May 9 to June 1. Train no.06161 Ernakulam – Banaswadi weekly special train will remain cancelled from May 9 to 30. Train no.06167 Thiruvananthapuram – Hazrat Nizamuddin weekly special train, Train no.06168 Hazrat Nizamuddin – Thiruvananthapuram weekly special train will remain cancelled from May 11 to 21 and May 14 to 28 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-rly-cancels-spl-trains/article34503829.ece
07 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three patients die waiting in ambulances at Salem GH||Three COVID-19 patients, who were waiting at the triage zone of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, died late Tuesday evening, according to sources. The patients collapsed before they could be shifted to COVID-19 block. According to doctors, the patients included a 30-year-old woman and two men aged above 40 years. The Salem GH is the tertiary care centre for COVID-19 treatment in the district and besides patients from its vicinity, patients from far ends of the district including Thalaivasal and Attur for triaging after testing positive for COVID-19. The hospital is also receiving patients referred from private hospitals in critical condition." The COVID-19 block is operating in full capacity and patients are being referred to the Hospital from private hospitals without first confirming bed availability here", Dean R.Murugeshan had said. According to doctors, patients are brought to the hospital in critical condition and though they are attended to in ambulances, they could be shifted to the block only once a bed becomes available. The Salem GH is now working on increasing its bed strength with oxygen facilities to take in more patients. It has designated 800 beds for COVID-19 treatment with oxygen supply through pipe or cylinders and is operating at full capacity, Dr. Murugeshan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-patients-die-waiting-in-ambulances-at-salem-gh/article34503395.ece
07 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Youth questioned for trying to sell Remdesivir||The Salem City Police on Wednesday inquired a youth after the public nabbed him while trying to sell a vial of Remdesivir. According to the police, the youth was trying to sell a vial of the medicine which is used for COVID-19 treatment outside a private hospital here. On suspicion, the public handed him over to the police. On preliminary inquiry, the police found that the youth had bought two vials for the treatment of his grandfather. However, only one vial was used and the elderly man died. The youth tried to sell the second vial, the police said. The Sooramangalam police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-questioned-for-trying-to-sell-remdesivir/article34503391.ece
07 May 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL/ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Streets wear a deserted look in other districts||The usually busy streets in Salem an Namakkal looked deserted and vehicle movement was minimal after noon, with the new set of COVID-19 restrictions coming into force. As part of the restrictions only shops selling essential items were allowed to open for business and hotels restricted their service to takeaways. Though the government had permitted the operating of grocery stores till noon, many remained closed since morning as the business period was restricted to a few hours. People resorted to panic buying and crowds were noticed at uzhavar santhais and the Bazaar areas in Salem. Shops in the Shevapet market, a major market for groceries, downed shutters by noon and traders made efforts to ensure customers followed COVID-19 protocols. People were advised to wear mask and maintain physical distance. While buses were allowed to operate only at 50% capacity, a few of them were seen breaching this restriction. No crowding of Tasmac outlets was noticed though their timings were restricted. Tea shops restricted operations to takeaways. Government offices operated with 50% capacity. Police personnel were deployed at Salem GH to restrict the number of visitors. Salem City police said they had warned shops of sealing or fines if they functioned beyond the permitted time. Namakkal police stopped motorists at 27 places and advised them to wear masks. In Erode, all shops were closed while vehicular movement was limited after the fresh restrictions came into force. All the textile shops in Eswaran Kovil Street, Kongalamman Kovil Street and the daily shops in the E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) were closed right from the morning. By noon, all the vegetable and fruit shops, the shops in Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market, provision and grocery and tea shops in the market areas were closed, with police personnel ensuring that the shops were closed on time and the staff left. Since big format textile showrooms on R.K.V. Road were closed from April 26, vehicle movement on the roads was very less. Fuel outlets, medical shops and hospitals continued to function without any restrictions. Since Tasmac shops functioned from 8 a.m. to noon, customers waited in a queue to purchase liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/streets-wear-a-deserted-look-in-other-districts/article34503393.ece
07 May 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘More beds with oxygen facility to be ready’||More beds with oxygen facility are being kept ready and there was no need for panic, said Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy here on Thursday. He told reporters after a review meeting that 500 beds with oxygen would be ready in a week. The oxygen position was sufficient and the hospital was providing it to those who required it. On an average, 1,500 people were tested daily and the results were conveyed to the persons concerned within six to eight hours. The health and civic authorities had conducted 160 fever clinics to find people with fever and ensure that they were subjected to treatment swiftly. He said that 225 patients were getting the oxygen facility across different hospitals. ‘We have planned to keep at least 60 to 100 beds with oxygen ready at any given point of time.” He said that 39 teams would undertake surveillance in each firkha. The people in containment zones should cooperate with the health staff during screening as it has become necessary to start treatment early and identify those who were negative to the virus. There were 1,137 beds in Government Hospitals and 247 beds in private hospitals to handle COVID-19 patients. There was no need for any panic or anxiety among the people. Rethnavel, Dean, Government Hospital, said that more doctors and nurses were deployed at Sivaganga and Karaikudi GHs. Adequate people were available to handle the COVID-19 patients in isolation wards so as to ensure that doctors did not face any stress or fatigue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-beds-with-oxygen-facility-to-be-ready/article34503908.ece
07 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Restriction on business hours evokes mixed response||The new restriction on business hours of certain trades in the State from May 6 has evoked a mixed response from traders and consumers. As per the new restrictions which came into effect from May 6, standalone shops selling provisions and vegetables and tea shops have been directed to wind up their business by noon in order to control the spread of COVID-19, whereas big format shops (with a size of 3000 square feet and above), shopping complex and malls have been prohibited from functioning. Further, all other shops other than provision stores and vegetable shops would remain closed till May 20. While a section of traders have welcomed the measure, others have pointed out that it would be unfair to direct the large/medium size shops engaged in the sale of provisions and vegetables remain shut while permitting the retail or small traders to continue their business though with restricted business hours. Viewing the new restrictions as an attempt to drive a wedge among the trading community, president of Mannargudi Traders Association Anand urged the State government to either allow all the traders, especially those engaged in the grocery business, to carry on with their business up to noon every day till May 20 or declare a complete lockdown. Meanwhile, the secretary, All Traders Association, Kumbakonam, V. Sathyanarayanan, pleaded that all business houses should be allowed to run their shops in view of Ramzan which falls on May 14 and `Akshyathiruthiyai’ subsequently. Permitting large shops to function for restricted hours would also help avoid crowding at small shops, he pointed out. Welcoming the decision to allow hotels in three time slots for take away transactions, Muthukumar of Thanjavur, a social activist, suggested that saloons, hardware shops and automobile workshops also be permitted to function during the forenoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restriction-on-business-hours-evokes-mixed-response/article34503934.ece
07 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||BJP functionary held for provocative tweet||The Pattukottai police have arrested a local BJP functionary on charges of posting statements on social media that amounted to issuing life threat to a political rival. BJP Youth Wing secretary, Thanjavur South District, Anbarasan of Pattukottai was booked for uploading a provocative tweet with an intent to ‘disturb public tranquillity’, based on a complaint lodged by Mohammed Yahiya, Coordinator, Islamic Social Welfare Association, Pattukottai, that the former had issued a life threat to Aloor Shanavas of VCK, who had won the recent elections to the Nagapattinam Assembly Segment. Anbarasan who was picked up and interrogated by the police had reportedly said he had inadvertently mentioned Mr. Shanavas’s name in the tweet. He said that his tweet was actually directed at Thamizhan Prasanna of DMK. Mr. Anbarasan claimed that Mr. Prasanna had declared that the DMK cadre would take their lives in front of ‘Kamalalayam’, the BJP Tamil Nadu’s Headquarters at T. Nagar, Chennai, if any of its (BJP's) representatives made an entry into the Legislative Assembly. The local BJP functionary said that in his tweet he had indeed said that a message stating the ‘death’ of the challenger (Mr. Prasanna) would soon reach the BJP cadres. But, he had inadvertently mentioned the name of Mr. Shanavas name instead of Mr. Prasanna. After realizing the mistake, he had also posted a clarification tweet, Mr. Anbarasan had told the police. However, based on the complaint lodged by the Islamic Social Welfare Association secretary, the Pattukottai police have arrested Anbarasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-functionary-held-for-provocative-tweet/article34503932.ece
07 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Shoppers throng stores, markets||As new lockdown restrictions came into effect on Thursday, shoppers thronged markets from 7 a.m. in the district. Many thoroughfares in the city and peripheries were choked due to crowding. Though police and civic authorities repeatedly appealed to the people to be on their guard against the pandemic and maintain physical distancing, the pleas fell on deaf ears. The markets in the city were packed. Stand-alone grocery stores, fancy shops and tea stalls were busy. Only after the lockdown came into effect at noon, they downed shutters and the roads turned empty. Meanwhile, Collector K Senthil Raj, who chaired a meeting of officials from multi-departments to review the situation, said that from seven to 12 positive cases per day in April, the daily count had risen to 700. The administration had to examine modalities to contain the disease on a war-footing. The bed strength in the district was enhanced after periodic review. Similarly, oxygen support requirement too had been given attention, officials said at the meeting. Quoting a WHO report, the Collector said that only 10% of COVID-19 patients required oxygen support and 1% needed ventilator support. Hence, officials and hospital staff had to sensitise patients and educate them on the issue. The officials were instructed to intensify surveillance. “Whoever does not wear a mask shall be fined as per the law,” the Collector said. Special teams had been formed across the district for the purpose. In Thoothukudi Corporation limits alone, 25 teams had been formed to keep a check on violators, he added. Shops and vendors, who neglected the guidelines, were punished with fines and closure, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shoppers-throng-stores-markets/article34503910.ece
07 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Shift to G. Corner immediately, traders told||As part of its efforts to avoid overcrowding at the Gandhi Market so as to check the spread of COVID-19 virus, the Tiruchi Corporation has once again decided to shift all operations to G. Corner on Tiruchi-Chennai highway from Friday. A senior official of the Corporation, who visited the Gandhi Market on Thursday morning, met the office bearers of various vegetable, fruits and flower traders’ associations and conveyed the decision of closure of the Gandhi Market with immediate effect in view of the exponential surge in cases of COVID-19. He told them that the market would function from G. Corner from Friday and all necessary arrangements were being made to set up shops. Taking strong exception, a group of traders told the official that it was not possible to shift the operations within a day. Moreover, it was unfair to ask them to move to the new place, when the traders stuck to the business hours between 4 am to 12 noon. However, the official told them that he had no choice. M. K. Kamalakannan, president of the Tiruchi Gandhi Market Viyaparigal Munnetra Sangam, said that it would make no difference between trading at Gandhi Market and G. Corner. They would comply with the time restriction imposed by the government on trading. The customers would anyway buy vegetables either at Gandhi Market or any other place. Hence, the traders should be allowed to continue their trading at Gandhi Market. He said that the traders were forced to transact business at G. Corner for eight months by the previous government due to the ill-conceived decision of the officials. There were no basic facilities such as shed, toilets and drinking water. If the officials forced them to move again to G.Corner, like-minded traders would as well stop trading as a form of registering their protest. Corporation officials said that the situation had turned grim. There was a need to break the chain of spread of the virus. G. Corner was an open market and chances of spread of the virus were less there when compared to Gandhi Market. Hence, the traders were asked to shift their operations to G. Corner. It is the second attempt by the officials to shift the traders to G. Corner from the Gandhi Market within a month. To contain the spread of the virus, the Corporation officials had asked the retail traders to shift to G. Corner a few weeks ago. But the traders had refused to budge.  G. Corner is an open market and chances of the virus spreading are less when compared to Gandhi Market. Hence, traders have been asked to shift  Officials Tiruchi Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shift-to-g-corner-immediately-traders-told/article34503936.ece
07 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Micro-containment zones in Tiruchi go up to 24||The number of micro-containment zones has gone up to 24 from 15 in the city. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that among four zones in the city, K. Abishegapuram zone had become a hotspot for the virus. Most of the fresh cases were reported from K. Abishegapuram zone over the last few days. A total of 15 patients from Ramji Nagar had tested positive for the virus. More cases were reported in Srinivasa Nagar. As of Thursday, 24 micro containment zones had been established in the city. If three or more cases were detected in a street or lane, it was declared as containment zone. He said that besides erection of iron sheets across the affected street, barricades had also been erected so as to prevent the residents from entering unnecessarily. As soon as fresh cases were reported, the sanitary workers would visit the houses and apartments to carry out sanitisation. The residents are expected to cooperate with them. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that a decision has been taken to step up collection of swab samples in all four zones in the city. On an average, 2,500 samples were collected daily. The positivity rate hovered around 7% to 8%. He said that the new restrictions imposed by the Government had come into force on Thursday. No one could open any shop except pharmacies. As far as vegetable and grocery stores were concerned, they could transact business between 6 am to 12 noon. Restaurants could offer only take-away service. Action would be taken against those violating the restrictions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-containment-zones-in-tiruchi-go-up-to-24/article34503938.ece
07 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railways wield the stick against those not wearing masks in stations and on trains||The Tiruchi Railway Divisional authorities are continuing their drive against those found not wearing masks in railway stations falling within their jurisdiction and on trains as a measure to combat COVID-19. Sustained drives carried out by the field-level railway officials all over Tiruchi Division since April 17 has resulted in booking of 135 cases against violators found not wearing masks in station premises and on board trains. Fines were slapped on each one of them and the total amount realised was Rs. 67,500 till May 4. The fine amount of Rs. 500 was being imposed under the Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at Railway Premises), Rules 2012. The stern action kick- started from mid-April onwards following a directive from the Railway Board, New Delhi as COVID-19 cases began to drastically rise. Awareness was created to the rail passengers and others on the need to wear masks while entering railway station premises by pasting stickers in important stations falling under the limits of Tiruchi Division. Railway sources told The Hindu that most of the cases against violators for not wearing masks were booked at Tiruchi railway junction. Travelling Ticket Examiners have been booking cases against violators both on the station premises and on board trains. Travelling Ticket Examiners have been provided with masks, hand sanitisers and face shields, said the sources. The reservation staff have also been provided with safety kits to keep themselves protected. With the Southern Railway operating some special trains, Railway Protection Force authorities here said their focus was on escorting night trains passing through the division to ensure that there was no theft or other offences. The escort teams have also been provided with safety kits and asked to maintain physical distancing on board trains even while carrying out their security duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-wield-the-stick-against-those-not-wearing-masks-in-stations-and-on-trains/article34503948.ece
07 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 20 deaths||The central region reported 2,072 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. The region reported 20 deaths, a sharp increase over the last few days. Six of the eight districts reported at least one death, reflecting the spike. Tiruchi district reported the highest ever single-day spike with 746 fresh cases. Thanjavur reported the highest number of casualties, with six deaths, followed by Tiruchi with five deaths, four in Karur, two each in Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts and one death in Tiruvarur district. Tiruchi district reported a marked increase in the number of patients who tested positive for COVID-19. Of the 746 patients who tested positive, at least two-third hailed from the Tiruchi Corporation limits. “We have so far created 25 containment zones. If more than three patients get tested as COVID-19 positive in a locality, we are shutting it down. Only one person from a household is allowed to step out to purchase essentials,” a city corporation official said. Meanwhile, Nagapattinam reported 333 fresh cases. Tiruvarur recorded 269 fresh cases, while Karur reported 229. Pudukottai district also recorded a marked increase with 182 patients testing positive, while Thanjavur reported 165 cases. Ariyalur district reported 88 fresh cases and Perambalur, 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-20-deaths/article34503942.ece
07 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers reach out||People desperately searching for beds for their family members in various parts of the central districts are reaching out to volunteer groups. These groups, consisting of youth liaise with hospitals and COVID Care Centres, and facilitate the process. The volunteer groups have been monitoring social media to identify requests and alert hospitals. “We have been keeping in touch with authorities in hospitals in the districts so when we get a bed request, we put the patient in touch with the hospital,” a volunteer said. Similarly, the groups also see through treatment of mild home-quarantine patients taking the support of doctors involved in tele-consulting. “There is too much panic among patients. Some demand beds even without doctor consultation. Many even try to pay off hospitals and reserve a bed. To alleviate their stress, we put them through to doctors who are offering tele-consultation for free, and some for a nominal fee,” S. Kalyani, a volunteer said. The volunteers have been working non-stop over the last week, as the number of beds in the districts, especially in Tiruchi has become scarce. “I sometimes get stressed about my own health or the health of my parents. We are unable to get beds for some patients for at least three or four hours. The Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital manages to accommodate patients and they have been our last resort,” she said. The volunteers hope that the situation will get better as arrangements for more beds are made in the hospital. “The districts have prepared COVID Care Centres, but emergency beds with ICU and oxygen support is scarce. We hope they will make arrangements for this soon,” A. Sonal, another volunteer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-reach-out/article34503939.ece
07 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Restrict workforce in ordnance factories to 50%’||Trade unions in ordnance factories have called for restriction of workforce to 50% to contain the spread of COVID-19 and break the chain. The pandemic has caused a serious impact on the employees of six ordnance factories and other defence industrial establishments in Tamil Nadu. The refrain of the managements of the factories and establishments has been that the Tamil Nadu government had notified about 50 % workforce in all government offices and private company offices only. The situation in ordnance factories was turning worse by the day, AIDEF General Secretary C. Srikumar said. Hundreds of employees have been infected by the virus and the death rate was also on the rise. Employees were facing difficulties in securing admission in government hospitals and empanelled hospitals. Private hospitals were charging abnormally and the employees could not afford the treatment, Mr. Srikumar said. The layout of the work place was such that it was difficult to maintain social distancing. It was the main reason for the spread of the virus in the factories. As in Maharashtra and West Bengal, Tamil Nadu should also issue an appropriate notification for the safety of the employees, Mr. Srikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrict-workforce-in-ordnance-factories-to-50/article34503931.ece
07 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cancellation of special trains||The Southern Railway has announced that the Tiruchi - Palakkad Town daily special (Train No 06843) will remain cancelled temporarily from May 8 to May 31 in view of poor occupancy. The Palakkad Town - Tiruchi daily special (Train No. 06844) will remain cancelled temporarily from May 9 to June 1 due to poor occupancy, a Southern Railway press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancellation-of-special-trains/article34503943.ece
07 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.96 feet on Thursday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,125 cusecs and the discharge 801 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34503944.ece
07 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Youth’s body found with injuries||The body of B. Maharajan alias Katta Maharajan, 22, of Kennedy Street, MKB Nagar, Palayamkottai, was found with stab injuries on a playground near the district court here on Thursday. Following a complaint from morning walkers, who found the youth’s body, Deputy Commissioner of Police Srinivasan and his team inspected the scene of crime. Preliminary inquiry showed that the youth had suffered multiple stab injuries. The motive behind the murder was yet to be ascertained. Mobile phone records and CCTV footage from nearby locations were being examined. Palayamkottai police have registered a case. As news of the murder spread, police deployed a large posse of personnel in the vicinity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youths-body-found-with-injuries/article34503911.ece
07 May 2021||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||4 dead in Tirupattur GH, fact-finding team formed||Amidst rumours about the deaths of four COVID-19 patients in Tirupattur due to lack of oxygen, the Collector has claimed this to be untrue. However a fact-finding team has been formed to investigate the issue. Health officials claim that all the four patients, who were admitted at Tirupattur government hospital, were Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases and had various co-morbidities. District Collector M. P. Sivanarul has clarified that there was enough oxygen supply and four oxygen generation plants would also be constructed in the district on a war-footing. Followingthe death of 13 COVID-19 patients in Chengalpattu government hospitaldue to low pressure in the oxygen tank, there were rumours about four deaths in Tirupattur government hospital on Thursday morning. However health officials denied this. “If they were oxygen-related deaths, they would have happened at the same time and more people would have become victims. All these deaths took place at different hours,” said a senior health official. Meanwhile the Collector said that they have 2 KL oxygen as of now and there are around 300 patients, out of over 896 active COVID-19 cases, in Tirupattur district, who are in need of oxygen support. “We have been getting sufficient supply of oxygen and we are arranging through local sources too. Besides, along with L&T we are constructing four oxygen plants. While three are of 1,000 KL capacity, another is of 500 KL,” said Mr. Sivanarul. Health officials claim that as on date they have 2,000 beds and every day steps are being taken to increase this. “We are getting 200 cases per day and we are strengthening the infrastructure accordingly too. But we need more staff,” said a health official. Meanwhile seven COVID-19 patients died in Vaniyambadi government general hospital on Wednesday. “There were rumours that they too died due to oxygen shortage. But the hospital has sufficient oxygen supply,” said a senior health official from Vaniyambadi.  If they were oxygen-related deaths, they would have happened at the same time and more people would have become victims. All deaths took place at different hours Senior health official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fact-finding-team-formed-after-4-die-in-tirupattur-gh/article34503470.ece
07 May 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Videos of assault on elephants in ATR surface, Forest Dept. on the lookout for tribal youths||The Forest Department is on the lookout for a group of men, all residents of a tribal settlement in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), after 20-odd videos of them torturing and teasing wild elephants surfaced on social media. The videos show the men chasing away wild elephants by hurling stones at them at close range and beating them with sticks. The videos were recorded by members of the group who were on the ground as well as those on tree tops. The pet dogs of the youth were also seen chasing elephants. According to Forest Department officials, the brutal assault on elephants took place at Thirumurthimalai tribal settlement which comes under the Tiruppur Forest Division areas of the ATR. The Department came across a few videos of the assault on wild elephants on Wednesday evening and registered a case against P. Selvam (30), T. Kalimuthu (25) and J. Arunkumar (30). Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR, and District Forest Officer of Pollachi Forest Division (in-charge of Tiruppur Forest Division), told The Hindu that a special team had been sent to the tribal settlement early on Thursday morning to identify the persons involved in the act and detain them for further interrogation. “We will ensure that stringent action is taken against the men who were involved in the incident,” he said. Though a team headed by K. Ganeshram, Assistant Conservator of Forests and Additional Director of ATR (Tirupur Forest Division), conducted searches at the settlement and surrounding forest areas, the accused were not found. “The head of the settlement has assured us they would hand over the three men on Friday. If they fail to do so, the Department will approach the court seeking warrants against them,” he said. Ganesh Raghunathan, a researcher attached to the Nature Conservation Foundation at Valparai, who watched the videos said that acts of assaults and harassment of elephants, as seen in the video, would result in changes in animal behaviour. “First of all, such acts should be avoided. From my experience in understanding elephant behaviour, they should be given their space to avoid interactions with humans. Acts of cruelty, as seen in the video, will create animosity towards humans among elephants. As a result, there is a higher chance of innocent people getting attacked by elephants and the blame finally goes to the animals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/videos-of-assault-on-elephants-in-atr-surface-forest-dept-on-the-lookout-for-tribal-youths/article34503831.ece
07 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tobacco products seized||The Nallur police on Wednesday arrested two men on charges of possessing 47 kg of banned tobacco products worth around Rs. 1 lakh within the Tiruppur City Police limits. The police said D. Kumar (35) and R. Panneerselvam (40) allegedly brought the contraband in their car when they were stopped by the police at a check-post in Kasipalayam. The accused were remanded in judicial custody. Cases booked  Following the new COVID-19 restrictions which required all shops to down shutters by noon, the Tiruppur City Police on Thursday registered 25 cases against commercial establishments that allegedly remained open after the stipulated time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tobacco-products-seized/article34503833.ece
07 May 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Take action against second wave on a war-footing’||The Villupuram unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has urged the district administration to take action on a war-footing to overcome the unprecedented situation caused by the second wave of COVID-19. In a memorandum submitted to Collector A. Annadurai, CPI (M) district secretary N. Subramanian said that Villupuram district had recorded about 3,258 cases from April 21 to May 3, while 11 deaths had taken the toll to 127. The steep rise in positive cases had become a cause for concern, he said. Testing in PHCs Mr. Subramanian also demanded that the administration ramp up testing in all the primary health centres and intensify the vaccination drive that is under way. The CPI (M) also called upon the administration to withdraw mandatory home quarantine for positive patients who had mild symptoms. Isolation must The risk of transmission is high if the infected person is not isolated in a separate room with toilet facilities. Hence, all positive patients should be admitted in quarantine facilities run by the government. The CPI (M) also demanded the administration to ensure a minimum of 100 days of work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and immediate cash transfer as a number of people had lost their jobs during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-action-against-second-wave-on-a-war-footing/article34503792.ece
07 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar gets two ministries||Virudhunagar district gets two ministerial berths with veteran DMK leaders K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (Aruppukottai MLA) and Thangam Thennarasu (Tiruchuli MLA), who were ministers in Karunanidhi government, joining his son M.K. Stalin’s cabinet on Friday. Mr. Ramachandran, a nine-time MLA, was a member of M.G. Ramachandran cabinet too. He was Minister for Cooperation and then Public Works Department Minister in MGR cabinet. Later, under Karunanidhi, he was initially Minister for Health and later Minister for Backward Classes Welfare. This time, Mr. Ramachandran has been allocated Ministry of Revenue and Disaster Management, an important portfolio. Mr. Thennarasu, who has become MLA for the fifth time, was Minister for School Education between 2006-2011. Amid long-pending demands from southern districts for industrial development, Mr. Thenarasu has been made the Minister for Industries, Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture, Archaeology. His presence closer to Keeladi is expected to provide impetus to the archaeological excavations at four sites in Keeladi cluster comprising Keeladi, Konthagai, Manalur and Agaram. The seventh phase of excavation is under way at the sites where several artifacts dating backing to 2,500 years have been recovered. The DMK has two more MLAs, A.R.R. Seenivasan, three-time MLA from Virudhunagar Assembly constituency, and S,. Thangapandian, who has won for the second consecutive time. A.R.R. Raghuraman, who won on the DMK symbol from Sattur, belongs to MDMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-gets-two-ministries/article34503915.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New curbs come into force in Coimbatore, Ooty||Retail outlets in Coimbatore downed shutters on Thursday in compliance with the new restrictions announced by the State government to control the spread of the pandemic. Except for a few small eateries, push carts that sell food items, and workshops, almost all the shops were closed. Wholesale grocery shops on RG Street remained open till noon. With no major functions and educational institutions also closed, there was hardly any rush, says a shop owner on the street. Vegetable shops in TK Market also closed down at the specified time. There were very few customers too. The wholesalers will have to move vegetables to Kerala in the evening. There is no clarity yet on moving of vegetables in the evening hours, says M. Rajendran, president of the market. P. Kumaravel Pandian, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner, inspected the vegetable market at Ukkadam and the shopping areas such as Raja Street, RG Street and TK Market. He asked the shop owners to ensure that customers wore masks and maintained physical distance. During the inspection, he also ordered imposing of Rs. 200 fine each on 11 people for not wearing marks and Rs. 500 each on two shops for not ensuring physical distancing. Tasmac outlets in Coimbatore district witnessed heavy rush from 10 a.m. to noon due to the revised timing. However, many outlets did not have rush from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. An employee from one of the outlets said that several customers were unaware of the revised timing from 8 a.m. to noon. A total of 135 shops in Coimbatore south division and 157 outlets in Coimbatore north division functioned till noon. With the shops closed and offices functioning with just 50 % staff, the vehicle movement on the roads was relatively less. The Coimbatore Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) on Thursday reduced about 20 town buses following reduction in patronage. TNSTC officials said that while 640 town buses were operated till Wednesday, 620 town buses were operated on Thursday. However, the number of mofussil buses operated continued to remain as 300. According to the new restrictions, the occupancy of the number of passengers in government and private buses will be limited to 50 %. The occupancy was found to be lower than 50% in the town buses on Thursday and no major violations were reported. The TNSTC would revise the number of town and mofussil buses soon as per the existing demand, the officials said. Udhagamandalam In Udhagamandalam, parts of the Nilgiris witnessed heavy crowds as people queued up to buy essential commodities before the shops closed. The Commercial Road in Udhagamandalam witnessed heavy traffic as people rushed to the shops. Police presence was stepped up to ensure traffic did not come to a standstill. Officials from the district administration deployed teams to ensure that COVID-19 safety protocols were followed inside the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market and the Coonoor Market. Meat stalls witnessed the most crowding. Shop owners warned many customers that the municipality would fine them, as they did not wear the mask properly. Almost all the shops closed at noon. In Coonoor, officials sealed a bakery where physical distancing norms were not followed and a fine was imposed on the owners of the bakery for failing to ensure adherence to COVID-19 protocols.  (With inputs from M. Soundariya Preetha, Wilson Thomas and R. Akileish and Rohan Premkumar in Udhagamandalam)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-curbs-come-into-force-in-coimbatore-ooty/article34503387.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin retains veterans, includes 15 new faces in the Cabinet||DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru, who ensured a clean sweep for the party in Tiruchi, will handle Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply, portfolios which were handled by Mr. Stalin during 2006-11. While K. Ponmudi has been given Higher Education Department, which he held in the previous DMK government, the party’s resourceful leader from Tiruvannamalai E.V. Velu has been made the Minister for Public Works (Buildings, Highways and Minor Ports). Senior leader I. Periyasamy, who won the election with a record margin of over 1.35 lakh votes, has been made the Minister for Co-operatives, Statistics and Ex-servicemen Welfare. Though the DMK fared poorly in western Tamil Nadu, four MLAs from the region have been given representation in the Cabinet. Making a comeback Mr. Stalin’s team will also see the return of S. Muthusamy (Housing and Urban Development) and Rajakannappan (Transport), who will be becoming Ministers after a gap of 25 years. Both had served under Jayalalithaa during her first innings (1991-96) as Chief Minister. Mr. Muthusamy will also have the distinction of being a member of the Cabinets headed by three Chief Ministers — M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa, both AIADMK, and Mr. Stalin. In all, eight of the Minister-designates have their origins in the AIADMK. Thangam Thennarasu, who spearheaded reforms in School Education in the Karunanidhi government, has been given the Industries, Tamil Development, Culture and Archaeology portfolios. Mahesh Poyyamozhi, a youth wing leader and close friend of Mr. Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi Stalin, will hold the portfolio of School Education. Senthil Balaji, a former AIADMK Minister, who joined the DMK in December 2018, has been given the portfolios of Electricity, Non-Conventional Energy Sources Development, Prohibition and Excise and Molasses. He had defeated Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar in Karur. Anitha Radhakrishnan gets the Fisheries Development while P.K. Sekar Babu, who too had his origins in the AIADMK, gets the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. Since two senior DMK leaders from the south — Suresh Rajan and S. Austin — lost the election, Mano Thangaraj, who was elected from the Padmanabhapuram constituency in Kanniyakumari, has been accommodated in the Cabinet with the portfolio of Information Technology. R. Sakkarapani, DMK whip in the outgoing House, has been inducted into the Cabinet with the portfolios of Food, Civil Supplies, Consumer Protection and Price Control. Avadi S.M. Nasar, who defeated Tamil Minister ‘Ma Foi’ K. Pandiarajan is the Minister of Dairy Development. C.V. Ganesan, a senior MLA from Thittakudi constituency, is the Minister of Labour. S.S. Sivasankar is the Backward Classes Minister. Minorities’ welfare DMK’s minority wing leader Gingee K.S. Masthan will head the Department of Minorities Welfare and Non-Residents Tamil Welfare. M.P. Saminathan, who headed the Highways Department during 2006-11, is back as Information Minister. T.M. Anbarasan has been allotted Rural Industries. Former HR&CE Minister K.R. Periyakaruppan will now hold the portfolio of Rural Development while former Union Minister S. Reghupathy has been allotted Law, Courts and Prisons. The other minister-designates are K. Ramachandran (Forests), R. Gandhi (Handlooms and Textiles), P. Moorthy (Commercial Taxes and Registration), Siva V. Meyyanathan (Environment, Youth Welfare and Sports Development) and M. Mathiventhan (Tourism).  Mr. Stalin’s team will also see the return of S. Muthusamy and Rajakannappan, who will be becoming Ministers after a gap of 25 years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-retains-veterans-includes-15-new-faces-in-the-cabinet/article34503805.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 2,068 cases, four deaths||A total of 2,068 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday, registering the highest daily caseload reported so far. The district had 9,845 active cases of the disease and 1,551 persons recovered. The Health Department said that four more persons from the district died of the disease, taking the death toll to 740. While three persons aged 42, 46 and 52 died of COVID-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Tuesday and Wednesday, a 77-year-old man succumbed to the disease at a private hospital on Monday. Meanwhile, S. Gunasekaran (53), station officer of Fire and Rescue Services station at Thondamuthur, died of COVID-19 on Thursday. This death was not listed in the media bulletin on Thursday. G. Sathiyanarayan, Deputy Director of Fire and Rescue Services (Headquarters), in -charge of Joint Director (Western Region), District Fire Officer R. Jegadheesh and senior officers paid respects to the deceased officer by laying wreath at the memorial column at Coimbatore south fire station. A day after reporting over 600 new cases for the first time, Tiruppur district on Thursday reported 443 fresh cases, which took the overall tally to 29,311. The Health Department reported the death of 61-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, taking the toll to 247. The active cases dipped below the 3,000-mark as 2,926 patients were active in the district. A total of 26,138 patients have recovered so far, which included 618 patients discharged on Thursday. As of Thursday, 658 out of 1,590 beds in government and private hospitals were vacant while 423 out of 760 beds were vacant at COVID-19 care centres in the district. A total of 614 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 294 cases were reported in corporation limits. In Salem, two men aged 42 and 50 and two women aged 84 and 62 died at government and private facilities. In Namakkal, 322 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. As per bulletin, a 55-year-old woman and a 54-year-old man from Namakkal died at private facilities in Salem. A 70-year-old man died at government hospital in Namakkal. Erode district reported 590 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 24,599. While 599 persons were discharged, 3,421 continue to be under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 113 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 10,472. The number of deaths in the district stood at 51 on Thursday while 640 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-2068-cases-four-deaths/article34503389.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 claims another life in Virudhunagar||The COVID-19 death toll in Virudhunagar disstrict rose to 248 after a 48-year-old man succumbed to the viral infection on Thursday The State medical bulletin said the victim, who was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Virudhunagar on May 1 and tested positive, died on May 4 due to COVID pneumonia and acute respiratory failure. Meanwhile, the district reported 269 new positive cases and 286 discharges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-claims-another-life-in-virudhunagar/article34503912.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report ‘VOC Market to be closed temporarily from today’ that appeared in Salem Edition, dated May 6, Salem Corporation Commissioner is N. Ravichandran and not as published. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article34503828.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore||Karpagam Institute of Technology: Signing agreement with Rabwin Industries, 3.30 p.m.   Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Online meeting, 6.29 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore/article34503827.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||Santhanam Vidhyalaya Senior Secondary School (CBSE): Path Forward Series, webinar through Google Meet on ‘Preparing for NEET - Success Mantra # 2’ by S. Krishnapriyaa, II Year MDS, Meeankshiammal Dental College, Maduravoyal, 3.30 p. m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article34503945.ece
07 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||More oxygen plants in a few weeks in North Karnataka||North Karnataka districts will get more oxygen plants in a few weeks, Deputy Chief Minister and Belagavi district in-charge Govind Karjol said in Belagavi on Thursday. The State government has been informed that ONGC and MRPL will come up with oxygen plants in Belagavi, Haveri, Gadag, Uttara Kannada and Ballari districts. “We have requested the Union government to direct ONGC to set up a similar plant in Bagalkot also,” he said at a meeting of officers and legislators at the government guesthouse. He asked Deputy Commissioner K. Harish Kumar to send a detailed report after identifying a suitable place for the plant in Belagavi district. Dr. Kumar said that preparations had begun on the premises of the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences to set up another captive oxygen plant. “The 500 litre capacity plant will start operations in three weeks,’’ the Deputy Commissioner said. Mr. Karjol said that the State government will request sugar factories to produce oxygen in their mills, as in Maharashtra. “Some factories that have ethanol units are producing up to 20 tonnes of oxygen per day, I am told. We could adopt the model here. Anyway, the factories have a lean season now,” he said. He asked officers to take over empty gas cylinders from sugar factories for filling and refilling them with oxygen. “I am sure all the factories will cooperate with the government in such a crisis,’’ he said. The Deputy Chief Minister asked officers to look into complaints that in some hospitals, doctors were using more than the necessary amount of oxygen for VIPs or other special categories of patients or by wrong and unscientific usage. He asked officers to press into service additional drivers and tankers to ensure smooth movement of oxygen. Officers tell me that Belagavi district has 102 ambulances. They should be put to optimal use. A log book should be maintained about the movement of each ambulance, he said. He asked officers to monitor administration in hospitals, oxygen usage, drug supply and other activities through the COVID war room. The war room should also work like a helpline centre, he said. The war room should have a functional website, he said. Karnataka Milk Federation chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi has said the milk cooperative will provide 200 beds with oxygen supply. “We should make use of it,” he said. He asked the Deputy Commissioner to ensure that officers of all departments work with dedication and integrity. He asked him not to tolerate negligence and dereliction of duty among officers. Health and other department officers concerned should work for 24 hours. They should not complain or give excuses, he said. He expressed concern about the spike in number of cases in Belagavi, Gokak, Saundatti and some rural areas. If the district wants testing centres in such areas, the State government will sanction them, he said. Food Minister Umesh Katti suggested formation of a district-level committee to maintain a database of beds and distribute them. MLA Mahantesh Dodagoudar urged the Deputy Chief Minister to sanction a hospital with 100 oxygen beds in each taluk, to help the poor and to reduce the burden on the District Hospital. Mr. Karjol said that the government would consider the suggestion. MLA Abhay Patil observed that of the 850 beds with oxygen supply in BIMS, only 300 were used for treating COVID-19 cases. “If all oxygen beds are used, we can address the bed scarcity problem easily,” he said. Mr. Patil complained against a pharmacist in the BIMS saying that he was not responsive to the problems of the people. Mr. Karjol asked the Deputy Commissioner to relieve the officer if the charge were found to be correct. MLA Anil Benake complained that some ambulances were charging thousands of rupees to ferry the sick to hospitals. MP Mangala Angadi suggested fumigation of congested places to disinfect them. Dr. Kumar said that the rate of infection had risen to 20%. He felt that curfew rules could be tightened further to reduce the spread of infection. He said that RT-PCR test results will be made available in 36 hours from Monday. He pointed out that there were more COVID-19 patients in private hospitals than in government hospitals. He urged the Deputy Chief Minister to increase the allocation of vaccines to Belagavi district, as it was the second largest district with a population of over 50 lakh. BIMS Director Vinay Dastikopp urged the government to sanction more staff to the government medical college hospital as there was an increase in the number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-oxygen-plants-in-a-few-weeks-in-north-karnataka/article34503362.ece
07 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi the third best performing district in vaccine coverage||Belagavi is the third best performing district in vaccine coverage. “We have vaccinated the highest number of persons in Belagavi, after Bengaluru and Mysuru,” said officer in-charge of vaccination in the district I.R. Gadad. The district has achieved around 39.81 per cent vaccination till now. Officials had set a target of 15.27 lakh persons aged over 45 for vaccination. Of them, 6.08 lakh have been vaccinated. Covishield is the primary vaccine administered among the people. Officers received around six lakh doses of Covishield and around 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Of these, 1,170 doses of Covishield and around 740 doses of Covaxin are left in stock. The rest have been used for inoculation. Among the groups that received the vaccines, frontline workers are covered the most. As much as 91.2% frontline workers have received vaccines. However, the group of persons aged between 45 and 60 forms the least covered at 30.44%. Among the distribution centres, taluk hospitals have been the most active. Taluk hospitals achieved 50% of their targets, community health centres 43% and primary health centres in villages 17%. Dr. Gadad said that priority is to give the second dose to those who have taken their first doses six, seven or eight weeks ago. There are around 22,000 such persons, most of them senior citizens. They will be vaccinated on priority. The rest will get it in later weeks, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-the-third-best-performing-district-in-vaccine-coverage/article34503355.ece
07 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Convert Suvarna Soudha into care centre’||Member of Legislative Asesmbly Anjali Nimbalkar has written to the Chief Minister suggesting that the Suvarna Soudha, the venue of the winter session of the Assembly in Belagavi, be converted into a COVID care centre. The Congress leader, who is a doctor by training, said that this would ensure optimal use of the majestic building that has not hosted the winter session for two years now. In the letter, she requested the Chief Minister to start preparing for the next phase of the epidemic. And, the building could be better utilised, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/convert-suvarna-soudha-into-care-centre/article34503360.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination scenario in State is shocking: HC||Describing the current COVID-19 situation in State as “shocking to say the least”, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to immediately get in touch with the Central government in connection with an order already placed with vaccine manufacturers for the supply of 3 crore doses. The court, from the data submitted by the State government, found that there is only 7,76,675 doses of vaccine available in the State even though 65,83,687 people need the second dose as of May 5. Hence, only 7,76,675 persons can be given the second dose, the court observed while emphasising that priority is to be given to those requiring the second dose within the prescribed vaccine schedule. “Thus the scenario about vaccination is, to say the least, is shocking. Only 7,76,675 doses will have to be given to those who have taken first dose and time specified for second dose is likely to expire,” a Special Division, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar, said in its order. The Bench directed the State government to specify to the Central government the number of beneficiaries who are likely to lose the benefit of first dose for not administering the second dose within the prescribe vaccine schedule. While directing the State government to submit requisition to the Centre on May 6, the Bench directed the Centre to appropriate decision within three days from the receipt of requisition. The Bench also took note of the guidance given by the Central government in its CoWIN portal on taking second dose of vaccine. Second dose schedule The portal, in the frequently asked questions section has stated that, “It is recommended that the 2nd dose of COVAXIN should be administered in the interval of 4 to 6 weeks from the date of 1st dose administration. For Covishield the recommended interval is 4 to 8 weeks while an interval of 6 to 8 weeks gives an enhanced protection. You may choose the date of 2nd dose vaccination as per your convenience.” “It is virtually impossible for Karnataka to get the first dose unless they fall in the priority category of healthcare workers, front line workers, and citizens above 45 years,” the Bench pointed out. Earlier, Additional Advocate-General R. Subramanya told the Bench that the State had placed order with manufacturers for supply of 2 crore Covishield and 1 core Covaxin doses. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the government to inform the court on measures taken to ensure that COVID-19 does not spread in over 1,000 slums in Bengaluru city.  Running low Vaccine available as of May 5: 7,76,675 doses  People who need second dose: 65,83,687||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-scenario-in-state-is-shocking-hc/article34503347.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Will apex court verdict on quota put a cap on reservation fights?||The State government, which has been trapped in the caste conundrum for nearly a year with several communities pushing for a change in reservation matrix or status, can settle for status quo, at least for now. The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to enhance the 50% cap on reservation in government employment and educational avenues in the case pertaining to reservation for Maratha community. This will significantly reverberate across the country, especially Karnataka. Vocal demand As many as 44 caste groups, including politically powerful groups such as the Panchamasali Lingayats, Kurubas, and Vokkaligas, are learnt to have raised the pitch for a change in reservation matrix. Vocal demand had come from religious seers and powerful politicians from the communities, putting enormous pressure on the government. Karnataka had submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court seeking enhancement of reservation quota beyond 50%. The apex court direction, however, is likely to put a spoke on these community movements, at least temporarily. Any change in the current watertight matrix requires additional space. For example, the demand of Kurubas to be added to the Scheduled Tribes list would have required enhancement of the ST quota from the current 3%. The Panchamasali’s demand to be added in 2A, which already has 102 castes, could not have been met without increasing it from the current 15%. If not, it would have angered others already in the category since their share in the pie would shrink. Chairman of Lohia Thinkers’ Forum B.S. Shivanna argued that several movements that sprung up, especially the Kuruba demand for ST tag, was “sponsored by the RSS” to consolidate votes. He said the demand of Kurubas and Panchamsali among others would die down. “These are emotional issues and used for vote bank politics. Leaders knew the demand could not be met legally,” he said. ‘People will fight’ However, High Court judge H.N. Nagmohan Das (retd) felt that the judgment would not stop but aggravate the matter. “The direction cannot silence the communities. People will fight,” he said. Incidentally, justice Das, who submitted his commission report recommending an increase in the reservation quota for SCs from the current 15% to 17% and ST quota from the 3% to 7%, had suggested enhancing reservation beyond 50%. Justice Das said that the 1992 nine-judge bench direction in the Indra Sawhney case allows enhancing reservation beyond 50% under exceptional cases. He felt that in future, demonstration of exceptional circumstances could be the only way to enhance reservation quota beyond 50%. “Already, the avenues have shrunk so much for the population in the reserved category that just about 5% is getting the benefits in employment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-apex-court-verdict-on-quota-put-a-cap-on-reservation-fights/article34503377.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM ‘unhappy’ over campaign from within party to defame govt.||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is reportedly unhappy over what he sees as a “campaign” from within the party to portray his government in negative light, especially in connection with managing the pandemic. It started with party national general secretary C.T. Ravi, a former Minister in the government, saying if the deaths in Chamarajanagar were due to oxygen shortage then the government was to blame. This was followed by a live-streamed expose of alleged corruption in bed management in the city by Tejasvi Surya and three other MLAs. Meanwhile, disgruntled MLC A.H. Vishwanath placed the blame for the mess at the Chief Minister’s doorstep. This comes close on the heels of the Assembly polls results, after which another disgruntled leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal had claimed the high command will change leadership in the State. The opposite camp “Most of those involved in the campaign are either disgruntled over not being able to make it to the Cabinet, or identified with the other camp in the party led by national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh. We see a systematic campaign here and are working to counter this both publicly and within the party taking up the issue with the high command. A crisis like this is not the time to play politics,” said a senior strategist close to the Chief Minister. One of the MLAs, who has made public statements, said it was true that the government was found wanting in its response to the second wave and this was costing the party and legislators badly. “By being critical of the government, where it is fair to do so, we are trying to hold the party’s government accountable and at the same time trying to do damage control,” he said. Another leader said to be identified with the camp lobbying hard to dislodge the Chief Minister said people’s anger against the mismanagement of the pandemic was palpable and “something has to be done” to correct it, indicating change of leadership.  However, the Chief Minister’s camp argues that given the stark contrast in results in Assam and West Bengal, the inference of the need of a strong regional leader was amply clear and this would ensure that the high command does not affect leadership change in the State. “A raging pandemic is also not the time when a Chief Minister will be changed,” a senior strategist close to him said. Those for leadership change counter this argument by pointing out that the party high command changed the Chief Minister in Uttarakhand not only amidst the pandemic, but days before the Kumbh mela began.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-unhappy-over-campaign-from-within-party-to-defame-govt/article34503372.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Current partial lockdown not helping’||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Thursday said the current partial lockdown has not been helpful as people are not cooperating. “The government alone cannot do anything. Despite restrictions, people are moving around freely without valid reason. How will the cases come down? Similar stringent measures have worked in Maharashtra and cases declined after 43 days. We have completed just one week into the partial lockdown and if people cooperate, cases will reduce here too,” he said. However, he warned that if people continue to violate the partial lockdown norms, it will become inevitable for the government to impose a total lockdown. “We will discuss this with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and he will take a final call after May 12,” Dr. Sudhakar said.  Meanwhile, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) has said that the State should impose a total lockdown from Friday and not wait till May 12. “If the State does not go into a total lockdown, it will become impossible for the healthcare system to match infrastructure with the speed of transmission. We do not know why the government wants to wait till May 12 to take a decision. Moreover, COVID-19 experts have also recommended that a total lockdown is required now,” said PHANA president H.M. Prasanna. Mr. Yediyurappa, on Wednesday, had said that though curfew has been imposed, the State was awaiting further instructions from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “It is quite natural for the Centre to issue directions during this time. We will follow it,” he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/current-partial-lockdown-not-helping/article34503380.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Use facilities at ISRO to store medical oxygen: H.K. Patil||With hospitals across Karnataka facing a severe shortage of liquid medical oxygen, H.K. Patil, senior Congress leader and MLA, has suggested that the State government utilise tanks available at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) centres to store oxygen. “In this emergency, national assets available at ISRO can be used to store liquid oxygen upto 17 lakh litres which will solve lot of problems in Bengaluru,” he tweeted. Mr. Patil, who is also the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of the State Legislature, met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurpppa and provided various suggestion for stepping up production of liquid oxygen and its storage in Bengaluru. ISRO has established hi-tech facilities for nitrogen and oxygen storages. According to scientists, nitrogen and oxygen facilities are interchangeably utilised with ease by minor modifications in valves, he said. The Prof. U.R. Rao Satellite Centre, Old Airport Road, Bengaluru, has tanks having a storing capacity of 12.35 lakh litres of oxygen. The Integrated Satellite Indian Testing Establishment Centre (I-SITE) on the Marathahalli campus of ISRO has tanks with a storage capacity of five lakh litres of oxygen. From these storage facilities, oxygen could be transported to the end-use hospital facilities, the Congress leader suggested. On the oxygen production front, Mr. Patil said manufacturing plants located in Ballari and Koppal are utilising only 5% to 10% of their capacity to manufacture medical oxygen, and some, less than 5%. Their potential should be tapped fully to meet the critical demand, he added.  Plants in Ballari and Koppal are utilising only 5% to 10% of their capacity to manufacture medical oxygen, and some, less than 5%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/use-facilities-at-isro-to-store-medical-oxygen-hk-patil/article34503343.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC expresses anguish over absence of protocol for oxygen need and supply||The High Court of Karnataka expressed anguish as the State government on Thursday admitted that it has no written guideline or protocol for the procurement and the supply of oxygen and the data on oxygen requirement in different districts and taluks even as COVID-19 cases crossed 50,000. It appears that a centralised data of oxygen bottling plants, their capacities, and availability of oxygen have not been been created apart from not forming a centralised data of requirement of oxygen in hospitals spread in different taluks and districts, the court observed. Pointing out that a State oxygen war room created in Bengaluru cannot function effectively without the centralised data of requirement, procurement, supply, and utilisation, the court directed the government to immediately issue a written guideline or protocol in this regard immediately A Special Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar, issued the direction while hearing PIL petitions on issues regarding the COVID-19 pandemic. The Bench also directed the government to inform the helpline numbers of of oxygen emergency control room to every stakeholder related to oxygen requirement and supply in every taluk and district to ensure that there is no gap in the timely supply of oxygen. Every hospital must be informed about the guideline issued on May 4 on optimum use of oxygen, the Bench said. Meanwhile, the State government said the Union government has sanctioned 28 pressure swing absorption (PSA) units, a technology to generate oxygen at a local level, for Karnataka and the State government, on its own, decided to set up 40 more such PSA units, having a capacity to generate oxygen required for 15-20 beds per day. While six to 10 of these 68 units will become operational by May 15, the remaining will start functioning by May 25, the court was informed. Also, the State government told the Bench that the Centre has allotted to Karnataka 20 MT of oxygen received from Bahrain and 20 MT sent by OCI as part of foreign aid to India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-expresses-anguish-over-absence-of-protocol-for-oxygen-need-and-supply/article34503346.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most private hospitals run out of vaccine||With most private vaccination centres running out of stocks after the State supply of vaccine stopped from May 1, people waiting to get their second dose are finding it hard to get vaccinated. Except for some corporate chains of hospitals in Bengaluru — like Manipal Hospitals and Apollo Hospitals — who have managed to procure some stocks individually through vendors, most other private vaccination centres do not have stocks of both Covishield and Covaxin. A spokesperson for Manipal Hospitals said they had only Covaxin available as on Thursday. The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) on Thursday wrote to the Chief Secretary seeking his intervention in vaccine procurement. “From May 1, we do not have vaccines at most private hospitals across Bengaluru (except for two corporate chains who are not disclosing their source of vaccine). Help us get the vaccines at the earliest, at least for the second dose individuals till the stocks are more freely available,” stated the letter. Appealing to the Chief Secretary to issue orders to prioritise the second dose and withhold 18-plus group’s first dose for the time being, PHANA members have also requested that supplies to all private institutions should be restarted at the rates that were offered in April. “This will help us to complete the second dose. Many patients, especially the 60-plus and vulnerable groups, are repeatedly calling our hospitals. All the vaccination centre hospitals are getting flooded with angry callers,” the letter stated. BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, meanwhile, admitted to a shortage in the vaccine stock. He said the BBMP received around 60,000 vaccines from the State government on Wednesday and 20,000 on Thursday. “Whatever stock we are getting is being equally distributed to all wards. We have also told the PHC staff to take up vaccinations only for those above 45 years,” he said and admitted that there was demand for the vaccine. “We need to augment the supply, but we are managing with the existing supply,” he said. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the government is in constant touch with the Centre. “Currently, we have a stock of about 5 lakh doses. So far, we have administered more than 1 crore doses of vaccine in the State. The government has also placed orders for 3 crore doses of vaccine and we are expecting to receive one more consignment by May 15,” he said. Service charge Meanwhile, the Health Department has issued a circular directing private hospitals to collect a service fee of not more than Rs. 100 apart from the vaccine cost fixed by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-private-hospitals-run-out-of-vaccine/article34503350.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 sees people with disabilities ignored||Satish K., 55, and a resident of Vijayanagar, is categorised with 40% disability. He is due for two hospital visits — one for his back surgery, and another for the COVID-19 vaccination. But ask him why he has put off the two visits, and he replies, “The surgery is going to cost me a lot. Even if I go to a government hospital, there is no one I have to look after me during and after the surgery. I haven’t taken the vaccine because I’ve been hearing of some people suffering from fever, vomiting or pain after being vaccinated. I have no caretaker, and I don’t want to take a chance if something happens.” Apart from the cloud of logistic issues overshadowing the present vaccination drive, persons with disabilities have been almost invisible even when the drive was in full swing. Those with mobility issues, intellectual disabilities, and others who simply do not have the support system to get themselves vaccinated have largely remained out of the ambit. The few who were able to take advantage of the vaccine rollout, have not had it easy. Ravi Ganesan, 54, got his first dose after some chaos. A resident of Benniganahalli, Mr. Ganesan’s disability is categorised as 75% and above. “It is difficult for me to stand in a queue. So, I opted for a paid vaccine and got an appointment at a hospital on Cunningham Road as there were no appointments available anywhere near my house. After travelling all the way, they told us there was no stock. I then heard that it was available in Jayanagar, so I travelled again and got the first dose,” he said. Getting his second dose is proving to be an even bigger circus. “For the second dose, I registered in a private hospital in Indiranagar. To avoid my last experience, I tried calling them beforehand, but got no response. When I finally got through, they said they didn’t have the vaccines. When it comes to primary health centres, there is no information on what the facilities are for persons with disabilities, and there are no phone numbers we can call. The department of disabilities does not offer even basic help on who we should approach. Some NGOs are helping but at a systematic level, what is being done,” he asked. Those who contract COVID-19 are also unhappy with the way their disability is ignored. Arpuda Rajan, national executive committee member, National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD)-Karnataka Chapter, cited the example of a 32-year-old man from Yadgir who is COVID-19 positive and has been quarantined in a government facility. “But, being a disabled person, he is not receiving any suitable medical care, such as wheelchair availability, accessible toilet, escort, or an attendant,” said Mr. Rajan. He pointed out that not everyone was comfortable using technology; in some cases, they are incapable of doing so, and long queues for walk-in may not be feasible either. “There is absolutely no focus on the issue. In some cases, people are unable to go. In some others, they have inhibitions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-sees-people-with-disabilities-ignored/article34503352.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. urged to save lives||Noted personalities, taking part in a campaign named ‘Janagraha Andolana’, demanded both the State and Union governments to take all the necessary measures to save the lives of the people and provide required financial assistance to the poor and working class. Taking part in a virtual press conference, former IAS officer S. Sasikanth Senthil said both the governments should focus on providing oxygenated beds for the people who have tested COVID-19 positive, and ramping up vaccination programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-urged-to-save-lives/article34503329.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Active cases breach five lakh mark||Active COVID-19 cases in Karnataka breached the five-lakh mark on Thursday, touching 5,17,075. As many as 1,12,007 active cases have been added since May 1. Over 91% (4,71,968) of the total active caseload was reported in the last one month alone, from April 6. From 2,62,162 active cases on April 25, the number touched 4,05,068 on May 1. Within six days, the number has crossed five lakh. This is more than a four-fold rise from the highest active cases (1,20,270) reported last October during the first wave. With 3,32,732 active cases, Bengaluru Urban district has over 64% of the total active caseload in the State. On Thursday, Karnataka reported 49,058 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/active-cases-breach-five-lakh-mark/article34503330.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Caste census could have the answers’||With enhancement of reservation not possible as per the latest Supreme Court order, the Backward Classes Commission’s survey of socio-economic conditions of people is expected to become important for castes seeking more share from available resources. “The survey has details of status of all castes in the State. Based on the data and population size, social programmes or money can be allocated to castes,” said Congress leader P.R. Ramesh, who hails from the backward Tigala community. “Several communities have not even benefited with Group D employment in the government as other powerful communities have garnered the lion’s share,” he added. Former chairman of Backward Classes Commission C.S. Dwarkanath also said that currently the population of castes is calculated on the basis of a projection of population growth from the 1931 caste census. “Where is the fresh data? Some populations have declined in terms of numbers. The caste census could have answers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/caste-census-could-have-the-answers/article34503789.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||7,000 medical students to be roped in||About 7,000 medical students studying in various courses will be roped in to provide tele-consultation services to those who undergo home isolation after testing positive for COVID-19, State COVID-19 task force head and Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said on Thursday. Speaking after a meeting with senior IAS officer Pankaj Kumar Pandey, who is in charge of home isolation and other officials, he said the process had already been initiated. About 7,000 students have been trained to provide tele-medicine service and of them 4,000 have registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7000-medical-students-to-be-roped-in/article34503348.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nodal officer for oxygen supply||The State government has appointed Munish Moudgil, Secretary to Government of Karnataka, DPAR (AR), as nodal ifficer to oversee the supply of medical liquid oxygen from refilling station/point to the intended healthcare facilities/other beneficiaries with immediate effect. This is to ensure judicious and efficient utilisation of available liquid medical oxygen in the State as it entails meticulous monitoring of liquid medical oxygen supply chain from refilling station/point to the last mile to ensure there is no diversion for unintended purpose, stated an order on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nodal-officer-for-oxygen-supply/article34503349.ece
07 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Iron and steel plant at Bhadravati starts oxygen production||The oxygen plant at the Visvesaraya Iron and Steel Plant in Bhadravati has become operational and efforts will be made to enhance production capacity of the plant, Minister for Industries Jagadish Shettar has said. The Minister visited the plant on Thursday along with Rural Development and Panhayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa and senior officers of the district. The oxygen plant, which was operated by MSPL Ltd. with a memorandum of understanding with VISP, remained defunct for several months. Shivamogga district administration held talks with VISP and MSPL on restarting the plant as hospitals in the district required medical oxygen in view of increasing COVID-19 cases. VISP has a bottling unit with a capacity to fill 150 cylinders a day. Mr. Shettar visited the oxygen plant and bottling unit. “As of now, 150 cylinders of medical oxygen will be supplied to Shivamogga hospitals daily. If additional compressors are installed, 400-500 cylinders can be supplied. The State government will take steps necessary to increase the plant’s oxygen production capacity,” he said. Further, Mr. Shettar, who has been entrusted with the responsibility of arranging medical oxygen for hospitals, said that Jindal Industries in Ballari was generating 500 tonnes of oxygen a day. The State government has appealed to the company to increase it to 1,000 tonnes, considering the increasing demand. The company has responded positively to the request, he added. Mr. Eshwarappa said that the district administration has been making all efforts to provide all essential facilities for COVID-19 patients in Shivamogga district. Legislators B.K. Sangameshwara, Rudre Gowda, Zilla Panchayat CEO M.L. Vaishali, VISP Executive Director Surjit Mishra and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iron-and-steel-plant-at-bhadravati-starts-oxygen-production/article34503369.ece
07 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Nine more COVID-19 deaths in Hassan||Hassan district reported 1,348 fresh COVID-19 cases and nine more deaths on Thursday. With that, the total number of cases rose to 48,043 and the toll increased to 640. The number of active cases crossed 11,000. So far, 36,973 patients have recovered and 11,430 are in treatment. Among those in treatment, 96 are in the intensive care unit. Of the dead, five were from Channarayapatna taluk, three from Hassan and one from Sakleshpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-more-covid-19-deaths-in-hassan/article34503368.ece
07 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Porters given foodgrains||Considering the hardships being faced by porters and other manual staff at the Hubballi Railway Station due to the partial lockdown, members of the Jain community distributed foodgrains required for 15 days among them on Wednesday. Additional Director-General of Railway Police Bhaskar Rao and Hubballi Dharwad Police Commissioner Labhu Ram initiated the distribution programme at Sri Siddharoodh Swami Railway Station, Hubballi, in the presence of the former chairman of Sri Siddharoodh Swami Mutt Trust Committee and member of Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee Mahendra Singhi and others. Symbolically distributing the foodgrains packets to the porters, Mr. Bhaskar Rao commended the service by Jain community, especially during a health crisis. The community always extends a helping hand to the needy and follows the principle of live and let live, he said. Mr. Mahendra Singhi said that Hubballi being the land of Sri Siddharoodha Swami, sheltered and fed people of all faiths. Several members of the Jain community had come forward to provide assistance for helping the needy with foodgrains packets as the partial lockdown had taken away the livelihoods of many.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/porters-given-foodgrains/article34503359.ece
07 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 22.51-crore action plan for handling COVID-19 in Koppal||In a swift action, Regional Commissioner (Kalaburagi Division) and Secretary of Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) N.V. Prasad accepted an action plan submitted by Koppal Deputy Commissioner Vikas Kishor Suralkar under the macro plan for handling the pandemic in the district and ordered for the release of Rs. 22.51 crore on Thursday. The action plan included the installation of three liquid medical oxygen tankers with 13 kl, 3 kl and 2 kl capacities, the establishment of oxygen generation plant, procurement of oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, ALS and BLS ambulances, 32 slice CT Scan machine, 100 K mobile X-ray, cell counter, defibrillator bi-phasic, air purifiers for laboratories and wards, ultraviolet GI lights for out-patient department corridors and laboratories. “The action plan is approved within 24 hours of its submission. I thank the KKRDB Secretary for his quick response during the time of a health crisis. The release of funds is timely and very useful. We will now and procure equipment and take up the works and complete them on a war-footing to mitigate the health crisis,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Koppal M.P. Maruthi told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-2251-crore-action-plan-for-handling-covid-19-in-koppal/article34503363.ece
07 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Residential schools to serve as care centres||Residential schools, colleges, hostels and convention halls spread across Kalaburagi district are to be converted into COVID-19 care centres. The decision was taken in a meeting that Mines and Geology Minister and Kalaburagi in-charge Murugesh R. Nirani held with the Deputy Commissioner, the Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat, the District Health and Family Welfare Officer and other senior functionaries in the district administration on Wednesday. The move was expected to help people with COVID-19 infection, especially those in rural areas, who are struggling to isolate themselves due to the lack of basic facilities. “People who tested positive for COVID-19 in villages are facing a lot of problems due to the lack of proper sanitation facilities such as dedicated toilets, bathrooms and rooms. Not all households in villages have independent toilets. Infected people sharing rooms and toilets with other family members may lead to further spread of the virus infecting others as well. We can isolate and provide better treatment to rural patients by housing them in residential schools and hostels after converting these facilities into COVID-19 care centres,” Mr. Nirani said in a media note. He added that he would appoint taluk-wise nodal officers in two-three days to manage the centres. On oxygen supply in the district, he said that the government is trying to fix the problem of transportation. “Oxygen is available. But we are having a problem of transportation. We are holding talks with transporters and the problem will be solved in two-three days,” he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residential-schools-to-serve-as-care-centres/article34503357.ece
07 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man murdered||A 35-year-old man was stabbed and bludgeoned to death by three brothers after he accompanied their sister to the State Home of the Women Development and Child Welfare in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. The victim was identified as Sheetal Jain who went with Afreen to get her children released. The accused are Kulusumbi, Amjad and Mehboob.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-murdered/article34503356.ece
07 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Essentials available only till 9 a.m. from today||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Thursday ordered further shrinking of the window for purchasing essentials to between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. on weekdays with immediate effect and complete closure of all establishments on Saturdays and Sundays except healthcare and pharmacy facilities as against the window of 6 a.m. and noon prescribed by the State Disaster Management Authority. In a notification issued on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that online delivery agencies such as Swiggy and Zomato will be allowed to operate till 11 p.m. No marriages and other functions will be allowed after midnight on May 15. Vehicles moving around unnecessarily will be seized. Containing the spread of the disease has become difficult as people are moving around unnecessarily during the relaxation window of 6 a.m. and noon and hence, the further restrictions, he said. The notification further said that the weekend curfew will be between 9 p.m. on Friday and 6 a.m. on Monday. Only essential services and establishments working for 24 x 7 services will be allowed to operate. Construction work will be allowed only where workers are available on site. Earlier, in a meeting chaired by district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary here on Thursday, Mr. Poojary said that further restrictions on the movement of people has been ordered as the number of new cases has not come down even after eight days of curfew. Mr. Poojary said that vehicles taking patients to hospitals and those to the vaccination centres should be allowed movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/essentials-available-only-till-9-am-from-today/article34503366.ece
07 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Asymptomatic patients at home to be monitored||The Dakshina Kannada administration has decided to introduce close monitoring of COVID-19 positive patients under home isolation and better tracking of their primary contacts as a majority of isolated patients were not complying with norms and inadequate tracking of their primary contacts. The district administration is also roping in members of urban and rural local bodies and social activists to work at ward levels along with teachers and health workers in strengthening tracking and isolation system. During a visit to three of the six proposed COVID Care Centres in Mangaluru North Assembly constituency, Mangaluru tahsildar Guruprasad told Y. Bharath Shetty, MLA, that the concern was more so in Mangaluru City Corporation wards. “We have to ensure those under home isolation strictly comply with the norms and do not move around. For 2,880 positive cases (as of May 4) in the MCC limits, only 5,701 primary contacts have been traced so far and this was too less to the required numbers,” Mr. Guruprasad added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asymptomatic-patients-at-home-to-be-monitored/article34503370.ece
07 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Turtle saviour passes away||A person who gave life to thousands of sea turtle hatchlings and saved over one hundred injured turtles left this world without there being a proper shelter while leaving behind his unmarried daughters. Dasimane Venkat Kharvi (87) of Maravanthe fishing village in Udupi district did not just engage in fishing for a livelihood. An expert swimmer, Kharvi was also the most sought-after person among fishermen and police personnel whenever there was a tragedy either in the sea or inland. Bed ridden after a paralysis attack a couple of years ago, Kharvi breathed his last on Thursday morning in his dilapidated house, said Dinesh Sarang, one of the volunteers of Field Services and Intellectual Learning (FSL), an NGO based in Kundapur mainly engaged in environment conservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/turtle-saviour-passes-away/article34503365.ece
07 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination suspended for two days||The Health Department will not organise COVID-19 vaccination on Friday and Saturday in Dakshina Kannada as there is no supply of vaccines. In a statement here, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishore Kumar said that vaccination will continue from Sunday when vaccine is expected to arrive. The district received 7,000 doses of vaccine on Tuesday of which 6,170 doses were administered on Wednesday. As many as 1,149 doses were administered on Thursday. In Udupi district, where stress is on vaccinating 947 persons who have completed eight weeks since taking the first dose, 206 persons were inoculated on Wednesday and 346 were given the vaccine on Thursday. The district received 2,000 doses of vaccine on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-suspended-for-two-days/article34503367.ece
07 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Institutional isolation for asymptomatic COVID-19 patients in Chamarajanagar||All asymptomatic patients in Chamarajanagar district will henceforth be isolated and quarantined in the newly established COVID Care Centres to prevent the spread of the pandemic in the rural areas. This was announced by the Minister for Education and district in charge S. Suresh Kumar in Chamarajanagar on Thursday. There are 1,894 patients under home isolation in the district and the district administration had reviewed the earlier decision last week. This followed complaints of violation of isolation norms which threatened community health. The difficulties in ensuring isolation of asymptomatic patients in rural areas were high on the minds of the district administration and health experts following which a decision has been taken to admit asymptomatic patients to COVID care centres. This also stems from the prevailing rural milieu in which large families live in one- or two-room houses with a common toilet sharing which results in community spread. Mr. Suresh Kumar said Morarji Desai Residential Schools, Kitturu Chenamma Residential School, and Ekalavya Residential Hostels will serve as care centres. The hospital building of the Chamarajanagar Medical College will be converted into a 200-bed COVID-19 hospital and will be ready to admit patients in four days which will augment the bed capacity in the district, the Minister added. The district has come under the spotlight following the death of 24 COVID-19 patients between May 2 and 3 allegedly due to oxygen shortage, and a one-man judicial commission has been constituted to probe the incident. The Minister said an expert team comprising health experts and doctors will visit Chamarajanagar to reduce the case fatality rate and suitable measures will be initiated based on the committee’s recommendations. Meanwhile, an official statement said the oxygen refilling centres in Mysuru had been given directions to ensure that there should be no disruption in supply of oxygen to Chamarajanagar. Chamarajanagar requires about 300 D type cylinders, each of which has a capacity of 47 litres, daily. However, failure to receive sufficient oxygen cylinders on time has been cited as the reason for the deaths in Chamarajanagar district hospital. There are 3,400 actives cases in Chamarajanagar disas of Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/institutional-isolation-for-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-in-chamarajanagar/article34503344.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pourakarmikas mourn departed colleague||Pourakarmikas staged a sit-in protest on Thursday morning to mourn the death of their colleague Susheelamma who worked in Banaswadi ward. She was hospitalised after contracting COVID-19 and passed away on Wednesday night. Shouting slogans, pourakarmikas demanded that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) immediately provide them with adequate safety gear, timely payment of salaries, and monetary aid. Narayanamma, a pourakarmika, who works in the same ward as Susheelamma, said, “She was very active. All of a sudden, she was infected by COVID-19 and died. Like her, we too are risking our lives while stepping out to work for the city.” Though the city is under a partial lockdown, pourakarmikas have been reporting to work every day. Many said that the commute to work is a problem. “Due to lockdown, there is no public transport. Every day, I leave my home at 5 a.m. and walk from Ramamurthynagar to Kalyan Nagar. By the time we complete work, it is 1 p.m. We clean roads, sweep dried leaves and sometimes even remove dead animals. The BBMP has provided gloves and masks, but we are yet to get sanitisers. Our salaries, too, are not credited on time,” Ms. Narayanamma added. Another pourakarmika pointed to the lack of facilities, a problem that they have highlighted in previous protests. “There is no drinking water, food or toilet facilities. No one cares about the health of pourakarmikas. We too have family members and children at home. We demand the BBMP deposit at least Rs. 10,000 in our account so that we can take better care of our families. The BBMP Commissioner should fulfil our demand on humanitarian grounds.” Pourakarmikas are worried about their exposure to the virus as they also collect waste from people who are COVID-19 positive but under home isolation. Activists have demanded that the civic body ensure proper disposal of bio-waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pourakarmikas-mourn-departed-colleague/article34503338.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Civil society condemns communalisation of bed allotment scam||Activists, prominent citizens, and political leaders condemned Bengaluru South Member of Parliament Tejasvi Surya for communalising the alleged bed allotment scandal that he exposed when the city’s resources are strained to the limits fighting the second wave of COVID-19. Terming the pandemic the “biggest crisis the country faced since the partition”, historian Ramachandra Guha said Karnataka cannot afford communalisation and diversions. He called upon Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to intervene and ‘chastise’ Mr. Surya and other MLAs who have tried to communalise the pandemic. “The Chief Minister is a wise, senior leader who understands the State and is not communal. I call upon Siddaramaiah and H.D. Devegowda to also join hands and lead the State out of this crisis,” he said on Thursday at a virtual press conference organised by civil society groups to condemn the communalisation of the pandemic. Civil society groups who addressed the press conference demanded an unconditional public apology from Mr. Surya and MLAs Satish Reddy, Ravi Subramanya and Uday Garudachar. Campaign Against Hate Speech released an open letter to the CM asking that he step in to condemn communalisation and reassure the community. The organisation further demanded that the city police take suo motu cognisance and book the MP and three MLAs for promoting enmity between groups. “Tejasvi Surya’s listing out of Muslim volunteers only is a desperate and pathetic attempt to communalise the pandemic….This will waste significant amount of time and resources of media and administration. We need to remember that on ground it translates directly to more deaths in the State/country,” the letter stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civil-society-condemns-communalisation-of-bed-allotment-scam/article34503334.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police crack down on illegal sale of Remdesivir||The city police have arrested 10 people since Wednesday for selling Remdesivir illegally. In one of the cases, the North division police arrested six people, including a lecturer of a nursing college and staff of several private hospitals. Acting on a tip-off that two men were selling Remdesivir vials, a police team from Subramanya Nagar carried out a raid on Wednesday near a private hospital in Rajajinagar 1st block. 12 vials seized They caught Dinesh M., a 27-year-old lecturer, and his associate, Shankar, a lab technician from a diagnostic centre in Nagarabhavi. The police recovered 12 Remdesivir injection vials from them. They claimed to be sourcing the medicine from a lab technician, Anand, who works in a hospital. During the probe, the police identified other accused engaged in illegal activities. “One of the arrested accused, Johnny R., 34, is a human resources manager at St. Theresa’s Hospital. We recovered three Remdesivir vials from him,” said the police. On Thursday, the J.C. Nagar police arrested three men in separate incidents for selling Remdesivir illegally to the public. The Central Crime Branch police, as part of their crackdown, recovered 12 Remdesivir injections during a series of raids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-crack-down-on-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir/article34503336.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Was MLA involved in blocking beds?||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar alleged that several BJP leaders, including MLA Satish Reddy –one of the four elected representatives who exposed the bed-blocking scam in the South zone war room – are involved in the racket. He called for the Central Crime Branch (CCB) to investigate Call Detail Records (CDR) of all those working in the war rooms and ‘see how many BJP leaders called and blocked beds’. Senior civic and police officials probing the scam said there were instances of suspected bed-blocking from other zones as well, including Bommanahalli. It was too early to point fingers at anyone, said a senior official. Mr. Reddy vehemently denied the allegations. “It is true that my office has called the Bommanahalli war room and got beds allotted to those in dire need, people who have approached me, which is my duty as an MLA. To call that bed-blocking would be a stretch,” he said. Meanwhile, videos of Satish Reddy barging into the Bommanahalli war room with a crowd of people seeking explanation for the lack of beds, went viral on social media. The incident took place three days ago, and at least one civic official was manhandled. Mr. Reddy told The Hindu that 18 patients from his constituency had died in a single day, which triggered an angry reaction to the non-availability of beds. “I did go to the war room and sought an explanation, but got nothing out of the officers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/was-mla-involved-in-blocking-beds/article34503339.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP issues notice to St. Martha’s Hospital||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has issued a show cause notice to St. Martha’s Hospital on Nrupathunga Road for allegedly denying beds to two patients referred by the civic body. Civic officials have sought a response from the hospital management, warning that failure to comply would invite action under relevant provisions of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, and Disaster Management Act, 2005. This is not the first such case of a hospital denying admission. In April, a 31-year-old resident of Shivajinagar died after being denied admission by two hospitals though an ICU bed was allotted through Karnataka’s centralised bed allotment portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-issues-notice-to-st-marthas-hospital/article34503332.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bed management system fine-tuned: civic chief||Following several allegations of bed-blocking by officials in exchange for monetary favours and subsequent investigation by the CCB, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has incorporated some changes and fine-tuned the existing Central Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS). BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu that the civic body had put in place a stricter login process. Protocols have been defined and certain actions can be taken only after authorisation from higher authorities. “We received many recommendations, and we have fine-tuned the existing system,” he said. After the bed allotment scam came to light, the BBMP had constituted a three-member team to look into the CHBMS and plug loopholes to avoid misuse. The three-member team, comprising V. Ponnuraj, nodal officer for the State war room; Kumar Pushkar, nodal officer for CHBMS; and Vipin Singh, nodal officer for 1912 helpline; is yet to submit a report to the BBMP Chief Commissioner. “The team was supposed to submit a report on Wednesday. However, due to various reasons, the officials were not able to do so. I have been given to understand that the team would submit the report by Thursday night,” Mr. Gupta told The Hindu and added that one of the options is putting a new system in place.  The team (to look into the CHBMS) was supposed to submit a report on Wednesday. However, they were not able to do so. I have been given to understand they would submit the report by Thursday night Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bed-management-system-fine-tuned-civic-chief/article34503335.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘SC direction contrary to federal structure’||The Supreme Court’s direction on capping reservation to 50% has left several questions unanswered, and the judgment may require review, legal experts point out. On the order giving the Centre the power to decide on the list of backward classes, Karnataka High Court judge justice H.N. Nagmohan Das (retd) said: “There are 4,635 castes/sub castes in the country according to the Anthropological Survey of India. Is it possible for the country to have a single uniform list? Some castes found in one State may not be elsewhere. This is also contrary to the federal structure to snatch away the power of the State with respect to the OBC list.” Former chairman of Karnataka Backward Classes Commission C.S. Dwarkanath also concurred with justice Das, and asked how the Centre could conduct ethnological studies. “There are State-specific castes and there is already so much confusion,” he said. Mr. Das pointed to the confusion over “exceptional circumstances”. The Supreme Court in its 1992 verdict of nine-judge bench in the Indra Sahwney case spoke about breaching the 50% capping under exceptional circumstances. “Till today, including Wednesday’s ruling, none of the judgments have laid guidelines or defined the exceptional circumstances,” Mr. Das said.  Mr. Dwarkanath said that when over 300 petitions pertaining to 10% reservation for economically weaker sections among the upper classes are still pending before the court, such a decision to cap reservation quota causes confusion. “There is no clarity on whether 10% reservation will be within the existing quota or whether the quota be enhanced,” he said. Mr. Das and Mr. Dwarkanath felt there is a need for the judgment to be reviewed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sc-direction-contrary-to-federal-structure/article34503379.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||1912 expanded to meet surge in demand||The bed allotment scam has affected not only war room services but also the COVID-19 helpline (1912), with many citizens reporting that they had to wait for more than 10 minutes for a response. According to a senior official, many calls to the helpline failed to connect on Wednesday, the day the scam came to light. “Usually, there are at least eight officials in the zonal war rooms, but by Wednesday evening, the number had reduced to one or two. In fact, the South zone war room, where the BJP legislators did the expose, had no operators. We were not able to connect any calls to South, East and West zones. Due to this, the talk time went up to 15 minutes and there were more than 100 calls in the queue,” the official said. Over the last few days, there has been a three-fold increase in the number of calls, say officials. The helpline began with 30 lines, but now has 500 lines. Even this has not helped; the talk and wait time is upwards of seven minutes. Another issue is the manpower: only 60 personnel working in three shifts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1912-expanded-to-meet-surge-in-demand/article34503331.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||K-RERA chief||The State government, on Thursday, has appointed former DGP Kishore Chandra H.C. as chairperson of the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA). He will assume office on May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/k-rera-chief/article34503340.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Desperate family knocks on CM’s door||“My mother has not been keeping well for four days. We have visited many hospitals in the city, but all are saying ICU beds are full. We could not generate a BU number. There has been no response from the BBMP helpline. I am begging everyone for a bed. I want to save my mother. I begged doctors to admit her, but they could not provide a bed,” said the man who was in tears. Family members, who live in Hesaraghatta, said that they had admitted the woman to a private hospital in Hoskote. When her condition worsened, the doctors informed that she needed ventilator support, but they were unable to find one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/desperate-family-knocks-on-cms-door/article34503341.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nodal authority appointed||The State government has issued an order appointing a nodal authority to issue authorisation certificate on exempting import duty for relief material pertaining to COVID-19 containment and management. The nodal authority includes Uma Mahadevan, IAS, Principal Secretary, Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, and Priyanka Mary Francis, IAS, Commissioner, Department of RDPR. In view of the significant increase in cases, the Centre has given exemption from customs duty for importing free of cost essential relief material pertaining to COVID-19 containment and management from foreign countries. The applications may be submitted in prescribed format toimportnodal.kar @gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nodal-authority-appointed/article34503374.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Treatment package cost revised||The treatment package has been revised in private hospitals and public health institutions for COVID-19 patients referred by the government. The package per day for general ward is Rs. 5,200, and Rs. 8,000 in high dependency unit. In Isolation ICU without ventilator, it is Rs. 9,750 and Rs. 11,500 in isolation ICU with ventilator per day, said a notification issued by the State government on Thursday. Action will be taken against those who do not follow the rules as per the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treatment-package-cost-revised/article34503375.ece
07 May 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||Veterans, new faces in Stalin’s new Cabinet||DMK president M K Stalin, who will be sworn in Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on Friday, will head a 34-member Cabinet that includes veterans and 15 new faces and just two women. The Cabinet size is four more than that of the outgoing Edappadi K. Palaniswami Ministry. While old warhorse and party general secretary Duraimurugan will be the number two in the Cabinet handling the newly established Department of Water Resources, the limelight in the midst of the raging second wave of COVID-19 pandemic is on former Chennai Mayor Ma Subramanian, who has been appointed Minister for Medical and Family Welfare including the Health portfolio. In the pecking order of the Cabinet, though, he is at number 22. Mr. Duraimurugan will also handle the subjects of Minor Irrigation, Assembly, Governor and Cabinet, Elections, passport, Minerals and Mines. Palanivel Thiagarajan, son of former Speaker PTR Palanivel Rajan, who holds an MBA in Finance from the Sloan School of Management at MIT and was an investment banker with the Lehmann Brothers and later with Standard Chartered in Singapore, is set to make his debut in the Cabinet holding the key portfolio of Finance and Human Resource Management. He will equally have his task cut out trying with the State’s debt burden projected to cross Rs. 5 lakh crore in 2021-22. Interestingly, Mr. Stalin has retained Special Initiatives and Special Programme Implementation portfolios indicating that he would like to directly monitor these. He will also hold the portfolio of Welfare of Differently Abed Persons. The women representatives are P. Geetha Jeevan (Minister for Social Welfare and Women Empowerment), who was part of the DMK Cabinet between 2006 and 2011 and Kayalvizhi Selvaraj (number 34 in the Cabinet order), who will handle the Ministry of Adi Dravidar Welfare. DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru, who had ensured a clean sweep for the party in Tiruchi, will handle Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply, portfolios which were handled by Mr. Stalin during 2006-11. While K. Ponmudi has been given Higher Education Department, which he held in the previous DMK government, the party’s resourceful leader from Tiruvannamalai E.V. Velu has been made Minister for Public Works (Buildings, Highways and Minor Ports). Senior leader I. Periyasamy, who won the election with a record margin of over 1.35 lakh votes, has been made the Minister for Co-operatives, Statistics and Ex-servicemen Welfare. Though the DMK fared poorly in western Tamil Nadu, four MLAs from the region have been given representation in the Cabinet. Mr. Stalin’s team will also see the return of S. Muthusamy (Housing and Urban Development) and S. Rajakannappan (Transport), who will be becoming Ministers after a gap of 25 years. Both served under Jayalalithaa during her first innings (1991-96) as Chief Minister. Mr. Muthusamy will have also the distinction of being a member of the Cabinets headed by three Chief Ministers — M.G. Ramachandran & Jayalalithaa, both AIADMK, and Mr. Stalin. In all, eight of the minister-designates have their origins in the AIADMK. Thangam Thennarasu, who spearheaded reforms in School Education in the Karunanidhi government, has been given Industries, Tamil Development, Culture and Archaeology portfolios. Mahesh Poyyamozhi, a youth wing leader and close friend of Mr. Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi Stalin, will hold the portfolio of School Education. Senthil Balaji, a former AIADMK Minister, who had joined the DMK in December 2018, has been given the portfolios of Electricity, Non-conventional energy sources development, Prohibition and Excise and Molasses. He had defeated Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar in Karur. Anitha Radhakrishnan gets Fisheries Development while P.K. Sekar Babu, who too had origins in the AIADMK, gets the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. Since two senior DMK leaders from the south — Suresh Rajan and S. Austin — lost the election, Mano Thangaraj, who was elected from Padmanabhapuram constituency in Kanniyakumari has been accommodated in the Cabinet with the portfolio of Information Technology. R. Sakkarapani, DMK whip in the outgoing House, has been inducted into the Cabinet with the portfolios of Food, Civil Supplies, Consumer Protection and Price Control. Avadi S.M. Nasar, who defeated Tamil Minister Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan is the Minister of Dairy Development. C.V. Ganesan, a senior MLA from Thittakudi constituency, is the Minister of Labour. S.S. Sivasankar is the Backward Classes Minister. DMK’s minority wing leader Gingee K.S. Masthan will head the Department of Minorities Welfare and Non Residents Tamil Welfare. M.P. Saminathan, who headed the Highways Department during 2006-11, is back as Information Minister. T.M. Anbarasan has been allotted Rural Industries. Former HR&CE Minister K.R. Periyakaruppan will now hold the portfolio of Rural Development while former Union Minister S. Reghupathy has been allotted Law, Courts and Prisons. The other minister-designates are K. Ramachandran (Forests), R. Gandhi (Handlooms and Textiles), P. Moorthy (Commercial Taxes and Registration), Siva V Meyyanathan (Environment, Youth Welfare and Sports Development) and M Mathiventhan (Tourism).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stalin-retains-veterans-includes-15-new-faces/article34503409.ece
07 May 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Wayanad’s daily tally crosses 1,000-mark||The number of daily COVID-19 cases in Wayanad district crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time on Thursday, with 1,056 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of this, 1,039 people, including 11 health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. While sixteen persons retuned from other States, a person came back from the U.K , District Medical officer R. Renuka said. District Collector Adeela Abdulla and Dr. Renuka have urged people to exercise extreme caution. The average test positivity rate in the district stood at 26.57%, Dr. Renuka said. The district has so far reported 45,071 COVID-19 cases. Of this, 32,202 have recovered from the disease, including 187 persons on Thursday. As many as 11,638 persons are undergoing treatment and 31,662 are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanads-daily-tally-crosses-1000-mark/article34503497.ece
07 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||11,000 litres of spirit seized in Wayanad||In one of the biggest hauls in recent times, Excise officials seized 11,440 litres of extra-neutral alcohol from a container truck parked at Ponkuzhy on the Kerala-Karnataka border on Thursday evening. The Excise Enforcement and Anti-Narcotic Special Squad led by Excise Circle Inspector Sajeesh Chandran seized the consignment following a tip-off. It was kept in 52 plastic cans of 220 litres each.  An invoice found in the vehicle revealed that the contraband was being transported from Mandya in Karnataka to a chemical factory in Malappuram district in the name of manufacturing hand sanitisers, Mr. Sajeesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11000-litres-of-spirit-seized-in-wayanad/article34503490.ece
07 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||LPG tanker overturns, triggers panic in Kannur||An LPG tanker overturned on Chala bypass in Kannur on Thursday, triggering panic among people. The vehicle was on its way from Mangaluru to Kozhikode when it met with the accident. According to locals residents , the tanker was moving at a high speed when it overturned. The driver suffered minor injuries and is undergoing treatment at a hospital, sources said . Police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the scene after gas leak was detected from the overturned tanker vehicle. Steps were also taken to evacuate people from the area. District Police Chief R. Ilango said gas leakage was being fixed. In August 2012, an LPG tanker overturned here and exploded killing at least 20 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lpg-tanker-overturns-triggers-panic-in-kannur/article34503924.ece
07 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam records over 6,000 cases for second day in a row||For the second consecutive day, Ernakulam recorded over 6,000 new COVID-19 cases, with 6,506 people testing positive on Thursday. The test positivity rate is 31.8%. The active caseload in the district has crossed 60,000 – a total of 61,847 people are in isolation or under treatment after having tested positive. Recoveries on the day stood at 2,999. Tests While 20,459 tests were done, 9,230 of these were RT-PCR tests. Thrikkakara recorded the highest number of fresh cases, with 279 people testing positive, followed by Pallipuram with 260 new cases. Kottuvally registered 164 new cases, Varapuzha 155, Rayamagalam 133, Eloor and Thripunithura 127 each, Alangad 126, Maradu 116, Fort Kochi 113, Chengamanad and Palluruthy 112 each, Thuravoor 110, Payipra 106 and Chellanam 102. Six health workers, two police officers and seven CISF personnel have tested positive. The source of infection could not be determined in 70 cases. While 275 people were admitted to hospitals and other treatment centres, 223 were discharged. A total of 99,949 people remain in quarantine. Of the people recovering from the infection, 51,268 are at home. A total of 2,357 people have been admitted at private hospitals, 33 are at first-line treatment centres, 445 are at second-line treatment centres, and 488 are at domiciliary care centres. At the Government Medical College Hospital, 192 patients are recovering, while 74 are at PVS Hospital and 72 at the Aluva District Hospital. At other government hospitals, 306 patients are recuperating. As many as 362 people have been admitted in intensive care units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-over-6000-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row/article34503509.ece
07 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Efforts on to raise number of oxygen beds||While oxygen demand and supply in the district are being closely monitored, efforts are on to increase the number of beds with oxygen supply and strengthen a decentralised system at the local body level to handle emergencies. The current daily demand for oxygen in the district is 15 to 20 metric tonnes, according to District Collector S. Suhas. There are five oxygen tankers in the district. Medical oxygen is being supplied to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), PVS Hospital, and the CIAL COVID care centre, while smaller hospitals require around 30 to 40 oxygen cylinders. There is a possibility of shortage in supply of oxygen, and the situation is being monitored, the Collector said at a meeting with the Kochi Mayor, district panchayat president, chairpersons of corporation standing committees, and panchayat presidents. Buffer stock The district has a buffer stock of oxygen to handle any issues with supply, according to a communication from the district administration. Oxygen cylinders that are not in use in industries are being taken for medical oxygen supply. These cylinders are being taken to taluk offices first, from where they are transported to filling stations and then distributed to hospitals. Local bodies are setting up control rooms and arranging ambulances. The local control rooms will handle calls from patients in isolation at home, and calls will be escalated to the taluk or district level only when they cannot be managed at the local level. Panchayats have been given permission to set up beds with oxygen supply. The Kochi Corporation has set up a 100-bed facility with oxygen supply on Willingdon Island. Home isolation Of the total caseload, 95% of people are recovering at home. Around 5% of the active caseload requires hospitalisation. Of them, 1% to 2% of cases require ICU or ventilator support, said a release from the administration. All beds at the MCH are equipped with oxygen supply. The MCH has 300 beds. The Aluva District Hospital has 100 oxygen beds and 30 ICU beds. The CIAL COVID care centre has 150 beds with oxygen supply. Taluk hospitals at Palluruthy, Thripunithura, and Fort Kochi have centralised oxygen supply systems. Facilities for oxygen supply have also been arranged at the Muvattupuzha General Hospital and Kothamangalam, Piravom and Perumbavoor taluk hospitals. While 150 oxygen beds are being readied at the super-specialty block of the Ernakulam General Hospital, another 500 beds are being set up in collaboration with BPCL. Apart from beds for non-COVID emergencies, all other oxygen beds in the district have been set aside for COVID patients. The district administration is also considering setting up oxygen beds at community health centres and first-line treatment centres (FLTCs). Shortage of doctors While beds are available, the district is low on doctors and nurses at both government and private hospitals, the release said. A staff pool is being prepared for critical care. Beds with oxygen supply are being strictly set aside for those in need of them, while all others will be directed to FLTCs and domiciliary care centres. Efforts are being made to prevent patients from deteriorating to a stage where they require ICU care or ventilator support. To strengthen coordination among local bodies, an ‘incident response system’ is being organised. It will comprise officials from the Revenue Department, Health Department, Local Self Governments and the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-on-to-raise-number-of-oxygen-beds/article34503505.ece
07 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Corpn. sets up help desk||The Kochi Corporation has set up a COVID-19 help desk that will function round-the-clock. Depending on the need, calls to the help desk will be redirected to a doctor who will determine treatment protocol or the need for shifting the patient to a care facility depending on symptoms. An ambulance unit has also been readied for COVID emergencies. Two ambulances are now being deployed, while a third one will soon be pressed into service. The ambulances are equipped with medical supplies and oxygen, along with nurses who have been posted to address urgent medical aid requests that come to the help desk. The help desk will function from the Ernakulam North Town Hall. It was inaugurated on Thursday morning. Ambulances have been staffed with help from the National Health Mission. The help desk may be contacted on 9495728416 and 9495728516||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-sets-up-help-desk/article34503502.ece
07 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Oxygen generation plant starts operations at MCH||The first of the four oxygen generator plants allotted to the State by the Union government has begun functioning at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery. The plant, which operates on PSA (pressure swing absorption) technology, will run round-the-clock and can generate 600 litres of oxygen per minute. Of the four plants that are being set up in the State, this one, set up at a cost of around Rs. 1.5 crore, is the smallest. The new plant will supply oxygen to 250 beds in eight wards where COVID-19 patients are under treatment. The plant draws air, compresses it, and provides oxygen of 95% concentration via pipelines. “The new plant reduces the hospital’s dependence on oxygen supply from outside. The possibility of oxygen shortage is unlikely, since we are now self-sufficient in oxygen production,” said Dr. Ganesh Mohan, Resident Medical Officer at MCH. The operation theatre and the COVID ICU, which require 100% concentrated oxygen, alone will continue to rely on supply from liquid oxygen plants. The MCH is the largest tertiary care facility for COVID patients in Ernakulam. The other PSA-based plants are coming up at the Thrissur, Kottayam and Thiruvananthapuram medical colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oxygen-generator-plant-turns-operational-at-mch/article34503503.ece
07 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ready to start Brahmapuram plant in six months: IMAGE||The Indian Medical Association Goes Eco-Friendly (IMAGE) is ready to make its proposed biomedical treatment facility at Brahmapuram operational within six months, if the confusion over the allotment of land is cleared. “We have shortlisted the agency for carrying out the environmental impact assessment and supply of equipment. But a government decision should come on the concessional agreement handing over nearly three acres under the Kochi Corporation in Brahmapuram on lease to the Indian Medical Association, Kerala,” said IMAGE Secretary Dr. Sharafudheen K.P. on Thursday. If it turns a reality, the proposed common biomedical treatment facility will be the second such facility under the IMAGE after its maiden venture in Palakkad. “It will have the capacity to treat 20 tonnes of biomedical waste daily and can be upgraded to nearly 30 tonnes,” said Dr. Sharafudheen. The project, which was envisaged in 2015, had got delayed after the Corporation took a position last year that land was not available at Brahmapuram, where its solid waste processing facility is located. However, the District Collector acquired three acres last year following a government directive as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act in view of the need to have more facilities in the State for treatment of biomedical waste. The request of the IMAGE for signing a concessional agreement with the Corporation that owns the land remains pending under the single window clearance of the government. Mayor M. Anilkumar said the land belonged to the Corporation and it could not be given for free to the IMAGE. “We have two proposals on which the land could be given – either on a lease model based on the price of the land or on a profit-sharing model,” he said. On whether the government had paid the money for purchasing the Brahmapuram land, the Mayor said the government had been recovering the assistance from the Corporation over the years. Mr. Anilkumar said a decision on the parcel of land to be allotted for the biomedical waste management project would be decided by the council.  It will have the capacity to treat 20 tonnes of biomedical waste daily and can be upgraded to nearly 30 tonnes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-to-start-brahmapuram-plant-in-six-months-image/article34503927.ece
07 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Plea against Kochi Corpn.’s stop memo||The Kerala Judicial Officers Cooperative Society has moved a writ petition in the Kerala High Court against the memo issued by the Kochi Corporation stopping construction of a 15-storey apartment complex at Chalikkavattom for allegedly obtaining building permits after submitting falsified land documents. The stop-memo was issued on a complaint that building permit for the apartment complex had been obtained from the civic body after manipulating land documents which showed that the land was a dry land. According to the petition, the Society had purchased 33.90 ares of land in Edappally South village along with a portion of an old dilapidated building to construct a residential apartment for its members. The Society purchased the property after being convinced about the title over the property as well as the nature of the land. Travancore Builders Private Limited, which had undertaken the construction work of the multi-storey residential apartment complex, had commenced works in March 2019 on obtaining the building permit. The Society has spent Rs. 49,10,00,00 so far on the project, the petition said. The works were on the verge of completion when the corporation issued a stop-memo on the ground that the property came under the category of ‘nilam’ (wet land). The petition had said that the stop memo was illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-against-kochi-corpns-stop-memo/article34503511.ece
07 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Panchayats in Ernakulam already in lockdown mood||The government decision to impose a week-long State-wide lockdown from Saturday has come as a mere formality for the majority of panchayats in the district as 74 out of the 82 panchayats are already containment zones with strict restrictions in place. Some of them like the coastal panchayat of Mulavukad had even decided to go for a full-fledged local lockdown from Thursday evening, for which they had already received approval from the district administration. As COVID-19 cases continue to soar, local bodies are now focusing their energies on increasing the number of tests and readying domicile care centres (DCCs) to ease the burden on healthcare facilities. “We are nearing the completion of a DCC at Bolgatty Palace with 50-odd oxygen-supported beds. We have also recruited a few nursing staff for the centre. The number of patients in the panchayat as of Wednesday stands at 257 and the spread seems to have been largely triggered by the quarantine violations of the infected or their family members. Lockdown is likely to contain this,” said V.S. Akbar, Mulavukad panchayat president. The panchayat remains resigned to the fact that vaccination was unlikely to be resumed in its limits till the lifting of the lockdown even. Arrangements for testing have been made at the two primary health centres at Mulavukad and Vallarpadam. Rayamangalam panchayat on the eastern suburbs of the district remains concerned about the impact of the impending lockdown on the self-employed even as concerns remain about vaccination and healthcare. “We had deployed squads in every ward to help everyone registered for vaccination. But a mass vaccination camp across seven centres had to be abruptly called off owing to vaccine shortage after only 1,500 received the jab,” he said. Patients with deteriorating condition are being moved to two private hospitals in Perumbavoor and the taluk hospital as decided by the control room based on the severity of the condition of patients, especially drop in oxygen levels. However, a person died earlier this week as he could not be moved to a hospital on time. In Chendamangalam panchayat famed for its handloom products, weavers who were just about recovering from the 2018 deluge and last year’s lockdown have been dealt another blow after the panchayat was closed down as COVID-19 cases suddenly rose. “Finished products worth around Rs. 1.30 crore now remain piled up at Chendamangalam Kaithari Sahakarana Sangham Limited No:H-47 even as our work shed also remains shut. We could neither pay 137 of our weavers their wages nor procure raw materials as we have run out of funds,” said Sojan P.A, who retired as secretary of the Sangham but continues to be associated with it as an advisor. In the predominantly tribal Kuttampuzha panchayat in Kothamangalam, authorities are busy setting up a domicile care centre for mildly infected patients. “The panchayat, however, has to take the seriously-ill needing hospitalisation to Kothamangalam town,” said K.K. Prakash, panchayat secretary in-charge. Meanwhile, vaccine shortage continues to plague the majority of rural local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayats-in-ernakulam-already-in-lockdown-mood/article34503492.ece
07 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vaccination drive in Ernakulam||The COVID-19 vaccination drive will resume in the district on Friday. It was suspended on Thursday since 33,000 doses of Covishield that had arrived in Ernakulam recently had to be distributed to vaccination centres. Around 50 to 60 vaccination centres were expected to function on Friday and Saturday, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination and the district reproductive and child health officer. Doses had already been distributed to the centres, he said. Second dose At the ward level, ASHA workers and councillors are preparing lists of people who are awaiting the second dose of the vaccine. The Social Justice Department has set up a help desk to assist senior citizens with online registrations for vaccination on the CoWIN portal. It will function from the Civil Station at Kakkanad. The help desk may be contacted on 0484-2753800.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-to-resume-today/article34503506.ece
07 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CII welcomes govt. steps||The CII-Kerala has welcomed measures being taken by the State and Centre to ease the stress on businesses due to the outbreak of COVID-19. Ensuring continuity and sustainability of businesses amidst the pandemic was extremely important, especially for micro, small and medium enterprises, said CII-Kerala. To apprise the government about the issues and concerns of the industry in the wake of COVID-19 second wave, the organisation held an interactive session with Chief Secretary V.P. Joy. The government was following the policy of protecting both lives and livelihood, he said. The CII and member firms, that are setting up centralized oxygen manifold system in 20 government hospitals across Kerala with the support of the NHM, will create about 950 oxygen beds in the next two weeks. The estimated project cost was Rs. 1.90 cr. said the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cii-welcomes-govt-steps/article34503510.ece
07 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Incident commanders in hospitals||Incident commanders have been appointed in the district to ensure that private hospitals have set aside 50% of their beds for COVID patients, besides ensuring that ICU and ventilator facilities and oxygen supply are augmented at these hospitals. Incident commanders have been appointed for around 15 major private hospitals in the district. At an online meeting with the incident commanders, District Collector S. Suhas said they were required to efficiently supervise the situation at private hospitals. Incident commanders are to ensure that COVID patients are indeed receiving treatment at private hospitals, including under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi. They will also supervise nodal officers in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/incident-commanders-in-hospitals/article34503449.ece
07 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||2,865 test positive in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kottayam continued to surge with as many as 2,865 people testing positive for the virus on Thursday. Of the new cases, 2,854 people s contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was 26.47%, sources said. Among the local bodies, the pandemic situation continued to remain worse within the Kottayam municipality that reported 293 fresh cases, followed by Changanassery and Vazhoor with 122 and 118 cases receptively. With 3,103 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 15,961 active cases, while 62,677 people remain under surveillance. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, as many as 1,341 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Of this, 1,301 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. With 117 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 96. The district also reported nine more COVID-19-related deaths. As many as 864 people recovered from the disease, bringing the total number of active cases to 11,934 while 27,734 others are under surveillance. In view of the rising number of cases, District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja urged the public to adopt measures to contain the virus spread within family circles. “Just over 1,000 cases and 10 COVID-19 deaths are being reported on a daily basis. About 50% of the infections happen within families and to check this, the home isolation norms should be strictly followed,” the DMO said. The Thiruvalla municipality alone reported 636 cases over the past one week, while Pathanamthitta registered 521 cases. ( With contribution from Pathanamthitta bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2865-test-positive-in-kottayam/article34503926.ece
07 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode corpn. gears up to meet emergencies in crematoriums||The Kozhikode Corporation has decided to make additional arrangements in all the crematoriums under its control in view of the rising number of COVID-19 deaths in the district. At a meeting held here on Thursday, a decision was also taken to appoint additional volunteers in crematoriums to manage unexpected emergencies. “It is a fact that the number of bodies cremated within the city limits has increased, but we are well equipped to handle the situation without any trouble. There were 22 bodies to be cremated on Wednesday, but it was managed without any difficulty. Till Thursday evening, there were 18 bodies,” said S. Jayasree, Chairperson, Standing Committee on Health. She also said the existing facilities would be sufficient to meet the needs even if the cases were slightly going up in an unfortunate situation. “Yet, we will have to be prepared for unforeseen developments. The Corporation is very much aware of the task and capable of addressing them with suitable action,” she said. Based on the latest action plan, there will be special volunteer teams to support activities at West Hill, Mavoor Road, Kannanparambu, Gotheeswaram and Puthiyapalam crematoriums. Many volunteers and social service organisations are already part of the city corporation’s trained squad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corpn-gears-up-to-meet-emergencies-in-crematoriums/article34503499.ece
07 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Stringent curbs on the cards in fishing harbours||With the State moving into one more lockdown amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases, more stringent regulations are on the cards for the operation of fishing harbours in Kozhikode district. In critical containment zones, fishers and allied workers who carry a COVID-19 negative certificate will only be permitted to enter harbours. Following the Fisheries Department order, the Beypore harbour is now open only to such persons. Local harbour management committees have been asked to strictly comply with the health protocol and implement regulations. Only wholesale dealers with the required pass will be allowed to take the daily stock. Entry of the public for retail purchase in harbours has been restricted. In view of the State-level lockdown, a fresh guideline with regard to the functioning of harbours will be issued by the district administration on Friday. There will be separate nodal officers for each harbour to oversee the safety protocol and other local requirements. “Our suggestion is to shut down the operation of all harbours in critical containment zones. “Designated nodal officers and harbour development societies concerned will oversee the regulations,” said a senior officer attached to the Fisheries Department. He also made it clear that the regulations would be implemented without creating any hurdle for those already set off for deep sea fishing in trawlers. Meanwhile, fishermen organisations in the district have called for a “compassionate approach” on the part of the administrators while introducing stringent regulations. According to them, the closure of harbours or denial of fishermen’s entry will make the life miserable for hundreds of poor fish vendors and allied workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stringent-curbs-on-the-cards-in-fishing-harbours/article34503500.ece
07 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut airport sees negative growth||The pandemic has resulted in the Calicut International Airport recording its worst decadal performance in the just-concluded fiscal. The negative growth was witnessed in all categories such as aircraft and cargo movements as well as passenger volume. The percentage changes in aircraft movements were - 64.3%, passenger volume, -72.1%, and cargo movements -67.5 %. The total number of aircraft movements both in domestic and international sectors was 9,042 in 2020-21. The figure alone for the international sector was 5,585. It was 25,359 and 26,738 in 2019-20 and 2018-19 respectively. Similarly, a total of 9,02,189 passengers, including 7,12,421 in the international sector, travelled via the airport in the previous financial year. The figure was 32,31,410 and 33,60,847 during 2019-20 and 2018-19. In the case of freight carried by aircraft, the change was somewhat similar, with the airport handling 9,240 cargo movements, both in the international and domestic domains. The total cargo movements were 28,402 and 17, 283 during 2019-20 and 2018-19. Incidentally, only cargo movements showed a growth of 64.3% in 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airport-sees-negative-growth/article34503488.ece
07 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Central unit to review BJP’s performance in Kerala polls||After its poor electoral performance in the Kerala Assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Central leadership is contemplating either a rejig or dissolution of its State unit. Sources said the Central leadership had asked the State unit to furnish a detailed constituency-wise and district-wise performance of the party in the polls. However, unlike in the past, the leadership changeover, with the possible removal of State president K. Surendran from office, would be decided only in consultation with the party’s parent body, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The earlier sacking of former party chiefs — Kummanam Rajasekharan and P.S. Sreedharan Pillai — had earned a bad press for the party. So the Central leadership is unlikely to make such a move immediately, sources said. Surendran’s two seats A senior functionary said the Central committee would examine whether its endorsement of a plan of the State leadership to field Mr. Surendran in two seats backfired. Not only that, the party-led National Development Alliance (NDA) failed to maintain the popular vote share (12.36%) of the 2016 Assembly polls (14.96%). However, the popular vote share of BJP has increased from 10.36% in the 2016 polls to 11.3% this time. A dispassionate analysis of the poll results revealed that the party had not increased votes in any district in the State. The rise in popular vote has been attributed to the increase in votes of individual candidates, including technocrat E. Sreedharan in Palakkad and actor Suresh Gopi in Thrissur, as well as the increase in the number of seats the party contested this time. In the 2016 polls, the BJP contested in 98 of the 140 Assembly seats. This time, the figure rose to 113 seats. The party also bowed out of the Assembly, losing Nemom, its lone segment. ‘RSS interference’ The Central leadership will also look into the alleged intervention of the RSS State unit in managing the election process right from the booth-level. The interference of the RSS in the organisational apparatus of the BJP had impacted its electioneering, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-unit-to-review-bjps-performance-in-kerala-polls/article34503513.ece
07 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode can handle up to 75,000 patients: Collector||Kozhikode District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao has claimed that steps have been taken to ensure treatment for at least 75,000 COVID-19 patients at various health facilities. As many as 3,688 beds have been kept ready to be used in COVID hospitals. He told the media at an online press meet on Thursday that the available capacity would not have to be utilised to the maximum. A district-level war room has been functioning to monitor the usage of intensive care units (ICU), ventilators, and oxygen cylinders. Data from hospitals will be updated every four hours. Coordinators have been appointed at hospitals to ensure proper treatment. Mr. Rao said 685 beds were vacant at 38 COVID hospitals in the district right now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-can-handle-up-to-75000-patients-collector/article34503486.ece
07 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Chombal harbour closed for protocol violation||The Chombal fishing harbour in Kozhikode district was temporarily closed on Thursday following the recommendation of incident commander Anupam Mishra. There were complaints that the harbour was functioning flouting physical distancing rules and other safety guidelines issued in view of the COVID-19 threat. Noticing the unhealthy situation, the Azhiyoor grama panchayat authorities had earlier approached the district administration for action. Following the District Collector’s instructions, the Vadakara Revenue Divisional officer had also visited the spot and submitted his report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chombal-harbour-closed-for-protocol-violation/article34503491.ece
07 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||District records highest single-day spike||As many as 5,700 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday, the highest single-day spike in fresh cases so far. According to the District Medical Officer, a daily test positivity rate of 28.81% was recorded when 20,778 samples were tested. The active caseload surged to 52,228. The DMO said that there were 5,581 cases of local transmission of the infection, and the source of 103 others was not known. Thirteen people had returned from other States and three from abroad.  Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 1,806 cases of locally acquired infections, Vadakara 204, Thiruvallur 146, Koyilandy 128, Kuruvattoor 109, Maniyoor 110, and Nanmanda 108. A total of 3,996 people recovered from the infection. Right now, 29 local bodies in the district have been closed down as they have a TPR of over 30%. Thirty deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, in the past two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-records-highest-single-day-spike/article34503495.ece
07 May 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Kunhalikutty to lead IUML in Assembly||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has elected its national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty as the party’s leader in the Assembly. A meeting of the IUML high power committee here on Thursday elected M.K. Muneer as the party’s deputy leader in the Assembly. IUML State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed was chosen parliamentary party secretary in the Assembly. The party leadership expressed satisfaction at the IUML performance in Malappuram. It also took pride in the fight the party candidate gave in Manjeswaram to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party. IUML national chairman Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal presided. E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, the said IUML would support the government drive against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kunhalikutty-to-lead-iuml-in-assembly/article34503515.ece
07 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 3,969 new cases||The district appeared poised to cross yet another milestone in daily COVID-19 caseload that went up by 3,969 on Thursday. Test positivity rate rose to 28.45% when 13,947 people were tested. While 2,389 people recovered from the illness, the active cases’ count stood at 32,758. The source of the infection is unknown in 309 of the new cases. Five health care workers were among those who tested positive. Death toll hits 1,075 As many as 14 deaths were attributed to the disease, taking the district’s death toll to 1,075. The deceased include eight men, aged between 28 and 84, and six women, including one aged 85. The deaths occurred between May 2 and 4. The death toll has gone up by 104 since April 30. Currently, 83,338 people are in quarantine in the district. These include 6,265 people included on the quarantine list on Thursday. As many as 3,543 people were permitted to conclude self-isolation after completing the mandated period. Containment zones Meanwhile, new containment zones have been declared in the district. These are in Vazhuthacaud, Vellar, Venganoor, Mulloor, Kottappuram, Vizhinjam and Harbour wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Kalathara, Aruvikkara, Mylam and Irumba in Aruvikkara grama panchayat; Chenkode, Punnamoodu, Office, Peringamala and Kakkamoola in Kalliyoor grama panchayat; Vellar, Kadavinmoola, Muttakkad, Panangode, Venniyoor, Nellivila, Mavuvila, Office ward, Peringamala, Iduva, Mangalathukonam, Chavadinada, Cicilypuram, Venganoor, Dr. BR Ambedkar Gramam, Kalluvettamkuzhy and Kovalam in Venganoor grama panchayat; and Parasuvakkal in Parassala grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-reports-3969-new-cases/article34503457.ece
07 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State missed a chance for early containment: experts||Did Kerala miss an opportunity to contain COVID-19 transmission earlier, when disease transmission was not so intense? Should the virus have been allowed to run riot across the State before deciding on a lockdown? Many public health experts believe that Kerala indeed had a great opportunity to contain disease transmission and break its pace a couple of weeks ago when it had been very evident that the second wave of COVID-19 was quite unlike the first and that the epidemic curve was going to rise steeply. At the peak of the first wave, in October last, Kerala had 97,417 active cases of COVID, 23,455 patients in hospitals, with 843 in intensive care units (ICUs) and 209 on ventilator support. 3.90 lakh active cases On the eve of the lockdown, the State has 3.90 lakh active cases, 29,882 patients in hospitals, with 2,049 patients in ICUs and 807 on ventilator support. And the peak of the epidemic curve is still at least two weeks away. There were ample warnings from epidemiologists about letting down the guard early. Reports from across the country and globe spoke of the second wave being brutal, fast and resulting in high mortality. When Kerala’s epidemic curve began registering 11,000-12,000 cases daily, the State should have stepped up containment efforts, especially since it was feared that the disease transmission in the State was being driven by highly infectious virus variants. Virus variants When evidence confirming the wide circulation of virus variants B.1.617 and B.1.1.7 came a week later, the expert committee on COVID-19 recommended that the State immediately impose a two-week cyclical lockdown. But this was not heeded. “The impact of any interventions we adopt now would be felt only two weeks later. We are going into lockdown when our daily new cases has crossed 40,000 and probably, we might plateau at 45,000-50,000 cases. But if this was done when the graph was crossing the 11,000-12,000 mark, we might have been able to plateau the curve at a lesser number. There would not have been so much pressure on the health system also,” a public health expert said on condition of anonymity. “Containment and reduction in case numbers will become more difficult as the curve gets closer to the peak. A lockdown is a drastic measure, but to derive its full benefit, it has to be done at the right time,” he added Strain on health system “More than the surge in case numbers per se, we could have prevented our health system from being overwhelmed, if we had imposed a short lockdown a week ago. In most districts, hospitals are running full and staff shortage is acute,” said Arun N.M., a consultant in Internal Medicine, Palakkad. He felt that the State had crossed that critical point in time, when a total shutdown would have really benefited the State in containing disease transmission, at least a week ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-missed-a-chance-for-early-containment-experts/article34503528.ece
07 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSDP explores scope of vaccine production||The Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (KSDP) is looking at the possibility of producing COVID-19 vaccine at its manufacturing facility in the State. However, manufacturing can start only after clearing quite a few hurdles, including clearances from the Centre, arriving at an agreement with vaccine companies for sharing of their formulae, and making the necessary upgrade to the infrastructure at the KSDP’s facility. Necessary upgrades “The government had explored the possibility of manufacturing the COVID-19 vaccine here. We told them that it can be done with necessary upgrades such as conversion of the vial line. We also need to get permissions from the Centre and also the know-how and the raw material from the companies. A consultant also might be required for the purpose,” S. Shyamala, Managing Director, KSDP, told The Hindu.  The proposed plan is to get the vaccine concentrate in bulk, fill it in vials at the injection plant, and distribute it at the vaccination centres. Injection plant The KSDP has an injection plant meeting Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standards, in which upgrades have to be done on the vial line. A non-beta-lactam injection plant was commissioned at the KSDP at a cost of Rs. 50 crore last year. The plant can produce 300 ampoules and 160 vials in a minute. Cold room For manufacturing vaccine vials, the facility needs to have de-freezers and a cold room to preserve the vaccine concentrate at the necessary temperature. This can be set up within a period of three months at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. But everything depends on the clearances from the Centre and whether the vaccine manufacturers will agree to share their patented formulae with the public sector unit. Having a vaccine vial producing facility in the State can address the vaccine scarcity issues in the state. The KSDP’s market interventions are important in making available medicines at affordable rates. It had also made available hand sanitisers at nominal rates soon after the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak, pushing down the market cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksdp-explores-scope-of-vaccine-production/article34503448.ece
07 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rush at vaccine centres||Vaccination centres in various parts of the district witnessed heavy rush on Thursday. A majority of the 118 public health institutions, where COVID-19 vaccine was administered, saw people queuing up at 5.30 a.m. With the health authorities allocating only 100 doses for most hospitals, the police had to step in to disperse crowds at various places, including Vizhinjam. Several hundreds thronged the family health centre in Punnakulam. Friday’s schedule While vaccine was administered on the basis of tokens distributed, 80% of the beneficiaries received their second doses in each centre. In all, 27,006 people were vaccinated, and of these, 26,394 received Covishield, and the rest, Covaxin. The vaccination drive will be restricted to 19 institutions on Friday. Of these, Fort Taluk hospital and Coastal Speciality Hospital, Valiyathura will be providing Covaxin. Among the other centres are Government Medical College Hospital, SAT Hospital, General Hospital, Thycaud Women and Children Hospital, and Peroorkada District Model Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rush-at-vaccine-centres/article34503458.ece
07 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Questions over crematorium in capital staying prepared||As the Santhikavadam electric crematorium near Thycaud here comes under unprecedented pressure following a surge in COVID-19 deaths, questions are being raised if the city Corporation is adequately prepared to prevent inordinate delays that add to the pain and grief of the kin of the deceased. The district has recorded nearly 20% of the total COVID-19 deaths in the State so far. Santhikavadam, which has two new gas furnaces, besides two electric furnaces and four wood-based ones, has been receiving more than 20 bodies related to COVID-19 deaths and that of some 15 others from other causes a day. A good number of COVID-19 patients not only from the city but also from other parts of the district who are under treatment in city hospitals, patients from neighbouring districts and even from across the border in Tamil Nadu are being cremated here. There is widespread apprehension that the facility is stretched to its maximum functioning and people may have to wait for days to give their loved ones a proper send-off. Mechanical glitch Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said a problem with the motor of a gas crematorium at Santhikavadam had been rectified and the delay in cremations by a day had been addressed. Technical procedures after a death such as procurement of a no-objection letter from a local body such as a panchayat if a family wanted to cremate their kin at Santhikavadam or takeover of a body from hospital by a health inspector or panchayat official for transporting it to the crematorium also contributed to delays, Mr. Binu said. The Corporation is mulling conducting cremations at night and roping in the services of a private crematorium to prevent backlog. The city has a few private facilities, and the civic body is in talks with one of them forcremations there to reduce the pressure on Santhikavadom and prevent delays. Round-the-clock cremation and the private facility will allow cremation of more than 90 bodies a day, say Corporation officials. Mayor allays concern Allaying people’s concerns, Mayor Arya Rajendran said though there had been a delay, no bookings had been cancelled or refused at Santhikavadam. The Corporation did not feel that the time had come to rope in private crematoriums. The situation was well under control and all bodies would be cremated with due respect, she said. Though only the electric and the gas furnaces were being used to cremate those who had died of COVID-19, even the traditional wood-based ones would be employed. Work on a crematorium at Kazhakuttam proposed by the previous Corporation Council was under way. Only the furnace needed to be installed, Ms. Rajendran added.  The district has recorded nearly 20% of the total COVID-19 deaths in the State so far||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/questions-over-crematorium-in-capital-staying-prepared/article34503453.ece
07 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||At 42,464, another high in State||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continued its relentless climb, with the State setting yet another high in new cases. On Thursday, 42,464 cases were reported when 1,55,632 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate went up to 27.28%. The active case pool has grown to 3,90,906 patients. A record number of 63 deaths were added to the official list on Thursday. This included 19 deaths in from Kottayam, 16 from Kannur, 14 from Thiruvananthapuram, six from Thrissur, five from Pathanamthitta, two from Ernakulam and one death from Wayanad. The number of COVID patients currently being treated in hospitals in the State has risen to 29,882, with 3,633 patients getting hospitalised on Thursday. In ICUs The number of critically ill persons being treated in ICUs across the State has crossed the 2,000 mark and stands at 2,049. Of these, 807 are on ventilator support.  A total of 7,88,529 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Thursday, 27,152 patients were declared recovered. Ernakulam continues to have the highest number of active cases with 61,845, followed by Kozhikode (52,600), Malappuram (44,273), Thrissur (44,266) and Thiruvananthapuram (32,758). Thiruvananthapuram has the highest number of hospitalised patients at 4,313. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 6,506, Kozhikode 5,700, Malappuram 4,405, Thiruvananthapuram 3,969, Thrissur 3,587, Alappuzha 3,040, Palakkad 2,950, Kottayam 2,865, Kollam 2,513, Pathanamthitta 1,341, Kasaragod 1,158, Wayanad 1,056 and Idukki 956 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-42464-another-high-in-state/article34503524.ece
07 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala braces for another shutdown phase||Kerala is re-entering a total lockdown phase after a hiatus of nearly a year. There is a palpable sense of gloom as citizens prepare to hunker down for eight days from May 8 to weather the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Announcement vehicles warning people to remain indoors have added to the sense of foreboding. There is also a general concern that the shutdown will cost jobs, dry up household earnings, and further scar the State’s economy. With barely 24 hours left for the lockdown to kick in, the government claims there is no cause for panic buying. Shops selling medicines and essentials will remain open. Citizens could dial 112 to seek police help to get emergency medicines delivered home. Indoor dining is banned. However, home delivery and takeaway are allowed. The upward spiral in COVID-19 cases and an incremental increase in pandemic deaths had prompted the government to choose preservation of life over livelihood. ‘More virulent’ Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said the second wave driven by mutated variants of the virus was more virulent than the epidemic’s original strain. Officials say Kerala is likely to be in the COVID-19 prevention mode for the long haul. Any future ease of restrictions will be measured and moored to the epidemic situation. Business is unlikely to be as usual any time soon. The police will bear the primary responsibility for ensuring that people remained indoors. The administration has mobilised uniformed services, including the voluntary State Civil Defence Force, to help the police enforce the pandemic code. The police have stepped up inter-State border enforcement. Travellers entering Kerala via road should furnish COVID-19- negative certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-braces-for-another-shutdown-phase/article34503522.ece
07 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hoarding of medical oxygen an offence||Hoarding of medical oxygen cylinders, black marketing and profiteering through illegal ways, non-disclosure of stock of oxygen, and holding on to industrial cylinders have been made offences under the Disaster Management Act, 2005; Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020; and other relevant provisions in law. The Chief Secretary has issued orders in this regard. The move is aimed at preventing death due to lack of medical oxygen during the COVID-19 surge. District disaster management authority (DDMA); police; Department of Industries and Health; and Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) can initiate steps against those violating the directive. To remove bottlenecks in availability of medical oxygen, a series of steps have been initiated. Medical oxygen should not be hoarded. No artificial scarcity should be created. Cylinder conversion Conversion of industrial oxygen cylinders and non-toxic and non-flammable gas cylinders to medical oxygen cylinders will have to be done following the standard operating procedure (SOP) approved by PESO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hoarding-of-medical-oxygen-an-offence/article34503521.ece
07 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Burglary accused caught in Goa||Bihar native Mohammed Irfan, alias ‘Robinhood Ujala’, the suspect in the alleged burglary of jeweller B. Govindan’s house at Kowdiar here, has been arrested in a case of similar nature in Goa. On receiving information from their counterparts in Goa, the Kerala Police have commenced steps to get his custody. He was apprehended in Panaji for his alleged role in stealing Rs. 1 crore. Police said that an application will be filed to seek custody after he is remanded in connection with the burglary case in Goa. He is suspected to have burgled Mr. Govindan’s house on Vishu day three weeks ago. The burglar decamped with gold and diamond ornaments worth Rs. 2.15 lakh and Rs. 80,000 in cash from the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burglary-accused-caught-in-goa/article34503459.ece
07 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC buses to keep off road||The entire fleet of the State-owned Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be off the road during the Statewide lockdown from May 8 to 16. The decision was taken to check the movement of the people across the districts and States during the lockdown period. The KSRTC would operate maximum services from Thursday night to Friday night for the benefit of people wishing to reach home before the Statewide lockdown, KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said. From Bengaluru Three buses had been kept ready in Bengaluru for evacuating Keralites to the State before the lockdown began, he said. The KSRTC is ready to operate schedules for hospital staff and patients. The superintendents of hospitals should contact the nearest unit officer or the KSRTC control room (0471-2463799 or 94470 71021) for it. The KSRTC has made arrangements to operate more schedules on Friday evening as the authorities expect a heavy rush of passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-buses-to-keep-off-road/article34503519.ece
07 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||30 trains through State cancelled||Railways have cancelled six unreserved MEMU express specials, 14 reserved daily specials and 10 fully reserved non-daily specials from May 8 to 31. Six other trains operating via Nagercoil, that comes under Thiruvananthapuram railway division, and Tirunelveli have been cancelled. Alappuzha-Kollam daily special (06013), Kollam-Alappuzha (06014), Ernakulam Junction-Alappuzha (06015), Alappuzha- Ernakulam Junction (06016), Shoranur Junction-Ernakulam Junction (06017) and Ernakulam Junction-Shoranur Junction (06018) are MEMU specials cancelled. Shoranur-Thiruvananthapuram Central Venad special (06301) and its pairing train (06302) have been cancelled from May 8. Ernakulam Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central Vanchinad special (06303) is cancelled from May 8 to June 1 and its pairing train (06304) from May 8 to 31. Tirunelveli Junction-Palakkad Palaruvi special (06791) and Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Junction special (06347) and their pairing trains will be cancelled from May 8 to 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-trains-through-state-cancelled/article34503523.ece
07 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||3,587 new cases in Thrissur||Thrissur district recorded 3,587 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Only 1,519 people recovered from the disease. The test positivity rate stood at 25.55%. Most parts of the district remained as containment zones. According to official data, 3,556 people, including 15 health workers, contracted the disease through local transmission. Of them, 547 people are above the age of 60 and 211 children are below the age of 10. In all, 37,305 people are under home care. As many as 14,040 samples were taken for test on Thursday. The active caseload in the district is 43,748 and 103 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 1,69,511 COVID-19 cases were reported from the district and 1,24,907 people have recovered. In all, 5,83,803 people have taken the first dose of COVID vaccine while 1,24,980 people took the second dose. As the second wave of the pandemic is continuing strongly in the district, nodal officers have been appointed in local bodies to coordinate preventive measures. The objective is to coordinate the functioning of help desks, emergency control rooms, and Arogya Jagratha Samitis. They will also monitor community surveillance, distribution of food kits, community counselling, and functioning of domiciliary care centres. Meanwhile, the District Collector urged people to cooperate with COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. Arrangements have been made for vaccination camps at tribal hamlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3587-new-cases-in-thrissur/article34503494.ece
07 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||200 litres of wash destroyed||An Excise team destroyed 200 litres of wash at Aanthrakkapadam, near Chalakudy, on Thursday. It is suspected that the wash was meant to prepare arrack for selling during the lockdown period. The wash was seized on a tip-off received by Excise Inspector Aswin Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/200-litres-of-wash-destroyed/article34503493.ece
07 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID positive couple found dead at house||A middle-aged couple, who were tested positive for SARS-CoV, were found dead at their home on Koncheri road near Mulangunnathukavu on Thursday. The deceased were identified as Ganeshan Panderiparambil, 57, and Sumathi, 53. They tested positive on April 28 and were under home care. Their daughter, and other members too had tested positive. The daughter was delivered of a baby three days ago. On Thursday morning, Ganeshan and Sumathi were found unconscious in their room. Though the police rushed them to hospital, they could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-positive-couple-found-dead-at-house/article34503489.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||DYFI flays criticism of government’s move||Activists of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) presented a symbolic noose to Raju P. Nair, president of Mulanthuruthy block panchayat in Ernakulam, after he criticised the government’s decision to impose lockdown from May 8 to May 16. Reacting to the Facebook post by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the proposed lockdown, Mr. Nair said the government should include a ‘noose’ in the food kit. “I am not against lockdown, but the government should infuse money into [the] hands of people before going for a lockdown,” he wrote. Mr. Nair is the general secretary of the Ernakulam District Congress Committee. DYFI activists belonging to the north zone committee at Udayamperoor kept a noose in front of Mr. Nair’s residence as a mark of protest against his post. “A kit was not kept, as the government would definitely provide it,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dyfi-flays-criticism-of-governments-move/article34503461.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kerala University publishes results||Kerala University has published the results of the CSS (Credit and Semester System) examinations of MTech Computer Science with specialisation in Digital Image Computing (2018-20) and MPhil Chemistry (2019-20). The university also revised the deadline for submitting projects of sixth-semester UG courses and fourth semester PG courses to within 10 days of the revised schedule of examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-university-publishes-results/article34503454.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safe passsage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safe-passsage/article34503903.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nine-day lockdown||Banks, insurance, and financial services can function from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. with minimal staff. Print and electronic media have been exempted. Delivery of all essential goods through e-commerce and home delivery can be undertaken. Petrol pumps, cold storage and warehousing services, private security services, repair services of essential equipment, including vehicles, have been exempted. Industrial establishments will remain closed. But units manufacturing essential commodities, medical supplies, including medical oxygen cylinders or industrial gas cylinders, and units involved in exports can function. Hospitality services will remain suspended. Hotels, homestays, lodges, and motels accommodating tourists and persons stranded due to the lockdown, medical and emergency staff, and air and sea crew have been exempted. Movement of domestic helps and caregivers for the elderly and the bedridden is allowed. Construction and maintenance works can be undertaken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nine-day-lockdown/article34503529.ece
07 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 helps a girl avoid marriage she did not want||A B.Tech graduate, Kusumakumari from Mudigubba in Anantapur district, used ‘COVID-19 positive’ status as an alibi for avoiding a marriage she did not want. Ms. Kusumakumari was engaged to Hariprasad of Dharmavaram and all was set to tie the knot in the early hours of Thursday, but at the nick of the moment, the bride said she was COVID positive. The groom was so desperate that he was ready to go ahead with the marriage even if her status was COVID positive. When the bride did not relent, the groom and his parents complained to the Kadiri police regarding the cancellation of the marriage and wanted the Rs. 1.5 lakh they had deposited with the bride. When the police called the bride and her parents to the police station, it turned out that the boy had studied only up to ITI, but had told the girl that he had completed M.Tech. The bride told the police that since the groom had cheated her, she did not want to get married with that boy and that she wanted to buy time in the alibi of being COVID-19 positive. The Kadiri police told the groom that he cannot force the girl to get married when she was not interested in him, and was looking into the demand of the groom to get his Rs. 1.5 lakh back as the family stayed put there to get their money before returning to their house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-helps-a-girl-avoid-marriage-she-did-not-want/article34503953.ece
07 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital deaths: BJP for third-party probe||Bharatiya Janata Party State official representative D. Venkateswara Reddy has demanded that the State government order a third-party inquiry into the death of patients at three government-run hospitals in Anantapur district in the wake of the notice given to the State Chief Secretary to submit an inquiry report on the three incidents of paucity of oxygen supply in which 22 persons died. Mr. Venkateswara Reddy on Thursday said that no local officer should be involved in the probe ordered by the Andhra Pradesh High Court, as otherwise it would defeat the very purpose of the probe. “If the Oxygen Coordinators or any district official is asked to take up the probe, the truth is unlikely to come out,” he said and wanted a State-level officer or a team to probe the incidents in GGH, Anantapur, Government Hospital, Hindupur and Cancer Hospital, Anantapur. MLA gheraoed Meanwhile, CPI workers gheraoed Kadiri MLA P. Venkata Sidda Reddy seeking better treatment for the COVID-19 patients at the Kadiri Hospital, where eight persons died in the past two days. The MLA had gone to the hospital to review the situation in the morning and while he was returning, the CPI workers stopped his car. Police intervened and cleared the way for him. The CPI State secretary expressed concern over the deaths in the district due to alleged lack of supervision in oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospital-deaths-bjp-for-third-party-probe/article34503952.ece
07 May 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online shopping flourishes in city amid pandemic blues||All the five members of a family tested positive for COVID-19 and isolated themselves in their home. They called their relatives living in the city and advised them not to visit them. The relatives were worried as to how they would fend for themselves in the pandemic situation. One of the relatives, a techie living in Bengaluru, ordered for their needs online. The order was safely delivered at their doorstep. Online shopping for medicines, groceries and vegetables has once again seen a spurt in the demand. The demand for door delivery is so high that the innumerable online stores in the city are unable to cater to the needs of customers on time. The COVID second wave surge has once again forced the consumers to switch to the safe online mode. Those who are working abroad and have their parents living in India are also finding it convenient to order groceries, fruits and vegetables online for delivery to their parents. Citizens are worried about going to the vegetable markets and rythu bazaars to choose fresh vegetables.  Long waiting period All that the consumers have to do is to place the list of their needs on the WhatsApp number or on the website of the online supplier concerned, in advance and get the vegetables and groceries delivered at their doorstep. It’s better to place the order sufficiently early as the waiting lists for delivery of orders are getting long. “We placed an order with an online company for provisions on May 1 and were informed that the order would be delivered on May 8. We can book provisions, fruits and vegetables at this store,” says Nageswara Rao of Marripalem VUDA Colony. “We are finding it difficult to deliver on time as delivery boys are getting infected and we are finding it difficult to recruit new staff in their place. Customers living 15 to 20 km away are also not willing to pay Rs. 200 towards transportation cost, despite the pandemic situation,” says A. Neeraj Kumar, a website developer, who owns VizagShop.com  Cancellation woes “We have partners at multiple locations in different corners of the city to deliver the orders, based on the location of the customer to ensure speedy delivery. At times customers are cancelling the orders at the eleventh hour, wasting our time and energy,” he says listing the woes of online suppliers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-shopping-flourishes-in-city-amid-pandemic-blues/article34503979.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||CCB arrests conman who duped businessman of over Rs. 7 crore||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on Tuesday arrested a 45-year-old conman who allegedly duped a businessman of Rs. 7.2 crore by promising to get him a Rs. 360 crore business loan at a lower interest rate in November last year. The accused, Hari Gopalakrishna Nadar, hails from Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu. “His associates targeted businessmen and promised them low-interest loans. Once the businessmen agreed, Nadar, pretending to be the owner of a finance company, would meet with him in a star hotel. After a round of formal talks, he would promise the businessman that the loan would be sanctioned. However, his associates would then ask the victim to transfer huge amounts of money towards service charges and commission,” said a senior police officer. Using a similar modus operandi, the accused approached the businessman from Bengaluru. After several rounds of talks, Nadar presented him with a fake demand draft for Rs. 360 crore and forced him to pay Rs. 7.2 crore as service fee. The amount was paid in instalments through wire transfer, cash and gold. By the time the businessman realised he had been duped, Nadar had disappeared. Based on his complaint, the Cubbon Park police on November 1, 2020, registered a case against Nadar and six of his associates. The case was later transferred to the CCB, who tracked down and arrested one of Nadar’s associates, Ranjith Panikar, on April 7. They recovered gold valuables worth Rs. 10 lakh, cash amounting to Rs. 96,000, and seized bank accounts with deposits up to Rs. 38.8 lakh. The police on May 4 tracked down Nadar, who was hiding in Kerala, and recovered 3,893 gm of gold valuables worth Rs. 2 crore and Rs. 8.7 lakh cash. Investigations so far revealed that the accused has allegedly cheated many businessmen in Karnataka, AP, Telangana. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. “We are verifying his bank account transactions and probing his network and beneficiaries,” said a police officer.  The police tracked down Nadar, who was hiding in Kerala, and recovered 3,893 gm of gold valuables and Rs. 8.7 lakh cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ccb-arrests-conman-who-duped-businessman-of-over-rs-7-crore/article34503264.ece
07 May 2021||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spike in COVID-19 cases pushes up medicine sales four-fold||With a spike in COVID-19 cases, the sale of drugs used in treating the infection and immunity boosters has skyrocketed. Sale of medicines such as paracetamol for fever, immunity boosters like vitamin C tablets and antibiotics, which are used for treatment of sore throat, have increased significantly, courtesy the pandemic. According to information, the sales have increased by three to four times depending upon factors such as segment of medicine, location of pharmacy shop, and investment. Some of the generic medicines shops that used to do a business of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 70,000 per day have seen a quantum jump with the sales touching Rs. 2.5 lakh. A few others which were making a business in the range of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 are now doing a business of not less than Rs. 15,000 a day. Similarly, the volume of COVID medicines sales has increased by not less than 25%, industry sources say. ‘Panic’ The surge in the hospitalisation of Coronavirus patients and news reports on shortage of medicines has created “some kind of panic” among the people. People are seen keeping stock as an emergency measure. Most sales are not related to the COVID infection. “It has become a habit for people to keep a sheet of paracetamol, azithromycin and ecosprin,” says Krishna District Wholesale Drug Trade Association president P. Murali Krishna. There is growth of about 20% on an average, in the retail medical shops. Those who had procurement and investment capabilities, had seen a growth of 80 to 100%. But, this category of retailers would be 10% of total shops, opines Krishna district Druggist and Chemists Association president S. Prasad. Krishna District Retail Druggist and Chemists’ Association Secretary M. Sudhakar says the sale of immunity boosters had increased 20 times. There is a surge of 80% in the sale of food supplements, more particularly in generic companies. Several people want to buy medicines without prescriptions from doctors. “We are discouraging such sales,” he says. The wholesalers and retailers agree that there is a shortage of medicines. Mr. Prasad says that there was a gap of about 5 to 10% between demand and supply, though the manufacturers are stepping up production. Mr. Murali Krishna opines that it would be easy to overcome the shortage if people were willing to purchase substitute drugs instead of demanding a particular brand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spike-in-covid-19-cases-pushes-up-medicine-sales-four-fold/article34503963.ece
07 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wait for vaccine shot gets longer||The wait for the COVID vaccine continues to get longer. At a time when the pandemic is raging, the non-availability of vaccines, especially Covaxin, is making people jittery. On Thursday, long queues were seen at vaccine centres with people jostling with each other to get the jab. On Wednesday, 9,938 vaccines were administered to people aged over 60 (1,679 first-timers and 8,259 second-timers). A total of 12,176 vaccines were administered to people in the age group of 18-45 (3,301 first-timers and 8,875 second-timers). In a recent meeting, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced that the government has set a target of vaccinating six lakh persons a day. However, with the Centre clarifying that State governments would have to take the responsibility of buying vaccines for the age group of 18-45, the government is now focusing on completing vaccination for the most vulnerable group of those above 60 years and people between 45-60 years and those with comorbidities. Andhra Pradesh, which projected a vaccine demand for 5.26 crore people on October 1, 2020, has received 70.30 lakh vaccine doses, out of which 69.82 lakh doses have been administered, indicating a wastage of 0.93%. The State has a balance of 48,126 lakh doses and 2.65 lakh doses are in the pipeline. “This is a remarkable achievement and I salute the efforts of the Chief Minister who had come up with the innovative idea to launch vaccination at village/ward secretariats, thus institutionalising a complex procedure. I also thank our dedicated team of village/ward volunteers, ANMs, nurses and health workers for achieving the feat,” said Narsaraopet MP Lavu Srikrishnadevarayulu. One of the most badly affected States in the country, Andhra Pradesh has been devastated by a vicious second wave which is expected peak in the second week of May. A bulletin released by the State Command Control Room on Wednesday revealed that 22,204 persons tested positive, out of 1.16 lakh samples tested. East Godavari, Anantapur and Visakhapatnam recorded over 2,000 cases, followed by Guntur (1,972 cases), and Prakasam (2,001) cases. The second wave of the pandemic has led to a sense of panic and the demand for vaccination is at an all-time high. People are now beginning to ask for vaccines in large numbers even as many people who have been administered the first dose are still waiting to get their second one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wait-for-vaccine-shot-gets-longer/article34503298.ece
07 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm work will go on unhindered, says Minister||Minister for Agriculture K. Kanna Babu has said that farmers involved in agricultural operations will never be put to any inconvenience during the partial curfew. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has already directed the departments concerned not to cause any obstacles for the farmers. The Agriculture Department is also ensuring adequate supply of seed on time and other assistance,” Mr. Kanna Babu said at a review meeting attended by senior officials. Special Chief Secretary, Agriculture, Poonam Malakondaiah, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-work-will-go-on-unhindered-says-minister/article34503969.ece
07 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Postal staff union seeks frontline worker status||The National Association of Postal Employees-Group C has demanded that the Central government consider giving postal department employees the status of frontline workers on an immediate basis. Sivaji Vasireddy, general secretary, NAPEC, and LSG accountant, Sattenapalli, said that it was appalling that postal staff have been exposed to the general public all throughout the year but have not been recognised as frontline workers so far. Cashless treatment “Even after continuous appeals by service unions, the Centre is yet to act on the following demands: payment of Rs. 10 lakh ex gratia to the kin of employees who died of COVID-19, immediate compassionate appointment of one ward of an employee who died of COVID-19, and cashless treatment for employees of India Post,” Mr. Sivaji said. The employees of Department of Posts including GDS are not even being considered for vaccination on par with other frontline workers, he rued.  Quarantine leave Further, the association demanded that quarantine leave should be granted to departmental and GDS staff. Mr. Sivaji said that many employees lost their lives to COVID-19 during the first wave and stated that thousands of postal employees’ lives continued to be in danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/postal-staff-union-seeks-frontline-worker-status/article34503296.ece
07 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||News channel chairman gets anticipatory bail||Justice G. Sri Devi of Telangana High Court on Thursday granted conditional anticipatory bail to NTV chairman and former president of Jubilee Hills co-operative housing society T. Narendra Chowdhary and others in a criminal case registered by Jubilee Hills police. Along with Mr. Chowdhary, the anticipatory bail was granted to the other accused in the case -- including former managing committee members P. Hanumantha Rao, A. Suresh Reddy and Ch. Krishnamurthy. Joint Sub-Registrars D. Srinivasa Kumar and J.H. Pranay Kumar were also granted. The judge said persons who were granted anticipatory bail should furnish two sureties of Rs. 1 lakh rupees each. They should not leave the country without informing the court. They should surrender their passports and appear before the investigating officer every Saturday. The judge also said in the order that they should cooperate with the investigators. The Jubilee Hills police registered a criminal case against Mr. Chowdhary and others following a complaint lodged against them. The complainant charged that the accused got a plot worth Rs. 40 crore registered on the name of a woman called Shirisha for much lesser price. This amounted to cheating, the complainant said in the police complaint. All the accused in the case filed four petitions seeking anticipatory bails. Senior counsel Vedula Venkataramana and lawyer Dammalapati Srinivasulu, appearing for the petitioners, sought bail assuring the court that they would cooperate with the investigating officers. The government counsel opposed the bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/news-channel-chairman-gets-anticipatory-bail/article34503890.ece
07 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyd. firm comes up with non-invasive ventilator||Defence, aerospace design and development solutions provider Apollo Computing Laboratories has indigenously developed a portable and non-invasive ventilator. SwasthVayu, the briefcase-sized ventilator weighs under 3 kg and can be useful for mild to moderate COVID patients, MD Baddam Jaipal Reddy told the media on Wednesday. It delivers oxygen through a non-vented mask tightly fitted to the face, without a need for tracheal intubation or a tube being inserted through the mouth into the windpipe. SwasthVayu can be utilised in medical wards, make-shift hospitals, dispensaries, and homes for treating COVID as well as certain non-COVID ailments. It has been developed in collaboration with CSIR - National Aerospace Laboratories and certified for safety and performance by NABL accredited Labs. Mr. Reddy, former ISRO scientist, said that the ventilator has been designed with multiple safeguards against contamination to protect critical patients like those infected with COVID. It has been tested on hundreds of COVID patients at many hospitals, including NIMS. A total of 1,200 SwasthVayu ventilators were supplied to nine hospitals under the government. The company has a capacity to produce over 6,000 units per month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-firm-comes-up-with-non-invasive-ventilator/article34503865.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 held||Three persons, including two minor boys, who illegally sold Remdesivir injection ‘Covifor’ in the grey market, were arrested on Thursday. Nikhil Agarwal (23), a pharmacy owner at Dharani Hospital from Tappachabutra, along with the boys were held by the Commissioner’s Task Force (NZ) team led by inspector K. Nageswar Rao. Five vials of Remdesivir, and three mobiles were seized. Two others who were selling the injections in black market were apprehended by SOT of Malkajgiri. The accused are K. Sathyanarayana Sharma (36), a priest and K. Sujan Kishan (41) from Kukatpally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-held/article34503875.ece
07 May 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retreat at Munnar turns a superspreader event||The police have registered cases under IPC Section 269 and the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance against the organisers of a retreat meet held in Munnar from April 13 to 17 as over 100 priests who participated in it were infected with SARS-CoV-2, and two succumbed to COVID-19. District Collector H. Dinesan on Wednesday sought a report from the Devikulam Sub-Collector and asked the District Police Chief to register cases against the organisers. The annual meeting of priests and deacons was held at the Church of South India (CSI) parish hall in Munnar, violating COVID-19 protocols. Munnar Deputy Superintendent of Police R. Suresh said the cases were registered based on a report by the Devikulam Tahsildar. The Church had sought no permission from the authorities concerned for conducting the retreat meet, in which CSI moderator and Bishop of the south Kerala diocese of the Church Dharmaraj Rasalam and nearly 480 priests participated. There was crowding inside the hall and the participants did not wear face masks as was evident from the video grabs and pictures released by a section of the participants. A complaint in this regard was also filed with the Chief Secretary. Mr. Suresh said the police were trying to collect photographs and videos of the retreat. The report by the Tahsildar stated that the organisers did not follow COVID-19 protocol, he said. The priests comprised those from CSI churches in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retreat-at-munnar-turns-a-superspreader-event/article34503260.ece
07 May 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Research station turns COVID Care Centre||The Horticultural Research Station campus at Anantharajupeta in Railway Kodur mandal has been transformed into a COVID Care Centre by the State government as part of a move to form more care centres locally and curb the spread of the pandemic. As the campus is expected to serve the requirements of the southern mandals of Kadapa district, the district administration put in place infrastructure such as drinking water, shelter, seating arrangements for the patients and their attendants at a place located 100 m from the main building. It was also decided to declare the vicinity a ‘containment zone’ in order to prevent crowding in and around the centre. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, who inspected the centre on Thursday, directed the Deputy Superintendent of Police (Rajampeta) Sivabhaskar Reddy to provide security on regular sentry duty at the main entrance. He later went to the CCTV control room in Rajampeta and inspected the implementation of curfew in the town. He directed the police to ensure that the hotels, restaurants and retail outlets remain closed till 6 a.m. Kadapa district reported as many as 1,130 cases on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/research-station-turns-covid-care-centre/article34503959.ece
07 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pvt. hospitals face action for misuse of oxygen, Remdesivir||The East Godavari district authorities have decided to cancel the permission given to some private hospitals to treat COVID-19 cases for alleged commercial exploitation of the medical oxygen and Remdesivir injections being supplied by the State government. In a joint press conference on Thursday, Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said, “The audit done on the use of medical oxygen and Remdesivir injections in various private designated COVID-19 hospitals has unearthed violations of the COVID-19 protocol and creation of artificial scarcity of oxygen and Remdesvir. We will soon denotify those hospitals.” The audit has also exposed admission of COVID-19 patients beyond the permissible bed strength in certain hospitals. More than 90% of the 77 designated COVID-19 hospitals in the district are private facilities. “A team led by Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha has already completed the audit on the use and storage of medical oxygen in the private hospitals where it had found many lapses that triggered a public outcry,” said Mr. Muralidhar. District Medical and Health Officer Dr. K.V.S. Gowreeswara Rao told The Hindu that a report has been submitted to the State government for further action against three hospitals – Team and Sanjeevani hospitals in Kakinada and Sai Hospital in Rajamahendravaram – where a ‘mismatch of Remdesivir supply and use has been reported’. Two COVID Care Centres (CCC) are being set up at Rampachodavaram and Chintoor in the East Godavari agency. “However, critical care will not be provided at the CCCs. Serious cases here will be shifted to Rajamahendravaram,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. 22 ambulances Joint Collector G. Raja Kumari, monitoring COVID-19 deaths and protocol, said that a fleet of 22 Mahaprasthanam vehicles have been deployed for transportation of bodies from hospitals. The price has been fixed for those seeking transportation facility for long distances. The authorities are seeking support from the panchayats to perform the last rites of unclaimed bodies in villages by roping in youth organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pvt-hospitals-face-action-for-misuse-of-oxygen-remdesivir/article34503981.ece
07 May 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dietary pattern changed for big cats in Kerala zoos||COVID-19 has forced zoo keepers to change the dietary pattern of big cats. Instead of feeding carnivores like lion, tiger, and leopard with raw meat, they are now being given sterilised meat. Meat is sterilised by dipping it in hot water at a temperature of 65 degree Celsius for 10 minutes. The move is in line with guidelines issued by the Central Zoo Authority, said T.V. Anilkumar, superintendent of Thiruvananthapruam zoo. The zoo in the State capital houses a pair of lions, and seven leopards, and seven tigers. The zoo in Thrissur has one lion, three leopards and four tigers. Each lion is fed 7 kg of beef, while 3 kg of meat is given to a leopard a day. The quantity of meat supplied is modified according to its consumption after obtaining reports from the zoo veterinarian, said V. Rajesh, superintendent of the Thrissur zoo. Monitored for symptoms Zoos have stepped up vigil after reports of eight Asiatic lions in Hyderabad getting infected with SARS-COV-2. The animals are being observed for signs of nasal discharge, cough, salivation, and diarrhoea. Veterinarians are keeping a regular watch on animals for signs of distress, besides collecting swabs. The zoos are now closed for visitors, Mr. Rajesh said. Animal keepers who have received two dozes of vaccine alone are deployed for duty. They have been advised to maintain a distance of two metres from enclosures, which are disinfected at regular intervals. Till now, no instances of animals getting infected have been reported, said Mr. Anilkumar. According to the guidelines issued by the authority last month, zoo keepers should limit their access to fields, mustelid, primate and viverrid enclosures. Besides, animal keepers should use coveralls, double masks, N95 masks, face shields, and latex gloves while at work. Staff working in close proximity to animals, animal enclosures, and food preparation areas should undergo RT-PCR tests. Animal enclosures shall be sprayed with anti-virals. The authority has also recommended testing of all large carnivores for SARS-CoV-2. In case of animal mortality, zoo keepers should carry out post-mortem with due care and send samples for tests.  Instead of raw meat, carnivores are being given sterilised meat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dietary-pattern-changed-for-big-cats-in-kerala-zoos/article34503253.ece
07 May 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take over pvt. hospital beds for COVID-19 patients, HC to govt.||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has suggested that the government take over 50% of the beds of all private hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 patients. The Bench on Thursday also suggested setting up a single common toll-free number to enable the patients get medical assistance and information about hospitals beds with oxygen and ventilators etc. The court suggested that a patient management system to deal with different kinds of COVID patients be put in place. The Bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice Kauser Edappagath made these suggestions when a public interest litigation seeking to regulate charges for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals came up for hearing. Constitutional right The court made it clear that three parameters were non-negotiable; non-discriminatory access to all public health facilities, adequate medical treatment, and affordable charges for medical treatment. They were part of the constitutionally guaranteed right to health under Article 21. State Attorney K.V. Sohan submitted that the government would fix charges for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals within three days after holding one more round of talks with representatives of private hospital managements. A consensus could not be arrived at the meetings held earlier with the management representatives. The authority for examining complaints of overcharging by private hospitals in each district would be designated and an appellate authority at the State-level would also be designated. The court asked the State Attorney to consider the court’s suggestions at the discussion to be held with the private hospital managements and take a policy decision on these issues. The court posted the petition for further hearing on May 10.  Government will fix charges for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals within three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-over-pvt-hospital-beds-for-covid-19-patients-hc-to-govt/article34503251.ece
07 May 2021||M. RajeevHYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana’s financial health improving||The State’s finances severely hit by the COVID-19 pandemic last fiscal are gradually inching towards normalcy with the State registering own tax revenue of close to Rs. 6,750 crore during April. Of the total receipts during the month, revenue from commercial taxes was Rs. 1,921 crore including Rs. 845 crore through value added tax from the Excise department. SGST/IGST collections accounted for Rs. 2,697 crore and Excise Rs. 1,030 crore. Revenue through stamps and registrations was Rs. 573 crore and transport Rs. 337 crore and that from other taxes was Rs. 36 crore, taking the State’s own tax revenue to Rs. 6,593 crore during April. Revenue through mines was Rs. 128 crore and other non-tax sources was Rs. 25 crore amounting to Rs. 153 crore. The collection of tax and non-tax revenue during the month together amounted to Rs. 6,746 crore. The share in Central taxes was Rs. 823 crore and share of centrally sponsored schemes was Rs. 39 crore while Rs. 230 crore accrued through the Finance Commission grants taking the overall receipts from the Centre to Rs. 1,092 crore. Added to this was the Rs. 1,502 crore raised from open market borrowings through the Reserve Bank of India taking the total revenue receipts during the month to Rs. 9,341 crore, according to officials. The number is likely to be a little higher after the figures are reconciled department wise. The growth assumes significance in the light of the State suffering severe setback during the previous fiscal when its own tax revenues witnessed dip of more than 90 per cent during the initial months of the lockdown. Under normal circumstances, the State would register an income of about Rs. 15,000 crore a month including the devolutions from the Centre as well as borrowings. Of this, the State’s own tax revenue accounted to around Rs. 11,000 crore. The seriousness of the dent suffered during the pandemic could be gauged from the fact that the State’s income from all sources during the corresponding period of previous fiscal was only Rs. 1,600 crore showing slump of 95 per cent. The State registered zero revenue from Excise last April as against Rs. 1,400 crore registered every month and there was significant dip in earnings through VAT on petroleum products during the same month. The government ended the previous fiscal with revenue around Rs. 52,000 crore less than 50 per cent of the over Rs. 1 lakh crore targeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-financial-health-improving/article34503891.ece
07 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Promoting COVID-safe behaviour through rice grains||The rapid spread of coronavirus infections has prompted a micro-artist to educate people on COVID-appropriate behaviour though his art from. Chaluvadi Malli Vishnu Vandhana from Sullurpeta has chosen rice grains to spread the message of COVID-safe behaviour advocated by the health authorities. “The second wave of pandemic has already claimed thousands of lives and infected lakhs across the country. I want to do my bit to educate people on the preacutions that can check the rapid spread of infection,” says Ms. Vishnu Vandhana while showing the rice grains inscribed with the message ‘Mask Must, Gap Best, Sanitizer Correct’. She has arranged the rice grains in a pattern to resemble the map of India. Strict adherence to the COVID-appropriate behaviour only can protect people from the deadly infection during this testing time, says the micro-artist who had earlier offered 50,116 rice-grains inscribed with Sri Rama for the historic ‘Bhoomi Puja (foundation laying ceremony) for the construction of Sri Rama temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/promoting-covid-safe-behaviour-through-rice-grains/article34503955.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen supply: Centre moves SC||The Centre on Thursday approached the Supreme Court against a Karnataka High Court order to increase the daily allocation of oxygen to the State to 1200 MT from 865 MT. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta mentioned before a Bench led by Justice D.Y Chandrachud. However, the Bench said it cannot look into the issue as it did not have the records of the case. The Bench said it would consider the plea if the Chief Justice of India allocates the case to it. The High Court had on May 5, considering the grave need for oxygen for treating COVID-19 patients in the State, ordered the increase in supply. The court had noted that the State government sought allocation of oxygen in the range of 1,471 MT to 1,791 MT per day during the period April 30 to May 5 based on the total active COVID-19 cases, while indicating that the minimum requirement would be 1,162 MT. However, the Centre had allocated only 802 MT during the last week of April and it was increased to 865 MT from May 1 after the court had asked the Centre to consider increasing the allocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-supply-centre-moves-sc/article34503249.ece
07 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘108’ emergency medical team helps woman deliver baby||A 27-year-old-woman who tested positive for COVID-19 and her family members were a worried lot as she developed labour pains all of a sudden on Thursday. They frantically called the ‘108’ emergency service, and in no time an emergency medical team (EMT) reached her and helped the woman in the ninth month of pregnancy deliver a breech baby boy much to the relief of all. A proud EMT member, P. Satish, along with pilot Brahmam and health worker Kranti, said, “We have the satisfaction of saving the lives of the the mother and breech baby.” It was a very critical case as the umbilical cord was found around the baby’s neck, added ‘108’ emergency service District Manager S. Vijaykumar. Right before birth, most babies are in a headfirst position in the mother’s uterus . Sometimes, babies are in feet-first position, resulting in breech birth. “There is a need for stepping up awareness on neo-natal care service offered by our team,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/108-emergency-medical-team-helps-woman-deliver-baby/article34503971.ece
07 May 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Casualties, new cases refuse to recede in South Coastal A.P.||The COVID-19 pandemic continued to spread rapidly in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, infecting close to 3,000 persons and claiming the lives of eight in a span of 24 hours. The death toll crossed the 1,300-mark in the region as six patients in Prakasam district and two others in Nellore district succumbed to the virus, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Thursday. Normal life was hit as authorities imposed an 18-hour curfew for the second day on Thursday. Barricades were erected on arterial roads in Nellore and Ongole to prevent unnecessary travel by people from 12 p.m. onwards. Shopkeepers downed the shutters even before noon to return to their homes early as police personnel strictly enforced the curfew with a view to breaking the chain of transmission of the virus in the region. As many as 1,666 persons in Prakasam district and another 1,292 persons in Nellore district contracted the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases past 28,000 in the two districts. Health professionals scrambled to treat the large number of patients as the available health infrastructure turned out to be inadequate to handle the active cases which poured into the Vidya Vidan Parishad hospitals as well as urban and rural public health centres. Health workers arranged oxygen cylinders on a temporary basis for patients waiting for allotment of beds at the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Ongole, which overflowed with patients. Patients were seen waiting for long hours for admission into the hospital. The overall caseload crossed 1.68 lakh. “We used to manage with two oxygen cylinders for a week or so earlier. But we now require six to eight cylinders while transporting patients by the 108 ambulance in the wake of a rapid rise in cases,” explained 108 Emergency services district manager S.Vijaykumar. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee leader Sripathy Prakasam demanded declaration of a ‘health emergency’ in the State and diversion of funds from other departments to the health department as the number of active cases rose swiftly. “All government buildings should be converted into COVID Care Centres (CCCs) as home isolation for positive cases is resulting in all family members of an infected person contracting the virus,” he said. Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N. Balaji urged the State government to vaccinate all persons above the age of 18 on a priority basis to stop the rise in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/casualties-new-cases-refuse-to-recede-in-south-coastal-ap/article34503957.ece
07 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chrysostom laid to rest in Thiruvalla||The mortal remains of Philipose Mar Chrysostom, Metropolitan Emeritus of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, were laid to rest with State honours at the St. Thomas Mar Thoma Church courtyard in Thiruvalla on Thursday. The final phase of the funeral service, led by Mar Theodosius Mar Thoma Metropolitan, began by 3 p.m. All the Bishops of the Mar Thoma Church were the co-celebrants. Heads of various other Churches and a wide array of leaders across all political parties attended the funeral service, carried out in four phases over a span of two days. Earlier on Thursday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Governor Arif Mohammad Khan visited the church headquarters in Thiruvalla and paid their last respects to the departed Metropolitan. Speaking on the occasion, the Governor recalled his meeting with the Metropolitan last year. “He was a man who truly loved everyone and took a special interest in those at the bottom of society,” the Governor said. “The humanitarian activities of the Metropolitan have influenced the society as a whole and may his soul rest in peace,” he added. In his condolence speech, the Chief Minister (CM) termed the Metropolitan a great personality with rare characteristics. Friend of the poor “Valiya Thirumeni always thought of the poor and the homeless and initiated programmes to help those in need. He always offered unconditional love and support whenever the State government initiated such projects as evident from his support to the LIFE Mission project,” the CM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chrysostom-laid-to-rest-in-thiruvalla/article34503254.ece
07 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dy. tahsildar alleges poor treatment at pvt. hospital||Deputy tahsildhar of Vajrapukotturu Mandal Murali Krishna on Thursday urged the government to take action against Medicover Hospital in Srikakulam, alleging that the management had failed in providing basic healthcare services to COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment its premises. Mr. Murali Krishna and his mother were admitted to the hospital after they tested positive two days ago. Releasing a video footage, Murali Krishna alleged that the hospital had provided stale food to the patients. The tahsildar also claimed that he, despite suffering from severe breathing problems, was given the normal medicines available in the pharmacies. Many tahsildhars and revenue officials who were worried about his health reportedly brought the issue to the notice of Collector J. Nivas. Meanwhile, the hospital representatives told media that proper care was taken of each and every patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dy-tahsildar-alleges-poor-treatment-at-pvt-hospital/article34503982.ece
07 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expert sounds caution on CBSE syllabus||Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation former president said training and appointment of qualified teachers was needed before the introduction of CBSE syllabus in government schools. “The government should tread cautiously as many students are from the Telugu medium background. The teachers trained in Telugu medium need time to get used to the new methods,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expert-sounds-caution-on-cbse-syllabus/article34503983.ece
07 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to go into full lockdown mode tomorrow||The Kerala government on Thursday announced a complete nine-day lockdown from May 8 to 16. Strict lockdown-like restrictions are already in place and the government decided on a complete shutdown as cases spiked. On Thursday, 42,464 cases were reported from 1,55,632 samples and the test positivity rate (TPR) rose to 27.28%. Active cases were at 3,90,906 and a record 63 deaths were added. Ernakulam had the most new cases at 6,506 and active cases at 61,845, Kozhikode (52,600), Malappuram (44,273), Thrissur (44,266) and Thiruvananthapuram (32,758). In Telangana, new cases dipped to 6,026 on Wednesday from 6,361 cases on Tuesday, while tests rose to 79,824 from 77,435. Official COVID-19 deaths rose to 52 from 51, and there were 77,127 active cases across Telangana. Greater Hyderabad led in the number of new cases at 1,115, followed by Medchal-Malakajgiri 418, Ranga Reddy 403 and Sangareddy 231. Cases in Nalgonda, Warangal, Mulug, Gadwal and Nagarkurnool spiked in the past week. The 21-30 and 31-40 age groups were infected more. Andhra Pradesh reported 72 deaths and 21,954 new infections on Thursday. Active cases rose to 1,82,329. The TPR of 1.1 lakh samples was 20%. Visakhapatnam reported 11 deaths, East Godavari and Vizianagaram nine each, Anantapur eight and Prakasam six deaths. Tamil Nadu on Thursday logged a high number of fatalities, with 195 more people succumbing to COVID-19. This took the toll to 14,974. The State added 24,898 more cases, taking the tally to 12,97,500.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-go-into-full-lockdown-mode-tomorrow/article34503266.ece
07 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Korea to get its first taste of A.P.’s Banganapalle mangoes||The juicy, delicious ‘king’ of Indian fruits is all set to titillate the taste buds of South Korea soon, as the first air shipment of Banganapalle mangoes left eastwards on Thursday. The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) dispatched the export consignment weighing 2.4 metric tonnes of the mango variety, which is a Geographical Indication (GI) registered product. IFFCO Kisan, which is working with 36,000 cooperatives across the country, convinced its South Korean technology partner into buying the first ever consignment of horticultural products from India. The fruits were graded and processed at the Vapour Heat Treatment plant in Tirupati. APEDA Chairman M. Angamuthu ‘virtually’ flagged off the consignment on Thursday morning, in tune with the COVID-19 guidelines, in the presence of IFFCO Kisan SEZ Managing Director Rakesh Kapur, Meejaim (South Korea) chairman Michelle Boos and Additional Director of Horticulture M. Venkateswarlu. The step was part of the Union government’s initiative to promote export of agricultural products having GI recognition. The consignment contains mainly Banganapalle mangoes besides a small quantity of ‘Suvarnarekha’ and ‘Sindhura’ varieties. The State has exported 26 tonnes of mangoes to New Zealand, Germany, England and Ireland so far during the current season. Last year, around 60 tonnes were exported owing to COVID-19 situation and the nationwide lockdown. Export target This year the State has set an ambitious target of exporting 300 tonnes by June-end. “We have procured the fruits from Piler and Rayachoti areas. The beneficiary farmers get a minimum additional income of Rs. 20 per kg over the prices prevailing in the local market,” Deputy Director (Horticulture) B. Srinivasulu told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/banganapalle-goes-to-south-korea/article34503257.ece
07 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social activist passes away||Renowned social activist and Padma Shri awardee Gutha Muniratnam breathed his last at a hospital in Chennai on Thursday afternoon. He was 86. A disciple of Acharya N.G. Ranga and former Member of Parliament P. Rajagopal Naidu, Muniratnam founded the Tirupati-based Rayalaseema Seva Samithi (RASS) as a social organisation with diverse activities in the form of reaching out to the mentally challenged, caring for the children, support to widows, tribal welfare, drug addiction victims and special care to senior citizens. As the organisation grew, it spread to many other States, and its outreach necessitated its rechristening as Rashtriya Seva Samithi (RASS). In tune with Dr. N.G. Ranga’s vision, RASS formed a Krishi Vignan Kendra (KVK) to promote modern agricultural practices among farmers. The Central and State governments not only made him a member of various committees, but also honoured him with awards. Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy expressed his sadness over his demise and called it an irreparable loss to the field of social service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-activist-passes-away/article34503300.ece
07 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Darshan timings changed at Tiruchanur temple||The TTD has announced that all ‘arjitha sevas’ will be performed in private (ekantam) at the Tiruchanur Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple, keeping in view the safety of devotees and in tune with the COVID-19 guidelines.  Accordingly, the temple will be open for devotees for ‘sarva darshan’ from 8.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. The morning break darshan will be allowed for half an hour from 11.30 a.m. to 12 noon. The temple will be closed for public from 12.45 p.m. to 4 p.m.. It will be closed for the day at 7.15 p.m. As ‘abhishekam’ will be performed to the ‘Moolavirat’ (presiding deity inside the sanctum sanctorum) on Fridays, ‘sarva darshan’ will be allowed from 9 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. The TTD has appealed to the devotees to take note of the changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/darshan-timings-changed-at-tiruchanur-temple/article34503302.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees 72 deaths and over 21k new infections in 24 hours||The State reported 72 deaths due to COVID-19 and 21,954 new infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The toll reached 8,446 and the cumulative tally jumped to 12,28,186.   The number of active cases increased to 1,82,329 as the recovery rate dropped to 84.47%. In the past day, 10,141 patients have recovered and the total recoveries stand at 10,37,411. The positivity rate of the 1.10 lakh samples tested in the past day was 20% and the overall positivity rate was 7.20. The number of samples tested crossed 1.7 crore. New cases Visakhapatnam reported 11 new deaths in the past day, while East Godavari and Vizianagaram saw nine new deaths each. Anantapur reported eight new deaths and Prakasam reported six deaths. Chittoor, Guntur and West Godavari reported five new deaths each, whereas Krishna, Kurnool and Srikakulam reported four new deaths each. Nellore reported two deaths and Kadapa reported no death in the past day. East Godavari reported 3,531 new infections, the highest ever single-day tally by any district so far. It was followed by Chittoor (2,354), Visakhapatnam (2,107), Srikakulam (1,930), Kurnool (1,920), Anantapur (1,871), Prakasam (1,666), Guntur (1,348), Nellore (1,292), Vizianagaram (1,160), Kadapa (1,130), West Godavari (1,088) and Krishna (548). The number of active cases crossed 20,000 in two districts including Chittoor (20,689 cases) and East Godavari (20,603). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,56,156), Chittoor (1,33,239), Guntur (1,15,245), West Godavari (1,06,610), Anantapur (93,218), Visakhapatnam (91,220), Kurnool (88,367), Nellore (88,278), Srikakulam (80,894), Prakasam (80,520), Kadapa (68,849), Krishna (66,811) and Vizianagaram (55884).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-72-deaths-and-over-21k-new-infections-in-24-hours/article34503966.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man gets two different results for COVID-19 test||In a stray incident, an asymptomatic man tested ‘positive’ for COVID only to be told that he tested 'negative' after a week even without giving a second sample. For reasons not known, he received two test results for a single sample he gave 10 days ago. The 29-year-old man, Sudheer (name changed), living with his aged parents in the city tested positive on April 29 after which he went into self-isolation in one of the rooms in his house. Sudheer gave his sample at a Primary Health Centre (PHC) in his area as directed by the State’s COVID helpline 104 in a hassle-free manner. After stressing out for a week under isolation with medication, Mr. Sudheer, who did not experience any symptom, decided to get tested soon and end isolation. However, to his surprise and shock, the government sent him a message and a test report, on Wednesday, which says he tested negative. “A relative of my friend whom I met two weeks ago tested positive and for the safety of my parents, I contacted 104 and went for testing. I gave the sample at Patamata on the 25th and after an anxious wait, the result came positive on 29th. Six days later, another test report was sent to my mobile saying the result was negative,” Mr. Sudheer, a private employee, said. “After going through both test reports I found that the sample IDs were different and collection time varied by an hour same day. Similarly, the samples were tested six days apart and I understood that an extra sample was attached to my identity. Unfortunately, there was no way to find which was my actual sample,” he said. “I spoke to 104 personnel who told me there were two test results under my Aadhaar. Even they couldn’t ascertain which was my sample and asked me to continue to stay isolated and get tested after a few days again,” Mr. Sudheer said. “I was happy the sample collection process was good but the result got delayed and mixed up causing me tension all these days. At the end of the day, I was relieved as none in the family showed any symptoms,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-gets-two-different-results-for-covid-19-test/article34503295.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM opens RTC bus depot at Punganur, hospital at Kadapa||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday virtually inaugurated the APSRTC bus depot at Punganur and RTC Area Hospital at Kadapa. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Jagan complimented the efforts of the RTC officials in bringing a project like this hospital in these difficult times of COVID-19. He said the hospital would provide better medical services to the RTC employees. He said he had kept his word by establishing the bus depot and the hospital. Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah said contrary to the previous government’s plan to privatise the Corporation by closing down the depots, Mr. Jagan had given a new lease of life to the public transport giant by merging its 50,000 workers into the government. The government had also taken upon itself the annual financial burden of Rs. 3,600 crore that the RTC incurred. Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said it took 40 years for the Punganur municipality to get a bus depot, thanks to the Chief Minister's initiative. The bus depot is constructed in seven acres at a cost of Rs. 7.5 crore. Equipped with a model workshop, the bus depot has been renamed after Dr. Y. S. Rajasekhar Reddy. The Area Hospital constructed in Kadapa at a cost of Rs. 3.8 crore is equipped with medical infrastructure worth Rs. 2 crore and has seven doctors, 25 paramedical and housekeeping staff to cater to the medical needs of the RTC workers and retired staff from Kadapa, Kurnool, Anantapur, Chittoor and Nellore districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-opens-rtc-bus-depot-at-punganur-hospital-at-kadapa/article34503303.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temporary COVID-19 treatment facilities at govt. hospitals soon||Health, Medical and Family Welfare Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal said temporary COVID-19 treatment facilities on the lines of COVID Care Centres will be set up on the premises of general hospitals with German hangers across the State to increase bed availability for patients. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Mr. Anil Kumar Singhal said that 200 to 300 beds would be arranged at each such facility in Guntur, Krishna, Nellore and other hospitals. He said mildly ill to moderately ill patients would be treated at these facilities and oxygen supply would also be available. Mr. Singhal said that private hospitals would be mandated to allocate vacant beds to the government for treatment under the Aarogyasri scheme hereafter and soon orders would be issued. He said empanelled hospitals were already required to allot 50% beds for Aarogyasri beneficiaries and further vacant beds in the hospital quota should also be given to the government. He said there were 16,967 beds in government hospitals, 25,058 beds in empanelled private hospitals and 1,949 beds in 47 COVID notified hospitals in the State. In the 349 empanelled hospitals 7,647 patients were getting treatment under Aarogyasri, he said. Oxygen supply Mr. Singhal said 25 cryogenic tankers with 20-tonne capacity each for transportation and supply of oxygen would be bought soon and orders were placed for the purchase of 10,000 oxygen concentrators. In addition, oxygen generation plants with 76-tonne capacity would be developed. Currently, six plants of 25 tonne capacity were operating. Mr. Singhal said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking enhancement of oxygen allocation to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temporary-covid-19-treatment-facilities-at-govt-hospitals-soon/article34503968.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prevalence of N440K variant minimal now’||The Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department had on Thursday stated that the COVID-19 variant, B.1.36 (N440K), was detected in June-July last year in the State, and in Karnataka and Telangana. “It was prevalent between December 2020 and February 2021. Its prevalence dropped drastically in March. It is very minimal now as per the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB),” said Health Department’s COVID Command and Control Centre chairman K.S. Jawahar Reddy in a release. In April, two major strains – B.1.617 (double mutant) and B.1 – had been identified in the positive samples collected from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana. “They are very infectious, and are also spreading in the younger age groups, apart from adults,” he said. On an average, 250 positive samples were being sent to the CCMB for genome sequencing every month from the laboratories in AP, the department said. ‘Variant of Interest’ Mr. Jawahar Reddy further stated that the World Health Organisation (WHO) considered the lineage, B.1.617, as Variant of Interest (VoI) from India in the COVID-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update dated April 25, but there was no mention of N440K, which, as per research data, was not very virulent. He said ‘B.1.617’ was originally found in samples from Maharashtra in January and later in samples from Delhi, Gujarat, AP. “N440K was efficient in cell culture system in experimental conditions. It may not behave the same way in humans, or a complicated pandemic scenario,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prevalence-of-n440k-variant-minimal-now/article34503964.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM enquires about COVID situation in State||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had a brief telephonic conversation on the COVID-19 containment measures taken by the State government on Thursday evening. Mr. Modi made the phone call to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who explained the steps taken to control the pandemic and the services being rendered to the patients who contracted the virus. Improvement of facilities The Chief Minister told Mr. Modi that there had been a significant improvement in the facilities at hospitals and necessary action was being taken from time to time to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pm-enquires-about-covid-situation-in-state/article34503976.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu mourns Ajit Singh||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has expressed grief over the death of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Ajit Singh. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Naidu lauded the services rendered by Ajit Singh to the people in his capacities as MP and Union Minister. “In his capacity as Union Agriculture Minister, Ajit Singh had brought in reforms that greatly benefited the farmers,” Mr. Naidu said, and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family smembers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-mourns-ajit-singh/article34503973.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Business hours in post offices revised||The business hours in post offices in Andhra Pradesh Postal Circle have been revised as 8 a.m. to 12 noon for general public in view of the curfew imposed by the State government owing to the prevailing pandemic situation. In a statement on Thursday, Chief Postmaster-General, Andhra Pradesh Circle, M. Venkateswarlu said people should note the changes and avail themselves of the postal services taking all precautions like use of mask and hand sanitisers and maintaining physical distance. He said transactions such as booking of registered post, speed post articles and cash withdrawals from saving accounts during business hours were being allowed. Customers could also deposit advance instalments in RD, PLI and PPF accounts, if required, he said. The Chief Postmaster-General said, however, people should refrain from small transactions in view of the pandemic situation. They could download IPPB app and PLI app for availing themselves of online savings/insurance products of India Post, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/business-hours-in-post-offices-revised/article34503974.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1,860-crore WB aid for education project||To provide a strong base to the pre-primary education proposed to be imparted from what are now the anganwadi centres in the State and the foundation learning courses in the government schools, the government is all set to roll out Learning Transformation Project. A statement released by the School Education Department on Wednesday said the project, to be implemented with the World Bank aid of Rs. 1,860 crore over a span of five years (2022-2027) through the Samagra Shiksha wing of the department, will help the State effectively implement the National Education Policy 2020. The project aims at promoting professional development among teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-1860-crore-wb-aid-for-education-project/article34503975.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulance charges capped||The district administration has capped ambulance charges for the transportation of dead bodies, on Thursday. In a release, Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said that in view of the complaints regarding the collection of exorbitant fees by ambulance operators, the government has decided to cap the charges in consultation with the Transport Department. He said an ambulance operator who collects more than the fixed amount will be taken to task by authorities. People can lodge complaints by dialling 9491058200. The rates were fixed based on the vehicle model and distance of transportation separately for COVID and non-COVID bodies. The base rate for any category of vehicle was Rs. 1,700 for a non-COVID body and Rs. 2,800 for a COVID body for a distance of 0-10 km. Further, in case of a smaller ambulance, the rate will vary between Rs. 2,200 and Rs. 4,620 for 11 to 110 km, after which Rs. 20 can be charged for every km for a non-COVID body. For COVID bodies, the charge varies between Rs. 2,800 and Rs. 5,720. Similarly, in the case of a bigger ambulance, the rate varies between Rs. 2,400 and Rs. 5,060. For COVID bodies, it varies between Rs. 3,300 and Rs. 6,160.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambulance-charges-capped/article34503950.ece
07 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi to launch talks on Bhagavad Gita online||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a series of talks on Bhagavad Gita Chapter 7 in English on YouTube delivered by Swami Chinmayananda, founder of Chinmaya Mission, on May 8. The occasion is being held to mark the 105th birth anniversary of Swami Chinmanayananda. The series will be posted from May 8 to 25, at 7.15 p.m. daily for 45 minutes, according to Swami Chidrupananda, one of the acharyas of Chinmaya Mission, in a release. “In the present times, all over the world and especially in India, there is an even greater requirement for peace and comfort of mind, to gather courage within, to deal with all the emotional turmoil that the pandemic has brought with it,” he says explaining the importance of Gita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modi-to-launch-talks-on-bhagavad-gita-online/article34503951.ece
07 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One year on, Vizag gas leak victims lament ‘government inaction’||On this day a year ago, the people of the city were rudely woken up from their slumber, and made to run for their lives. They were reminded of the Bhopal gas tragedy in December 1984, as some parts of the Port City had turned into a gas chamber. Panic situation A little after 3 a.m. on May 7, 2020, styrene monomer vapour had leaked from one of the storage tanks at the LG Polymers India plant at R.R. Venkatapuram, and within minutes, the area and the localities surrounding it such as SC-BC Colony, Nandamuri Nagar, Kamparapalem and Padmanabhanagar were engulfed with the pungent smelling vapour. Rescue effort The residents of the five colonies, numbering around 20,000, had run helter-skelter, leaving their dear ones who fell unconscious either at home or along the road margins. Twelve persons had lost their lives and 580 others were hospitalised in the incident. Soon after the incident, the city had witnessed the biggest civilian rescue operation in its history. The first to reach the site was an inspector of the Gopalapatnam police station, the then Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena, DCP Uday Bhaskar, a few other police officers, and personnel from the Fire Department. “Wrapping wet towels around our faces, we walked into the villages and broke open the doors to rescue people lying unconscious inside. With the help of local youth, we shifted people by police vehicles up to the road point,” recollected Mr. Meena. District Collector V. Vinay Chand had arranged evacuation of the sick to the hospitals from the road point. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana had supervised the sanitation and spraying operation to reduce the intensity of the vapour. “We had to take care of the COVID-19 patients on the one hand and the people affected by the gas leak on the other at the KGH. Providing treatment posed a challenge. We could save many lives,” said P.V. Sudhakar, Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC). NGT report The National Green Tribunal (NGT), in its report, had held the LG Polymers India liable for the loss of life. The High-Power Committee constituted by the State government had attributed the accident to serious lapses on the part of the company management to ensure safety and security systems in place. “The committee had recommended the shifting of the factory. But nothing has happened so far,” said CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao. “The State government had promised to start a full-fledged clinic to monitor the health of the residents. But no steps have been taken to fulfil the promise,” a few residents told The Hindu . “Initially, a clinic was opened in a school. It, however, has no doctor. It is manned by an ASHA worker,” said Hemalatha, a 16-year-old student, whose mother continues to suffer from serious health issues after the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-year-on-gas-leak-victims-rue-govt-inaction/article34503259.ece
07 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spl. trains temporarily cancelled||The Railways authorioties have decided to cancel some special trains temporarily owing to slump in the occupancy ration in view of the sharp spike in coronavirus infections. Train no. 08516 Visakhapatnam- Kirandul special express will be cancelled from May 7 to 21 and 08515 Kirandul- Visakhapatnam special express will be cancelled from May 8 to 22. Train no. 08445 Bhubaneswar-Jagdalpur special express will not ply between May 8 and 22 and in the return direction 08446 Jagdalpur- Visakhapatnam special express will be cancelled from May 9 to 23. Train no.02708 Tirupati-Visakhapatnam double-decker special express will be cancelled from May 7 to 30 and 02707 Visakhapatnam-Tirupati Double Decker special express from May 8 to 31, said A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division of the East Coast Railway (ECoR). Similarly, train no.02784 Secunderabad-Visakhapatnam special express will be cancelled from May 8 to 29 and 02783 Visakhapatnam-Secunderabad special express from May 9 to 30. Train no. 08528 Visakhapatnam-Raipur and 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam special express trains will be cancelled on May 8, 9, 15 and 16 and train no. 08301 Sambalpur-Rayagada special and 08302 Rayagada-Sambalpur special trains on May 8, 9, 15 and 16. The Railways authorities has urged the people to take note of the changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spl-trains-temporarily-cancelled/article34503986.ece
07 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Advisory for passengers||The Railways authorities have launched measures to check the spread of COVID-19 infections by enforcing appropriate curbs at stations, ticket counters and on trains to prevent overcrowding, including fines for not wearing masks. All passengers are undergoing thermal scanning at the railway stations under Waltair Division. As different State governments are issuing health advisories , passengers should invariably follow the protocols at originating and destination stations, the officials said. The A.P. governmenthas imposed curfew from May 5 to 18, allowing movement of people between 6 a.m. and noon. Similarly, it has been made mandatory for all passengers reaching West Bengal from outside the State to furnish RT-PCR negative test reports issued not more than 72 hours before departure of the train, said A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/advisory-for-passengers/article34503985.ece
07 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. yet to implement suggestions of panel on industrial safety: HRF||Pointing out that a year has passed since the leakage of styrene monomer vapour from the LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram that clamied at least 12 lives, Human Rights Forum (HRF) Andhra Pradesh and Telangana coordination committee member V.S. Krishna has alleged that the State government has barely done anything when it comes to implementation of the recommendations submitted to it by the High Power Expert Committee. He said that the High Power Expert Committee appointed by the State government in the aftermath of the LG plant tragedy had made many vital recommendations such as the need for a comprehensive industrial safety audit of all hazardous industries in and around Visakhapatnam. “But no such audit appears to have been undertaken till date. After the LG plant tragedy, a similar but less fatal accident took place at a unit in the Pharma City. According to a rough estimate, more than 30 accidents have been reported in the last five years. By not acting on the committee’s recommendations, the government has displayed lack of sensitivity to the welfare of the people living in the vicinity of hazardous units,” said HRF general secretary (Andhra Pradesh) K. Sudha. Impact on public health The HRF demanded that an independent expert institution needs to be entrusted to determine the short and long-term health impacts, including the possible incidence of carcinogenic diseases among the people affected by the styrene vapour leak . In addition, the liability must include the impact on the health of the livestock, environment including water bodies such as Meghadrigedda reservoir located nearby. New industrial units “The decisions on starting new industrial units should be based more on public approval rather than on the people sitting in Delhi or Amaravati who take decisions in the name of attracting investments. Every new investment must be subject to a comprehensive social-cost-benefit analysis and a genuine public consultation process . The investment ought to be permitted if the net social benefit is positive, subject to public endorsement,” said Mr. Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-yet-to-implement-suggestions-of-panel-on-industrial-safety-hrf/article34503989.ece
07 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 die, 1,927 new cases reported in 24 hours||The district recorded 1,927 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 91,732. The number of active cases has gone up to 15,873. The district also recorded 11 deaths for the second consecutive day, taking the total toll to 666. As many as 2,246 persons were discharged on their revovery in the last 24 hours, taking the total count to 75,193. In the last four days, the district has recorded more than 8,000 infections and 40 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-die-1927-new-cases-reported-in-24-hours/article34503990.ece
07 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fever outbreak worries people in tribal hamlet||There is an outbreak of fevers in Jajulabandha hamlet of Moolapeta panchayat in Koyyuru mandal in the Visakha Agency. Though these fevers are seasonal, the tribals are worried in view of the COVID situation. Twenty seven tribal families living atop a hill depend on a spring for their drinking water needs. At least 20 persons were affected by fevers, said CPI (M) leaders K. Govinda Rao and M. Suribabu. There is no power supply to the hamlet and the 8-km kutcha road laid by the tribal people to the hamlet on their own is adequate riding bikes only. Ambulances cannot reach the village and the sick have to be carried in ‘dolies’ to the road point, says Mr. Govinda Rao. The CPI(M) leaders demand that a health camp should be conducted in the hamlet for the benefit of the tribal people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fever-outbreak-worries-people-in-tribal-hamlet/article34503984.ece
07 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman killed by elephants||A woman was killed by wild elephants moving between Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border at Patakallikota village of Komarada mandal of Vizianagaram district in early hours of Thursday. Allada Appamma, 40, went to the nearby fields to collect vegetables when the jumbos chased and killed her. With multiple injuries she died on the spot. The CPI(M) had demanded that the government announce compensation immediately to her family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-killed-by-elephants/article34503255.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||War rooms face absenteeism||Emergency response in the city was hit following search operations by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police, which is investigating the bed allotment scam. A day after police teams raided all eight zonal war rooms, seized data storage devices and questioned staff, a large attrition rate was reported. “Many are youth taken on contractual basis to work in these call centres. The police have not harassed anyone, but these youngsters and their parents are scared. Many have stopped coming, some have quit. We are struggling to keep pace with emergency calls. We hope the situation will return to normal in two days. We are also counselling those working in war rooms,” said a senior civic official, overseeing war rooms in the city. Worst affected The worst hit was the South zone war room, which saw nearly 40% absenteeism on Thursday. MP Tejasvi Surya and three BJP MLAs had stormed into the war room on Tuesday, and live-streamed the expose. Of the 206 employees working there, they targeted 17 Muslims, who have since been removed from war room duty. Vinay (name changed), working in the South zone war room, said it had become tough answering emergency calls. “If we say there is no ICU bed, people ask our names to find out which community we belong to. Some offer us money for a bed, others abuse us,” he said. Vinay recounted two cases in the last two weeks where parents of those working in the war room turned critical with COVID-19 and they couldn’t find a bed. “One of them died,” he said. “There is a real shortage of beds. But now people are not believing us when we tell them that beds are occupied,” he said. In a bid to expose how Tejasvi Surya targeted only the 17 Muslim employees of the total workforce of 206, the entire list of employees was published by several individuals on Twitter and Facebook, triggering off another round of abusive calls to personal numbers. Women in the war room also allegedly face sexual harassment from callers. Touts took commission Meanwhile, CCB officials have formed eight special teams to analyse the data recovered from the zonal war rooms. “We are gathering data from all the war rooms to ascertain how and to whom beds had been allotted to,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). Two doctors – one from the Bomanhalli war room and the other from South zone – have been arrested along with two other members of the staff. The hospitals in which the accused have blocked beds are also under investigation. Police custody of the four accused has been extended. Social worker Nethravati and her nephew Rohith who had been arrested in a related scam, allegedly claimed to taking a 10% commission on every bed sold. “They gave the rest of the money to their contacts in the war room,” said a senior police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/war-rooms-face-absenteeism/article34503262.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police appeal to people to stay indoors||With the curfew in force from noon to 6 a.m., the police have appealed to the people to stay indoors. The RTC drivers were seen pouring sanitiser on the palms of passengers. There was no social distancing with all the seats occupied. A driver said they were forced to carry more passengers to make them reach their destinations within the limited time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-appeal-to-people-to-stay-indoors/article34503987.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Keep 50% beds in empanelled hospitals for patients’||Keeping in view the growing demand for oxygen, the State government requested the Centre to transport 200 MT per day from Sriperumbudur and another 200 MT from Ballari and Odisha. A total of 16,981 staff had been recruited this year, including medical professionals, staff nurses, technicians, data entry operators and MNOs and FNOs. As far as vaccination was concerned, two doses had so far been given to 12 lakh people and a single dose to 42 lakh people. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, Covid command control chairman K.S. Jawahar Reddy and Director General of Police Gautam Sawang were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-50-beds-in-empanelled-hospitals-for-patients/article34503972.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Model interviews for SC, ST candidates||The AP Study Circle will conduct model interviews for candidates belonging to the SC and ST communities and others who have cleared the Mains Examination of Group-I Services, conducted by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC). In a statement on Thursday, the Director of Social Welfare Department said the idea was to provide exposure and guidance by experienced panel members and help them crack the interview round. In view of the current surge of COVID-19 virus, the model interviews would be conducted in online mode only. Priority would be given to candidates whose family’ annual income is not exceeding Rs. 2.5 lakh.  Interested SC, ST and other candidates should register their applications in jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in on or before May 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/model-interviews-for-sc-st-candidates/article34503304.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||On the frontlines||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-the-frontlines/article34503961.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All for themselves!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-for-themselves/article34503308.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Care centres opened for children of COVID patients||The District Women and Child Welfare Department has opened two care centres for the children of people who tested positive for the virus, and have none to take care of them. District Child Protection Officer B.A. Satyanarayana said the children would be handed over to their parents after they recover. For details, dial toll-free numbers 181 or 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/care-centres-opened-for-children-of-covid-patients/article34503988.ece
07 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||6,026 test positive in State, 52 succumb||There is a small dip in the number of COVID positive cases with 6,026 on Wednesday, compared to 6,361 cases detected on Tuesday, with the number of tests conducted showing a rise at 79,824 as against 77,435 tests conducted the day before. The official death toll count, however, rose by one to 52 from 51. The total number of active cases rose to 77,127 across Telangana and the majority of cases continued to be from the twin cities and suburbs. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said in the official bulletin issued on Thursday that the fatality rate across TS is about 0.54% less than the national average of 1.1%. The number of people recovered is 6,551 and it means about 3.96 lakh persons have recovered from coronavirus, the recovery rate being 83.24% and more than the national average of 82% whereas the total number of those infected from last year is around 4.76 lakh. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) leads the number of cases with 1,115 followed by Medchal-Malakajgiri 418, RangaReddy 403 and Sangareddy 231. There has been marked rise in the cases where municipal polls have been conducted recently with Nalgonda showing 368 cases, Siddipet 231, Khammam 205, Warangal Urban 224 and Warangal Rural 133 cases. Other districts with significant positive cases are Karimnagar 223, Nagarkurnool 206 and Medak 205. Official figures show a noticeable spike in COVID cases from the districts of Nalgonda, Warangal, Mulug, Gadwal, Nagarkurnool in the last one week, whereas there is a slight fall in cases in the districts in and around the capital. Cases are less in the districts of Nirmal 41, Narayanpet 50, Kumarambheem Asifabad 52, Adilabad 56, Jangoan 60, Jayashankar Bhupalapally 75 and Rajanna Sircilla 76. An interesting pattern is discernible in the current second wave with people in the age group of 21-30 and 31-40 being infected more. From among COVID positive men, 21.6% each belong to these two age groups while for women, it is 8.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Men in the age groups of 41-50 form 17.6% of cases and 14.5% are in the 51-60 age group. In case of women, 41-50 age group form 6.5% of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/6026-test-positive-in-state-52-succumb/article34503868.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Focus on treatment: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has stressed the need to focus on treatment by providing medical kits to those with symptoms of coronavirus without waiting for the test reports. If symptoms like fever persist for more than four days, patients should then be administered steroids that can save people from breathlessness and problems, he said. The Chief Secretary visited Boggulakunta urban primary health centre to see the functioning of COVID outpatient services, which were started in all government medical institutions, including hospitals, sub-centres and PHCs across the State. The Chief Secretary went through the health centre and inquired about the arrangements made for outpatient services. Doctors informed the Chief Secretary that regular services were being provided in the health centre while COVID OPD services were being provided in a community hall nearby. This was being done to avoid over-crowding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-treatment-cs/article34503879.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Probe encroachments by other TRS leaders too’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy has alleged that the government appointed committee on encroachment of Endowment lands of Seetha Ramaswamy temple in Devarayamjal has not visited the lands owned by Ministers K.T. Rama Rao and Ch. Malla Reddy, and demanded the only a CBI enquiry can bring out total truth behind the encroachment. Mr. Reddy along with a fact finding committee of the Congress visited the lands on Thursday and showed what he alleged was a farm house built by the relatives of Labour Minister Malla Reddy, He said the government committee headed by IAS officer Mr. Raghunandan Rao did not even visit the farm house and other lands owned by TRS leaders. He said Mr. Raghunandan Rao is a close relative of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and he can not be expected to give any fair report but only prepare the one dictated by Mr. Rao. He asked other IAS officers in the committee to be fair in their observations as it was bound to be challenged in the court. Mr. Reddy said there are 160 illegal constructions in the Deverayamjal village itself and wanted the government to reveal the records of 1,531 acres of land of the temple since 1926. But the government committee is only enquiring about the land holdings and constructions of dismissed Minister Eatala Rajender with a political motive. He claimed that printing centres of two newspapers owned by the Chief Minister’s family too are located on the same lands in survey no. 437. Similarly 84 acres from survey nos. 212 to 218 are owned by Gandra Srinivas, a close relative of the Chief Minister, he said. Though these lands were not to be registered, the Shamirpet Sub Registrar registered these lands and a case should be filed against him, he said. Mr. Reddy claimed that Minister Malla Reddy’s relative Srinivas Reddy had occupied land in Survey No 657 and incidentally Mr. Srinivas Reddy’s wife is the chairperson of Gundla Pochampalli Municipality representing the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS). The Congress Member of Parliament claimed that there are several illegal constructions of Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao around the city but the government is silent on the issue. He said Mr. Rama Rao along with HMDA Commissioner and RERA chairman Somesh Kumar would have to be held responsible for the illegal constructions. Former Member of Parliament Mallu Ravi, former Whip E. Anil, TPCC general secretary Venugopal, TPCC vice president Narsimha Reddy and Congress leaders Harivardhan Reddy and Turkaplly Venugopal Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-encroachments-by-other-trs-leaders-too/article34503893.ece
07 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘CS lying on COVID situation’||Telangana BJP on Thursday charged Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar with giving “false information” and “lying to the people” about the COVID-19 status in Telangana by under-reporting cases and deaths. Senior leader Gudur Narayana Reddy said that claiming the “COVID situation was under control was blatantly false” and this was an effort to “sweep facts under the carpet”. Both government and private hospitals are overwhelmed with COVID patients and beds are not available. Mr. Kumar does not seem to know the ground reality, he said “Let us make calls to the hospitals in the presence of the media. I am sure that we would not get even one bed with ventilator immediately. Such is the situation in Telangana,” he said in a press statement. While the CS seems to be handling the situation in the last two days, he was not available to anyone wishing to make a representation and there is no word on the promised Rs. 2,500 crore for vaccination by the Chief Minister, he maintained. While many people were dying due to COVID everyday, the CS was not inclined to acknowledge these facts, he said and wondered how Telangana would be able to face any further waves. Mr. Reddy criticised Mr. Somesh Kumar “for dancing to the tune of the Chief Minister” and not bothering to visit a single hospital to check on the treatment. He alleged that the Chief Minister was not showing any interest in the administration and has neglected the COVID situation while the crucial health portfolio lacks a full-fledged minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-lying-on-covid-situation/article34503870.ece
07 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ordnance Factory Hospital needs doctors||Ordnance Factory Hospital Medak, Yeddumailaram, intends to hire services of two medical professionals on contractual basis for smooth running of the hospital for a term of three months. Panel A panel will be prepared from a walk-in-interview which will be valid for six months. Doctors will be, if needed, required to stay in the campus due to exigency of work and will be given suitable accommodation. Basic qualification required for the above post is MBBS degree from any MCI recognised medical college of India only and he/she should be registered with any State/Central Medical Council. The terms and conditions of the contract may be enquired from Ordnance Factory Hospital, Yeddumailaram (Phone No. 040 23283480). Interested candidates may contact S Srinivasa Rao on mobile number 8332999339, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ordnance-factory-hospital-needs-doctors/article34503872.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Increasing expenditure will stimulate economy’||Former RBI Governor and Chancellor of ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (IFHE) C Rangarajan has said that the hope of economic recovery was high after the first wave but with the second wave, recovery appeared difficult as the spread of virus had adversely impacted several sectors resulting in unemployment and weakening demand. To handle this situation, the government had to consider increasing expenditure to push demand in the system as a stimulant for the economy, he said, while addressing the two-day 14th Annual Doctoral Thesis Conference organised by the ICFAI Business School, Hyderabad, in collaboration with the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR) here on Thursday. The conference with its focus on the topic ‘Macroeconomics and Finance’ was also addressed by Prof. S. Mahendra Dev, Director and Vice Chancellor of IGIDR and President, Indian Economic Association, who felt that the pandemic had been more severe for India as it had struck at a time when the economy was already slowing down. He said, “While big companies could manage the first wave, the informal sector and MSMEs were impacted adversely. But in the second wave, manufacturing and some industries would also be impacted, especially contact intensive services.” He opined that building capital base and good corporate governance will determine growth after COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/increasing-expenditure-will-stimulate-economy/article34503873.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fever survey: 47,582 households screened||As part of the ongoing fever survey, a measure to control COVID-19, 700 teams of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) surveyed 47,582 households on Thursday under its jurisdiction. As per the directions of the State government, the GHMC started the survey on Monday to find out those having the virus symptoms so that treatment could be given immediately and stop further spread of the virus. COVID tests were conducted to 18,765 out-patients who visited the Basti Dawakhanas, Urban Health Centres and others. Officials said that the team comprises an auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM), an ASHA worker and a GHMC worker, who visit the households and check all family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fever-survey-47582-households-screened/article34503874.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police launch free food delivery for patients||To help COVID-19 patients in home isolation get access to nutritious food, Telangana police launched ‘Seva Ahaar’ (free lunch) service, in association with Sri Satya Sai Seva Organizations, Leadlife Foundation, Swiggy, Big Basket and Hope Organization. “Needy people can drop a WhatsApp message on +91 7799616163 by providing their name, contact number, location and isolation COVID-19 positive certificate,” the office of Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy said. The initiative to provide food at the patient’s doorstep is expected to cater to the needs of 1,000 to 2,000 COVID affected people everyday, they said. Requests should be placed everyday before 6 a.m. and any request post that shall be considered as a next day’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-launch-free-food-delivery-for-patients/article34503880.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Our land purchase is legal, says Telangana Publications||The Telangana Publications Private Limited (TPPL), that owns Namasthe Telangana newspaper, has said that the land purchased by it in Devarayamjal doesn’t fall in the endowment lands as alleged by the Congress Member of Parliament A. Revanth Reddy. In a statement, the TPPL said it owns just 4.14 acres and it was bought in three different phases starting from 2011 when the Congress party was in power. Moreover, the land is in Survey No 437 and lands of this survey number were neither part of the endowment lands nor in the prohibited list, it said. The TPPL rejected the allegations of Mr. Reddy that it has more than 10 acres of land and said the land transactions of 4.14 acres it owns were transparent and as per the legal norms. It also rejected his charge that the sheds were constructed violating the norms and said they were well below the permissible limit of 50 metres. Moreover, the TPPL has been paying the property tax on time to the concerned department. Still if anyone has any doubts over our claims, they are free to lodge a complaint with the government appointed committee and the TPPL would fully cooperate with the committee for enquiry, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/our-land-purchase-is-legal-says-telangana-publications/article34503895.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Konda Vishweshwar Reddy calls on Eatala||Former Chevella MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy called on MLA Eatala Rajender at his residence in Medchal amidst rumours that the latter may launch a new political party after his differences with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao were out in open leading to his dismissal from the Cabinet. Mr. Reddy, who was the TRS MP from Chevella from 2014 to 2019, and later shifted to Congress, himself has been a critic of the Chief Minister’s style of functioning. In recent times, he also moved away from Congress and indicated the need for a separate political force to take on the TRS. There were rumours that he may launch a political party bringing together anti-TRS forces. The duo apparently discussed the latest political developments and Mr. Reddy is said to have impressed upon Mr. Rajender for a separate political force, and that he was the right person as well to launch it. However, Mr. Rajender’s followers later revealed: It is too early to talk of a new political party or a platform. The dismissed Minister is now waiting for the next move of the Chief Minister and is no hurry to resign from the TRS or as a MLA. “Let the report of the committee constituted to target him come out totally and the TRS will be exposed of witch-hunting,” a close aide of Mr. Rajender said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/konda-vishweshwar-reddy-calls-on-eatala/article34503896.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Name a project after MSR’||TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has urged the government to name any project or a scheme after late Congress leader M. Satyanarayana Rao to recognise his services to Telangana. At a condolence meeting organised by the TPCC virtually, Mr. Reddy said MSR was a tall leader who worked with several generation of Congress leaders from Jawaharlal Nehru to Rahul Gandhi. He excelled in several roles as an MP, MLA, Minister, PCC president and also several Parliamentary committees and he deserves due recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/name-a-project-after-msr/article34503894.ece
07 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination resumes for 45+||The government has informed that COVID vaccination has once again been initiated for the age group of 45 years and above at all government centres and permitted private COVID vaccination centres from Thursday onwards. Accordingly, the first and second dose would be administered to all those who are 45 years and above only by prior registrations and booking of online slots on CoWIN portal. For booking of slots, the portal may be accessed at www.cowin.gov.in. About 48,055 people took the first dose and 30,765 took the second dose, including frontline and healthcare workers, and those who are 45 years of age. With this, the total cumulative vaccination figures are — 42,72,955 persons took the first dose and 6,86,220 the second dose. Director of Public Health (DPH) G. Srinivasa Rao informed that while 50,69,850 vaccine doses have been issued, doses administered as per the https:// dashboard.cowin.gov.in/ has been 49,59,155 with wastage of 0.95%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-resumes-for-45/article34503869.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Burglary bid at Muthoot branch||An unidentified man made an unsuccessful attempt to loot the Dundigal branch of the Muthoot Finance Company, here in the wee hours of Thursday. His hour-long act to loot the gold and other valuables from the vaults of the major gold loan NBFC, was caught on the surveillance cameras installed on the premises. According to Balanagar DCP P.V. Padmaja, a man gained entry into the Muthoot branch by making a hole in the four-inch wall on the front side. The branch is located on the first floor of a building near Gandimaisamma and the incident took place around 2.30 a.m. “Though he was successful in making a hole and gaining entry into the branch, he could not break into the strongroom and the alarms went off,” she said. Soon, the local police rushed to the spot, but by then he managed to escape. Police said that the offender was only carrying a hammer and did not have either a gas cutter or any another equipment. Clues team collected the fingerprints from the spot, and a dog squad team inspected the premises. A man hunt was launched to identify and nab the offender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/burglary-bid-at-muthoot-branch/article34503881.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana Chief Minister KCR mourns Ajit Singh’s death||Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao has mourned the death of former Union Minister and Rashtriya Lok Dal president Chowdary Ajit Singh. He said Ajit Singh, who was a Cabinet Minister, continued the proud legacy of his father Chowdary Charan Singh and was reputed as farmers’ leader in the country. Ajit Singh had extended his wholehearted support to separate Telangana movement as also the political process of Telangana. The Chief Minister said people in Telangana would always remember those who support their aspirations and conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-chief-minister-kcr-mourns-ajit-singhs-death/article34503900.ece
07 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Anxious for vaccination||As the third phase of COVID-19 vaccination drive for people aged 45 and above is currently underway, several youths like Satish of Mudigonda, who reportedly registered their names on Co-Win portal to receive COVID-19 jabs, are anxiously waiting for the State government’s nod for inoculating those in the age group of 18-44. Satish, a native of Mudigonda, was among several youths of the mandal, famous for a cluster of granite factories, who registered their names online on Co-Win platform in the last week of April to get themselves vaccinated against COVID-19. The third phase of vaccination drive is yet to pick up the desired momentum in tune with the imperative need to ramp up the vaccination drive, the vital tool to combat the COVID-19. A total of 1,38,345 vaccine doses were administered at as many as 34 government and five private designated sites in the district ever since the drive was launched in January this year, sources said. The drive is progressing at a relatively slow pace in several mandals, including Mudigonda in Khammam division, due to multiple factors, predominantly short supply of vaccines, sources added. A little over 3000 persons were inoculated as part of the COVID-19 vaccination drive in Mudigonda mandal so far. Nearly 100 persons were administered COVID-19 vaccines at the primary health centre (PHC) in Mudigonda on Wednesday. “I received my first dose of vaccine today after booking a slot online on the official portal," said Srinivas, a middle-aged man of Mudigonda. “I tried twice to get vaccinated in the hitherto on the spot registration mode at the same centre in the last fortnight but in vain,” he said, adding that the online mode of pre-booking slots is quite convenient. “We are administering COVID-19 vaccines based on pre-booked slots in a hassle-free manner in adherence to the stipulated norms,” Medical Officer at the Mudigonda PHC Arshida, told The Hindu , when contacted. The granite hub of Mudigonda mandal is inhabited by hundreds of migrant workers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and various other States, Mr. Satish said, adding that there was an urgent need to scale up the COVID-19 testing and vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anxious-for-vaccination/article34503889.ece
07 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||123 bus services cancelled due to COVID-induced curfew||All the entry and exit points on the inter-State border with Andhra Pradesh in as many as six border mandals in the erstwhile composite Khammam district have virtually turned into fortresses with police setting up check-posts along the border points to effectively enforce the coronavirus-induced curfew. As the two-week long daily 18-hour curfew came into force in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh from Wednesday noon, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) cancelled around 123 inter-State bus services from various depots in Khammam region to different destinations in Andhra Pradesh temporarily. Operational constraints The decision has been taken due to the operational constraints and the daily night curfew presently in force in Telangana from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. to curb the COVID-19 spread, the TSRTC sources said. Meanwhile, the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh police personnel stepped up security on the border points along the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border by erecting barricades and deploying additional police personnel to strictly implement the COVID-19 induced curfew in the two States. However, the essential services including emergency medicare services and inter-State movement of goods among others notified in the prohibitory orders have been exempted from the curfew. Vigil has been mounted at all the border points in Madhira, Bonakal, Wyra, Vemsoor, Bhadrachalam and Aswaraopet mandals in the old undivided Khammam district to effectively enforce the curfew and take stringent action against the violators of the prohibitory orders to stem the rising tide of coronavirus infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/123-bus-services-cancelled-due-to-covid-induced-curfew/article34503899.ece
07 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Three hospital employees suspended||Taking a serious note of the alleged sale of Remdesivir injections by three employees of the District Headquarters Hospital in black market, Collector R V Karnan on Thursday suspended a staff nurse and two outsourced employees of the hospital for their alleged involvement in the incident. The incident came to light on Wednesday when the Khammam Police Commissioner’s task force personnel arrested them while they were allegedly selling six Remdesivir injections to some private persons at an inflated price of Rs. 38,000 per injection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-hospital-employees-suspended/article34503897.ece
07 May 2021||SIDDAPUR (SANGAREDDY),TELANGANA||Multiple visits just to get a swab test||Limited availability of vaccine as well as testing kits is proving a bane to the rural areas. Residents who are turning out in good numbers to get themselves tested and undergo vaccination are being left high and dry. Take Janaki, a native of Siddapur in Sadashivapet mandal. Into her 50s, Janaki developed some symptoms and suspecting that it might be corona, she wanted to get herself tested and give no scope for doubts. She has been making rounds of the Community Health Centre (CHC) in the village. Though she arrived at the centre at about 9 a.m., she had to wait well into the afternoon with no guarantee that she will succeed in getting her sample taken. A few metres away a makeshift shelter has been rigged up with green shade net from the wall of the CHC, in which more than a dozen people, including a family with a child, are waiting for their turn to get tested. All of them reached the CHC by around nine in the morning and were eagerly waiting their turn to get tested. There were a groups of people waiting under shade of trees nearby, who were keeping distance from others fearing contracting the disease from suspected COVID-19 patients. Everyday more than 150 people land up at the CHC for testing and only the lucky 100 are able to get their samples collected as there is a limit on the number of testing kits supplied to the CHC. People complain that several visits to the centre turned out to be in vain as the counter would be closed by the time they reached it after hours of waiting. Further, the CHC also gets a limited number of vaccination shots. They are expected to do only 100 shots and they are forced to send people back as the quota gets completed quickly. “Earlier, on some days we used to test more than 150 people. But now the supply is limited and we are helpless. For vaccination, earlier we were allowed walk-in registration. However, now there are strict instructions not to entertain walk-in registration and everything must be online only,” said a doctor, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/multiple-visits-just-to-get-a-swab-test/article34503883.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Need of the hour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/need-of-the-hour/article34503877.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Response||My sister, brother-in-law and I are senior citizens. We took the first dose of Covaxin at a corporate hospital near our house on March 22. We were asked to report after a month that is on April 19 but since then, we are trying our best to get the second dose but in vain. The website, https://www.cowin.gov.in/home, does not show the availability of the vaccine in any government or private hospital. To mitigate the hardship faced by senior citizens like us, I suggest the following: Designate government / private hospitals for Covaxin / Covishield at least in urban areas where the population density is high, facilitate the registration process giving specific date and time for administering the jab, as in passport offices, inform citizens by SMS/email on vaccine availability, arrange to administer the jabs free in housing societies, schools, marriage halls or public parks, to cover large sections. H. Surya Prakash Rao LB Nagar    My wife and I had first been vaccinated at a private hospital in the second week of March. They told us that they would certify after our second dose but to our dismay, CoWin website continues to show our status as “not vaccinated”. The hospital could offer no answer to this issue and also informed about non-availability of the second dose. We had to register again and managed to get the second dose at a PHC but online it shows that we got one dose only. What is the remedy? Thiagarajan Hyderabad    We are senior citizens and took our first dose of Covaxin at a local corporate hospital. But, it’s been eight weeks that we are desperately waiting for our turn for the second dose. After receiving a “No stock” reply all these days, we are now informed that we have to register at the nearest PHC as private hospitals no longer have stock. A voluntary organisation in Bengaluru is offering both Covaxin and Covishield vaccines at the doorstep. Such a facility here would be a boon for senior citizens and the infirm. K. Seshagiri Rao Hyderabad    Many people aren’t getting the message that the second dose matters. More than five million people or nearly 8% of those who got a first shot of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, have missed their second doses in the United States too. The reasons why people are missing their second shots vary, some people say they are worried about side effects, which have widely been reported to be worse after the second dose. Others say second shot appointments have been cancelled, and it’s hard to reschedule. But research also shows many people are just confused and wrongly think one shot is enough. More awareness is necessary on this. Avani Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/response/article34503871.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Surge has exposed medical infrastructure’||The Delhi High Court on Thursday observed that the current surge in COVID-19 cases has “completely exposed” the existing medical infrastructure of the Capital and that the Delhi government’s counsel was “behaving like the ostrich with its head in the sand”. The stern observation of a Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli came when senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, urged the court not to include certain remarks about the state of medical infrastructure in Thursday’s order. “You [Mr. Mehra] are behaving like the ostrich with its head in the sand. When you defend this situation, you are not rising above politics. We always call a spade a spade,” the court said. “The existing medical infrastructure in the State is completely exposed...when it was put to test, and this court cannot turn away people like the petitioner [a COVID patient] by merely telling him that the State does not have the infrastructure to deal with his situation...” the High Court said. Mr. Mehra, who initially urged the court not to say that Delhi’s infrastructure is struggling or that it was in a shambles, later withdrew his statement. Mr. Mehra said that the government has taken several initiatives, but in the absence of oxygen, the hospitals were reducing beds. The High Court was hearing a plea by a 53-year-old COVID patient seeking an ICU bed with a ventilator as his oxygen saturation levels had fallen to around 40. Equal treatment While ordering the government to provide sufficient infrastructure to undergo the treatment required to save his life, the court added that the 53-year-old not being able to approach the court cannot be a reason to pass an order in his favour so that he can “steal a march over others” who may not have had the same option. “We cannot lose sight of the fact that thousands of others are afflicted by the same disease in the city and whose condition may be as bad as that of the petitioner, if not worse,” the court said. The Bench closed the petition with a direction to the Delhi government to ensure that medical treatment is provided to all who are suffering from COVID-19. “In case they require hospitalisation, it shall be provided. If medicines, it shall be provided. If oxygen, it shall be provided. If ICU with or without a ventilator, the State would be obligated to provide that too,” the court said. The Bench also took a grim view of reports of hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders and medicines used for treating COVID-19. “We are still not understanding the gravity of the situation and that is why we are not coming together, which is why we are seeing instances of hoarding and black marketing. Our moral fabric has been dismembered to a great extent,” the High Court remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/surge-has-exposed-medical-infrastructure/article34503848.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Out of work this lockdown, people await free ration||For 27-year-old Poonam Rawat, who is expecting her second child this week, battling the COVID-19, lockdown, and lack of access to foodgrains has begun taking a toll. Ms. Rawat, a resident of Panchsheel Vihar, is among several people, who do not possess a ration card and hence, has not been able get access to ration, specially during the lockdown. The lockdown has once again been extended in the national capital to contain the spread of COVID-19. “My husband and I tested positive on April 10 and he has been out of work since then. He used to work as a delivery boy in restaurants and now they have said that he might not get paid for the previous month as he could not work. My second child is due soon and I do not know how we will manage. Last year, we had received e-coupons from the Delhi government during lockdown. However, this year, no such facility has been announced and we are at a complete loss,” said Ms. Rawat, while adding that her ration card application has been under process for a long time now. Despite announcements made by both the Central and Delhi governments on the provision of free ration, several ration card-holders in the city said that no such facility had begun yet. Yashoda (30), mother of three – the youngest being 10 months old – said that they have been struggling to fend for themselves since the lockdown as her husband, a street vendor, has also been out of work. “Both of us are out of work now. I had to borrow around Rs. 2,000 from a relative to buy basic grains to sustain for a few days. The e-coupon, which was issued to us last year, helped us a lot. However, this year we are distressed. Any kind of aid from the government at this point would help us immensely but it does not seem to be the case at the moment,” said Ms. Yashoda. Reshma, a resident of the Lal Gumbad camp, said that only one member in the family of six had a ration card, against which, they have recevied nothing yet for this month. “We had visited the ration shop two days back but we did not receive our quota. We are extremely hassled at this point. The lockdown has meant that we have no source of income. Even if the free distribution begins, how will the quota for one person be enough for all of us, given the current cirumstance?” said Ms. Reshma. Subodh Bind, a resident of Pul Mithai area, said that several NGOs were coming forward to provide aid to those who are out of ration and do not possess ration cards. Stating that mechanisms should be in place to distribute food and grains among those in need, Anjali Bharadwaj of the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan said, “First, in our audits, we have found that several of the ration shops were found to be closed. At such a time when there is immense economic distress, it is unacceptable that the governments are simply announcing, but not distributing. Second, neither the Chief Minister nor the Centre have said anything about those who do not have ration cards.” E-coupons “The Delhi government had itself said that 60 lakh e-coupons were distributed last year during lockdown. So what happens to those people now? There is a state of utter hopelessness. People are not getting work during this lockdown. They should at least get their ration on time,” said Ms. Bharadwaj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/out-of-work-this-lockdown-people-await-free-ration/article34503855.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Prisoners should be released on bail, parole’||A high-powered committee, which was formed on the direction of the Supreme Court to decongest jails to prevent the spread of COVID-19, has recommended that there was a need to release prisoners on interim bail for 90 days or eight-week parole in view of the “alarming” and “threatening” situation of the pandemic in Delhi. The Committee was informed by DG (Prisons) that against the optimum holding capacity of Delhi Prisons, which is 10,026, there were 19,679 inmates lodged, which is much beyond the holding capacity. The Committee, headed by Justice Vipin Sanghi, was of the opinion that the actual population inside the jail has not only stressed the administration but has also jeopardized the necessity of observing social distancing, which is the need of the hour to prevent the spread of virus amongst the inmates. “In a matter of few weeks, this second wave has left everyone gasping for air. It has led everyone struggling to breathe or with asphyxia, which is the most terrifying human experience,” the Committee said. “Right to Life under Article 21 is the most precious Fundamental Right of every citizen of India. It unconditionally embraces even an undertrial/convict walled off from the society,” the Committee added. DG (Prisons) has said that on the basis of the criteria set by the Committee, approximately 4,000 undertrial prisoners (UTPs) would be benefited and their release would ease out the jail’s population. Prisoners, who may be considered for grant of interim bail for 90 days, preferably on ‘Personal Bond’, includes inmates undergoing civil imprisonment, UTPs who are facing trial in a case which prescribes a maximum sentence of seven years or less and senior citizens who are in custody for three months or more and facing trial in a case which prescribes a maximum sentence of 10 years or less. UTPs, who are suffering from HIV, cancer, chronic kidney dysfunction (UTPs requiring dialysis), Hepatitis B or C, asthma, and TB and are in custody, facing trial in a case which prescribes a maximum sentence of 10 years or less and are not involved in multiple cases, will also get the benefit of interim bail.  Right to Life under Article 21 is the most precious Fundamental Right of every citizen of India. It unconditionally embraces even an undertrial/convict walled off from the society high-powered committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/prisoners-should-be-released-on-bail-parole/article34503849.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four arrested for black marketing of oxygen concentrators in Delhi||Four men were arrested over alleged black marketing of oxygen concentrators in south Delhi’s Lodhi Colony area, the police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Gaurav (47), a resident of Lajpat Nagar; Satish Sethi (44), a resident of East of Kailash; Vikrant (29), a resident of Mahipalpur; and Hitesh (32), a resident of Arjun Nagar, they said. The police said that they have recovered 419 oxygen concentrators that were going to be sold in the black market. Around 5 p.m. on Wednesday, patrolling officers noticed that Nege Ju Restaurant and Bar in Central Market, Lodhi Colony, was open and some “suspicious activity” was going on, a senior police officer said. After searching the restaurant, one person was found working on a laptop. He was getting online orders for oxygen concentrators, he said. Thermal scanners, masks The police searched the restaurant premises and a total of 32 boxes of oxygen concentrators, one box of thermal scanner and one box containing N95 masks were found, the officer said. The police got to know that the owner of the restaurant-cum-bar was one Navneet Kalra, he said. “A case was registered and four persons were arrested,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. During interrogation, the accused revealed thay they had a warehouse in Khullar Farm at Mandi Village in Chhatarpur, following which a search was conducted and 387 more units of oxygen concentrators were recovered, which the accused would sell at exorbitant prices in the black market, the DCP said. Invoices of these oxygen concentrators were recovered. MRP stickers mentioning prices of Rs. 69,999 per concentrator were also recovered, the police said. A detailed investigation is being carried out and efforts are being made to recover more concentrators and nab other offenders who are behind this black marketing racket, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-arrested-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-concentrators-in-delhi/article34503850.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police seeks undertaking from officers not willing to get jab||After finding out that 8% Delhi police personnel are yet to be vaccinated, Delhi Police demanded undertaking from the officers who are not willing to get the COVID-19 vaccines due to health reasons. On Thursday, a total of 158 policemen tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 61 policemen have died due to the disease since the beginning of pandemic last year. The officer said that after it was found that 17 Delhi police personnel, each having received only the first vaccine shot, had succumbed to the second COVID-19 wave and sudden surge of positive cases in the force, all district DCPs and heads of other units were asked to provide updated data of vaccination of policemen. It was found that only 94% of around 90,000 police personnel have been vaccinated. As many as 74,109 policemen have received their first dose of vaccine, while 64,407 have got both doses. Muktesh Chander, Special CP and Nodal Officer (Covid) said that some police personnel have not received even the first dose of vaccine, despite knowing that vaccination minimises the effect of the virus on an infected person. Since policemen have more chances of getting infected, it is expected that they take both doses of vaccine, unless advised otherwise by doctors at vaccination centres. The order further reads that all district/unit DCPs, including higher offices where police personnel work and are not allocated to districts/units, shall be advised to get vaccinated and ascertain the reasons for not having done so and send a report to their respective Special CPs for briefing to Commissioner of Police. As per Delhi police, 12,308 policemen have tested positive and around 3,500 are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-seeks-undertaking-from-officers-not-willing-to-get-jab/article34503853.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wrestler’s death: raids on in search of Olympian||Delhi police raided several locations in Delhi-NCR in search of Olympian Sushil Kumar and others, who were allegedly involved in the murder of a 23-year-old wrestler, said a senior police officer on Thursday. The officer said that during the raid, Mr. Kumar was found missing. His role came under the scanner in the murder case after the statements of victims were recorded and CCTV footage were analysed. On Wednesday, three wrestlers were brutally assaulted by a group of men inside Chhatrasal Stadium here. The injured wrestlers were hospitalised where Sagar succumbed to injuries. The other two persons are currently undergoing treatment. The police said that Mr. Kumar’s last location was traced to Uttrakhand and then his phone was switched off. They have sent teams to all possible locations in search of him. “We arrested one Prince Dalal (24) from Jhajjar, Haryana, and a gun was was recovered. It was found that the scuffle ensued over some property dispute. We have recovered CCTV footage from the stadium and are identifying suspects,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wrestlers-death-raids-on-in-search-of-olympian/article34503851.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Look into plea on charges of cremation, ambulances’||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Delhi government to treat as representation a petition alleging overcharging for cremations and ambulance services going on in Delhi during the COVID-19 crisis. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said the decision be taken as early as possible while closing a plea by NGO Distress Management Collective. Delhi government Additional Standing Counsel Anuj Aggarwal said that municipal bodies be also asked to treat the NGO’s plea as a representation as they are also running crematoriums. The NGO, in its plea, contended that “there is a dire need for a policy to regulate the charges levied for cremation and burials”. “It is seen that due to the lack of such policy, the caretakers and other private parties involved with the functioning of the crematoriums and burial spots specifically assigned for COVID deaths, are charging for cremations and burials as per their own whims and fancies,” it said. The NGO said that ambulance service providers across Delhi were charging unjustified fares even for a short distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/look-into-plea-on-charges-of-cremation-ambulances/article34503846.ece
07 May 2021||Mumbai,||Paucity of doses puts the brakes on vaccination in State||Even though Maharashtra tops the chart in the number of individuals receiving the double doses of COVID-19 vaccines, the inoculation has slowed down over the past week. Despite the shortage of vaccines, the overcrowding at vaccination centres in urban areas of the State, especially Mumbai and Thane, has triggered the fear of these centres turning into hotspots for COVID-19 infection. On April 26, Maharashtra recorded the highest number of vaccine doses administered, at 5,34,228. On the same day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray congratulated health professionals and announced that the State had set up the infrastructure to vaccinate more than eight lakh citizens a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/paucity-of-doses-puts-the-brakes-on-vaccination-in-state/article34503436.ece
07 May 2021||Mumbai,||Sanatan Sanstha member gets bail in Dabholkar case||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted bail to Sanatan Sanstha member Vikram Bhave, an accused in the 2013 murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar. Mr. Bhave, who is currently lodged at the Yerwada Central Jail, will be released after submitting a cash bond of Rs. 1 lakh. A Division Bench directed him not to leave the jurisdiction of the National Investigation Agency’s court in Pune. He filed an appeal before the High Court after his second bail was rejected by the special Unlawful Activities Prevention Act court in Pune on January 21, 2020. The special court had held that there was sufficient incriminating material against him. It also relied upon a confessional statement by one of the shooters and co-accused Sharad Kalaskar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sanatan-sanstha-member-gets-bail-in-dabholkar-case/article34503440.ece
07 May 2021||Mumbai,||Alleged leak of info: HC allows govt. to question IPS officer||The Bombay High Court on Thursday allowed the Maharashtra government to question senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in Hyderabad after the State assured that she would not be arrested till the next date of hearing in the case of alleged leakage of information about police postings. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing a petition filed by Ms. Shukla saying she apprehended arrest and sought no coercive action against her by the Cyber Crime Department. The plea said, “The approach of the State is to arm-twist Ms. Shukla by a bogus and frivolous case.” Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani for Ms. Shukla said she had been charged under the Information Technology Act and the Officials Secrets Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/alleged-leak-of-info-hc-allows-govt-to-question-ips-officer/article34503441.ece
07 May 2021||Pune,||‘Centre slow in clearing essential items imported by Maharashtra’||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday claimed that the Centre’s Department of Pharmaceuticals was slow in granting clearance to essential items imported by the State government. Complaining again about the lack of vaccine supplies from the Centre, Mr. Tope said that its decision to halt oxygen supplies from neighbouring Karnataka could make the situation dire for Maharashtra. “Given the dire shortage of vaccines, especially Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, several senior citizens are awaiting their second dose. Hence, the State government may take a decision on a priority basis to give the doses earmarked for the 18-44 age group to senior citizens who are yet to get their second vaccine shot,” the Health Minister said. Mr. Tope further said that the State would feel the pinch following the Centre’s decision to stop oxygen from Karnataka. “Maharashtra has a daily requirement of 1,750 metric tonnes of oxygen. It is not proper to stop our given allocation at this critical stage. Talks are on at the highest levels to sort this out,” Mr. Tope said. He alleged that the Centre’s Department of Pharmaceuticals was not giving speedy approval to various essential items that the State had ordered from abroad. “The Union government’s procedure is taking more time. It takes numerous clearances and approvals before essential items can be dispatched to the State,” the Health Minister said. Mr. Tope said the State was expecting around 3.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir from abroad in the next one or two days which would help ease the shortage to an extent. He further said that in order to cope with the shortage of healthcare personnel and in preparation for the ‘third wave’ of the pandemic, the State Health Department would recruit 16,000 personnel, including 2,000 specialists, soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-slow-in-clearing-essential-items-imported-by-maharashtra/article34503439.ece
07 May 2021||Pune,||853 deaths push State’s toll to 73,515||Maharashtra’s recoveries marginally outpaced its cases on Thursday, with 63,842 patients being discharged against 62,194 new COVID-19 cases reported as the State’s active case tally dipped to 6,39,075. The State again recorded a very high number of fatalities, with 853 deaths pushing the death toll to 73,515. Of these, 331 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and 247 during the last week. A further 275 were from the period before the last one week. Pune district reported 9,700 new cases to take its total case tally to 8,99,360. Mumbai reported 3,028 new cases to take its total tally to 6,68,085 while the active count has declined to 55,601.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/853-deaths-push-states-toll-to-73515/article34503437.ece
07 May 2021||Beijing,||China halts economic dialogue with Australia||China on Thursday cut off a channel for diplomatic and trade talks with Australia in a largely symbolic act of fury, following clashes over a wide range of issues, including human rights, espionage and the origins of COVID-19. Tensions between the two sides have soared since Canberra called last year for an independent probe into the origins of the pandemic and banned telecom giant Huawei from building Australia’s 5G network. China — Australia’s biggest trading partner — has already imposed tariffs or disrupted more than a dozen key industries, including wine, barley and coal, decimating exports. In the latest volley, the China-Australia Strategic Economic Dialogue was pulled “based on the current attitude” of the Australian government, China’s National Development and Reform Commission said in a statement on Thursday, blaming some officials of a “Cold War mindset” and “ideological discrimination”. Beijing will “indefinitely suspend all activities under the framework” of the agreement, the statement added. ‘Disappointing move’ Australia called the decision “disappointing”, with Trade Minister Dan Tehan saying the dialogue had provided an important forum for the two countries — though he added that no such talks had taken place since 2017.  It was not immediately clear if the row would impact on a free-trade agreement between the two that came into effect in 2015. Canberra has previously described the avenue for talks — designed to boost trade between both sides and introduce large Chinese investors — as one of the “premier bilateral economic meetings with China”. It called the first meeting in 2014 a chance for “closer economic ties” but relations between the two have since sunk into deep freeze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-halts-economic-dialogue-with-australia/article34503182.ece
07 May 2021||COLOMBO,||Year-long detention of lawyer, poet sparks concern in Sri Lanka||Daily-wage agricultural labourer  Abdul Ghafoor Muhammadhu Jazeem, in Sri Lanka’s northern Mannar district, had one life goal. To ensure his children have a good education. Despite toiling for years to realise the dream, he could not be more dejected today. On May 16, 2020, the police arrested his eldest son, Ahnaf Jazeem, a 26-year-old teacher and Tamil poet, based on allegations that his poetry collection, promoting “religious extremism”, was circulated among his students in Puttalam in the North Western Province, where he was employed. Mr. Ahnaf Jazeem was arrested under the controversial Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) — that rights groups deem draconian and want replaced — and has been in custody for a year now. His case, like that of prominent Muslim lawyer Hejaaz Hizbullah — also in detention for a year — has brought to focus growing fears over minority rights in Sri Lanka, and old concerns about the 40-year-old anti-terrorism law. A reading of ‘ Navarasam ’, published in 2017, makes it evident that far from sympathising with radical Islamist ideas, Mr. Ahnaf Jazeem unambiguously condemns religious extremism, specifically the “ISIS’s cruelty” in the collection  that touches upon themes ranging from war and peace, to women’s attires and patience. It took 10 months and multiple letters to authorities before Mr. Ahnaf Jazeem obtained access to lawyers. “Not only did we struggle to obtain access to our client, he was not produced in court for months together; no case was proceeding against him. This is all so anti-democratic,” says Sanjaya Wilson Jayasekara, an attorney appearing for the poet, whom he sees as “another victim of the anti-Muslim campaign” of the government. National security The Rajapaksas came to power in November 2019, months after the Easter Sunday serial blasts, promising to bring perpetrators to justice, and strengthen national security. For Sri Lanka’s Muslim community — constituting about 10 % of the country’s 22 million population — the blasts, carried out by a network of Islamist radicals, was a huge blow. It escalated the discrimination and violence they had faced in the post-war decade. Religious discrimination is only one of the concerns being raised in regard to the case. The dreaded PTA’s history in Sri Lanka tells numerous stories of prolonged detention without indictment, and torture. Similar detention Mr. Ahnaf Jazeem’s case is not very different from that of Mr. Hizbullah, who was arrested on April 14, 2020 under the PTA. While the police earlier said the lawyer was arrested for alleged links to the Easter attacks, he was subsequently accused of promoting racial hatred, an offence under Sri Lanka’s International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) Act. He had spent 10 months in custody before being charged. No court of law has ruled that the lawyer is guilty of any of the charges. He has been produced in court only once so far, in February this year. Like many others in Sri Lanka’s congested prisons, he contracted COVID-19. “The biggest challenge in this case has been how the media has repeatedly vilified our client,” says a lawyer appearing for Mr. Hizbullah. “What we are fighting keeps changing every day. First, they accused him of having links with Easter bombers, then they said he is spreading racial hatred,” says Mr. Hizbullah’s wife, who is still in disbelief. Fearing “more social media attacks”, the family requested their names be withheld. Mr. Hizbullah’s five-month-old baby has seen her father only through prison bars. ‘Repeal PTA’ Observing that the guilt or the lack of guilt of the arrested individuals can only be determined before a court of law, Colombo-based law academic Dinesha Samararatne says: “Law enforcement authorities should be held accountable for prolonged and unreasonable detention as it does not advance the cause of victims of crime, of the accused or the objectives of a criminal justice system as a whole. This is why the PTA has to be repealed without further delay.” The PTA, modelled on South Africa’s Apartheid-era legislation and the British laws used against Irish militancy, was enacted in 1979, under President J.R. Jayawardene. His government passed it chiefly to curtail Tamil youth’s nascent armed struggle protesting against the State’s discrimination. It became a permanent law in 1982, and has not spared other ethnic groups. In the late 1980s, the state used the law in the island’s Sinhala-majority, to detain insurgent JVP youth. Following the Easter Sunday tragedy, scores of suspects, mostly Muslims, have been detained under the PTA. According to police spokesman DIG Ajith Rohana, as many as 202 are currently in remand custody, while 83 have been detained for interrogation. “Most of them were arrested under the PTA,” he says. A total of 700 persons have been arrested since the attacks, but none has been charged to date. Amid persisting calls to repeal the law, the former Sirisena-Wickremesinghe administration tried drafting a new counter-terrorism law, but failed to see it through. In March this year, the Rajapaksa government gave itself sweeping powers to detain suspects for up to two years for “deradicalisation” using the law. Meanwhile, the police maintain that the arrests made in connection with the Easter bombings, including those of Mr. Hizbullah and Mr. Ahnaf Jazeem, are based on evidence emerging from their probe. To questions about due process in the arrests of the poet and lawyer, Mr. Rohana says: “Due process is certainly being followed in these cases. If the concerned parties of their families feel otherwise, or want to challenge our discretion, Sri Lankan law gives them the option of going to court and seeking a remedy.” Both Mr. Ahnaf Jazeem and Mr. Hizbullah’s lawyers have filed Fundamental Rights petitions in the Supreme Court challenging their “arbitrary” arrests and “unlawful” detention, and are hoping their cases will be heard soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/year-long-detention-of-lawyer-poet-sparks-concern-in-sri-lanka/article34503187.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s Facebook’s Oversight Board||Facebook’s Oversight Board on Wednesday upheld the social media network’s decision on January 7 to block the then-U.S. President Donald Trump from its platform. Facebook had decided to indefinitely block Mr. Trump for using the platform to, as its CEO Mark Zuckerberg put it then, “incite violent insurrection against a democratically elected government”. On January 21, Facebook referred the case to its Oversight Board. Here’s more about the board: Independent body The Oversight Board has been set up as an independent body that will help Facebook figure out what content can be allowed on the platform and what ought to be removed. Mr. Zuckerberg first wrote about the idea in 2018, saying in a note that “I’ve increasingly come to believe that Facebook should not make so many important decisions about free expression and safety on our own.” It was said to have emerged out of the tensions around the often conflicting goals of maintaining Facebook as a platform for free speech and effectively filtering out problematic speech. According to a recent article in The New Yorker magazine, the idea “for the Oversight Board came from Noah Feldman, a 50-year-old professor at Harvard Law School, who has written a biography of James Madison and helped draft the interim Iraqi Constitution”. Mr. Feldman, a friend of Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, felt “Facebook needs a Supreme Court” to decide on difficult questions around freedom of speech. The members who make the Oversight Board came on board a year ago. Facebook’s welcome note at that time said: “We expect them to make some decisions that we, at Facebook, will not always agree with — but that’s the point: they are truly autonomous in their exercise of independent judgment.” It started taking up cases last October. The website of the Oversight Board lists 20 members, including the former editor-in-chief of The Guardian newspaper Alan Rusbridger, Vice Chancellor of the National Law School of India University Sudhir Krishnaswamy, and former Prime Minister of Denmark Helle Thorning-Schmidt. Facebook as well as its users can refer cases to the board. The decisions of the board are binding on Facebook.  What is the ruling The board did uphold Facebook’s decision to block Mr. Trump but also said “it was not appropriate for Facebook to impose the indeterminate and standardless penalty of indefinite suspension”. Its point was that Facebook usually responded to violations by either removing such content, or suspending the user for a specific time-period, or effecting a permanent ban. Indefinite suspensions aren’t part of its response mix, which is what has been flagged. The Board has now given Facebook six months to come up with a “proportionate response that is consistent with the rules that are applied to other users of its platform.” The investigation showed that prior to the January 6 Capitol riots by Trump supporters, five of Mr. Trump’s posts had been found violating Facebook’s community standards. They were, therefore, removed. One of these posts, in August 2020, violated Facebook’s Covid-19 misinformation policy. Mr. Trump’s Facebook page received a ‘strike’ for this (a Facebook page is removed after a certain number of strikes). The Board said Facebook didn’t explain “why other violating content it had removed did not result in strikes.” Twenty other pieces of Mr. Trump’s content were marked as potential violations by the review system but were later found to be okay. Sometimes, Facebook allows violating content to be on its platform if it considers it to be newsworthy and in public interest. The Board revealed Facebook asserted that it “has never applied the newsworthiness allowance to content posted by the Trump Facebook page or Instagram account”.  Key recommendations The Board wants Facebook to act quickly when it comes to content of a political nature coming from influential users. Its idea is to escalate such content to specialised staff as also assess potential harms from such accounts. It also wants Facebook to be more transparent about its policies regarding assistance to investigations as well as its penalty rules. It also wants Facebook to comprehensively review its “potential contribution to the narrative of electoral fraud and the exacerbated tensions that culminated in the violence in the United States on January 6. This should be an open reflection on the design and policy choices that Facebook has made that may allow its platform to be abused.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/whats-facebooks-oversight-board/article34503189.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,||Russia approves one-dose ‘Sputnik Light’||Russia has authorised Sputnik Light, a single dose vaccine against COVID-19, for use. Sovereign wealth fund Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Thursday said the move will pave way for immunisation of a larger number of people in a shorter timeframe. Sputnik Light is the first component — recombinant human adenovirus serotype number 26 (rAd26) — of Sputnik V vaccine that has been approved by over 60 countries, including India. CEO Kirill Dmitriev said Sputnik Light will be “exported to our international partners to help increase the rate of vaccinations in the face of ongoing fight with the pandemic and new strains of coronavirus”. At less than $10, the vaccine will also be affordable, he said. There is a big interest already in Sputnik Light and it is likely to be registered in several countries as early as next week. “It can be used as a booster shot for other vaccines. Cocktail of vaccines like Sputnik V is the way to go, and they work very well,” he said. A RDIF statement said Sputnik Light demonstrated 79.4% efficacy. The efficacy of Sputnik V was 92%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-approves-one-dose-sputnik-light/article34503183.ece
07 May 2021||Kandahar,||Taliban captures key dam in Afghanistan||The Taliban has captured Afghanistan’s second-biggest dam after months of fierce fighting in its former bastion of Kandahar, the insurgents and officials said on Thursday. Dahla Dam, which provides irrigation to farmers via a network of canals as well as drinking water for the provincial capital, is now under Taliban control, local officials said. “We have seized the Dahla Dam in Arghandab,” Taliban spokesman Qari Yousuf Ahmadi said.  The dam’s capture comes after clashes erupted in neighbouring Helmand province this week, just days after the U.S. military formally began withdrawing its remaining troops from Afghanistan.  Journalist shot dead In a related development, a high-profile Afghan television journalist was shot dead in Kandahar on Thursday, officials said, a day after the Taliban warned against “biased reporting” by the media. Nemat Rawan was “assassinated by unknown gunmen”, Kandahar city police spokesman Jamal Nasir Barekzai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-captures-key-dam-in-afghanistan/article34503184.ece
07 May 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka bans travellers from India||Travellers from India will not be permitted to disembark in Sri Lanka with immediate effect, Sri Lanka’s Civil Aviation Authority has said. The decision, made known on Thursday, has been taken in accordance with the instructions received from the Ministry of Health, officials said, effectively suspending a bilateral travel bubble arrangement between the two countries. The restrictions will be reviewed “as soon as possible”. Although authorities had earlier announced that the travel bubble would be suspended due to the COVID-19 surge in India, the Ministry of Tourism subsequently said the “bubble” was in place, with strict health protocols and quarantine requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-bans-travellers-from-india/article34503214.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||How the Left Front bucked a decades-old trend in Kerala||For almost four decades, power in Kerala has alternated between the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). If this practice had continued, the UDF should have been voted to power in the just-concluded elections. But the voters gave a clear mandate for a second term to the LDF. For the LDF this was a key success in the wider context of national politics in general and the future of the Left parties in particular. For the UDF, this election has given it a second term in the Opposition and has proven to be a setback for the Congress, which was hoping to find a pathway for national recovery. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led was hoping to emerge as an important third force, but it was left without a representative in the newly elected Assembly. The LDF won a decisive mandate, clinching 99 seats and surpassing its tally in the previous House. It also saw an increase in its vote share compared to five years ago. The UDF won only 41 seats (a decline of six seats) but managed to retain more or less the same vote share that it had secured in the last Assembly elections (Table 1). The BJP-led alliance lost the one seat it had and only saw a marginal increase in its vote share. While the BJP’s vote share rose marginally, the vote share of its alliance partner, the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena, fell by 2.8%.  A second chance In the Lokniti-CSDS post-poll survey, when asked whether the LDF should get another term, 51% of the respondents categorically stated that it should, 27% were of the view that it should not, and 22% did not respond to the question. Five years ago, the Lokniti-CSDS post-poll survey showed that 49% did not favour a second term for the incumbent UDF government and only 42% supported a second term for the sitting UDF. The post-poll data clearly indicate that the second term for the LDF was a by-product of the public perception that the Chief Minister and the government had done a reasonably good job. Three-fourths of the respondents (73%) expressed satisfaction with the work done by the government. This was much higher than the satisfaction levels with the UDF government five years ago (59%). The net satisfaction (those fully satisfied minus those fully dissatisfied) with the LDF government was 23% as opposed to -6% in the case of the UDF government in 2016 (Table 2).  In a separate question, voters were asked to compare the present LDF government with the previous UDF government. Close to half the respondents (45%) rated the LDF government better, whereas only three of every 10 respondents (28%) rated the UDF government as better. Two of every 10 felt that both were equally good or bad (Table 3). The data further reveal that the respondents rated the LDF government high on most parameters (Table 4).  Pinarayi’s popularity In his five-year tenure, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had to face two floods as well as the Nipah outbreak and the COVID-19 pandemic. The welfare schemes launched by his government to give relief to the people during the national lockdown also appeared to bring the ruling alliance closer to the people. All but 6% of the respondents claimed to have benefited from the free food kits distributed by the government. Due to his government’s work, Mr. Vijayan remained extremely popular and he was the preferred chief ministerial choice for 36% of the respondents. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy secured a distant second place with the support of 18%. No other leader in the State was able to secure even 5% of the total support for the chief ministerial candidate. State Health Minister K.K. Shailaja was placed third, with 3% supporting her. The Opposition leader, Ramesh Chennithala, was the choice for 3% of the respondents. The BJP’s move of roping in E. Sreedharan, the ‘Metro man’, did not work well; he was a choice for only 2% of the voters. The Opposition parties had mounted an attack on the CPI(M)-led Left government for the various scams that had taken place during its time in power. However, there is little evidence of any negative impact of these scams on voting preferences. People’s awareness about these scams seemed to be low. Given the literacy rates in Kerala and the high level of public awareness in general, the fact that a huge proportion of voters had either not heard of the scams or did not know whether the accusations were correct or not (41%-51%) is indicative of the limited impact of these accusations (Table 5). The data show that the Left was the preferred vote choice for many of these voters as well. The scams failed to negatively impact the LDF and the people focused more on welfare schemes such as free food kits and other measures. Corruption and scams was an election issue for a mere 2% of the voters. Party or candidate? Given the traditional rivalry between the LDF and UDF and the entry of the BJP as a third force, it was interesting to observe whether the party or candidate was more critical in defining electoral choice. Six of every 10 respondents (61%) said that they voted on the basis of party, while three in every 10 (29%) said they voted on the basis of the candidate. Mr. Vijayan was seen asking people to vote for the Left in the name of development. When people were asked what was the main voting issue in these elections, development emerged as the biggest issue. Development was also the biggest issue in 2016, with a much larger proportion of voters saying it was a issue for them back then (17%). Though the BJP tried hard, it failed to capitalise on the Sabarimala issue; this was a crucial factor for a mere 1% of the people. Surprisingly, close to seven of every 10 voters did not respond to the question on what constituted the biggest issue for them. The Left also had an edge among first-time voters and the poor. In fact, the biggest issue reported by the first-time voters was not development but the government’s performance in the State. On the caste front, though the LDF lost some of its Nair votes (as compared to 2016), possibly due to how the government handled the Sabarimala issue, it gained votes in the Ezhava community (53% of their vote). The election saw an increase in support for the LDF among both Muslims and Christians. In terms of reaching out to people during the election campaign, the data show that six in every 10 voters reported being approached by all the three alliances, which is a clear testimony that all the parties were making sure that no stone was left unturned in terms of campaigning and visibility. However, among those who were approached by all the three alliances, the LDF clearly had an advantage as 44% voted for the party, 37% voted for the UDF and 16% for the National Democratic Alliance. The LDF’s victory is a strong endorsement of the performance of its government and leadership. The UDF was not able to present a chief ministerial face and the BJP failed to move beyond the margins in what continues to be an intense two alliance competition. K.M. Sajad Ibrahim is Professor, Department of Political Science, University of Kerala; R. Girish Kumar is Professor, Department of Political Science, University of Kerala; Vibha Attri is Research Associate, Lokniti-CSDS; and Sandeep Shastri is Vice Chancellor, Jagran Lakecity University Bhopal and the National Co-ordinator of the Lokniti network  All but 6% of the respondents claimed to have benefited from the free food kits distributed by the government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-the-left-front-bucked-a-decades-old-trend-in-kerala/article34503175.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Votes for tackling the coronavirus||In 2020, Kerala was appreciated across the world for the manner in which it dealt with the pandemic. The national lockdown that was imposed in March 2020 left the daily wage labourers most vulnerable. To tackle the food crisis, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Front government in the State distributed food kits containing essential foodgrains and other items to all ration card holders in the State and also set up community kitchens across all panchayats. In the Lokniti-CSDS post-poll survey, 94% of the respondents acknowledged that they had availed themselves of the facility of food kits at least once. Among them, most were satisfied with the kit with only 11% expressing some element of dissatisfaction (Table 1). Even when the voters were asked to rate the overall steps taken by the State government to deal with COVID-19 over the last one year, 72% rated the steps as good. Another 21% rated the steps as average with only a small chunk (5%) according a bad rating. These kits along with other initiatives earned tremendous goodwill for the government and also translated into votes for the Left alliance. Close to six of 10 voters who had rated the steps taken by the government as good voted for the party (57%). A similar pattern was also seen among those who had availed themselves of the kit and were satisfied with it (Table 2). The data also show that two-thirds (67%) of the respondents acknowledged that at least one of their household members is working in the Gulf. Of them, 92% said that their family members send money back home. The pandemic caused a massive reverse migration of workers from the Gulf back to Kerala. The LDF government made various arrangements and provided financial assistance to those who could not go back abroad due to the lockdown. The data show that a majority of these Gulf households were tilted  towards the UDF in their voting pattern as they are mostly Muslim households. However, four in every 10 of these households wanted to give the LDF another chance. The work done by the Left government during the pandemic was remarkable not only on paper, but also in practice as a majority of the voters had availed themselves of the benefits of the government’s schemes. This work surely translated into the LDF gaining people’s trust. Vibha Attri is Research Associate, Lokniti-CSDS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/votes-for-tackling-the-coronavirus/article34503171.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Social murder and the missing state||When people are placed under conditions which appeal to the brute only, said Friedrich Engels, what remains to them but to rebel or to succumb to utter brutality? The scenes that are being witnessed in India now are apocalyptic in tone. When a citizen attacks hospital personnel because a life was lost due to the absence of medical care, or a citizen struggles to breathe with an oxygen cylinder on the pavement, it is a crisis at multiple levels. Appalling discourse But what is concerning, more than the “collapse of the system” or the failure of the state, is the shocking discourse among the supporters of the government that it is not responsible for the present crisis, arguably, India’s gravest hour. This defence has consequences for India’s democracy. Engels had argued that the English ruling class and the state had created such horrendous working and living conditions for the workers, without the “necessaries of life”, that they suffer not only ill health but meet early deaths. Engels calls this social murder, the same as murder by an individual; the only difference is that this murder is “disguised”, for “no man sees the murderer” and the death appears to be a “natural one”. What we are seeing around, in our inability to make the state accountable, is social murder. The only difference between Engels’ England in the 1840s, when it was the working class which was devastated by pandemics, and India now, is that the pandemic in this wave is not just preying on the most vulnerable populations. Therefore, it is also not invisible any longer. The state’s actions But in the first wave of the pandemic in India, the tragic plight of millions of inter-State migrant labour walking thousands of kilometres, remained invisible. That was a classic case of social murder. And it was justified then as well in narratives which argued that, after all, it was the responsibility of the workers themselves for “voluntarily” undertaking such a journey. Just as it is the responsibility of the people themselves for causing the second wave. Yet, ironically, when the successful defeat of COVID-19 was celebrated in February by an official resolution of the Bharatiya Janata Party, it was the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that was given credit, not the people. When ordinary people, without access to expert advice, are asked to own up to their mistakes, powerful actors such as the Election Commission of India holding an eight-phase election in Bengal, the Uttarakhand Chief Minister justifying the Kumbh mela and the Prime Minister exulting about the size of an election rally crowd in West Bengal on a day when over 2,00,000 Indians were newly infected by the novel coronavirus, are all unassailable actions of the state. By participating in the state’s abdication of responsibility, one is fostering conditions of social murder. The argument that cremations cannot be shown by the media because they are “sacred” to Hindus is a part of this act. Other than the obvious fallacy that Hindu cremations are not televised or recorded, here, the more critical questions such as how many deaths could have been prevented by a simple provision of oxygen, why people are forced to cremate their loved ones in parking lots or pavements, and if that is any less dignified than telling the story to the world remain unanswered. As epidemiologists assert, obfuscating the real gravity of a pandemic is the dangerous path to a bigger disaster. If the Chinese state had not hidden the pandemic in its initial stages, the world probably would have not been at this juncture. That is why there has been such a sustained focus by the world media on hotspots where death tolls mounted: Italy, Iran, the United States, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Peru, etc,. But the tragedy in India is sought to be portrayed as a cultural exceptionalism that cannot be televised. A different patrimonialism In the last seven years, the Indian state has acquired distinct tendencies of what sociologist Max Weber has called patrimonialism in which the ruler exercises a traditional form of authority which rests on the “sanctity of immemorial traditions”, in contrast to a rule based on a rational-legal bureaucracy or impersonal rules. But unlike in ideal typical patrimonialism, this highly personalised and centralised form of rule is not based on heredity, kinship ties or personal allegiances, rather on the ideology of religious majoritarianism as well as nationalism, and legitimised by election wins. Duty, patriotism, etc., become keywords here as was tellingly witnessed during the misery unleashed by demonetisation. Ironically, this patrimonial government, which prided itself as a ‘ mai-baap sarkar ’, the dispenser of benevolence towards subjects, overnight transforms itself into one which asks citizens to fend for themselves, whether it is by procuring oxygen cylinders or arranging ambulances. This has resulted in a Social Darwinism in which only the most powerful have some chance of survival. From the assertions of the Union Health Minister that there never was any shortage of oxygen, the Uttar Pradesh government charging people with First Information Reports (FIRs) for requesting oxygen, to the Haryana Chief Minister’s comment that the dead cannot return and, therefore, it was pointless to discuss many unaccounted deaths, all depict a state that has shed its professed benevolence during the novel coronavirus pandemic. As scholars identify, one of the fundamental problems in patrimonialism is ensuring accountability, something that becomes stark during a pandemic when the patrimonial state goes missing. On the one hand, we have the belated act of sanctioning oxygen plants by the Prime Minister, which, keeping in line with governance as benevolence, is met with cabinet Ministers expressing their gratitude in unison. On the other, the Prime Minister has not addressed a single press conference on COVID-19, quite a stunning fact globally for the head of a democracy. Become citizens, not subjects While the Swedish Prime Minister was recently subject to questioning by a constitutional committee on COVID-19 handling, the present Indian state has no means of ensuring a critical scrutiny of the chronology of government decisions that led to the current crisis. For the moment, we will have to be content with scathing observations like those of the Allahabad High Court that deaths due to lack of oxygen are no “less than a genocide”. Engels had argued that the English ruling class’ “class prejudice and preconceived opinions” had enveloped it in a “mad blindness” about the social murder that was happening in its midst, which, in any case, did not affect it. India, under the pandemic, is seeing a different kind of prejudice, preconceived opinions and mad blindness in sanctioning social murder. Unless people become citizens and not subjects under a patrimonial rule, the calamitous clouds of the pandemic portend a bleak future for Indian democracy as well. Nissim Mannathukkaren is with Dalhousie University, Canada and tweets @nmannathukkaren||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/social-murder-and-the-missing-state/article34503165.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||In Ireland’s complex troubles, lessons for India||The communal clashes of April in Northern Ireland caught the media attention of many countries, but not in India, though the events carry relevant lessons and warnings for this country. Those riots, that left 74 policemen injured, threaten to undermine the fragile peace between Protestant pro-British loyalist unionists who want to remain part of the United Kingdom forever, and Catholic pro-Irish nationalists who wish Northern Ireland to become part of the Republic of Ireland.  The riots are the culmination of a complex mix of change, resistance to change, and ingrained political and social inertia. Northern Ireland altered enormously for the better after the signing of the Anglo-Irish Good Friday Agreement in 1998, and for the accord to have received strong support across the divided island was a remarkable achievement. This Agreement began the process of dismantling border controls between the North and the Republic of Ireland, but subsequent developments showed that social issues remained unaddressed: both religious communities ‘experienced little or no peace dividend after the Agreement, and poverty and deprivation linked to educational under-achievement and high unemployment affects both nationalist and loyalist areas alike’ in Northern Ireland. There is an obvious lack of social and economic opportunities; 120,000 children are living in poverty, and more than 40,000 people remain on the social housing waiting list. Between 1998 and 2014, an abnormal number of suicides was registered, and that gloomy statistic keeps growing. The localities most deprived during the pre-Agreement communal riots remain the most deprived areas within Northern Ireland today. Brexit, a stress test Britain’s break from the European Union (Brexit) was always going to prove a major stress test for Northern Ireland because 56% of its electorate voted to remain in the European Union. Much of the present anger relates to the specific protocol concerning Northern Ireland, which ‘provided for the territory to remain in the customs union and single market of the European Union while protecting its status as part of the United Kingdom’. Nevertheless, the Irish Protestant loyalists argue that the deal puts the union at risk. The unionist party ‘campaigned for Brexit on the basis that a United Kingdom outside the European Union would make a future united Ireland much more difficult to achieve, but the opposite has actually turned out to be true, and a united Irish island is now being discussed in a way that scarcely seemed possible prior’ to the Brexit referendum of 2016. Accordingly, as a recent opinion article says, the Irish Catholic nationalists are talking up the prospects of achieving an early united Ireland and demanding a vote on it, which instils acute anxiety among the union loyalists. In short, ‘Brexit has encouraged a strong revival of identity polarisation, and a possible Irish Language Act, that would give the Irish tongue equal status to English in Northern Ireland’, is feared by unionists as yet another nail in the United Kingdom’s coffin. Demography has changed since the Good Friday Agreement; no longer do unionist parties have the majority, but political inertia prefers a vacuum, so progress toward an equable and liveable peace has stalled. The article adds, ‘past traumas continue to weigh heavily on current politics in Northern Ireland and that is unlikely to change as the twin challenges of managing the Protocol and preventing communal violence occupy the attention in that territory, Dublin and London in the years to come’. Scheduled events Elections scheduled next year to the ‘Northern Ireland Assembly will be followed in 2024 by an important vote on the Northern Ireland Protocol because under the terms of the Brexit agreement, the Assembly will have to vote on whether or not to accept the continuing operation of the Protocol. Should unionists decide to boycott this vote, the legitimacy of the Protocol will be thrown open to question. The timing of any potential Scottish referendum on independence — also likely to be held around 2024 — may well further destabilise Northern Ireland’s fragile politics’, says the opinion article (https://bit.ly/3eVy5Oo). All things considered, there is no person more like a Northern Irish Catholic than a Northern Irish Protestant and vice versa, although obscurantists are loath to accept that basic reality. The fact that the people are just one, with parity in mutual fear, esteem and consent, is never addressed and artificial differences are played up by political elements wishing to stoke communal sentiments and keep both communities at the mercy of irresponsible and divisive forces. While the British, Irish and American governments have condemned the violence, there is a lack of local political leadership to stabilise this volatile situation. Peace is an extraordinarily brittle entity, and any functioning democracy must ensure a daily commitment to addressing communal issues with vigilance, tolerance and compromise. These are lessons to be drawn in India. The recent violence in Northern Ireland shows that every country needs leadership that takes responsibility for peoples’ social and economic problems and steers prejudices away from entrenched phobias. The ruling party in India needs to be aware that creating religious tensions between communities has incalculable deep-seated negative consequences that will severely damage every section of society and all our established political and national institutions. Krishnan Srinivasan is a former Foreign Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-irelands-complex-troubles-lessons-for-india/article34503168.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Not ready for a third force||Kerala, which has been dominated by two alliances, saw the Prime Minister call for a third alternative in the State while launching his party’s campaign. However, the BJP failed to save the lone seat of Nemom it won in 2016. Despite a campaign revolving around the Sabarimala temple row, ‘love jihad’ and corruption cases against the Left, it did not succeed in attracting voters. It saw only a marginal increase in its vote share. On being asked whether there is a need for a third alternative in Kerala’s politics, more than half the respondents (56%) disagreed and one-third (33%) agreed. Even among those who agreed, the vote was split equally among the three alliances. Among those who did not respond to the question, LDF had a clear advantage with 46% of the votes in its favour (Table 1). Furthermore, when people were asked whether the rise of the BJP in the State is good or bad for the social fabric, a majority said that it was bad (54%) and 17% responded in the affirmative. The remaining 29% either felt that it would make no difference or did not respond to the question. As one would expect, the NDA had a huge advantage among those who felt that the rise of the BJP is good for the social fabric of the State. The LDF was the favoured party among those who said that the BJP’s presence is bad or will make no difference (Table 2). The presence of the BJP has changed the political equation to some extent in Kerala. Yet, the State does not seem to be fully ready to experiment with a third alternative and the election results reflect this fact. Vibha Attri is Research Associate, Lokniti-CSDS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/not-ready-for-a-third-force/article34503180.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Social demographics shaped the elections||Lokniti-CSDS post-poll survey data indicate that the LDF’s vote share saw a significant improvement among select social groups. When levels of access to education are taken into account, the LDF performed better than the UDF across all education levels, though the gap was much wider among the non-literate group and those who had access to higher education. The NDA got little support from the non-literate segments though its support among those with access to education was more or less consistent. When it came to different age groups, support for the LDF was higher compared to the UDF. The difference was the sharpest in the 26-35 category. There seemed to be a sharp decline in support in the less-than-25 age group for the NDA as compared to the previous Assembly election. There was not much of a gender variation when it came to support for the LDF, while the UDF’s voters had a much higher proportion of women. On the other hand, the NDA performed much better among male voters compared to female voters. The LDF maintained its popularity among the poor — a little over half (53%) voted for the alliance. The NDA lost its traditional support from among the middle and rich classes compared to the last election. While support for the LDF declines as one moves from the poor to the rich, the reverse trend holds good for the UDF. This election witnessed a considerable decline in popularity in the NDA’s core support group: young, educated, men, and those belonging to middle and upper economic classes. The LDF, on the other hand, consolidated its support among the social groups which generally voted for it. Vibha Attri is Research Associate, Lokniti-CSDS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/social-demographics-shaped-the-elections/article34503178.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Hat-trick||Mamata Banerjee was sworn in as Chief Minister of West Bengal for a third consecutive term on Wednesday, following the resounding victory of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the Assembly election. The TMC has won 213 seats, compared to 77 won by its principal challenger the BJP. The TMC’s 47.9% vote share is an all time high for any party, and nearly 10 percentage points more than that of the BJP. The Left-Congress alliance drew a blank, another first in the electoral history of the State. The sheen of the TMC’s astounding success has been somewhat dimmed by violence, attributed largely to its cadres, that has claimed at least 14 lives since the counting of votes on Sunday. True, TMC workers have also been killed, but as the ruling party, the onus is on it to end the violence. It is reassuring that Ms. Banerjee has promised after taking oath that ending the violence and controlling the pandemic were her priorities. She must not read this colossal mandate as a public endorsement or even tolerance of the grass-roots ferocity and authoritarianism that have become hallmarks of her party. Ms. Banerjee’s personal responsibility is high considering that people reposed their trust in her despite the high-handedness of local TMC leaders. The burden on her is heavy, and she has a tough act to do in reining in her own party. As much as the Bengal verdict is in favour of the TMC, it is also against the BJP which did not want to take an organic route to emerge as a natural party of governance in Bengal. Without a party organisation and mass leaders, it engineered defections, tried brazen communal polarisation and misused central agencies, as it went for the jugular. Its bombast and hubris were out of touch with the sensibilities of Bengalis. Its growth from three seats in 2016 to its current tally is impressive. The BJP must now pause and rethink its strategy for the path ahead. Its attempts to give a communal colour to condemnable political violence indicates that the BJP is not open to that. If it wants to be a truly national party, the BJP must be respectful of India’s regional, religious and cultural diversities. The Congress and the CPI(M) that sought to overcome their failure to build a programmatic politics through opportunistic alliances, including with the communal Indian Secular Front, must also now learn that there are no short cuts in politics. With the TMC reigning supreme, and the BJP falling short in understanding the State, the Opposition space can still be fought for. To reclaim relevance, these parties need to replace their current leaders, do some honest soul searching, and build a new politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hat-trick/article34503159.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A lending hand||The Reserve Bank of India’s move on Wednesday to step in and join the fight against the second wave of the pandemic through the announcement of measures aimed at alleviating any financing constraint for those impacted, including the health-care sector, State governments and the public, is a welcome and timely intervention. The furious pace at which new COVID-19 infections and fatalities have been mounting in recent weeks has not only overwhelmed the nation’s health infrastructure but has begun to significantly impair economic activity, just as the economy appeared to have turned the corner from last year’s debilitating contraction. “The fresh crisis is still unfolding,” Governor Shaktikanta Das said in his unscheduled address, acknowledging the challenge ahead. Stressing that it is imperative to both save lives and restore livelihoods, Mr. Das proposed a calibrated response, mooting a Rs. 50,000 crore term liquidity facility to boost credit availability for ramping up COVID-related health-care infrastructure and services. Lenders have been urged to expedite lending under this ‘priority sector’ classified scheme to entities including vaccine manufacturers, hospitals, pathology labs, suppliers of oxygen and ventilators, importers of COVID-related drugs and logistics firms. And although Mr. Das said the scheme would also cover patients requiring treatment, he failed to spell out how those most in need of financial assistance to cover their surging medical bills could borrow the funds. In directing the flow of credit to the sector most in focus at the moment, the RBI has signalled it is cognisant of the burden on health-care and allied providers. However, how much lending capital-stressed banks would be willing to write into their ‘COVID loan books’ remains to be seen. The central bank’s focus on small borrowers including unorganised businesses and MSM enterprises, both through enhanced provision of credit via small finance banks and a fresh resolution framework for existing borrowings, is also heartening as these economic participants were already among the worst-hit during last year’s contraction. However, the norms laid down for resolution including the proviso that only those borrowers who had not already availed of restructuring assistance and whose loans were ‘standard’ as on March 31, 2021, would be eligible for fresh resolution lays an onerous burden on those that the RBI itself admits are the ‘most vulnerable’. Mr. Das was also unreasonably sanguine about the economic impact of the second wave, even as he granted that “high frequency indicators are emitting mixed signals”. The RBI’s position that the dent to aggregate demand is likely to be only moderate is based on the fact that so far this year, the restrictions to contain the spread of the virus have been largely localised. With more and more voices from the Opposition to top industry groups urging a nationwide lockdown to break the chain of transmission, Mr. Das may need to very quickly revisit his assumptions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-lending-hand/article34503160.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘COVID wave may hit energy demand in first quarter’||Restrictions following the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic could impact recovery in the growth in energy demand in the first quarter of this financial year, India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said. In the April 2021 edition of its credit news digest on India’s power sector, the agency highlighted trends in the power sector, with a focus on capacity addition, generation, transmission, merchant power, deficit, regulatory changes and the recent rating actions by the ratings agency. Ind-Ra said lockdowns on account of an increase in COVID-19 cases in various States could impact energy demand growth recovery in April-June 2022. However, all-India energy demand is expected to be higher year-on-year due to the low base effect as the country was under a stricter lockdown during the same period in 2020. ‘Price per unit rises’ The short-term power price at the Indian Energy Exchange continued its improving trend Rs. 4.07 per unit compared with Rs. 2.46 a year earlier, with average monthly price in April 2021 at Rs. 3.7. Electricity generation rose 23.5% on a yearly basis to 118.6 billion units in March 2021, supported by 29.2% growth in thermal generation, although hydro generation fell 7.8%. Generation from renewable sources climbed 10.1% to 11.9 billion units in March 2021, with solar generation rising 21%. The improvement in energy demand has helped the thermal plant load factor (PLF) increase to 66.5% in March 2021, from 51.5% a year earlier and 63.3% in February, it said. Despite the onset of summer, stricter lockdowns in major manufacturing States could impact demand from the industrial segment, in turn affecting thermal PLFs, the agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-wave-may-hit-energy-demand-in-first-quarter/article34503154.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘HCL Tech plans to recruit more freshers than lateral hires’||HCL Technologies plans to increase the share of freshers in its annual hiring numbers to 70% over the coming years as it looks to focus on onboarding people with new-age skills, a senior company official said. In 2020-21, 40% of the people hired by the company were freshers and 60% lateral hires. “We want to change this in the next couple of years. We really want to go to 70% freshers and 30% lateral hire,” the company’s chief human resources officer Apparao V.V. said. “The reason is that most of the skills that are required in the projects that we are winning and executing are new-age skills,” he added. These are skills related to cybersecurity, digitalisation, IoT and Cloud, he said. HCL Technologies plans to hire 20,000 freshers globally this year. In 2020-21, this number stood at about 14,500 freshers. “We are training and upskilling our people in the organisation and parallely getting fresh graduates and training them in what we need,” Mr. Apparao said. “They are very flexible. They don’t have any unlearning to do. So anything you give, they learn much faster,” he added. Separately, president and CEO C. Vijayakumar said that HCL Technologies did not expect any significant impact due to the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hcl-tech-plans-to-recruit-more-freshers-than-lateral-hires/article34503147.ece
07 May 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI move to help firms with weaker credit profiles: Crisil||Half of Crisil-rated mid-sized companies will be eligible for the restructuring window offered under the Resolution Framework 2.0 announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the rating agency said on Thursday. Companies with relatively weaker credit profiles, and part of low-resilience sectors, are expected to benefit more from the scheme, it added. The RBI had on Wednesday announced a slew of measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on businesses and individuals, including a restructuring window for small businesses. Disruptions caused by the second wave of the pandemic may hit smaller businesses and the restructuring would entail rescheduling of their financial obligations, thus easing liquidity pressure. “Crisil rates about 6,800 mid-sized companies (excluding financial sector entities). Of these, 3,500 are small and medium enterprises, having bank loan exposure of up to Rs. 25 crore. About 3,400 of them are standard accounts, which makes them eligible to avail of the restructuring,” it said. Subodh Rai, Chief Ratings Officer, said, “RBI’s intervention is timely and companies with weaker credit profiles will benefit more from the restructuring scheme. Four out of five companies eligible for restructuring have sub-investment category ratings, indicating their relatively weak ability to manage liquidity shocks.” “Restructuring 2.0 could provide interim liquidity relief to these companies to cope with near-term cash-flow mismatches,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-move-to-help-firms-with-weaker-credit-profiles-crisil/article34503150.ece
07 May 2021||MUMBAI,||COVID-19 supplies keep air cargo operators afloat||The pandemic may have severely impacted passenger airlines since early last year, but air cargo and freighter operators have reported brisk business owing to increased transportation of COVID-19 related essentials by air. Blue Dart Express, which includes its subsidiary Blue Dart Aviation, reported a turnaround in FY21, posting a net profit of Rs. 96.3 crore in the full year against a net loss of Rs. 38.3 crore in FY20. “All our facilities operated every single day through the pandemic, delivering PPE kits, ventilators, vaccines, oxygen concentrators, pharmaceutical and medical equipment,” managing director Balfour Manuel said. SpiceJet, which operates air cargo subsidiary SpiceExpress, is also reporting encouraging performance as its fleet is increasingly being deployed for transportation of essential items and medical goods to deal with the pandemic. During the third quarter, revenue from cargo operations surged almost fivefold year-on-year and the fleet had increased to 19 freighters, including five wide-bodied aircraft. “The strength of cargo volumes has cushioned some of the impact for the [airline] industry. The second wave will limit domestic and international passenger belly capacity, which will be positive for cargo yields and freighter operators,” CAPA said in a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-supplies-keep-air-cargo-operators-afloat/article34503143.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cognizant Q1 net climbs 37.6% on digital growth||IT company Cognizant reported a 37.6% rise in March quarter net income to $505 million, and said it expects revenue to grow 7-9% in the year ending December.  The U.S.-headquartered firm, which has about 2 lakh employees in India, said March quarter revenue grew 4.2% to $4.4 billion. “We successfully executed our strategy of embracing digital, investing in international expansion and repositioning the Cognizant brand,” CEO Brian Humphries said. Cognizant said it expected June-quarter revenue to grow 10.5-11.5%. “Our first-quarter performance reflects solid revenue growth in our digital services,” said CFO Jan Siegmund. “Shifting to a quarterly promotion cycle for billable associates... further salary increases and promotions for high-demand skills and making 28,000-plus offers to new graduates in India, a new record... up from 17,000 hired in 2020,” Mr. Humphries said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cognizant-q1-net-climbs-376-on-digital-growth/article34503156.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hero Moto Q4 net rises 44% to Rs. 885.28 cr.||Two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp on Thursday said it posted a 44.2% rise in consolidated net profit to Rs. 885.28 crore for the quarter ended March 31. Compared with the immediately previous quarter, however, net profit declined almost 14%. Total income rose to Rs. 8,758 crore from Rs. 6,490.92 crore a year earlier, but lower than the Rs. 10,032.61 crore recorded in October-December 2020. For the full year, consolidated net profit fell 20% to Rs. 2,936.05 crore, while total income rose 5% to Rs. 31,517.09 crore. The company has proposed a final dividend of Rs. 25 per share and special dividend of Rs. 10 per share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hero-moto-q4-net-rises-44-to-rs-88528-cr/article34503148.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. releases Rs. 9,871 cr. grant to 17 States||The Finance Ministry on Thursday released the second monthly instalment of revenue deficit grant of Rs. 9,871 crore to 17 States. With this a total amount of Rs. 19,742 crore has been released in the first two months of the current financial year as Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant to the States, the ministry said in a statement. The grants are released as per the recommendations of the Finance Commission in monthly instalments to meet the gap in revenue accounts of the States post-devolution. The 17 States include Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-releases-rs-9871-cr-grant-to-17-states/article34503151.ece
07 May 2021||Hyderabad,||Relief for pharma as Chinese airline plans to resume service||In some relief for the Indian pharmaceuticals industry and towards ensuring continuity in key raw material supplies from China, Sichuan Airlines is resuming cargo services to India. Chengdu-Bengaluru service will start on May 9 and Chengdu to Chennai, from May 12, Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India director general Ravi Udaya Bhaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/relief-for-pharma-as-chinese-airline-plans-to-resume-service/article34503145.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||LIC to have five working days starting from May 10||LIC will have five working days a week starting from May 10 since Saturdays have been declared as a holiday for the insurer. Pursuant to a notification, wherein the Centre has declared every Saturday as a public holiday for the Life Insurance Corporation of India, policyholders are informed that w.e.f May 10, all offices will work from Monday to Friday, it said in a notice.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-to-have-five-working-days-starting-from-may-10/article34503152.ece
07 May 2021||LONDON,||Classy Chelsea makes the summit clash||Chelsea set up an all-English Champions League final against Manchester City at Istanbul as goals from Timo Werner and Mason Mount beat Real Madrid 2-0 in a dominant display on Wednesday to seal a 3-1 aggregate victory at Stamford Bridge. If anything, the scoreline flattered Madrid as the 13-time European champions had no response to Chelsea’s greater strength and speed. The Blues should have ran out far more convincing winners as they toyed with the tired visitors in the second half. However, Werner’s cushioned header into an empty net on 28 minutes after Kai Havertz’s initial effort came back off the crossbar and Mount’s tap-in five minutes from time were enough to seal a place in Istanbul on May 29.  “To never lose the concentration, focus and positive energy on the pitch — it was a huge performance and well deserved,” said Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel, who has masterminded a huge turnaround in Chelsea’s season since replacing the sacked Frank Lampard in January. “We never lost the hunger, the desire to defend,” added Tuchel. “In the second half we had even better structure to defend and it was a fantastic performance. Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane welcomed back captain Sergio Ramos for the first time in six weeks, while Eden Hazard was handed a rare start on his return to Stamford Bridge. But the Belgian was again a peripheral figure as Madrid’s over-reliance on Karim Benzema to provide a goal threat was exposed. Gracious in defeat “We needed to be better going forward,” said Zidane. “We didn’t have any clear chances. They made a number of them and that’s football. We fought and tried but they deserved to win and go through.” Chelsea has now kept 18 clean sheets in 24 games since the appointment of Tuchel turned its season around. Fired by Paris Saint-Germain on Christmas Eve after leading the French champion to its first ever final in this competition last season, Tuchel is headed back to the showpiece match for a second consecutive season, unlike his former club, which was beaten by City in the other semifinal.  The result: Semifinals (second leg): Chelsea 2 (Werner 28, Mount 85) bt Real Madrid 0. Chelsea wins 3-1 on aggregate .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/classy-chelsea-makes-the-summit-clash/article34503318.ece
07 May 2021||Chennai,||Chennai Super Kings airlifts Balaji and Hussey||Chennai Super Kings has been a franchise that has always cared for its cricketers. It, thus, came as no surprise that the two members of its coaching staff who tested positive for COVID-19 were both flown by air taxis by CSK, from New Delhi to Chennai, on Thursday afternoon. A CSK source told The Hindu , “Both L. Balaji and Michael Hussey came in separate air taxis as per the protocol.”  He added, “The best part was when Hussey was still in flight, his second RT-PCR report came negative. However, Balaji’s fresh test confirmed COVID.” The CSK source said, “Hussey and Balaji will be taken care of by Apollo Hospital. We have a tie-up with them. Both are without any symptoms and should come through fine. They will undergo one more test after four days.” And CSK has arranged a chartered flight for a single cricketer, Imran Tahir, to Dubai. “Although a South African player, Tahir now lives in Dubai with his family,” the source said. CSK is a side with cricketers from several countries — England, Australia, New Zealand, West Indies and South Africa — and it was a logistical challenge to fly all of them home after the IPL had to be suspended. The CSK source said, “The franchises pooled together chartered flights where cricketers from various teams travelling to the same country will be in one flight.” He revealed, “Cricketers travelling to the West Indies will leave tomorrow [Friday] morning and those going to New Zealand will depart in the evening.” Two weeks in Maldives He added, “All the Australian cricketers will spend two weeks in Maldives before travelling back to their home. The English and South African cricketers have already left.” While different franchises have come together to fly out cricketers to their respective countries, a franchise assumes the lead role for a particular destination. Lead role The source said, “For instance, CSK is playing the lead role for the chartered flight to the West Indies. Similarly for New Zealand, Kolkata Knight Riders has taken the responsibility. And for flying out Australian cricketers to Maldives, Royal Challengers Bangalore has come forward.” Talking about the bursting of IPL bio-bubble, he said, “It was a disaster waiting to happen. New Delhi, in particular, is in very bad shape.” He said India Cements and CSK boss N. Srinivasan took the IPL suspension and the COVID-striking CSK, practically. “He is a very realistic but positive person. And he cares for the cricketers. He often says, ‘Without the players, we cannot have a team’.” The source spoke about India Cements maintaining teams, providing jobs to cricketers and the fact that when Srinivasan was at the helm in BCCI, a sizeable one-time payment was made to former cricketers. CSK, indeed, is a franchise with a difference.  PTI reports  Bangladesh internationals Shakib Al Hasan and Mustafizur Rahaman on Thursday afternoon returned safely to Dhaka on a chartered flight arranged by Rajasthan Royals and Kolkata Knight Riders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-super-kings-airlifts-balaji-and-hussey/article34503274.ece
07 May 2021||MADRID,||Nadal and Thiem make the last eight; Medvedev exits||Rafael Nadal swept into the Madrid Open quarterfinals on Thursday with a 6-3, 6-3 victory over Alexei Popyrin, while Ashleigh Barty booked her spot in the women’s final by ending the run of wildcard Paula Badosa. Nadal, a five-time champion in the Spanish capital, saved five of six break points in a challenging opening set as he faced the 76th-ranked Popyrin for the first time. A lone break of the Australian’s serve in the second was enough for the 20-time Grand Slam winner to seal the match. Young and energetic “I knew he was coming with confidence, he has this energy that the young players have,” Nadal, 13 years older, said of Popyrin. “From what I could do, it was a good match, and I’m happy to make it to the quarterfinals again here.” US Open champion Dominic Thiem, the Madrid runner-up in 2017 and 2018, also reached the last eight after beating Alex de Minaur 7-6(7), 6-4. World No. 3 Daniil Medvedev exited in the last 16 following a 6-4, 6-7(2), 6-1 defeat by 16th seed Cristian Garin of Chile. Medvedev, a two-time Grand Slam runner-up heads to Rome next. He has never won a match in the Italian capital, and he has failed to get past the first round of the French Open in four previous tries. Alexander Bublik of Kazakhstan progressed to the quarterfinals with a 6-4, 6-3 win over in-form Russian Aslan Karatsev. Barty cruised into the women’s final with a 6-4, 6-3 victory over Badosa, as the World No. 1 avenged last month’s loss to the Spaniard in Charleston. Barty, the 2019 French Open champion, is targeting a fourth title of the year following wins at Melbourne’s Yarra Valley Classic, in Miami and on clay in Stuttgart.  The results:   Women: Semifinals: Ashleigh Barty bt Paula Badosa 6-4, 6-3. Quarterfinals: Aryna Sabalenka bt Elise Mertens 6-1, 4-0 retd.   Men: Pre-quarterfinals: Rafael Nadal bt Alexei Popyrin 6-3, 6-3; Dominic Thiem bt Alex de Minaur 7-6(7), 6-4; Alexander Bublik bt Aslan Karatsev 6-4, 6-3; Cristian Garin bt Daniil Medvedev 6-4, 6-7(2), 6-1.   Second round: John Isner bt Roberto Bautista Agut 6-4, 6-7(4), 7-6(6); Stefanos Tsitsipas bt Benoit Paire 6-1, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-and-thiem-make-the-last-eight-medvedev-exits/article34503277.ece
07 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||India takes the diplomatic route||India approached the Malaysian Government on Wednesday with a request to allow the national badminton team to travel for the Malaysian Open badminton championships scheduled to start on May 25. According to a communication from the Sports Authority of India (SAI), the Sports Ministry, through the Ministry of External Affairs, has made the approach. “This is in light of a temporary travel ban that has been imposed by Malaysia owing to the rising COVID-19 cases in India,” the statement said. “After the initial request made earlier this week, the Indian High Commission in Malaysia has received information from the Malaysian Government that the travel of the team may not be possible immediately. “However, with 19 days left for the competition to begin, the possibility of travel cannot be ruled out completely.” Lot at stake The Malaysian Open and the Singapore Open (from June 1) are the last two qualifying tournaments for the Tokyo Olympics. Some of the big names looking to compete in the two tournaments and log ranking points to make the cut are Saina Nehwal, K. Srikanth and the doubles duo of Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy. The others who are also lined up to play in the tournaments include P.V. Sindhu and B. Sai Praneeth and the men’s doubles pair of R. Satwiksairaj Reddy and Chirag Shetty, who are assured of a slot in the Olympics by virtue of their current world rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-takes-the-diplomatic-route/article34503281.ece
07 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Villa joins Odisha FC’s football committee||Spain’s World Cup-winning forward David Villa has joined the football committee of Indian Super League outfit Odisha FC, the club announced on Thursday. The former FC Barcelona striker will work as a technical advisor and head the global football operations of the club. Joining Villa in the football committee are former head coach Josep Gombau and Victor Onate, who form a part of the DV7 group founded by the former star-striker. Their role includes advising the coaching staff, improving the Indian and youth players and providing general support to the on-field activities of Odisha FC. “I will try to bring my experience. Obviously, I didn’t play in India but I played soccer for 20 years as a professional and before that in the academy. “And in all of the projects that we [my team] are involved in, I try to give all of my experience that I have gained in soccer,” Villa said after formalising the agreement with Odisha FC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/villa-joins-odisha-fcs-football-committee/article34503313.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kaushik critical, hope rests on life-saving drug||Former Indian hockey coach and Dronacharya awardee Maharaj Kishen Kaushik’s condition has deteriorated and is now critical. He has been kept under observation at a hospital here but doctors are not too hopeful. Kaushik had been admitted with pneumonia-infected lungs after developing COVID-like symptoms but testing negative for the same on April 17. His blood Oxygen level kept fluctuating, going down to as much as 50 at night. However, with his body not responding to any medication, doctors at the multi-speciality hospital decided to give him a life-saving drug which was expected to show results within 24 hours. “That period got over this afternoon but there has been no change in the situation. However, other doctors in our acquaintance have said that it can sometimes also take up to three days to start showing results. That is our big hope at the moment,” his son Eshan said.  He continues to be under observation but doctors have warned that if the drug — costing upwards of Rs. 4 lakh — doesn’t work, his body might collapse completely. He added that Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju had been helpful in making arrangements at a bigger hospital but proper care and facilities at the current set-up, accompanied by his delicate condition, made them decide to stay put. “Moving him in this condition was not advised. Also, the doctors made it clear that the line of treatment would be the same elsewhere also, so it did not matter,” he explained. The 66-year old Kaushik has been one of the most decorated hockey coaches in the country for both the national men’s and women’s teams. A member of the 1980 Olympics winning team, he coached the men to gold at the 1998 Asian Games after a gap of 32 years and the women to bronze at the Doha Asian Games in 2006. He was given the Arjuna Award in 1998 and the Dronacharya in 2002. He had recently retired from Khelo India. Ravinder Pal struggling Meanwhile, his 1980 Olympics teammate Ravinder Pal Singh too remains critical in a Lucknow hospital. Ravinder Pal has been in ICU with severe COVID symptoms since April 24 and his family has been struggling with ballooning expenses. Earlier in the day, Hockey India had approved Rs. 5 lakh each for both players as support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kaushik-critical-hope-rests-on-life-saving-drug/article34503268.ece
07 May 2021||KOLKATA,||AAI withdraws team from WC Stage-2||The Archery Association of India (AAI) has withdrawn the National team from World Cup Stage-2 in Lausanne due to a visa issue and some other factors. The second stage is scheduled from May 17 to 23. Secretary Pramod Chandurkar said AAI pulled out the team after the Swiss Government denied short-term visas to the archers due to the present COVID-19 situation. “We need short-term visas for the competition. “They did not give us short-term visas, but offered long-term visas,” Chandurkar told The Hindu on Thursday. “Besides, the archers did not have enough practice as they quarantined following their return from World Cup Stage-1 in Guatemala last month.” Travel It is understood that the uncertainty over international flights also made the AAI take the decision. Recently, Indian archers had a harrowing time after they finished their World Cup Stage-1 campaign successfully, collecting three gold and a bronze. They had to wait for a day in Guatemala and spend about 23 hours in Paris to catch an India-bound flight. The Indians will now participate in World Cup Stage-3, preceded by the final Olympic qualifying event, in Paris. It will take place from June 19 to 21 followed by the third stage of the World Cup from June 22 to 27. The qualifying event will give the Indian women recurve archers a chance to earn a team quota place in the Tokyo Games. So far, the Indian men’s team has secured a quota place and Deepika Kumari has bagged an individual slot in the women’s section in the Olympics.  They did not give us short-term visas, Chandurkar AAI secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aai-withdraws-team-from-wc-stage-2/article34503269.ece
07 May 2021||Johannesburg,||South Africa to tour Windies next month||South Africa will tour the West Indies next month at the start of an intensive build-up to the T20 World Cup, which is scheduled in October, the national federation announced on Thursday. Cricket South Africa (CSA) director of cricket Graeme Smith said South Africa would play two Test matches and five Twenty20 Internationals in the Caribbean during a tour which will start in early June at venues which had still to be finalised. The South African white-ball players will then travel directly to Ireland, for a previously-announced tour, in July. After a short break further white-ball tours are planned to Sri Lanka and India, leading in to the World Cup. Smith acknowledged that the tour of India in September could clash with a possible resumption of the Indian Premier League (IPL) which was paused in mid-tournament on Tuesday after outbreaks of COVID-19 in three of the franchise camps. Free agents likely Smith said he wanted South Africa to field its best possible team at the World Cup. That could include A.B. de Villiers, if he comes out of international retirement, and free agents such as Imran Tahir and Chris Morris, who are no longer contracted to be available for South Africa. Smith praised the Indian board for its handling of the COVID-19 outbreak. “The duty of care they have shown in getting everyone home has been exemplary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-to-tour-windies-next-month/article34503270.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||NRAI optimistic of Apurvi joining squad||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) was optimistic of Apurvi Chandela joining the Olympic shooting team for the trip to Zagreb, despite testing positive for COVID-19. “Apurvi had got her vaccination done on April 28. Her father has said that she would seek an RT-PCR test on May 8 and join the team,” said NRAI secretary Rajeev Bhatia. “I am trying to recover as fast as possible,” said Apurvi from her home in Jaipur. Apurvi’s coach Rakesh Manpat said that he had recovered from the virus in Bengaluru and was ready to join Apurvi for the training-cum-competition trip to Europe once she returned a negative test. “Our passports have been submitted for the visa,” clarified Rakesh. Considering the unstable situation due to escalation of the pandemic in India, the NRAI has planned to have a training camp in Zagreb, Croatia, for the Olympic-bound shooters. The Indian team will compete in the European championships from May 20. Thereafter, the shooters will be based in Croatia for further training, before they fly to Tokyo for the Olympics.  As part of the plan, the NRAI has also arranged for a chartered flight to carry the team, along with the coaches and support staff, to circumvent the problem of commercial flights not being allowed to carry Indian passengers owing to travel restrictions proposed by a few countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nrai-optimistic-of-apurvi-joining-squad/article34503321.ece
07 May 2021||SOFIA (BULGARIA),||Sumit Malik storms into 125kg freestyle semifinals||Sumit Malik gave a series of fine performances to reach the semifinals of the 125kg freestyle category on the opening day of the World Olympic Games wrestling qualifier in Sofia, Bulgaria, on Thursday. Two other experienced Indians in fray, Asian medallist Amit Dhankar (74kg) and Commonwealth Games medallist Satyawart Kadian (97kg), had disappointment in store. Fightback The stocky 28-year-old Malik, a Commonwealth Games champion and an Asian championships silver medallist, fought back to beat Aiaal Lazarev of Kyrgyzstan and Alexandr Romanov of Moldova by an identical 2-2 margin, via criteria, and make it to the quarterfinals. He again rallied to defeat Rustam Iskandari of Tajikistan 10-5 to reach the semifinals. In the last four, Malik needs to get past Jose Robertti of Venezuela to qualify for the Olympics. Dhankar lost to Mihail Sava 9-6 in the first round and subsequently went out of the medal race when the Moldovan faced defeat in the next round. Kadian beat Evan Ramos of Puerto Rico 5-2, but lost to Ahmed Bataev of Bulgaria 5-5, via criteria, in the quarterfinals. Ravi Kumar Dahiya (57kg), Bajrang Punia (65kg) and Deepak Punia (86kg) in men’s freestyle and Vinesh Phogat (53kg), Anshu Malik (57kg) and Sonam Malik (62kg) in women weights have qualified for the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sumit-malik-storms-into-125kg-freestyle-semifinals/article34503279.ece
07 May 2021||Barcelona,||‘Nip and tuck’ battle continues in Spain||The Formula One circus pitches up in Barcelona this weekend for the Spanish Grand Prix with Red Bull’s tantalising tilt at prising the spotlight away from showstoppers Mercedes topping the bill. Three races in and against pre-season predictions, it is Lewis Hamilton who leads Max Verstappen by eight points arriving at the fourth leg of the championship. Wins last Sunday in Portugal and in the opener in Bahrain leave the seven-time champion in his customary habitat at the top of the F1 drivers’ tree. Barcelona is a track the teams know intimately as the usual venue for pre-season testing, and with its reputation as a circuit where overtaking opportunities are few and far between, the onus will be on Saturday’s qualifying to command a prime front row seat on Sunday’s grid. Hamilton is seeking his fifth consecutive win in Catalonia, with three of his last four victories delivered from pole. Should he top the time sheets on Saturday, he will celebrate his 100th pole position, after being denied that honour by his teammate Valtteri Bottas last weekend in Portimao. Verstappen and Red Bull’s emergence as serious title contenders not only has F1 fans gripping their sofas’ arm rests or smart phones — Mercedes chief Toto Wolff says he’s enjoying the same sensation he felt at the first signs Mercedes could muscle in on the then Red Bull roadshow seven years ago. While the 2021 Hamilton continues to display all the hallmarks that have turned him into a serial champion — often flawless race craft, consummate professionalism and steely focus, Verstappen this season has changed. The Dutch driver seems to have his eye on the bigger picture, as F1’s managing director Ross Brawn pointed out. “It’s clear that Max Verstappen is approaching this championship in a different way because he finally has a title-winning car,” said Brawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nip-and-tuck-battle-continues-in-spain/article34503271.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Veda ’s sister succumbs to COVID-19||Indian women’s cricketer Veda Krishnamurthy’s sister Vatsala Shivakumar passed away in a private hospital at Chikkamagaluru on Wednesday. Vatsala, who had tested positive for COVID-19 last month, was 45. Veda’s mother Cheluvamba, who was also afflicted with COVID-19, had passed away two weeks ago. Vatsala was showing signs of recovery in the general ward of the private hospital, but her condition worsened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/veda-s-sister-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34503314.ece
07 May 2021||Bengaluru:,||Mahalingam passes away||Mahalingam, a former club footballer from Karnataka, passed away here on Thursday. He was 72. Mahalingam played for Bangalore Mars FC, Jawahar Union FC and 515 Army Base Workshop in the 1970s. The KSFA and BDFA condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mahalingam-passes-away/article34503319.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adhiban heads the field for Indian Challenge||B. Adhiban heads the 16-player field in the four-day Indian Challenge rapid online chess tournament, a qualifying event for the two spots available in the cash-rich Meltwater Champions Chess Tour. Beginning on Friday, the event follows the same format of the Tour, but the duration is limited to one day for each round.   First-round pairings: B. Adhiban-Aronyak Ghosh; M. Karthikeyan-R. Praggnanandhaa.   Aravindh Chithambaram-D. Harika; Surya Shekhar Ganguly-N.R. Vaisakh; Nihal Sarin-Arjun Ergiasi; Harsha Bharathakoti-S.P. Sethuraman.   Abhijeet Gupta-D. Gukesh; K. Sasikiran-Mitrabha Guha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adhiban-heads-the-field/article34503309.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||Holder urges Indians to battle COVID together||Sunrisers Hyderabad all-rounder Jason Holder has expressed disappointment after the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 was postponed. Holder also urged the Indian fans to keep fighting the COVID-19 battle as the West Indies all-rounder bid adieu to the 2021 season. “Sad that the tournament had to be postponed but always great playing in the @iplt20. To the people of India I urge you to keeping fighting this battle together and I wish you all the very best. @sunrisershyd until we meet again,” Holder captioned the post on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/holder-urges-indians-to-battle-covid-together/article34503275.ece
07 May 2021||KOCHI:,||Blasters extend Meitei’s contract||The Kerala Blasters FC has extended defender Denechandra Meitei’s contract by three years. The 27-year-old from Manipur made six appearances for the Kochi-based Indian Super League club last season. “I had a very good experience with KBFC in my first season despite the difficult conditions. I am sure we will have a much-improved season next year,” said Meitei. Solid player “Denechandra is physically strong, a solid player for the ISL. “He needs to improve some angles in his game but he showed a lot of potential last season,” said Karolis Skinkys, the Blasters’ sporting director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-extend-meiteis-contract/article34503485.ece
07 May 2021||Vadodara,||Former cricket statistician Dinar Gupte dead||Well-known cricket statistician Dinar Gupte passes away on Thursday after battling COVID-19, Saurashtra Cricket Association (SCA) said in a release. He was 76. He was the official statistician of BCCI for more than 15 years and also had rendered his valued services as official scorer since 1970 to BCCI. Gupte was with Team India as the official scorer during the 1999 World Cup.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-cricket-statistician-dinar-gupte-dead/article34503310.ece
07 May 2021||Jaipur,||Former Rajasthan leg-spinner Vivek passes away||JAIPUR Vivek Yadav, a former Rajasthan leg-spinner and a member of its Ranji Trophy-winning squad, died of coronavirus-related complications on Wednesday. He was 36 and is survived by wife and a daughter. Vivek, who played 18 First Class matches and picked up 57 wickets, featured in the 2010-11 Ranji Trophy final, his finest hour in a brief domestic career.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vivek-yadav-passes-away/article34503311.ece
07 May 2021||LAUSANNE,||OLY--IOC-Vaccines||Vaccine developers Pfizer and BioNTech will donate doses to inoculate athletes and officials preparing for the Tokyo Olympics, the IOC said on Thursday.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/oly-ioc-vaccines/article34503397.ece
07 May 2021||Prague,||Nagal in quarterfinals||Eighth seed Sumit Nagal beat qualifier Sergiy Stakhovsky of Ukraine 4-6, 6-1, 6-4 in the second round of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here on Thursday.  Other results: €44,820 Challenger, Biella, Italy: Quarterfinals: Andre Goransson (Swe) & Nathaniel Lammons (USA) 6-4, 3-6, [10-8].   $25,000 ITF women, Prague, Czech Republic: Second round: Cagla Buyukakcay (Tur) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 7-5, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-in-quarterfinals/article34503315.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 09:26 IST,||Sudoku - May 7, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-06-2021/article34503996.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||America’s queenpin||“You know, I was never scared,” starts Lori Arnold, ‘If anything, I felt empowered, respected, feared, and you feed into that kind of stuff. Selling came easy to me – I was the brains, and Floyd [my partner] was the muscle. But I would say that I’m more addicted to the power. That fed my ego. I want people to look up to me, respect me.” If you do not know Lori Arnold, you may have gotten a little sense of ‘is this woman a drug dealer?’ Yes, Lori indeed was – in fact, she is known as ‘the original Walter White.’ Her journey from a young teenager being addicted to methamphetamines to her Midwest-wide drug empire as a grown woman is documented in a Discovery+ series aptly titled The Queen of Meth .  MetroPlus got talking with Lori and her more well-known brother Tom Arnold (of Roseanne fame), about their return to Ottumwa, as they recall Lori’s arc through the years. Was it hard to return to these ‘old stomping grounds’? “Ottumwa is my hometown and I love it. It’s a quintessential middle American town. Not many changes there, which makes it special and comforting, but for someone like me with a past and triggers with addiction, it can make it somewhat difficult,” admits Lori. If you have run a methamphetamine empire in a quiet state, chances are you will be approached by dozens of filmmakers who want to tell your story. This was certainly the case with Lori over the years, but she turned down opportunities for years until it felt right. Tom commends series director Julian P Hobbs and says he connected with the filmmaker on many levels but especially in terms of family. “The thing that sold me the most was when his daughter came over to my house to go through some of my pictures, I saw their relationship and that told me, ‘this guy gets family, and I think he knows where we were coming from,’ but it’s always a risk and I felt like it was worth taking it with him. He knows how to produce shows like this and show humanity, but also deal with crime and truth.” Lori states that whether or not America or the world liked her story was not a factor to her; the most prevalent element was the truth. She elaborates, “I was very adamant about ‘you better tell the truth or don’t tell it at all.’ I want it told the way it is. Julian was extremely professional about it. His whole team made me feel comfortable. I wasn’t like Tom with hundreds of movies, I had never been on TV except in handcuffs and shackles, so it was different for me.” Tom, 62, adds that Lori’s story has been in existence but in a private and unpublished book form. “I told her, ‘you need to just write a book about yourself.’ Anytime you write, there’s something very spiritual about that. And I thought, with my sister being in prison for a long time, she could just get up and write something about her life. So she wrote a very thick book not to be published or anything and they do use some of that in this documentary series.” The global fascination with the true crime genre skyrocketed during the pandemic and Tom comments, “People that like to watch crime shows, and they also like to watch ‘reality-family.’ The Queen of Meth has both and there’s redemption too. And hopefully entertaining, and real.” As parents... Naturally, Tom was indeed nervous about how he and his sister would appear but is pleased with how the project turned out. He still feels protective of Lori, who is a year-and-a- half younger. How did working on The Queen of Meth further shape their relationship? “Through her drug business and marriages, she was very tough, but thinking back, I do remember her being vulnerable as a kid. I was afraid that, given all she’s been through, that you couldn’t penetrate her shell. And the director wanted me to do that, but I said, ‘I’m not here to do that.’ But what ended up happening was because of her son who grew up with this (when he was 10, his parents went away to prison and we got to raise him), her son got to confront his mother in ways that just would not have happened.” Lori says the hardest part was anything to do with her son but she is proud of the man he is now. “He was only 10 at the time Floyd and I were arrested, and he lost his home and parents all at once.” Tom, a father himself, says, “There are a lot of ghosts in Ottumwa, but I was happy with the way it turned out that I’m a father with an eight-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter. And I don’t want them to have anything close to the life that Lori and I had. Just seeing and remembering how things were and being honest about it, it only helped me to be sober, healthy and a better parent. And that’s what life’s all about.” The Queen of Meth drops on Discovery+ on May 7   The Queen of Methhas aspects of crime, reality and family. And there’s redemption too Tom Arnold||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/americas-queenpin/article34503403.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Short and laugh worthy||Actor, comedian, YouTuber Gaurav Gera is happy that the shows he features in are finally on air, considering they were all shot last year. “The shooting was paced out, so that way it was not like I was swamped with work all at once,” he says, from Gurugram, where he is currenlty with his parents. Gaurav, who made his screen debut in 2003 with the popular Hindi serial Jassi Jaissi Koi Nahin on Sony, says his mind is full of the cartoon characters he creates. “If I knew animation I would have created something different altogether,” he says. In fact, he identifies himself more as a character creator than an actor. His popular Chutki-shopkeeper pair on social media (he did over 1,200 skits with the two characters), was followed by dadi and Aadu . The entertainer’s Rajeshwari series, where he shoots with his househelp Rajeshwari was so popular she now has her own social media account with a 50k fan following. “This lady has been with me since 2006, since the time of Jassi Jaissi.... I have shifted homes, but cannot think of managing without Rajeshwari. I survived six months without her last year during the lockdown and managed to cook, take care of the house and my plants as well. But it was not easy.”  Chef vs Fridge  Cooking is still not a cakewalk. Talking about his new show Chef Vs Fridge on Zee Café with chef Vicky Ratnani, Gaurav says 20 years ago when he came to Mumbai, he could not cook a meal without assistance from his mom over the phone. “I was a helper to my mother in the kitchen, so I knew what is what, but I never got to cooking. So, when I cooked last year there was a lot of trial and error involved, things burnt. My cooking videos during the lockdown Barish ki recipes were relatable to my viewers because I would say ‘ tuti hui kadhai le ,’ (take a broken vessel), or cut the vegetables aise-waise (chop it anyhow), or take a white katori to feel rich. Viewers like content they can relate to and I like to create content with my everyday thoughts and things around me,” he says. What keeps him going with work is to “have zero expectations and do what I love most: make videos”.   On LOL  As one of the participants in the house on LOL-Hasse Toh Phasse on Amazon Prime, Gaurav says he did not feel threatened by anyone else. “I am used to ‘no audience’ when shooting my videos, so I don’t wait for any reaction to my acts. I do everything spontaneously and only get to know of the reaction when I post it.” The show’s format requires players to go about their acts while making sure they do not break into a smile or a laugh. Gaurav is currently seen in comedy makeup videos with Rohit Gujjar, making viewers imitate them to recreate the funny posts. “The makeup video idea is entirely Rohit’s. We started with smokey eyes and managed quite a few good ones,” he says, laughing. He adds that he enjoys making videos about life’s smaller joys. “We have become so caught up with bigger things that we have stopped looking at the small pleasures,” says Gaurav. At home in Gurugram, he avoids working. “To make videos I need silence and nobody around. In Gurgaon my focus is my parents’ well-being. We have to keep each other safe and healthy.” And while he is away, Rajeshwari is taking good care of his plants, updating him about their well-being.  Viewers like content they can relate to and I like to create content with my everyday thoughts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/short-and-laugh-worthy/article34503400.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s cooking, Mom?||Do you know the secret behind what makes Christmas so special? It’s because mothers work round-the-clock cooking, wrapping, decorating and shopping for the season. All that is showcased on A Bad Mom’s Christmas , which will have its Indian premiere this Sunday. Directed by The Hangover screenwriter Jon Lucas,  the comic caper stars Mila Kunis ( Friends with Benefits and Ted ),  along with the actor-singer Kristen Bell ( Frozen and Forgetting Sarah Mitchell ). It follows the tale of three under-appreciated and over-burdened women as they rebel against the challenges and expectations they face during Christmas.  The film will premiere this Sunday at 1pm and 9pm on &flix, besides telecast on Zee Cafe and &PriveHD||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/whats-cooking-mom/article34503405.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Spread the joy||This version of I Spy is an exciting one to play with family. The board has six tiles, placed three by three (63 cm x 63 cm). You can have up to six players at a time. The idea is to find the objects on the tiles and win cards. The board is not static but keeps changing as the game progresses; so there is no way you can memorise it. A timer ensures that you do not take too long to make a move. The three colour cards instruct you on the action you are to take and a dice to tell you how to proceed. Fairly simple, and hones your observational skills. Throw the colour dice to begin. The colour – red, blue or green – indicates the mission card. There are three missions. Each successful one gets you one point. The artwork is different, unlike other board games. Here the style is more personal, yet confusing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/spread-the-joy/article34503615.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Globetrotting||The Louvre  Welcome to Paris! The home of the Mona Lisa, the Louvre is the most-visited museum in the world and also a prominent historic monument With around 35,000 paintings, sculptures and other artefacts, the museum is brimming with artistic works to be explored. While no virtual experience can replace an in-person visit, this virtual tour of some of the museum’s rooms and galleries gives you a feel of the place and a chance to get up close with some artistic masterpieces. With no crowd jostling for space, it’s almost like you have the place all to yourself. Next time you are yearning for a new experience, take this tour and marvel at the cultural treasures the museum has to offer.  Where: louvre.fr/en/online-tours||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/globetrotting/article34503606.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Gaze starwards||Beginning tonight, you will have a celestial activity taking place every week.  Eta Aquarids Meteor Shower: An above average shower, it can produce up to 60 meteors per hour at its peak. It is produced by dust particles left behind by Comet Halley and runs annually from April 19 to May 28. This year it peaks on the night of May 6 and the morning of May 7. Although, the moon will block out some of the faintest meteors, you should be able to catch quite a few good ones. Best view will be from a dark location after midnight.  New Moon: The Moon will be located on the same side of the Earth as the Sun and will not be visible in the night sky on May 11. This is the best time to observe faint objects such as galaxies and star clusters because there is no moonlight to interfere.  Mercury at Greatest Eastern Elongation: Mercury reaches greatest eastern elongation of 22° from the Sun on May 17. It will be at its highest point above the horizon in the evening sky. Look for the planet low in the western sky just after sunset.  Full Moon/Supermoon: The Moon will be located on the opposite side of the Earth as the Sun and will be fully illuminated on May 26. Early Native American tribes called it the Flower Moon because this was the time when spring flowers appeared in abundance. Also known as the Corn Planting Moon and the Milk Moon, it is the second of the three supermoons in 2021. The Moon will be at its closest point to Earth and may look slightly larger and brighter than usual.  Total Lunar Eclipse: A total lunar eclipse also occurs on May 26, when the Moon passes completely through the Earth’s dark shadow, or umbra. It will gradually get darker and then take on a rusty or blood red colour. The eclipse will be visible throughout the Pacific Ocean and parts of eastern Asia, Japan, Australia, and western North America.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/gaze-starwards/article34503549.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Stay home, stay creative||If you can’t go to the beach, bring the sights home with this interactive craft to remind you of the sea. Materials Paper plate Cardstock paper Art stick/ disposable spoon or fork Paints Brush Paper cutter Glue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/stay-home-stay-creative/article34503569.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Around the house||Across  1 Place where food gets prepared (7) 4 The switch ___ the appliance when done (3) 6 ___light: Window in the roof (3) 8 The ____yard is behind the house (4) 9 The room below the roof (5) 11 Place to store your clothes (6) 13 The room below the floor (6) 14 Can be found in the fireplace (3) 16 You can swim in this (4) 18 A sofa or couch (6) 19 A flat slab laid on the floor or wall (4)  Down  1 Opens the lock (3) 2 Can be found in some bathrooms (3) 3 A cosy little corner (4) 5 The floor above the ground floor (5) 6 Takes you upstairs (9) 7 Room where you can entertain guests (4) 10 Where you do your "business" (6) 11 Fabric that covers the floor (6) 12 The ledge under the window (4) 15 Lets you in and out of the compound (4) 17 ___house: shed at the back of the property (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/around-the-house/article34503579.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Green tidings||Stuck indoors is so not the way to spend summer hols. It should ideally be spent amid greenery, sea, sand, and ice lollies. No matter how much you entreat the elements of nature, you can’t get the sea and sand to come into your neighbourhood. But you can do something about making your surroundings green. Indoor gardening is the answer to beating the pandemic blues. Here’s how you can get started.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/green-tidings/article34503603.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Mountain magic||Switzerland  With gorgeous scenery and breathtaking views, a trip to this country is on every traveller’s bucket list. What if you could visit without even leaving your home? 1,600 kilometres, 22 lakes, 5 Alpine passes and 12 UNESCO World Heritage Sites ... the Grand Tour of Switzerland has all this and more, and takes you to cities, towns, mountain villages, waterfalls, castles, bridges, peaks, slopes, lakes, vineyards, glaciers, amphitheatres, railway lines and much more. From Bern to Zurich, Geneva to Neuchâtel, Lausanne to Basel, Zermatt to St. Moritz... you’ll find every opportunity to lose yourself in idyllic and charming locations. One thing you will miss out on, though, is binging on some of the world’s finest chocolate!  Where: grandtour.myswitzerland.com/en/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/mountain-magic/article34503609.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Step back in time||Ancient Egypt  If you have a penchant for history, archaeology and everything mystical, you are sure to enjoy this experience of walking through the 5,000-year-old tomb of Queen Meresankh III, the granddaughter of Egyptian pharaoh Khufu, the builder of the Great Pyramid. Discovered in 1927, the royal tomb is replete with paintings, carvings and statues that have stood the test of time. A unique feature is a set of 10 statues of women standing shoulder to shoulder, unusual among Egyptian tombs. Along with this virtual tour, Egypt’s Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities has released four others: the tomb of Menna, the Ben Ezra Synagogue, the Red Monastery and the Mosque-Madrassa of Sultan Barquq. Where:my.matterport.com/show/?m=d42fuVA21To||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/step-back-in-time/article34503611.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Magnetic Puzzle Squares||To play this game, all you need is imagination, as these colourful magnetic squares offer infinite possibilities of designs you can come up with. You can choose to make the designs given in the book that comes along with the box or you can make up your own. The squares in the box begin from 250 and go up to 400. This game helps with spatial and motor skills development and is also an art and craft tool. Make birds, animals, vehicles and other amazing objects. The magnetic canvas can be placed on a stand for greater ease. Note: Since the squares are small, this game may not be ideal of children under five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/magnetic-puzzle-squares/article34503617.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Jenga||This looks easy but is a game of physical skill. There are 54 well-crafted blocks that are three times as long as the width, and one-fifth of the thickness of the length. To set up the game, the blocks are placed three in a row and at right angles in the next level and so on till all the blocks are used. Once the tower is built, the person who built it makes the first move. He/she takes one block from any level and places it on the topmost level. Only one hand can be used at a time when removing the blocks from the tower. As the game progresses, the tower gets unstable. Until, in the end, one player removes a block and sends the tower tumbling. The winner is the last person to remove and place a block successfully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/jenga/article34503619.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Calling all wizards and witches!||Harry Potter world  If you are a Potterhead, this one’s for you. ‘Celebrating Harry Potter’ is Google Earth’s virtual tour of real-life places featuring in the magical world of Harry Potter. Be it the cobbled streets of Diagon Alley, the barrier at Platform Nine and Three Quarters, or the impressive Hogwarts castle, this tour has it all. There’s also a little something for fans of the Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them spin-off and Harry Potter and the Cursed Child . What’s more, you can catch a glimpse of the place where it all started: the café in Edinburgh where author J.K. Rowling famously wrote the series. A little bit of magic is all we need to get through tough times. Where:earth.app.goo.gl/NPQf4w||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/calling-all-wizards-and-witches/article34503622.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Out of this world||Mars  Can you imagine exploring the surface of another planet? With Access Mars, an immersive experience presented by NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in collaboration with Google, you can go on a virtual field trip to the Red Planet. The surface of Mars, as recorded by the Curiosity Rover, serves as the setting for this fascinating VR experiment. With this tool, you can wander around the dunes and valleys and visit several sites that the rover has explored. With Curiosity always in sight, you will never be alone in the vast, red desert. Where:accessmars.withgoogle.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/out-of-this-world/article34503624.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Alive and wild||South African national parks Discover the hidden gems in what is easily a wildlife and nature enthusiast’s paradise, South Africa. This informative, immersive and interactive virtual tour will take you to 19 stunning national parks, including the Table Mountain National Park and the world-famous Kruger National Park. Whether you stand atop tall peaks and soak in incredible views, or meet wild animals such as lions, elephants and cheetahs, take this tour and lose yourself in the wild. Where:discoverafrica.com/southafrica360/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/alive-and-wild/article34503627.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Sudoku||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article34503543.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article34503545.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article34503584.ece
11 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I have not even touched the tip of the iceberg’||We’ve been talking on the phone for a few weeks before we schedule the interview. From the way he picks up the threads of earlier conversations to the precision with which he gives me directions, it is clear that Vidwan Umayalpuram K. Sivaraman has never missed a beat in his life. The evening I land up, he is waiting at the door. I am glad I am not late. At 86, he is sharp as a tack, tracking a dozen things — the recorder, my coffee, our masks, the clock, and more. The enormously gifted UKS has completed 75 years of performance, a career marked by a bravura progression from milestone to milestone, sweeping up all available awards in its wake. And I am here to play chronicler, to document some of those magical moments and memories. Through the three hours we speak, not once does he lean back in the chair nor take a sip of water. A tiny smile plays on his lips and his eyes gleam, and you see up close the charisma he emanates from the stage. UKS loves wordplay and each time he comes up with a pithy maxim, he breaks into a delighted grin and checks to see if I have caught on. He quotes Tennyson and Browning and Sanskrit shlokas and moves easily from scriptures to physics to piston rods to explain a point. From his deep love for the mridangam to his larger vision of music and performance to his grounded approach to life, conversing with the legend has been almost as satisfying as a kutcheri. When we finish, I am tired, but UKS seems even more energised and insists on seeing me out. Edited excerpts from the interview: I was born in 1935 and had the unique opportunity to accompany the greatest stalwarts —Palladam Sanjiva Rao, [Maharajapuram] Viswanatha Iyer, Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar, Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, GNB, the Alathur Brothers... a galaxy of the greatest names in Carnatic music. I consider that a golden era. I have been very fortunate. Had I been born later, I would not have had this opportunity. They encouraged me, irrespective of my age, testing only my skills. When Chembai said I could accompany him, he also said, “Don't expect any fees. I will only give you vandi cooli (bus fare).” I agreed; and played many times with him. In one concert, he gave me five tani avartanams . Some years later, the same Chembai called me for a programme and asked what fee I would charge. I was very keen to play for Ariyakudi when he sang ‘Amba nannu brovave,’ in Deshadi taalam, but he did not sing it for a long time. Finally, one day, he did. I later told him how long I had waited for this. He replied, ‘Today, I had the confidence that you would play well for this song, that's why I sang it.’ I accompanied Semmangudi for 48 years. One day, I saw him shedding tears, as he sat at home, surrounded by photographs of the greats. I asked what had made him so emotional. ‘If I have a next life, I should be able to sing like Ariyakudi,’ he said. Such was his humility. These were some beautiful experiences I had. They were not only motivational but great learning moments. In these 75 years, what I am doing is passing on whatever I learnt to my disciples. Sampradaya is like civilisation. There are changes with each generation, but the core remains. Sampradaya is like a broad river and the bani is a tributary. It is born out of creativity and sustained when creativity combines with novelty, while based on the core principles. It should be aesthetically beautiful and serve as something new for present and future generations to work upon. I learnt from four great masters: Arupathi Natesa Iyer, Thanjavur Vaidyanatha Iyer, Palghat Mani Iyer, and Kumbakonam Sakottai Rangu Iyengar. On that base I formed my own distinctive style, something novel, attractive and worthy of emulation. Bani is about everything — accompaniment, mridangam solo, giving pauses, creating a lot of nada, and new moras and korvais , complex mathematical creations. It is like Ariyakudi’s music; it may seem simple, but when you attempt it, it’s impossible until you work at it. That is what I have created. It has complete clarity, with or without mic. As my father taught me, I coax the mridangam, I don’t beat it. Another principle of my bani: First, you become a rasika of the main artiste, whether vocal or instrumental. You must become the first rasika. And you must go into the music, so that it affects your psyche, your playing. The tempo, the voice, the volume, the mellifluousness, everything enters your body, and it reacts in the mridangam. Then, your reactions and movements will be in advaita bhava with the main artiste. Earlier, wood used to be shaped into a mridangam, with a hollow, and left in a shady spot for three-four months till it became seasoned wood. With commercialisation, this was lost. Warping and other defects set in. I thought, earth gives a lot of material, why not use it. Besides, we don't have standardisation in our instrument-making. So why not try alternative resonators. I approached Fibreglass Pilkington and made a resonator with fibreglass. I also made a fibreglass veena. I put them on show in Srinivasa Sastri Hall, presided over by Veena Balachander and Balamuralikrishna. I requested Pichumani Iyer to play the veena, and I played the mridangam. I proved to the world that it is almost equal to the wooden one. But the mentality of our people is such that they don’t welcome all this. But that does not matter. I wanted to prove that here is an opportunity. Whether you use it or not is up to you. I next thought, why not make a glass body? I collaborated with Mr. Santhanam [B. Santhanam of St. Gobain] and my disciple Unnikrishnan [also with St. Gobain] for one year. We made a D/ D-sharp mridangam and a G/ G-sharp mridangam. I played it at Parthasarathy Swamy Sabha, and invited others to play it to see if the nada is good. Nobody could explain how the mridangam had no echo! In my early years, my father did not let me tune the mridangam; he told me to tune the tampura, to hear it. He told me the acuity of perception of nada will help you. So, I delved deep into nada. Then I began to realise that sound is not nada. That is why we say nadayogam. The whole cosmos is nada. I wanted to observe it. There are two types of nada — ahatha and anahatha . Ahatha is inside, anahatha is outside. I told my friend, the scientist Dr. T. Ramasami, let us explore nada; there is no such word in science. Science understands sound, but nada is not sound. Now, we are finding what nada is. It is the perfect unison of all harmonics, all overtones. It is said that 14 harmonics can be heard in my mridangam. We observed that the tonic note, Dheem, is in the region of the Rishabham, the fundamental of an odd harmonic series. For me, this indicates the presence of Nandikeswara. When there is juxtaposition of odd and even frequencies, there is continuous resonance. That is nada. We are now trying to see how to produce the purest nada. How to use the best wood, the best leather, perfect tension to create a model nada mridangam. It will be like a Stradivarius violin. I think we will succeed. We are also looking for alternatives for raw hide and cooked rice, which some airports fumigate, spoiling the mridangam. We want to make travel-friendly mridangams with replaceable heads. We want to make more durable black patches. We are also experimenting with cow or goat skin for the ganjira, since the monitor lizard is endangered. In IIT, the project is stroke transcription and software codes to convert my playing into digital lessons. It will be useful for students. The idea is to disseminate knowledge. That is my mission. Dr. Ramasami, Dr. M.D. Naresh and I produced this book — it marries science and art. It looks at tonal characteristics of the mridangam and design innovations. But we thought it might not be accessible to mridangam makers and repairers, who work by intuition and with family secrets transmitted from father to son. These are the people who give nada to mridangam. We wanted to show them — these are the nuances and harmonics and overtones coming out of the mridangam. We want to standardise everything. Why don’t you use this particular leather, this strap, so that all your mridangams have equal tension, equal nada. We wanted to explain the scientific values. So, we have made a handbook based on the book, and we are looking for a publisher. We want to give the handbook free to mridangam makers. A student must be fortunate to get a guru and a guru fortunate to get a good student. My policy is, admit everybody, teach them everything, create a strong base. Like a temple gopuram, which has only 5, 7, 9 kalashas at the top, from a broad base of 100 students, 50 will be very good, 25 will be brilliant, 10 will be geniuses, and 1 or 2 will be at the peak. I believe in vidya daanam. Share your knowledge, that is your legacy. In the olden days, it was very difficult for disciples to learn from the guru, who would not teach someone he thought was not worthy. That was befitting for those times but won’t fit the present day. Today, there are some brilliant students who come with brilliant ideas and ask you questions. They give you food for thought, you think about it all night, then give a convincing answer. Such disciples motivate the guru as well. There is a razor’s edge between music and noise. Mridangam has some great and unique qualities, but it also has certain limitations. If you know its magnificence and its limitations, you will have optimum judgement and exhibit your skill at its best. What is the pause? It is silence. Give some time, listen to the music, then play. When you are really enjoying the lyrics, stop, listen, let the lyrics be heard. Pausing is learnt from shravanam , from hearing. You should think of teamwork rather than yourself in a concert. I once accompanied K.V. Narayanaswamy for ‘Krishna nee begane’. I have played it many times, but at that concert in Mysore, a thought came to me — when Narayaswamy is going to describe the pranks of Krishna, where is the need for complex rhythm? Why not keep it to basic strokes and release KVN from the clutches of tala? So that day, as he sang, I only played din, tha tha din, tha ... for the whole song. At the end of it, people applauded. KVN turned to me and said, ‘I don't know what you did but it was a great experience’. I am a core traditionalist, and I am also ultra-modern. I have composed music for a Satya Paul fashion show. You must adjust with the times. Your attitude should be flexible, like a bamboo. Modern gadgets are there, why not use them? When you can travel by a 747 aircraft to New York, why should you take a bullock cart? My philosophy is, why go deeper into the past? When you are going to Mars, why go back to Mohenjo-daro? If I am invited to the moon for a concert, I will go! You should not be stagnant. Habits and civilisations change, core principles don't. We must change accordingly, or we will be thrown by the wayside. Earlier, there were no mics, now we have them. Make the best of it. If you say, ‘I will only sing without a mic,’ who will hear you? There is too much ambient noise. What if a disciple comes in trousers? Or doesn’t know how to do namaskaram correctly? If in his heart he respects you, that is enough.  teach whoever comes to me, irrespective of caste, creed, religion. I belong to only one jati —the jati of intelligent people. I teach my mridangam repairer's son. We worship Nandanar, but Nandanar was a Dalit. Each one of us is a spark of the divine. nMy father once told me, “There are hundreds of subjects in the world, mridangam is only a tiny part of it.” As I play the mridangam more and enjoy it more and delve deeper into it, I realise how small I am before the ocean of mridangam. I have not even touched the tip of the iceberg. During this pandemic, I have not been able to do many concerts. But I am still recording and teaching. I practise daily. I create. I discuss with my disciples. The deeper you go into the ksheera sagar of music, you find hidden springs, jewels, shipwrecks. You find ananda . You find pleasure and treasure. That is how I feel. That god should grant me another life to fulfil even more in the field of music.  Fellow, Sangeet Natak Akademi,2012   Padma Vibhushan,2010   Swathi Puraskar,2007     Padma Bhushan,2003   Sangita Kalanidhi,2001   Padma Shri,1988||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/i-have-not-even-touched-the-tip-of-the-iceberg/article34503122.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Rising to a new challenge||“I do not want to be clever. It will be very simple, just a perfect turn is sufficient,” says Odissi exponent Bijayini Satpathy, when asked about conceptualising and choreographing her latest solo work, ‘Call of Dawn’. “I am not resorting to the typical movements of Odissi. It has a rich vocabulary. I am allowing my body to flow with the music.” ‘Call of Dawn’ binds together three musical pieces in raag Ahirbhairav. A verse penned and composed by poet-musician , Kazi Nazrul Islam forms the central piece of the performance. The poet speaks in the voice of a young girl who does Shiva puja to get the husband of her dreams. She wants someone who is not as radiant as Shiva but more approachable like Krishna. “Nazrul was a poet during the Indian independence movement. So, when he is giving voice to a young, unmarried girl, he is actually pushing for the voice of women. He wants that they should be able to choose their life partner. It’s an important historical moment to register,” says Bijayini. As a preface, the dancer explores the ideas of feminine and masculine and how the temple imageries influence the young girl’s imagination in the segment, ‘Oned’, based on Adi Sankaracharya’s Ardhanariswara Stotram. “By playing the role of the man and the woman in intimate situations, she gains confidence and strength to stand up for her choice in the Nazrul geeti,” explains Bijayini. ‘Oned’ has been composed and sung by Bindhumalini Narayanaswamy, who has also sung the other compositions. Interesting moment While collaborating with Bindhumalini, the dancer recalls an interesting moment. “She sang one particular melody many times. At one point, it created the imagery of a champa flower falling from the tree that I catch before it reaches the ground. The performance ends with joy of the impending union conveyed through a Chakravaaka pallavi set to music by Sukanta Kumar Kundu. Srinibas Satapathy has arranged the music. The team has ensured that the performance lends itself to the camera. Bijayini performed each piece twice to not lose the flow between the adavus. It has been shot from seven different perspectives, with three cameras, by Mahesh Bhat, who has also edited the film. Sujay Saple has helmed the light and stage design. There are technical challenges when you record a performance on camera. “I may be dancing with all energy, like you do on stage, but it doesn’t come through entirely in the video, which makes it appear light and soft. So the movements have to be executed differently to create that impact.” After 13 years of training in Odisha, Bijayini joined Protima Gauri’s Nrityagram as the principal dancer of the company and also served as the director for training. Bijayini, through her duets with dancer and choreographer Surupa Sen, has experienced how the latter has expanded the boundaries of Odissi’s vocabulary. From 2019, she has been chartering her own journey as a solo dancer and choreographer. “I am finding my own language. It takes a few creations to know what my niche is. I will be grateful if it keeps evolving.” Bijayini’s practice sessions in her breezy terrace studio have intrigued the dance fraternity, which finds her multidisciplinary approach to preparing the body unique. She was introduced to this approach at Nrityagram, where Gaurima, as she reverently calls her guru, would invite dancers and trainers to hold workshops on different physical fitness practices for the students. This, combined with her own research later, helped her develop an integrated physical conditioning for Odissi/ Indian classical dancers, which blends Yoga, Natyashastra, Kalaripayattu, Western techniques, traditional Odishi warm-up exercises, anatomy and kinesiology. “It helps prepare the body for any Indian classical dance. It works on flexibility, endurance, balance and alignment.” New choreography In ‘Pranathi’, another new choreography envisioned by Bijayini and performed by her three students, Prithvi Nayak, Akshiti Roychowdhury and Malavika Singh, the dancer reimagines the works of Odissi stalwart Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra, as mainly duet and solo. Music composition is by Pt. Bhubaneswar Mishra and lighting and stage design by Sujay. The video has been shot by Eshna Benegal and Bornil Anurag. “There is so much intelligence in his choreography. I get very excited about it. I can almost hear the movements he is imagining; sometimes there is stillness in movement and sometimes movement in pause. I am trying to find where the suspended moments are. I had fun playing with the choreography. It has given me a different perspective to understand the Odissi vocabulary; Guruji might or might not have seen it this way, but I am seeing new things in it through this process of re-staging.” The pandemic has become a time for creative reflection for the dancer. It has also shown the relevance art holds for daily life. “I feel that the arts give us access to other parts of our being that are in other realms, probably philosophical, spiritual, sensitive, open and free, things we are not in our regular lives. And those experiences make living desirable.”  (‘Call of Dawn’, commissioned by Sampradaya Dance Creations, will première on May 8 at 7.30 p.m. on Shaale. Pranathi, commissioned by ChitraKaavya Dance, will be showcased May 14 to 18. )   The author is a theatre artiste and freelance writer.   I am finding my own language. It takes a few creations to know what my niche is. I will be grateful if it is evolving||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/rising-to-a-new-challenge/article34503140.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A beloved storyteller||“Do you have books by Manoj Das,” a young man asked the owner of the oldest book stall in Bhubaneswar some months ago. “Which book are you looking for,” asked the owner. “Pack all those available with you,” replied the young man. “Are you buying these books for a library?” I asked out of curiosity. “No, these are for my sister who lives in America. Our entire family loves Manoj Das’ writing,” he said, leaving with a big bag of books. This incident is enough to understand what Manoj Das meant to book-lovers across generations and around the globe. The Puducherry-based celebrated bi-lingual writer, professor, editor, thinker and orator left Odisha nearly six decades ago. Yet, he was the most beloved and revered writer-speaker across the State. No Odia writer ever enjoyed the incredible popularity that he did. The news of his passing away has left his admirers distraught. The celebrated writer’s mother Kadambini Devi laid a strong foundation for his literary journey. Even before Manoj had learnt the alphabets, she had narrated to him all the stories from the Ramayana and the Mahabharata . And by the time he completed his primary education, his mother had introduced him to the best of Odia literature. If it was his mother who inculcated in him a love for books, the nondescript village of Sankhari on the shores of the Bay of Bengal proved to be his muse. The vastness of the sea, the long stretches of greenery , the family’s fruit orchards and flower gardens, and the two small ponds with pink and white lotus blooms were his greatest attractions in childhood. However, when he was six, a cyclone devastated his beautiful village and in the famine that followed many villagers died. The family home was plundered twice by burglars. A mute witness to both the beauty and horror of nature and life, Manoj Das expressed his feelings through the pen. His first anthology of poems was published when he was just 14, at 15 he launched a literary magazine, and by the time he entered college, his first collection of short stories was published. The quest for knowledge Apart from his mother, his older brother, the well-known historian, Professor Manmath Nath Das, ignited in him a quest for knowledge. While in college, Manoj Das stayed with his brother, who was teaching history in a college in Balasore. The sufferings of the common people owing to the social injustice of colonial rule that he had seen as a child in his village drew him towards Marxism in his college days. He soon emerged as a revolutionary youth leader, leading agitations and was even arrested. He was elected unopposed as the president of the union of University Law College and later became the general secretary of the Students Federation of India. At the age of 21, he represented India at the Afro-Asian Students Conference at Bandung, Indonesia, in 1956 . After post-graduation, Manoj Das was appointed as an English lecturer in Cuttack, where he gained a reputation as a young literary genius. He married Pratijna Devi, a scion of the royal family of Kujang, whose parents were renowned freedom fighters. However, when life appeared settled, Manoj Das decided to leave Cuttack in 1963 and relocate to Puducherry, where he settled permanently in Sri Aurobindo Ashram. What took him to Puducherry? “Certainly, the presence of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother. A darshan I had of Mother inspired me. I realised that the problem behind human suffering goes beyond economics, it has been going on forever, evoking different reactions at different times,” he had said in interviews to The Hindu. In Puducherry, Manoj Das taught English literature and philosophy at Sri Aurobindo International Centre of Education while emerging as an internationally acclaimed bilingual writer. “There are only a few good storytellers left in the world today and one of them is Manoj Das,” Ruskin Bond has remarked, while Graham Greene said, “I have now read the stories of Manoj Das with great pleasure. He will certainly take a place on my shelves beside the stories of R. K. Narayan. I imagine Odisha is far from Malgudi, but there is the same quality in his stories, with perhaps an added mystery.” The writer was conferred the Atibadi Jagannath Das Samman and made a Fellow of Sahitya Akademi; he was also a recipient of numerous other awards, including the Padma Bhushan and Saraswati Samman. The best honour, however, has been the incredible love of the people of Odisha, who have explored every possible means to commemorate his legacy. The Odisha government has announced an international literary award, carrying a cash prize of Rs. 10 lakh, in memory of the legend, apart from setting up a museum and library in his ancestral home in Sankhari village. The government also announced the ‘Manoj Kishore Sahitya Pratibha Samman’ for highschool students.  The Odisha-based author writes on cultural affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-beloved-storyteller/article34503116.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Sivan’s songs in Sanskrit||Virtual lecture-demonstrations and interactive workshops have offered great scope for learning during the pandemic. And Fine Arts Society, Chembur, has regularly hosted such events over the past year. The society’s ‘Gurudvaar’ series, featuring eminent musicians, is an effort to understand the nuances of classical music through specific themes. The latest workshop was by senior vocalist Gayathri Girish, whose focus was the Sanskrit compositions of Papanasam Sivan. Papanasam Sivan, a prolific composer, is famous for his works in Tamil, but what is not so well known is that the scholar also composed in Sanskrit. The workshop threw light on the composer’s knowledge of the language and how, through his kritis, he tried to arouse people’s interest in it. Gayathri’s talk showed how such sessions offer opportunities for deeper reading and research. Excerpts from an interview. What prompted you to choose this topic? Papanasam Sivan has many popular Tamil compositions to his credit, but he has also composed in Sanskrit. Some of these kritis are well-known and some need to be popularised. These songs are equally profound, with a lot of raga and artha bhava. The lyrics are expertly couched in the special usage or prayoga of the raga. It is extremely satisfying to share such treasures with music lovers. I have also been enjoying the meaning of the lyrics and the ragas that they are set in. What are some of the special features of these compositions? Sivan composed about 45 kritis in Sanskrit. While bhakti forms the core of these compositions, their lyrical and musical beauty make these rare pieces more special. The choice of the compositions includes kritis that I have already learnt and some which I practised through the notations provided. The main source are the seven volumes of compositions, published by his daughter-musician Dr. Rukmini Ramani. In my early years, I had learnt some of Sivan’s kritis from her. Sivan’s Sanskrit compositions also carry the grandeur of yati and prasa, a rhythmic aspect one can find in Muthuswami Dikshitar’s kritis. His choice of words to highlight the meaning and beauty of the raga are interesting. For example, in the kriti ‘Narayana nalinayatha’ in Sama raga, Sivan has stressed on the word ‘Nalina’, which highlights the raga’s grace. And in the line ‘Karunakara’, the sangati brings out compassion so beautifully. In the charanam line ‘Annapoorneswari pranesam’ in the kriti ‘Sri Vishwanatham bhaje’ in Bhairavi, he highlights the special ‘madhyama’ note of the raga. One can find many such aspects in every kriti. Which are the kritis you chose for the workshop and why? ‘Sri ramabadra’ in Saramati, ‘Pahi meenalochani’ in Bilahari, ‘Janakipathe’ in Karaharapriya, and ‘Sri Vishwanatham bhaje’ in Bhairavi and ‘Narayana nalinayata lochana’ in Sama, to name a few. There are kritis in popular ragas such as Thodi, Karaharapriya, Bhairavi and Bilahari and also in rare ones such as Sama, Hamsanandhi, Saramati and Behag. ‘Thava charanamu’ in Thodi, ‘Dasarathathmajam’ in Purvikalyani, and ‘Sri Madhava’ in Behag are some of the other compositions. Are these kritis difficult to learn as they are in Sanskrit? While most of the kritis are quite similar to the Sanskrit compositions of Saint Tyagaraja and quite easy to learn, some carry the depth of Muthuswami Dikshitar’s kritis. I never fail to mention the subtle inflections to be used, the importance of pronunciation and meanings to the participants so that they appreciate every aspect of the creation. Do these compositions also carry his signature mudra, ‘Ramadasa’ and did he opt for any special rhythmic patterns? Yes, he has used the ‘Ramadasa’ mudra in these songs too. As for the rhythmic patterns, Sivan has not employed any unique talas. Most of the compositions are set in Adi, Rupakam and Misra Chapu. How challenging is it to conduct a virtual workshop? You have to look into every detail. I take special care to highlight the lyrics, their meanings, the raga and its distinct musical aspects. I sing the entire song once, then go line by line and ask each participant to sing it, and finally check if they have learnt the piece correctly. There are 29 singers in a batch. After teaching the entire kriti, I sing it once again, always pointing out the tala and subtleties like eduppu. The final recordings are sent to the participants by the organisers.  What are the advantages and disadvantages of such virtual interactive workshops? The biggest advantage is reach. For instance, participants have enrolled from across India, the U.S, Australia, Dubai, Johannesburg and London . The only disadvantage, of course, is the absence of the live artiste-rasika connect. Do you usually choose the themes for such sessions? Yes, because it makes it insightful. My earlier one was on Muthiah Bhagavatar’s compositions. I also maintain an online portal ‘Chaitanyam’, which features three of my lec-dems on ‘Sivaratri’, ‘Devi’ and ‘Guruvae Namaha’, highlighting the special features of the songs through vocal and pictorial presentations.  The Chennai-based author writes on music and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/sivans-songs-in-sanskrit/article34503126.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||When temple becomes stage||For the second year in a row, one of the most popular and eagerly awaited classical music and dance festivals, Sankat Mochan of Benaras was held online, from May 1 to 6. From the familiar open air temple courtyard, the anchor made announcements; some live performances by local artistes were recorded there, while artistes from across the country sent their recorded haazris (a term used for performances at this festival). The mahant of the Sankat Mochan temple, Prof. Vishwambhar Nath Mishra, said, “We thought this year we could revert to physical concerts, but it was not to be.” Music concerts at this temple have been a way of life for decades now, and three generations of mahants have themselves been musicians. In its 97th year, the annual festival holds all-night concerts for six nights. The music lovers of Benaras make it a point not to miss this feast, even switching off their phones for the duration! For the participating artistes, who perform gratis, the highpoint is the unique way in which the audience here expresses its appreciation — with both hands raised and with cries of ‘Har Har Mahadev.’ The informal ambience with the audience sitting all around the stage adds to the festival’s charm.  Concerts by stalwarts For many artistes, Sankat Mochan is an annual pilgrimage. Pt. Jasraj and his team used to stay for up to a week at the temple to participate. Several of his disciples continue to be regular participants. Many recall Pt. Jasraj’s early morning visits to the Vishwanath temple after his dawn seva at Sankat Mochan, where he would sing impromptu. The Benaras-born Pt. Ravi Shankar maintained his links with the temple; and his disciples too continue to perform annually here, including Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, Tarun Bhattacharya, and Ronu Mazumdar. Pt. Rajan and Sajan Mishra began their musical career with a concert at Sankat Mochan. The families of many artistes boast of long association with the temple, such as tabla player Rahul Mishra (great-grandson of Pt. Anokhe Lal Mishra), and sitarists Niladri Kumar and Prateek Chaudhari. For some like Ustad Nishat Khan and Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, it’s a newer association, but one that is treasured nevertheless. Apart from the belief that an artiste’s career takes off after an offering at Sankat Mochan, the opportunity to perform before a seasoned audience is something every musician aspires for. Even the uninitiated in the audience seem to have developed a keen ear for music having attended the festival over the years. From being male-dominated, the festival gradually became inclusive, making space first for women artistes, then dance was introduced, and later, Carnatic music. In the last 10 years, ghazal, qawwali, fusion acts, and percussion ensembles have been featured too. The religion and caste of the artistes have never been an issue here, with Muslim and Christian artistes offering their music at the temple, including American saxophonist George Brooks and Pakistani ghazal singer Ghulam Ali. This year, Pune-based vocalist Manjusha Patil made her debut haazri, despite having to record at home during the lockdown. She said, “It’s an opportunity not to be missed”. Sankat Mochan regular, the Delhi-based sarodist Pt. Biswajeet Roy Chowdhury, performed a magnificently structured recital that commanded attention; the ‘jor’  and ‘jhala’  were particularly noteworthy. Jodhpur-based sarod exponent Pt. Basant Kabra, a disciple of Annapurna Devi, performed at the festival after a gap of some 30 years; the beautiful ‘alap jor jhala’ was a thorough offering and one did not miss the composition with percussion. One felt every ‘meend’ was appropriate in its usage and there was no duplication of musical thought. It was a pleasure to hear shehnai, an instrument inextricably linked with Benaras, played by Lokesh Anand and Vikas Babu. One hopes that in 2022 at least Sankat Mochan will be held in its physical avtar; this festival’s unique ambience must be experienced live. The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/when-temple-becomes-stage/article34503137.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||On the edge of the well||Like the protagonist Sharad in The Disciple , my induction into the universe of Hindustani music was one of rapture and awe at the depth of the tradition. Many years passed before I identified the surprisingly homogenous — and disillusioningly pedestrian — subcultures it consisted of. Filmmaker Chaitanya Tamhane latches on to one of these — the Marathi Brahmin subculture of khayal music in Mumbai — and presents an astoundingly faithful representation of its textures, timbres and contradictions. From its unostentatious settings to its often stiflingly closeted worldviews, from its endearing music schools to the lovely music itself, Tamhane conjures up a world that is almost too familiar. In this sense, Tamhane is practically an ethnographer. The Disciple plays out like alanguorous soiree that takes its time to engulf you in its web of paradox and irony. The contradictions the film grapples with are at the heart of the music’s recent history. Hindustani khayal was historically practised in royal courts across north India by various castes, often of ambiguous religious affiliation. But the British divided the populace into simplistic categories for administrative efficiency, obliterating the religious diversity and syncretism of South Asian culture. Colonial scholars proclaimed that the music around them wasn’t India’s ‘real’ music. That, they contended, was lost and could only be found fossilised in ancient Sanskrit texts. They deemed the living music around them vulgar, corrupted by falling into the hands of ‘illiterates’ and ‘prostitutes’.This blow to its reputation prompted 20th century reformers to set about systematising the music and winning back social respectability. But one of the means the reformists used was to infuse its culture with an identifiably Hindu religiosity. It is from this history that the contradictions Tamhane so consummately captures emerge. Spiritual pursuit They are brought into Sharad’s life by his guru, a venerable gharana master played commendably by veteran musician Arun Dravid. Sharad listens obsessively to tapes of his guru’s guru: the unseen but always present Maai. The saintly matriarch of Sharad’s Alwar gharana, Maai remains an oppressive presence, whose pithy aphorisms Sharad faithfully performs to. “This is music that saints and ascetics have attained after thousands of years of rigorous spiritual pursuit,” Maai says, and Sharad dutifully proceeds to take on the Herculean task of bearing the entire weight of this tradition on his very mortal shoulders. There is certainly a romance to Sharad’s quest. His unquestioning belief in the mythology of the tradition infuses his music, like that of his guru, with pathos and grandeur. And certainly, beautiful music emerges from this crucible in which myth, reality and genuine strife come together. Aditya Modak deserves credit not only for his newfound acting skills, but also for reining in the virtuosity he is capable of and presenting renditions of Sharad’s singing that remain authentic to the character’s musical evolution. A lot of the credit for making this possible goes to Aneesh Pradhan’s music direction. Modak, Dr. Arun Dravid, Deepika Bhide-Bhagwat, Pt. Omkar Gulvady, and the many other real-life musicians in the film have all been impeccably cast. The music you hear is what a talented, struggling young singer of Sharad’s temperament would sound like. Tamhane depicts the courage it can take to sing even a single note, even when practising in solitude, for fear of disrupting the rich tapestry of tunefulness and memory a tanpura can create. For me, the film’s most moving moments are the ones where there is the tantalising possibility of Sharad finding an escape hatch and discovering his own music. There are the riyaz sessions, imbued with tension, where the raag eludes Sharad. But does it elude him because he is incompetent or because his tradition tells him that any twist he gives it might be ‘incorrect’? Where Tamhane really stages a coup though is the sequence towards the end of the film where a distracted Sharad begins raag Miya Malhar but finds it impossible to weave it into a cohesive whole. He has got rid of his Maai tapes and his guru is dead. For me, it is in these disconnected, disorderly strands of Malhar that Sharad toys with that one gets, for the first and only time in the film, a glimpse of Sharad’s own voice, the possibility of him finding his own aesthetic and making the tradition his own. But Sharad is overwhelmed, perhaps by this very sacrilegious possibility, and walks off stage. This music belongs to venerable sages! How could it possibly be his own? This is probably the most dramatic scene in the film, otherwise spectacular for its lack of drama. The dissonance of the tanpura, the choice of raag, the pauses that punctuate Sharad’s struggle — there is something special here.  The Disciple ends with a folk singer on a train, who movingly sings a Gorakhnath bhajan. His voice is magnetic and grabs Sharad’s attention for a minute, before he realises that, like most other things, he cannot accommodate this melody in his musical world. The bhajan’s line is poignant: ‘On the edge of the well was planted the seed of a tamarind tree’. Sharad remains on the edges of the well of musicianship. The freedom of the plunge is not for him.  The writer is a scholar and Hindustani musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/on-the-edge-of-the-well/article34503112.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Disunions framed||As part of Sangeet Natak Akademi’s ‘Antarang’ digital series, Sharmila Biswas premièred three poignant stories, ‘Departure… moving on,’ ‘Upeksha… disregard’ and ‘Apeksha’. “They were compositions to explore disunion,” said Sharmila. They are not films on Odissi, but dramatised stories with mime, abhinaya, music and monologue, and essentially solos featuring Sharmila. Her presence is stark, dressed in plain, unstarched cotton saris, and most often unadorned. She is not a glamorous dancer, choosing instead to remain subservient to the dark emotions in the air. Understated, absorbing and artistic, the films take you over 45 minutes into diverse worlds, populated by women with different aspirations. The context is set early through a narrative, which is either a running introductory text, or a monologue by Sharmila, done quietly, without distracting from the portrayals. Silence is used as a tool that becomes powerful. The imagery is stunning. Simple props like drapes, lamps, flowers, and cutouts with accent lighting bring out a happy outdoor feel or a sombre intense atmosphere, as warranted. Movement within the frames is minimal. Except the first frame that has vibrant Scottish-dance inspired steps for Rabindranath Tagore’s Scottish tune-inspired song, ‘Phule phule…’. Through it all, the camera remains an unobtrusive storyteller. In ‘Departure...’ a young girl (Raaginni Hindocha) bursts into a black-and-white frame dancing, along with her adoring mother, when suddenly the sights and sounds of the world outside catch her attention. The mother tries to distract her, but the world they watched together, from atop a step ladder, lures her away. She waits until the wait becomes hopeless. The lights darken and the mother is left alone with memories. The evocative soundscape is highlighted with soft renditions of mridanga sollus, mardala and tabla bols. ‘Upeksha’ is the centrepiece, opening with Draupadi in her abode. We see her going through her chores, lighting lamps, then going up to the balcony and perhaps she sees Arjuna’s arrival. She says, “My husband returns to me after 12 years with a new wife.” Strong words signifying strong emotions. Though Draupadi is in shadow most of the time, we see her battling raw emotions. ‘Upeksha’ is darker and has multiple locations — a stairway dotted with lamps, a balcony, a bed chamber. The movement between locations is smooth as are the long shots used. The sense of continuity is never lost, and neither are the ironies of the situation — Draupadi dressed in black with her hair open strikes us as a figure of power, and yet she is a victim of circumstances. She welcomes Subhadra, adorning the new bride with ‘the symbols of being a wife,’ before sending her to the bridal chamber. Through the shock and sarcasm, there appears a chink in the armour. ‘Wasn’t I good enough,’ she asks. The monologues are powerful, but it is the overall presentation that adds the punch. ‘Apeksha’ is also from the Mahabharata . Krishna has left Vrindavan leaving behind Radha. Radha waits endlessly, her lament showing her hopeless state as she oscillates between happy memories, the futile wait, and moments of madness. Even the setting is poetic — Sharmila dressed in the same orange as the long marigold strands she holds on to, set within an all-black space. Swaramalikas are used for Radha and Draupadi, one has a voice layered with shehnai and the latter with the flute and mardala bols rendered by Sharmila. They add depth to the sensitive portrayals without detracting from the protagonist. The artistes have created a solid impact in a short time-frame of about 10-20 minutes each. There are many ‘aha’ moments in the films, the credit for which should be shared by the team — Sharmila (concept and choreography), Neelay Sengupta (film direction and set design), Bejoy Jena (music), Srijan Chatterjee (music adaption), and Debottama Sarkar (film editing).  The Chennai-based author writes on classical dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/disunions-framed/article34503134.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A link to the Senia tradition is broken||Renowned sitarist Pt. Debabrata Chaudhury, disciple of Ustad Mushtaq Ali Khan of Senia Gharana, who passed away recently, was affectionately called Debu da by the music fraternity. A well-known musicologist, author and academician, Prof. Debu Chaudhury retired as the Dean, Faculty of Music and Fine Arts, Delhi University. An authentic representative of the Senia Baaj, he maintained its purity, adhering to the practice of using just a 17 frets sitar in performance and teaching, resisting the convenience of more. Groomed by a guru who belonged to the lineage of Masit Sen, the originator of the Masit-Khani Baaj, Pt. Debu believed in innovating within the strict guidelines of the raga system, the hallmark of Senia Gharana. The practitioners of this gharana follow the purity of the raga with ‘Dhrupad style’ treatment, avoiding lighter adornments like ‘murki’ and ‘fanda’, and stick to the meend-like deeper embellishments. Talking about the principles of his gharana, Debu da would recall how his guru would say, “Senias are ‘yukti-vadi’, who follow the logic of any musical elaboration related to raga. Musical compositions flow from musical principles grounded in the fundamentals of the raga system”. He emphasised the importance of logical treatment of the raga. The application of a particular note in a raga, for instance, should be maintained throughout the presentation, without diluting the purity of traditional Indian classical music, especially of the gharana. So many instances of his unassuming nature and warmth come to mind. He was delighted when UMAK Centre for Culture, established in memory of his guru, Ustad Mushtaq Ali Khan, was launched in1990. The congregation of artistes and art lovers at the inauguration got to watch excerpts of a film based on an interview of his guru by Pt. Dilip Chandra Bedi from Doordarshan’s archival recordings. On the occasion, Debu da had shared poignant moments from his guru’s life. “My guru suffered a lot of pain during the last stages of his cancer. He called me to Kolkata, held my hand and said, ‘The pain is not only physical, it’s also about my music which will end with me’. With tears in my eyes, I assured him that I will not let it die. Ustad passed away the next day. I pledged to establish a gurukul in his name and carry forward the musical tradition.” Debu da fulfilled his guru’s dream despite his wife’s untimely demise to cancer, which left him heartbroken. That evening, the audience was in tears when he concluded with the Bangla geet, ‘Ki pai na…’, which can be translated as ‘I will not talk about what I lost, but will express my gratitude for what god has bestowed upon me in the form of friends and well-wishers’. With equal command over shastra (theory) and prayog (practice), Pt. Debu Chaudhury wrote many books on music. He also created eight new raags — Vishweshwari, Kalyani Bilawal, Ashiqui Lalit, Palas Sarang, Anuranjani, Shiva-Manjari, Swanandeshwari and Prabhati-Manjari. A firm believer in the gharana system that has carried forward the tradition of Hindustani music through guru-sishya parampara, he dealt with the subject in one of his books, Sitar and its Music . The gharana discipline, according to him, was not just about various schools of music but about intensity of training and continuity of great traditions. One chapter deals with sitar gharanas and the specialities of Senia Gharana. He continued teaching and writing books despite his failing vision. His last book, Raagatma , a collection of his own compositions, based on the traditional compositions of Hindustani music, was released on the occasion of his 84th birthday celebration. Explaining the title of the book, he had said then that traditional compositions are the atma or soul of the ragas. He believed that an instrumentalist should have command over these, especially a profound knowledge of ragas. To understand a raag completely, one needs to understand the raag ang , encapsulated in these compositions, he said. During a conversation later that evening, he said, “The seed of this book was planted 20 years ago with a UGC project. It encouraged me to compile traditional compositions and compose sitar bandishes based on them. I collected traditional vocal compositions from scholars like Dr. Sumati Mutatkar, who was a ‘Chaumukhi Gavaiya’ trained in dhrupad, khayal and thumri, D.T. Joshi, Shubhra Guha, and even from Pt. Vishnu Narayan Bhatkhande, who had collected compositions from famous musicians from different gharanas and documented them in his Kramik Pustak-Malika .” He had planned to add dhrupad compositions also to the book, but could not do so due to his deteriorating eyesight. “My guru always referred to dhrupad compositions to verify the authenticity of a raag. While playing sitar, he avoided ‘murki’ and used meend instead, as in dhrupad. It’s a pity that people these days use ‘murki’ even in contemplative ragas like Darbari Kanhada,” he had rued. “We use ‘murki’ only in the Thumri Ang Raags. My ustad composed a beautiful sitar bandish based on the popular Thumri Ang Bandish, ‘Na manungi…’ in raag Khamaj. It is important that sitar compositions should only be based on vocal composition and must not be their exact replica. Thus, these compositions have sitar ‘bols’ based on the Raag Ang, depicted in that specific vocal bandish. Raagatma is a documented guideline for coming generations of musicians who want to follow my principles even when I am not around,” the veteran sitarist had said. The Delhi-based writer is a Hindustani music critic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-link-to-the-senia-tradition-is-broken/article34503142.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Layered with details||Senior Mohiniyattam dancer and choreographer Mandakini Trivedi’s ‘Aesthetics of Indian Classical Dance’, presented by the Leela Foundation in collaboration with Aalaap, is a six-part series that explores ways to understand the roots of Indian dance.  The sessions deal with how Indian philosophy has influenced Indian dance forms, their content, the training programme of artistes, the processes that she/he needs to follow, the orientation and the experience that art hopes to give the spectator. The series talks of how the performing space today is shared by entertainment, realistic and classical forms. The sessions also ponder on how the entertainment industry is having an impact on all serious art, and how the classical too unconsciously aspires to that status.. While the first two sessions (April 24 and 25) analysed important elements of Indian philosophy, as well as the orientation and training programme of artistes in the classical dances, the third session (May 1) deconstructed in detail the idea of the transcendental in dance, and attempted to explain how all its layers operated at once on the aesthetic, symbolic and yogic levels. The remaining three sessions on May 8, 15 and 16 (6.30 p.m. to 8 p.m.) will deconstruct pure dance and narrative dance in the context of classicism, while the last session will talk of the unique nature of dance. The programme will end with an intense question and answer session and dialogue with the participants. There are a total of 30 sessions, and each one will take up a few nritta hastas and their performance. The talks are supported by video recordings. For details email www.theaalaap.com  A student of classical Indian dance needs to be conscious of the form they practice and their essences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/layered-with-details/article34503128.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Chakshu dance festival||With art going virtual in the pandemic, it is time to understand changing nuances, repertoires and presentation techniques. Kalpataru and Kri Foundation present the Chakshu festival, which will focus on short films on dance, from May 7 to 9. The films have been created from the perspective of dancing for the camera. Each day’s screening will be followed by a panel discussion with the artistes who have made the films. They will discuss how the lens has changed the environment and ecosystem of dance. The discussion will be moderated by Arshia Sethi, also the co-host of the event. Those keen to watch the films have to register at mailchi.mp/ 6345d8008aee/kalpataru. The festival begins with the filmAksharakaramby Justin McCarthy, Jaya Jaitly, Kalpana Subrahmanyam;SitaaurGitaby Nikita Maheshwary;Nrityagram - For the love of danceby Nan Melville andNature of Nescienceby Shilpika Bordoloi. On May 8, watch Neha Bhatnagar’sForest,andRed Stampby Sanjukta Wagh and Benish Mahmood;Quest - A Lowdown diary of a Dancerby Sangita Chatterjee; Aditi Mangaldas’Within from Within;Ananya Chatterjee and Darren Johnson’sDastakandGrappleby Santosh Nair (Battery Dance Company). On the final day,BoxedandAndal’s Garden,curated by Anita Ratnam; Douglas Rosenberg’sCircling; Sumedha Bhattacharya’sJam Upload Download; Pavitra Krishna Bhat’sDivine Dews;Anwesh Mahanta’sSakhi He,Swapnokalpa Dasgupta’sEyeconic Tales of Love,Prachi Saathi’sRaftaar karo kamand Sangita Chatterjee’sMirage, A Lust for Lifewill be screened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/chakshu-dance-festival/article34503131.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 19,133 new cases, 335 deaths||Delhi reported 335 COVID-19-related deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 18,398, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Out of the 78,780 tests done in the day, 19,133 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 12,73,035. Of the total cases, 11,64,008 people have recovered, leaving the active case tally at 90,629. A bigger cause for optimism was that the test positivity rate fell to 24.29% on Thursday, 26.37% on Wednesday and 29.56% on Tuesday. This means that about 24 out of 100 people taking the test are now COVID-19 positive. The positivity, which is the percentage of people testing positive out of the total tests done, has fallen below 30% after almost two weeks. There was a sharp rise in positivity from 3.5% on April 1 to 36.2% on April 22. But since then, it has stayed below it. Lowering positivity is a good sign, according to experts. Ideally, it should be below 5%. Difficulty for beds At Lok Nayak Hospital on Thursday evening, the situation was better compared to two weeks ago, when there was a mad rush of ambulances. But people said that they were still finding it difficult to find hospital beds. “On April 28, this was the sixth hospital we came to. First, they said that there were no beds. We waited from 7.30 p.m. and finally when our oxygen cylinder got over at 12.30 a.m. and the patient was about to fall, they gave us a bed,” said Rakesh Saini, whose mother-in-law is admitted at the hospital. The family was desperately looking for an ICU bed for her on Thursday evening, but with no luck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-reports-19133-new-cases-335-deaths/article34503433.ece
07 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||FIR against Lucknow hospital for false oxygen shortage alarm||A private hospital in Lucknow has been booked for putting up a notice stating oxygen shortage in the facility and “creating an atmosphere of fear”, said officials on Thursday. The administration claimed that the hospital had sufficient stock of oxygen cylinders and was allegedly trying to hoard them. The director of Sun Hospital was booked under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC, Sections 51 and 52 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Epidemic Diseases Act in Vibhuti Khand police station. The notice On May 3, the hospital had allegedly put out a notice signed by its administrator, Udit Singhal, on social media —asking family members of patients who were on oxygen support to take their patients elsewhere. After repeated requests to the U.P. CM Yogi Adityanath and the Centre “we are not able to get enough oxygen supply,” said the notice. The Lucknow administration said they carried out an inspection at the hospital but found that the facility had a sufficient supply of oxygen. In his police complaint, Superintendent of CHC Chinhat Suresh Pandey said it was found that the hospital had eight jumbo oxygen cylinders, two B-type filled cylinders and oxygen concentrators. At that time, 25 COVID patients were admitted to the hospital, 20 of whom were on oxygen support, said Mr. Pandey. “After the examination from the medical point of view, it was established that the hospital had sufficient oxygen in proportion to the admitted patients,” the FIR said. The official also said that on May 1, when it had 18 patients, the hospital had received 26 jumbo cylinders while on May 2, the number of patients was 17, it had got 58 jumbo cylinders. The action against the facility comes after Mr. Adityanath instructed officials to take action against hospitals if they found reporting scarcity of oxygen supply just to “create fear”. On May 4, the Allahabad HC had observed that the deaths of COVID patients due to lack of supply of oxygen to hospitals “is a criminal act and not less than a genocide by those who have been entrusted the task to ensure continuous procurement and supply chain of the liquid medical oxygen.” The court made the remarks while asking DMs of Meerut and Lucknow to verify the deaths of five patients in the ICU of the new trauma centre of Medical College Meerut last Sunday and the reports of two hospitals allegedly taking their hands off admitted COVID-19 patients only because they did not get the oxygen supply despite demanding it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-against-lucknow-hospital-for-false-oxygen-shortage-alarm/article34503419.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||Man with Down syndrome dies of no oxygen at hospital, alleges family||Family members of Prashant Sharma, 34, who died at Lok Nayak Hospital on May 1 morning, alleged that he died as there was “no oxygen” available at his bed. “About two-three hours before he died, he pulled the oxygen mask he was wearing and gestured to me by shaking his hand that oxygen was not coming. I also put my finger inside the mask, where the pipe connects to it and there was no pressure. There was no oxygen. He started gasping and then he started falling unconscious. Finally, he took his last breath at 7.47 a.m.,” his sister Meghna Sharma (29), narrated the ordeal from their residence in Krishna Nagar, East Delhi. Mr. Prashant, who had Down syndrome, was admitted to the Lok Nayak Hospital for 25 days with his sister. She said that oxygen supply was irregular from April 21 and his condition deteriorated because of it. “On April 20 or 21 around 1.30 a.m., the oxygen was stopped. There was no pressure at all. For about 47-48 minutes, there was no oxygen. Then it was back, but the pressure was very low. Since then, the oxygen pressure was fluctuating and the hospital added around 8-10 cylinders for 48 patients in the ward,” said Ms. Meghna, adding that CT scan was done on the 16th day of admission, despite several requests. She also alleged that he did not get proper medical care at the hospital. “Two more patients, who were on beds next to us, an uncle and an aunt, died in the one-hour window on May 1 as there was no oxygen. And this was just on my right side and I didn’t even get time to look to the left side,” Ms. Meghna said. ‘Not true’ However, when contacted, Suresh Kumar, who is the Medical Director of the hospital, said it was “not true” and the hospital never ran out of oxygen. “Oxygen never got over at the hospital. It’s true that sometimes we had only three or four hours of oxygen left, but we never ran out of oxygen. If we had ran out of oxygen, then a large number of people would have died, as we have around 1,500 patients, said Dr. Kumar. “The CMO [Chief Medical Officer] said that it was a severe case and he came with an oxygen saturation of 60%. We did everything possible to save him,” he added. Completely fine On the contrary, Ms. Meghna said he was completely fine on the night of April 30. “He kept saying he was hungry and ate fruits. He loved anything sweet and even ate kheer that we had brought from home. He was completely fine that night,” she said. His father, Anil Sharma, 66, an ex-cricketer whose both legs are amputated, said the facilities at the hospital including treatment were improper and that led to the death, which he termed a “murder”. “On the night of April 30, I had a video call with him and he was flexing his muscles and told me that he is fine and coming back home soon. I believe we should file a case against the hospital,” he said. Whatever happened to our boy, it should not happen to anyone else. Even during the last hours, the doctors did not attend to him. It was just my daughter by his side,” said Mr. Anil. He was admitted on April 7 but was doing everything, including going to the washroom, by himself. “His mental level was like a child’s, though he was self-dependent. If he had got proper treatment and oxygen, he would be with us now,” Ms. Meghna said, lamenting.  If we had ran out of oxygen, then a large number of people would have died, as we have around 1,500 patients   Suresh Kumar Medical Director of Lok Nayak Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-with-down-syndrome-dies-of-no-oxygen-at-hospital-alleges-family/article34503435.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Number of SOS calls falls from 48 to 16 in a day||The number of SOS calls received from hospitals in the city on Wednesday was 16 against the 48 calls received the previous day, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said while releasing the oxygen bulletin. He said that the number of calls had come down as the city was delivered adequate oxygen by the Central government for the number of patients currently in need of oxygen. “In these 16 hospitals from we received calls, there were 2,777 beds, which means there were 2,777 patients on oxygen-support beds. We facilitated this on time and made sure the shortage of oxygen was overcome,” Mr. Chadha said. He added that 730 MT of oxygen led to a significant reduction in SOS calls from hospitals but pointed out that out of the 730 MT of oxygen, around 250 MT did not come from regular sources. “It came from an ad-hoc arrangement. I appeal to the Central government to turn this into a permanent one,” Mr. Chadha said. The MLA further said: “The cumulative need of oxygen in Delhi, including private hospitals, government hospitals and small-scale nursing homes, when calculated, comes to 976 MT. This is the demand made by us for Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO). In the past, we have been receiving less than 50% of this demanded number, varying between 300-400 MT,” Mr. Chadha said. Own source The Capital has also been trying to set up its own source of oxygen and reduce dependence on suppliers from outside the State. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that he had inspected the installation of the new oxygen plant at Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital that had been imported from France. “I want to thank the French government for their support. We are setting up 48 such plants across Delhi to address the shortage of oxygen out of which 21 are being imported from France, and the rest are from India. Though these are small plants, I feel they will provide a lot of support to the entire system,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The plant at Harishchandra Hospital has the capacity to fill 50-60 cylinders a day and if taken directly through the pipeline, 33 patients can be sustained on it for 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/number-of-sos-calls-falls-from-48-to-16-in-a-day/article34503429.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Oxygen supply meets demand for first time||There was a glimmer of hope on Thursday that the oxygen crisis in the city would soon end as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal shared that the Capital had received 730 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen from the Central government on Wednesday against the 700 MT required daily. Mr. Kejriwal thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Central government, the Supreme Court and the High Court for their effort to ensure that the Capital received oxygen as per the demand for the first time since the oxygen crisis started and hoped it was not a one-off instance. The Chief Minister said that if the Capital gets an adequate supply of 700 MT oxygen, it will be able to set up a COVID Care Centre with 9,000-9,500 beds and assured citizens that the Delhi government will not let anyone die due to shortage of oxygen. “Until the second wave of COVID-19 is not curtailed, we need 700 MT oxygen daily. It shouldn’t be the case that one day we receive 700 MT and the next day we again get only 300-400MT, because this will create turmoil in the hospitals again. We need this supply every day to increase the number of beds with oxygen,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Reinstate beds Several hospitals were forced to reduce the number of beds due to the lack of oxygen and the Chief Minister requested them to reinstate the number of beds that existed earlier and add more beds. “If big hospitals cut down the number of beds, it will lead to complete mayhem. It is my request to all the hospitals to reinstate the number of beds. I hope 700 MT of oxygen will be available each day, which will allow us to create 5,000 beds in Radha Soami Satsang centre, 2,500 beds in two places in Burari, 1,000 beds in Commonwealth Games Village and 1,000 beds in Yamuna Sports Complex,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He hoped the situation that prevailed over the past few weeks with hospitals sending SOS calls to the government saying they have only minutes or hours of oxygen left would not recur. Praise for youth Commenting on the vaccination drive that opened up for the 18-44 age group category this week, Mr. Kejriwal said vaccination is the only solution to this problem and the youth have shown great enthusiasm to get inoculated. “Around 1,30,000 people in the 18-44 age group have been vaccinated in the past three days. We have the resources to multiply the vaccination drive, but now there is a problem of shortage of vaccine. We are waiting for the supply, and if we get sufficient supply in a timely manner, we will open multiple centres,” the Chief Minister said. He added that till now, in Delhi, 35,74,000 doses of vaccine have been administered, out of which 28 lakh people have taken the first dose, and 7,76,000 people have taken both.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/oxygen-supply-meets-demand-for-first-time/article34503431.ece
07 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab appoints nodal officers for tax exemption on imported COVID relief items||Punjab government has appointed nodal officers to facilitate individuals and organisations in getting tax exemption on any COVID relief to be imported into the State from abroad. “In the ongoing fight against COVID, the Punjab government has appointed two nodal officers to facilitate the individuals-organisations in getting tax exemption on any COVID relief to be imported into the State from abroad,” said an official statement. The statement added to facilitate the flow of aid from outside India, the Government of India has provided exemption from customs duty and integrated tax on goods for COVID relief imported into country. “The same concessions could be availed for such imports if they were sent free of cost from outside India and are distributed free within the country. For claiming these exemptions, anyone could approach the nodal officer appointed by the State government,” it said, adding that Kumar Rahul (IAS) and Ravneet Singh Khurana (IRS) have been appointed as nodal officers. The State has allocated Rs. 10 crore to the departments of health, education, social security, women and child development, social justice, animal husbandry and SOSVA (NGO) for helping out the needy through involvement of NGOs during the current fiscal 2021-2022. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, after chairing a meeting of the apex committee for providing financial assistance to the NGOs, here solicited support of the NGOsand appealed to them to come forward to help the State in fighting the second COVID wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-appoints-nodal-officers-for-tax-exemption-on-imported-covid-relief-items/article34503423.ece
07 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Burial of COVID-19 victim opposed in Manipur, citizenship questioned||A Manipur-based group has opposed the burial of a COVID-19 victim who taught in a Haryana university but was born in adjoining Myanmar. The United Naga Council (UNC) mourned the death of the 42-year-old Nehginpao Kipgen at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi on May 2 but questioned his citizenship and the “legal ground” for the burial of his body in Manipur’s Kangpokpi district. The UNC said Dr. Kipgen, who headed the Centre for Southeast Asian Studies at the OP Jindal University, was not “indigenous” to Manipur and asked if he had acquired Indian citizenship under the due procedure.  ‘Unfailing consideration’ “This question is undoubtedly important for an unfailing consideration in a multi-ethnic society like the State of Manipur,” the council said on Wednesday. The Thadou Inpi, the apex body of the Thadou community, had sought permission from the district authorities to let the ambulance carrying Dr. Kipgen’s body stop for 30 minutes for people to pay their “last respect as per customary practices”. Granting the permission, Kangpokpi Deputy Commissioner Somorjit Salam issued an order on May 5 for adherence to COVID protocols during the homage rituals and burial at Leikot village in the district’s Saitu-Gamphazol subdivision. Buried on Wednesday Dr. Kipgen was buried late Wednesday evening. The Thadou Students’ Association, General Headquarters said Dr. Kipgen was a citizen by convention although he was born in Teijang village in Myanmar. “His relatives are from Kangpokpi and his wife is from Churachandpur [Manipur]. He did all his schooling in Manipur, did his PhD in Hyderabad after studying in the U.S. in between, and has been teaching in India,” a spokesperson of the association said. The Thadous belong to the Kuki-Chin group who live on either side of the India-Myanmar border. Many are believed to have crossed over to Manipur since the 1940s.  His relatives are from Kangpokpi and his wife is from Churachandpur [Manipur]. He did all his schooling in Manipur, did his PhD in Hyderabad after studying in the U.S. in between, and has been teaching in India   Spokesperson of Thadou Students’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/burial-of-covid-19-victim-opposed-in-manipur-citizenship-questioned/article34503420.ece
07 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Token system in place to streamline oxygen supply in Millennium City||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday introduced token system to streamline the supply of liquid oxygen for COVID-19 patients in home isolation. A total of 90 tokens will be distributed per day at three different counters. The MCG has set up three counters at Sector 34, Sector 42 and the office of the municipal body near Sadar Bazar. Thirty tokens each will be distributed at these centres from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The token will be valid for two days and the beneficiaries can procure the liquid oxygen from Star Gases plant in Sector-7, Manesar. Those seeking token must carry the patient’s RT-PCR report, Aadhaar card, address proof and the doctor’s report. Ambulance charges The district administration also fixed the hiring charges for the ambulances to transport the patients in Gurugram. As per the rates fixed by the administration, the ambulance owners can charge Rs. 1,000 and an additional Rs. 25 per km for transporting patients for a distance of more than 7 km. Similarly, the initial charges for up to 3 km are fixed at Rs. 500. For a distance between 3 and 7 km, the initial charges are Rs. 750. A makeshift hospital and two isolation centres are also being set up in different parts of the city in view of the increasing cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/token-system-in-place-to-streamline-oxygen-supply-in-millennium-city/article34503426.ece
07 May 2021||New Delhi,||Court orders release of 12 oxygen concentrators||A Delhi Court has ordered release of 12 oxygen concentrators, which was seized by the police, for medication of police officer, judicial officers and their family members. Metropolitan Magistrate Anuj Bahal gave the order after Delhi Police filed an application seeking releasing the oxygen concentrators saying these oxygen concentrator can be used for saving life of the police personnel who are suffering from COVID-19. The 12 oxygen concentrators were seized from two persons and all of them were deposited in Police Station Dwarka Malkhana. The police said no useful purpose would be solved to retain the oxygen in the police malkhana and the same should be circulated back for the use of needy patients. “It is pertinent to mention that judicial officers, due to their nature of work are also exposed to deadly virus. A large number of judicial officers and their families in Delhi are infected with COVID-19 virus and unfortunately two members of Delhi Judiciary namely Family Judge Sh. Kovai Venugopal and Metropolitan Magistrate, Dwarka, Kamran Khan have lost their lives due to COVID infection,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-orders-release-of-12-oxygen-concentrators/article34503424.ece
07 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam BJP dissolves minority cell post polls||The Assam unit of the BJP has dissolved its minority cell after none of its nine Muslim candidates managed to win a seat in the recently concluded Assembly election. 60 of 126 seats won The BJP had won 60 of 126 seats in the State. Its two regional allies bagged 15. “The Sankhyaloghu Morcha [minority cell] and all its units have been dissolved,” said the party’s state general-secretary, Rajdeep Roy, on Wednesday. Among the losers in the Muslim-dominated seats was Deputy Speaker Aminul Haque Laskar, who had won the Sonai seat in Barak Valley in 2016. He lost the seat to Karim Uddin Barbhuiya of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) by 19,654 votes. Assam has 34 Assembly constituencies where Muslims are the largest chunk of voters. Of the 31 Musim candidates who won from these seats, 16 were fielded by Congress and 15 by its ally AIUDF. Congress won a total of 29 seats and AIUDF 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-bjp-dissolves-minority-cell-post-polls/article34503417.ece
07 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Over Rs. 15 cr. collected from COVID violators in Odisha||The Odisha police on Thursday said they have collected Rs. 15 crore from COVID-19 violators in the State. “We have collected little over Rs. 15 crore from people violating COVID-19 protocols. People who were not found wearing masks coughed up fines to the tune of Rs. 6.34 crore and Rs. 8.29 crore has been collected from those misusing vehicles during COVID restrictions. Besides, people have been fined for not maintaining social distance,” said Director General of Police Abhay. Over 1.5K excise cases During this time, the State police arrested 553 people, seized 21,406 vehicles and registered 1,632 excise cases, said Mr. Abhay. “People in Odisha are largely following restrictions imposed by the government to break the chain of infection. But there are very few people who are still not adhering to COVID-19 restrictions,” he said. The DGP urged people to wear masks, not to crowd shops, and stick to the cap over participation in marriages and funeral. The police said they have started a telephone-based grievance redressal system in wake of the imposition of lockdown and shutdown. Oxyegn support Meanwhile, continuing escorting oxygen-laden trucks, the police facilitated the movement of 345 tankers carrying 6300 metric tonnes of medical oxygen to 10 different States since April 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-rs-15-cr-collected-from-covid-violators-in-odisha/article34503422.ece
07 May 2021||May 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A drive in the rain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-drive-in-the-rain/article34503858.ece
07 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Exempt GST on vaccine’||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday demanded suitable sharing of various cess and surcharges on petrol, diesel and liquor, which were exclusively available to the Centre and exemption of Goods and Service Tax on purchase of vaccine for COVID-19. In a letter addressed to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Mr. Patnaik said, “India is going through a tough phase in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. It is a war-like situation and all our resources should be focused on winning this war against corona.” “This is not going to be a one-time battle. We will have a sustained challenge in this fight against COVID till serious advances are made in treatment and vaccination,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/exempt-gst-on-vaccine/article34503421.ece
07 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||COVID care facility opened at Golden Tulip||A few Gurugram based citizen-focused organisations have set up a private COVID care facility for the elderly, who need basic isolation facilities and routine monitoring and are unable to take care of themselves at their homes.  Given the enormity of the challenge and amid a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in Gurugram, Sarovar Hotels and Resorts, in partnership with Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, iamgurgaon and Emoha Elder Care, announced the opening of a 60-bed private COVID care facility at the Golden Tulip Hotel, Sector 29, Gurugram, said a press statement.  This facility was made possible through the Corporate Social Responsibility spending by these citizen-focused organisations . This facility is designed to be a ‘home’ for elders to recover in peace with dedicated oxygen concentrators, on-site clinical and nursing attention, vitals monitoring, online activities for emotional well-being and most importantly a caring homely atmosphere, said the press statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-care-facility-opened-at-golden-tulip/article34503425.ece
07 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Tea estate shut in Assam after 198 test positive||Local authorities have closed a tea estate in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district after 198 workers and members of their families tested positive for COVID-19. The Zaloni Tea Estate was declared a containment zone on Wednesday. District Surveillance Officer of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Nabajyoti Gogoi said the cases were reported over the past 48 hours. “The patients have been kept at the tea garden hospital and in some empty houses within the estate. Health officials have been vaccinating other workers of the garden and their family members who tested negative,” he said. About 60 other cases were also reported from two adjoining tea estates. An average of 4,596 people tested positive in the last three days in Assam. The number of cases on May 3 was 4,489 — twice that of 2,385 recorded on the previous day. The number of people who died has been increasing from 29 on May 3 to 41 and 55 in the next two days. Lockdown in Meghalaya The Meghalaya government announced a total lockdown in Shillong and elsewhere in the East Khasi Hills district from 8 p.m. on Wednesday till 5 a.m. on May 10. A weekend lockdown has been enforced in the other districts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tea-estate-shut-in-assam-after-198-test-positive/article34503416.ece
07 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Brief2||Delhi Police has registered over 300 cases in connection with cheating and black marking or hoarding of oxygen cylinders and medical equipment during the ongoing pandemic, officials said on Thursday. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said a total of 303 FIRs have been registered so far. Of them, 225 FIRs were registered in connection with cheating people on the pretext of providing Remdesivir and oxygen cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/brief2/article34503427.ece
07 May 2021||Punjab,||Five of family killed in road accident in Punjab||Five members of a family died on the spot when their motorcycle collided head on with a car in a district in Punjab on Thursday, the police said. Three occupants of the car also suffered injuries in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-of-family-killed-in-road-accident-in-punjab/article34503845.ece
