09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anti-COVID-19 drug developed by DRDO gets emergency use nod||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission for emergency use of an anti-COVID-19 therapeutic application of the drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a lab of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), in collaboration with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Hyderabad. In a release issued on Saturday, the Ministry of Defence said that as per the order, emergency use of this drug as adjunct therapy in moderate to severe COVID-19 patients is permitted. It added that being a generic molecule and analogue of glucose, it can be easily produced and made available in plenty in the country. The drug comes in powder form in sachets and is taken orally by dissolving it in water. It accumulates in the virus infected cells and prevents their growth by stopping viral synthesis and energy production. Its selective accumulation in virally infected cells makes this drug unique.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anti-covid-19-drug-developed-by-drdo-gets-emergency-use-nod/article34518324.ece
09 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala stays indoors to keep virus out as 9-day lockdown begins||The State went into a nine-day lockdown from Saturday bringing normal lifEe to a near standstill, even as the government appealed to the people to remain indoors and avoid unnecessary travel to curb disease transmission during the second wave of COVID-19. Before the lockdown commenced at 6 a.m., the police personnel were deployed in strength to enforce the restrictions. Vehicles and travellers were screened at checkpoints on the inter-State and inter-district borders, gateways to cities and important junctions. Transport services The entire fleet of Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), except for hospital services, and the 15,000-odd private stage carriers remained off the road. Autorickshaws and taxis were barred from plying. Train services and flights were operational, but patronage was very low. All classes of motor vehicles transporting goods moved as usual as they were exempted from the lockdown. Places of worship opened but devotees were barred from entering and worshipping. Streets were deserted and only those going to airports, railway stations and for other emergencies stepped out of home. The KSRTC operated 54 schedules to Medical College Hospitals and important hospitals for the hospital employees. These services will continue from 6.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. on all days, according to the KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director. Of the 54 services, 17 are in Thiruvananthapuram zone, 30 in Ernakulam zone and seven in Kozhikode zone. Shops selling essential commodities and medical shops remained open. While dining is prohibited, restaurants have been allowed to operate parcel services from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. Senior police officials and District Police Chiefs personally supervised the enforcement of the restrictions. At many places, the police were seen counselling people who ventured out unnecessarily. They were also asked to produce identity cards and documents to support their claims. The police launched round the clock helpline 112 to help the citizens to purchase emergency medicines. Besides the highway patrols and police patrol teams, the Fire and Rescue Services vehicles are being used for door delivery of medicines. 5,961 cases registered In all, 5,961 cases were registered and 1,405 people arrested for violating the pandemic protocols on Saturday, the police said. The online facility for applying for passes for essential travel, issued by the police, is in place. Given the COVID-19 scenario in most of the districts, the government has decided to discourage inter-district travel, except in emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-stays-indoors-to-keep-virus-out-as-9-day-lockdown-begins/article34518541.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. to focus on vaccinating 45+ who are due for their second dose||Following directions from the Centre to prioritise beneficiaries who are due for the second dose, the State government will now set aside 70% of the available stock of Covishield to vaccinate those above 45 years, who are due for their second dose. Announcing this, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Saturday tweeted, “70% of the available stock of Covishield will be utilised to vaccinate 45+ who are due for second dose and rest 30% will be used to vaccinate 45+ seeking first dose. Covaxin will be administered only to 45+ who are due for second dose after six weeks of first dose.” Although this would imply that the drive for those in the age group of 18-45 years will slow down till the State gets adequate stock, vaccination for this age group continued in most centres on Saturday. As many as 1,656 beneficiaries in this group took the jab on Saturday in Karnataka. So far, the State has administered 1,04,81,705 doses till 8.30 p.m. on Saturday. This includes 10,338 in the 18-45 age group, 6,90,504 healthcare workers, and 4,59,346 frontline workers who have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 4,46,472 healthcare workers and 1,76,984 frontline workers have taken the second dose as well. On Saturday, 1,11769 beneficiaries took the jab till 3.30 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-focus-on-vaccinating-45-who-are-due-for-their-second-dose/article34518381.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court sets up task force for oxygen allocation||The Supreme Court has constituted a 12-member National Task Force to streamline and ensure the “effective and transparent” allocation of liquid medical oxygen on a “scientific, rational and equitable basis” to the States and the Union Territories fighting COVID-19. The top court had expressed its dissatisfaction at the Centre’s earlier “oxygen-for-bed” formula. A Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, in a 24-page order released on Saturday, said the formula should be scrapped and the problem of allocation of oxygen required to be looked into afresh. The court said the decision-makers should go beyond cobbling together ad hoc solutions based on present problems. The members The members of the Task Force are Dr. Bhabatosh Biswas, former Vice-Chancellor, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata; Dr. Devender Singh Rana, Chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairperson and Executive Director, Narayana Healthcare, Bengaluru; Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu; Dr J.V. Peter, Director, Christian Medical College; Dr. Naresh Trehan of Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurugram; Dr. Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital, Mulund (Mumbai, Maharashtra) and Kalyan (Maharashtra); Dr. Saumitra Rawat of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital; Dr. Shiv Kumar Sarin of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Delhi; Dr. Zarir F. Udwadia of Hinduja Hospital, Mumbai; Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, (ex officio member); and the Convenor of the National Task Force, who shall also be a member, will be the Cabinet Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supreme-court-sets-up-task-force-for-oxygen-allocation/article34518490.ece
09 May 2021||Mumbai,||Let us buy vaccines directly, CM to PM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking permission to procure COVID-19 vaccines from other manufacturers to overcome the vaccine shortage facing the State. “The state of Maharashtra is willing to procure the requisite stock of vaccines in a single procurement if possible, so as to safeguard our citizens and to give boost to India’s vaccination program. However, the producers do not have enough stocks. If the states are allowed to procure from other manufacturers as well, we would be able to cover a larger population in a shorter time and held reduce the impact of the possible third wave of covid,” said Mr Thackeray in his letter. He added that the ICMR may set the medical framework for the respective FDAs of each State, within which we may procure the various vaccines available to the world in this fight against COVID-19. Mr. Thackeray has also requested the Prime Minister to allow States to set up a separate mobile application on the lines of CoWin for the age group of 18 to 44. “CoWin app seeing the sudden surge of the number of citizens wanting to register nationally, there is a fear about the app malfunctioning or crashing, as it did on Day 1 of registrations for the said age group,” he said. According to the CM, the separate app developed by States would help sharing of data with the Union government’s Ministry of Health or a CoWin app for each State developed and assigned by the Central government. “This would ensure better interface and experience for the citizens who are really keen to the vaccine shot,” said Mr Thackeray. The CM’s letter comes on a day when Mr. Modi held a telephonic conversation with him and congratulated on tackling the COVID situation in the State. At a standstill Earlier in the day, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) had said that the COVID vaccination program in Maharashtra has almost come to a standstill due to shortage of vaccines. “Over four and half lakh individuals who have taken the first dose are not able to get the second dose. despite being due for it. This is because Maharashtra is not getting vaccines,” said the State’s Minority Affairs minister and senior NCP leader Nawab Malik. Despite the shortage of vaccines, Maharashtra tops the chart of vaccinations in the country with over 1.72 crore shots being delivered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/let-us-buy-vaccines-directly-cm-to-pm/article34518810.ece
09 May 2021||K. UmashankerKADAPA,||At least 10 killed in blast in limestone quarry||Ten workers were killed on the spot when a truck carrying gelatin sticks blew up while unloading the explosives at a limestone quarry at Mamillapalle village of Kalasapadu mandal, about 110 km from here, on Saturday. While the bodies of six daily wagers were retrieved, the police are trying to piece together the blown up body parts of others whose identity is not known yet. According to information, about two dozen workers, hailing from Pulivendula, Kasinayana and Badvel mandals, were at the work site when some of them were deployed to unload the explosives from the truck which arrived from Badvel. All of a sudden, a loud blast ripped the area when the gelatin sticks reportedly brushed against the side of the truck while unloading. The impact was such that four workers were blown to pieces and their body parts strewn over a half a kilometre radius. Some body parts were found on tree branches and roadside bushes and amidst boulders at the forested location. Rescue operations were delayed as the spot of tragedy was nestled in a remote area, local residents said. Those who received moderate injuries were rushed to the hospitals in Badvel. Superintendent of Police, Kadapa, K.K.N. Anburajan told The Hindu said that they had received a complaint that 10 workers were killed. The police have so far traced six bodies, and search is on to determine the fate of the other victims. “Our personnel had rushed to the spot, and the investigation into the uincident has already begun,” he said. The SP said that as per preliminary information, the limestone quarry sites at Kalasapadu mandal had all the valid permits. “However, we will be investigating the details to ascertain the facts,” Mr. Anburajan said. Another senior police officer who rushed to the spot said that rescue operation had become difficult as the location of the quarry was tucked in a rough terrain surrounded by hills and forest ranges of Kadapa, Kurnool and Prakasam districts. The toll was expected to be higher as teams were formed to identify and collect the body parts over a large area. It was alleged that as and when the blast took place, the locals tried to inform the concerned Tahsildar, but in vain. The relatives of the deceased deplored that even several hours after the tragedy, no senior official of the revenue, or mines and geology departments had reached the spot, except for the police. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the death of the quarry workers and spoke to the district authorities on the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-least-10-killed-in-blast-in-limestone-quarry/article34518329.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi has vaccine stock for 5-6 days: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said Delhi was not getting an adequate number of COVID-19 vaccine doses. While the Capital needed three crore doses, he said only 40 lakh had been received. He requested the Central government to provide Delhi with the required number of vaccine doses and urged it to approve vaccination for children below 18 years of age. As many as 1 lakh vaccine doses were being administered in the city on a daily basis at the moment but the stock currently at the Delhi government’s disposal was enough for just 5 to 6 days, the Chief Minister said. 1 lakh jabs daily “The people are visibly happy with the arrangements made by the government. We have made these arrangements in around 100 schools and are going to increase it to about 250-300 schools. Today, in Delhi, approximately 1 lakh vaccines are being administered daily – around 50,000 to those below 45 and about 50,000 to those above 45,” he said at a digital press briefing. If the Delhi government got the “adequate” number of doses, he said, it would be able to vaccinate the entire population of the city in three months. Of its population of 2 crore, the Chief Minister said, more or less 1 crore people fell in the age group of 18-45, 50 lakh were under 18 and 50 lakh were older than 45, which meant that there were roughly 1.5 crore citizens above the age of 18. “These 1.5 crore people have to be given three crore vaccines, which is our requirement. Out of these three crore vaccines, the Delhi government, as of now, has received approximately 40 lakh vaccines. Therefore we need 2 crore 60 lakh additional vaccines. If these are made available to us, every person in Delhi can get vaccinated within three months,” he said. However, Mr. Kejriwal said, the government would probably need more than this number since people from the National Capital Region were coming to Delhi to get vaccinated. The minimum requirement of Delhi too needed to be met, he said, appealing to the Centre to make available a sufficient number of vaccine doses to the Delhi government. Shots for children The Chief Minister said he was also concerned about the vaccination of citizens below the age of 18. “We are particularly concerned about children. Youngsters and children under 18 cannot get vaccinated right now. I appeal to all experts and the Centre to arrange a vaccine for them too so that they can also get inoculated,” he said. “As of today, we have 5-6 days of vaccine left that we are rapidly administering. I hope that the adequate vaccine is sanctioned for the people of Delhi as soon as possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-has-vaccine-stock-for-5-6-days-cm/article34518486.ece
09 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Notice to govt. on temple lands inquiry||Telangana High Court on Saturday issued notices to State government and Sitaramachandraswamy temple of Devaryamjal in Shamirpet on Hyderabad outskirts, after hearing a writ petition challenging Government Order (GO) 1014 relating to the temple’s lands. Justice T. Vinod Kumar, who heard the plea moved as House Motion the previous day, instructed the government and the temple authorities to file their responses over the contentions of the petitioners. The plea was filed by Sada Satyanarayana and four others seeking a direction to stay the operation of the GO. The GO was issued on May 3 constituting a committee of four IAS officers to decide the ownership of 1,395 acres of land located in Devaryamjal of Shamirpet mandal of Medchal Malkajgiri district under different survey numbers. The petitioners wanted the court to stall the inquiry by the committee stating that their ownership of 59 acres of land would be questioned through the inquiry. They maintained that a proceeding issued earlier by Endowments department declaring that they had encroached upon the temple land was already set aside by the High Court. Justice Vinod Kumar, however, declined to pass order staying the GO and inquiry. The judge instructed the committee of officials formed by the State government to serve notice to the petitioners and give them an opportunity to present their contentions. Notices should also be given to any other person objecting to the inquiry. The judge directed the authorities not to interfere with the possession of the lands of the petitioners since the inquiry was only to present a report to the government. The parties connected to the lands must cooperate with the inquiry committee by submitting all their relevant documents, the order said. Petitioners’ counsel Vivek Reddy informed the court that the Endowments department (whose proceedings declaring that petitioners encroached upon temple lands was set aside) was yet to prove in the court their ownership of the lands. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the court that the inquiry was meant to arrive at a clear picture about the boundaries and ownership disputes connected to 1,395 acres of land. In addition to the inquiry, a survey would also be conducted to ascertain ownership of the lands, he said. He informed the court that all others claiming ownership of the lands, barring the petitioners, were cooperating with the authorities. The judge wondered why the government felt a sudden need to order for an inquiry into the land when the disputes arose way back in 1996. “Does it not create suspicion among people... under what provision of law you intend to conduct an inquiry that too not putting the parties on notice,” the judge observed. The claim of urgency was also not reflected in the GO. The judge asked why the government took up the issue of lands belonging to Sitaramachandraswamy temple in Devaryamjal urgently when there were allegations galore about lands of several other prominent temples being encroached upon.  Why the government took up the issue of Devaryamjal temple lands urgently when there are allegations galore about lands of several other prominent temples being encroached upon?Justice T. Vinod Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/notice-to-govt-on-temple-lands-inquiry/article34518751.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Second wave is aggravating mental health issues||With the COVID-19 second wave triggering a health emergency, a group of mental health professionals decided to establish a pan-India mental health helpline about a week ago to offer free counselling to those in emotional distress. The kind of calls they started receiving was wide-ranging - from families and friends standing outside hospitals in desperation, unable to find beds for their near ones, to those who were distressed because of “survivor's guilt” - how they are unaffected while their loved ones were. The impact of COVID-19 has not just been the obvious physical one; surrounded by pain, death and isolation, the pandemic is having a huge impact on people’s mental health too. Ashwini N.V, Founder-Director, Muktha Foundation, which launched the COVID-19 emotional distress helpline, said though they are primarily an organisation focussed on abuse prevention, they decided to cater to the emotional distress caused by the second wave.  “There are simple things, such as a husband who has hospitalised his wife asking us how to support her emotionally. Some are grieving the loss of dear ones and want to reach out and share what they’re feeling. We have over 50 mental health professionals on rotation taking calls from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. We decided to keep it simple and telephonic, as not everyone is equipped to handle technology,” she said. The Foundation has counsellors who are comfortable speaking in different languages. “People have self-isolated and are seeking out others to speak out their innermost fears. In other cases, there is nobody to support them and they say they have too many thoughts to pour out. It could be loneliness in self-isolation, fear of contracting the virus, frustration of not getting beds; all we are doing is lending our ears,” she said. What they are offering, she said, is “psychological first aid” to people suffering emotional distress. “We know we’re not healing them fully. But we are offering emotional support.” The counsellors allot 30 minutes to one hour to each person. Though most calls are primarily from Bengaluru, where they are based, they are also receiving calls from Maharashtra, Delhi and Haryana. They are getting calls from organisations too seeking support for children who have been orphaned by COVID-19. Counsellors pointed to the difference in people’s response to the pandemic last year and this year. Mohammad Sayeed, a certified senior mentor who has been counselling at no cost, said in March 2020, people thought that this was a passing phenomenon and tried to brush it aside, diverting their attention by indulging in streaming platforms, etc. By September, they felt the situation was normalising and started travelling. “Last year, it was more about coping with sudden changes and coming to the reality of disappointments of future plans; about financial crisis and sustainability issues. In April and May this year, the cases are of deep frustrations and hopelessness. When we counsel people to be positive and happy, they have reasons for not responding as they have come across death among their family members, neighbours and friends,” he said. The trauma is leaving emotional scars. “Now, it seems we are heading towards a more serious situation of uncertainty, hopelessness and anger towards governments, political parties, countries and communities,” he added. Priyanka Prabhakar, psychologist and Co-founder, Credo Psychological Services, said fear was one of the biggest issues. “There is so much uncertainty about when it’ll get better. The surge was sudden. There is grief to a large extent. People have lost loved ones and are not coming to terms with it. Some others are worried about getting infected and passing it on to others. Loss of security if something happens to parents or partners is also a reason for the increase in anxiety in people,” she said, adding that news about the scarcity of medical facilities, loneliness and work pressure are adding to it. Some are finding different coping mechanisms. “There is death, pain and suffering all around. People are numbing their emotions because it’s too painful to feel,” she explained. Somya Awasthi, who has a private practice, said she saw an increase in consultations when the situation was getting better. “Right now, everyone is in sort of survival mode. Physical health is the priority rather than mental health. In March and February, we were getting more enquiries. When the lockdown started, there was a sharp decline. But a lot of underlying conditions are getting amplified because of the situation. The safety of the individual is threatened, not specifically because of COVID-19, but because of anxiety. If a person has OCD or social anxiety, this is not very conducive to their condition,” she explained.  What you can do: Psychologists list out  Think and solve the problem in a pressure situation: Think about who you can reach out to, take charge. Sometimes, if emotions overtake, it is important to cry out. But you can’t be helpless for a long time. Remember you’re not alone. Everyone is going through something similar and the situation is temporary. Try to understand how anxiety is good for you and what positives can come out of it. It can help you keep yourself safe at a level. Try to limit the kind of information you’re taking in. Take a few minutes off this information before sleep or in the afternoon or whatever is conducive. Keeping a good routine is important. It brings a semblance of normalcy. Try to include exercise, even if for a few minutes. Keep your sleeping space and working space separate. Sleep is important for immunity. Keep some time out for entertainment. Connect with people you know. Hearing a person’s voice is more effective than texting. If you find it difficult or overwhelming, turning into a hermit or not doing things required of you, seek help. Breathing difficulties or ignoring health could be manifestations of mental health.  WHO YOU CAN REACH OUT TO  Karnataka Health Department: toll-free number 080-46110007 www.covidhelplinebangalore.com, a volunteer effort (24*7): WhatsApp 702 622 6222 with your name and email ID. Briefly describe your issue in the message. Hold on for a few minutes and coaches will get back with session details. Muktha Foundation’s COVID-19 emotional distress helpline: Contact 7208202470 (9 a.m. to 3 p.m.), 9567768078 (3 p.m. to 8 p.m.), 8861431673 (9 a.m. to 8 p.m.) To reach Dr. Mohammad Sayeed, Association for Service to Humanity: Connect on WhatsApp on 9844533460 (10 a.m. to 5 p.m.) or mail servicetohumanity@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-wave-is-aggravating-mental-health-issues/article34518376.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu readies for 14-day total lockdown from tomorrow||With COVID-19 spreading rapidly, the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced a total lockdown across the State — with a few relaxations — from 4 a.m. on May 10 to 4 a.m. on May 24. ̥Vehicular movement will be suspended, except for essential travel. To give people breathing time, the State allowed all shops to remain open till 9 p.m. on Saturday and said there would be no “Sunday lockdown” on May 9 from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. Special bus services were operated to facilitate travel to the districts. “Both private and public bus transport within the districts and between the districts, rental vehicles, taxis and cab aggregation shall remain prohibited,” a government order, issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, said. The Metro Rail services will also be suspended. But travel for marriages, funerals and last rites and medical emergencies “shall be permitted with proper documents”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-readies-for-14-day-total-lockdown-from-tomorrow/article34518418.ece
09 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. on a war footing to fight the pandemic||The State government on Saturday went on a war footing to fight the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan pushed local bodies into the forefront of the battle. He said elected local body representatives should lose no time in setting up a task force at the ward level to combat the pestilence. Transport plan The ward-level committees (WLC) should immediately draw up a transport plan to shift COVID-19 patients to hospitals, first-line treatment centres of domiciliary care hubs at short notice. The elected ward member would head the WLC. Municipalities and panchayats should have at least 10 and five ambulances on standby, respectively. They could commandeer private vehicles for use as COVID-19 ambulances. The WLC should publicise the phone numbers of its members on social media and ensure that residents store them on their mobile phones. For the public, the committee would be the go-to person in an emergency during the pandemic. The WLCs would comprise neighbourhood volunteer groups, doctors, medical students, health workers, police and revenue officials. Mayors, municipal chairpersons and panchayat presidents would oversee their functioning. The local bodies should pass information up and down the chain of command in real-time. The Chief Minister promised a massive commitment of public resources to fight the scourge. The WLCs would step up their level of public engagement and involve themselves in every aspect of community life during the pandemic. The WLCs should mobilise quickly. "There is no room for complacency," Mr. Vijayan said. The WLCs would monitor the pandemic situation at the grassroots-level. They would organise community kitchens, supervise distribution of free food kits, and ensure the door delivery of victuals and medicines. The committee would keep track of the health status of COVID-19 patients and enforce the mask and physical distancing mandate at the neighbourhood level. The panels should ensure the welfare of migrant labourers and senior citizens living alone. They should ensure no family or individual in their jurisdiction starved or lacked medical attention. The WLCs should care for alms seekers, street dwellers and homeless. Anti-viral drugs The committee should guarantee the availability of anti-viral drugs, supplemental oxygen, hospital beds, pulse oximeters and ambulances at the ward level. They should ensure that burials and cremations adhere to the pandemic code. The committee should prevent crowding at vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-on-a-war-footing-to-fight-the-pandemic/article34518537.ece
09 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||41,971 more test positive in State||The COVID-19 case graph continued to climb, with the State reporting 41,971 new cases on Saturday, when 1,48,546 samples were tested in 24 hours. The average test positivity rate again rose to 28.25%. The active case pool is 4,17,101 patients. 64 deaths A record number of 64 recent deaths were added to the official toll on Saturday, taking the cumulative toll to 5,746. This included 13 deaths from Thrissur, 12 each from Pathanamthitta and Kannur, 11 from Ernakulam, 10 from Kollam, three from Wayanad, two from Alappuzha, and one from Kottayam. The number of COVID-19 patients currently being treated in hospitals has risen to 30,262. ICU admissions have been rising at an alarming rate since the past two days and a total of 2,505 persons are occupying ICUs now. On Friday, 274 critically ill persons newly entered ICUs in a single day, but on Saturday it was no better with 182 persons getting admitted to ICUs. The number of patients who were newly put on ventilator support was 98. A total of 1,236 COVID patients are on ventilator support now. On Saturday, 27,456 patients have recovered. The total recoveries till date is 14,43,633. The cumulative case burden now stands at 18,66,827. Ernakulam continues to have the highest number of active cases with 65,856 patients, followed by Kozhikode (52,638), Malappuram (46,183), Thrissur (48,718) and Thiruvananthapuram (36,480). Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 5,492, Thiruvananthapuram 4,560, Malappuram 4,558, Thrissur 4,230, Kozhikode 3,981, Palakkad 3,216, Kannur 3,090, Kollam 2,838, Alappuzha 2,433, Kottayam 2,395, Kasaragod 1,749, Wayanad 1,196, Pathanamthitta 1,180 and Idukki 1,053 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/41971-more-test-positive-in-state/article34518543.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Pandemic curve sees a steep rise in the State||The State reported 96 deaths due to COVID, the highest daily toll in the past eight and half months, in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the same period, 20,065 new infections were reported. The toll jumped to 8,615 and the cumulative tally crossed 12.5 lakh and reached 12,62,544. After a long time, the number of patients recovered in a day was close to the number of new infections. In the past day, 19,272 patients recovered leaving 1,87,392 patients active. The recovery rate was at 84.51% and the death rate stands at 0.68%.  As many as 1,01,571 samples were tested and their positivity rate was 19.75%. The overall positivity rate of 1.72 crore samples increased to 7.33%. West Godavari reported 14 new deaths, the highest single-day toll. It was followed by Visakhapatnam which reported 12 new deaths. Anantapur and Guntur reported 10 new deaths each while Guntur and East Godavari reported nine each and Kurnool and Nellore reported seven each. Chittoor reported six deaths, Kadapa reported five deaths, Krishna reported four and Srikakulam reported three. Prakasam reported zero deaths in the past day. Visakhapatnam and its neighbouring East Godavari reported 2,525 and 2,370 new infections respectively in the past day. They were followed by Chittoor (2,269), Anantapur (1,74), Guntur (1,63), Nellore (1,515), Kurnool (1,421), Srikakulam (1,398), Kadapa (1,178), Krishna (1,127), West Godavari (1,125), Prakasam (1,083) and Vizianagaram (650). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,60,349), Chittoor (1,37,768), Guntur (1,18,423), West Godavari (1,08,640), Anantapur (96,738), Visakhapatnam (95,613), Nellore (91,323), Kurnool (91,130), Srikakulam (83,924), Prakasam (81,988), Kadapa (70,647), Krishna (68,718) and Vizianagaram (57,283).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pandemic-curve-sees-a-steep-rise-in-the-state/article34518321.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||ENC to help maintain oxygen plants in govt. hospitals||The Visakhapatnam-based Eastern Naval Command (ENC) has offered technical assistance to the Andhra Pradesh government in the operation and maintenance of oxygen plants in its hospitals and to dispatch four teams to the districts by air if the situation warrants. The ENC teams, according to an official release, will lend their expertise in preventing oxygen leakages and conducting emergency repairs and render other support services as oxygen became increasingly scarce and hospitals struggled to grapple with the technicalities involved in its supply. The ENC also agreed to ferry 25 cryogenic oxygen containers being sourced from Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand. Deliberations in this regard were held by State COVID control room Nodal Officer M.T. Krishna Babu with top ENC officials in Visakhapatnam on Friday. Transportation The ENC agreed to provide vehicles for transporting liquid oxygen containers by road and to provide oxygen concentrators, 200 D-type cylinders and other equipment needed by hospitals. It also consented to reserve 60 beds at its hospital in Visakhapatnam for treating COVID-19 patients besides 10 oxygen-supported beds. During separate discussions, the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) CMD told Mr. Krishna Babu that the existing oxygen plant, which consists of two units, was producing 100 metric tonnes (MT) against its combined capacity of 850 MT due to certain issues to be sorted out with the contract agency. It is hoped that the oxygen plant will become fully operational in six months. The VSP agreed to set up an oxygen-equipped 50-bed COVID Care Centre (CCC) at Gurajada Kalakshetram in the port city. In addition to this, the VSP is arranging 150 beds by May 15 and 600 beds by the end of June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/enc-to-help-maintain-oxygen-plants-in-govt-hospitals/article34518322.ece
09 May 2021||CHITTOOR,||Minister says govt. doing its best to check black marketing of Remdesivir||Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Saturday said that the government was doing its best to check the black marketing of Remdesivir injections and protect the lives of the people affected by the second wave of COVID-19. At a review meeting with the officials of various wings of the district administration involved in containing the pandemic spread, MPs (Tirupati, Chittoor and Rajampeta), MLAs, and MLCs in Tirupati, Mr. Srinivas said the task force would function round the clock to check black marketing of the injections. The vials would be made available to all the government hospitals. The Minister appealed to the medical and paramedical staff to curtail wastage of oxygen in view of its acute shortage. To overcome the shortage, as many as 200 oxygen concentrators were set up in the State, he said, and asked the private hospitals under the Aarogyasri network to compulsorily set aside 50% of the beds for COVID-19 patients. He also directed the authorities to enhance the number of beds at the COVID Care Centres and hospitals in view of the rising number of positive cases. Referring to the appeal of the health workers at SVRR Government Hospital that they had not been paid salary for long, Mr. Srinivas asked the district authorities to immediately look into the matter. Minister for Panchayat Raj P. Ramachandra Reddy asked officials to ensure speedy declaration of test results. Due to unprecedented spike in cases, sufficient beds were being readied. The nine government hospitals were equipped with 2,874 beds and 294 ventilators. By setting up 17 triage centres, the spread of virus had been tackled effectively, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-says-govt-doing-its-best-to-check-black-marketing-of-remdesivir/article34518327.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Top court orders immediate de-congestion of all prisons||The Supreme Court has turned a humanitarian eye on the over four lakh prison population inside overcrowded jails even as the second wave of the pandemic continues its devastating run across the country. In a 14-page order released on Saturday, Chief Justice Ramana’s Bench ordered the police to take a leaf from the court’s judgment in the Arnesh Kumar case and limit arrests during the pandemic to prevent over-crowding in jails. Mechanical detention It specially stressed on not ordering detention in a mechanical manner in cases involving punishment of less or up to seven years’ imprisonment. It further ordered special committees or ‘High-Powered Committees’ constituted in most States and Union Territories to screen prisoners and release them on interim bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/top-court-orders-immediate-de-congestion-of-all-prisons/article34518334.ece
09 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab farmers protest against lockdown restrictions||Farmer unions in Punjab held demonstrations across the State on Saturday against the ongoing lockdown restrictions amid the COVID-19 pandemic, accusing the Centre and State government of failing to manage the situation arising out of the virus spread. Thiry-two farmer organisations of Punjab, which have been at the forefront of the ongoing agitation against Centre’s farm laws, also appealed to all shopkeepers to open their shops as a mark of protest against the lockdown. However, in most parts of the State, the shops were closed after the government’s announcement about the weekend lockdown. Several groups of farmers defying lockdown restrictions carried out protest marches in different districts of the State including Patiala, Sangrur, Mansa, Bathinda, Moga, Barnala, Faridkot, Muktsar, Fazilka, Ferozpur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, and Moga. “Our protest was against strict restrictions imposed on shopkeepers and the general public by the State and Union governments. Instead of taking strong measures to prevent COVID-19 by improving health infrastructure etc., the governments are taking a decision to increase the problems of the public. Today, we staged protests in 87 cities and towns of Punjab,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), on Saturday. “Despite the passage of a whole year since the pandemic began, the governments have not been able to make adequate provision of hospitals, beds, doctors, staff, ventilators and oxygen. Even in the current crisis, the Congress government in Punjab, instead of making adequate arrangements, has resorted to imposing restrictions like lockdowns and curfews, increasing the difficulties of shopkeepers, hawkers and labourers,” he said. ‘Lockdown no answer’ Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh said both the Central and State governments have failed in managing the COVID-19 situation. “The governments are imposing lockdown to hide their failures. Lockdowns have adversely impacted the lives of farmers, labourers, shopkeepers and other people. Today’s protest meant to convey a message that lockdown is not an answer. Governments are known as the caretaker of life and property. Forget property, they are not even taking care of the lives of the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-farmers-protest-against-lockdown-restrictions/article34518488.ece
09 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||5,186 new cases reported in TS||The active COVID-19 cases came down below the 70,000 mark for the first time during the last 12 days as 5,186 new positive cases, 38 deaths and 7,994 recoveries were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Saturday. According to a bulletin issued by the Public Health Department on the status of COVID-19 cases, the fresh positive cases take the total infections to 4,92,385 so far in the State from March 2 last year when the first case of COVID infection was detected in Telangana. The fatalities due to the virus infection have also gone up to 2,704 after the first death with COVID-19 was reported on March 28 last year. The number of active cases in the State has come come down below 70,000 to 68,462 on Saturday after they crossed the 70,000 mark on April 27 for the first time. The number of persons recovered from the infection has gone up to 4,21,219 with almost 8,000 persons declared recovered on Saturday. The bulletin also indicated that the daily infection rate is also coming down slowly in the State as it stood at about 7.5% on Saturday with 5,186 infections reported out of 69,148 samples tested, although the High Court has been asking the State to increase the tests further. Of the samples tested on Saturday, nearly 50% (49.6%) were of the primary contacts and 12.5% belonged to the secondary contacts and the remaining 37.5% samples were of the persons who went for tests voluntarily. Although the GHMC area remains the major contributor to the COVID-19 positive cases everyday, they remained below 1,000 mark for the second day in a row after they touched the four-digit mark on April 22 for the first time. On Saturday, 904 positive cases were reported from the GHMC area. Rangareddy district reported 399, Medchal-Malkajigiri 366, Nalgonda 317 and Warangal Urban reported 231. In 13 districts, positive cases reported on Saturday ranged between 100 and 200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5186-new-cases-reported-in-ts/article34518749.ece
09 May 2021||Mangaluru,||Weekend lockdown sees roads deserted in Dakshina Kannada||The first day of the weekend lockdown in Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday saw only milk parlours and a couple of HOPCOM outlets, besides healthcare facilities, open and the streets remaining almost deserted. The district administration on Saturday decided to reduce the window to purchase essentials from six hours to three hours on weekdays and impose complete lockdown on weekends exempting only milk and Hopcoms outlets till 9 a.m. Vendors selling other essentials, including grocery, fruits, vegetables, meat, fish etc., were not allowed to open during the weekend lockdown. Yet, some fish vendors brought in their produce on two-wheelers and sold them to customers on the side of roads and near their houses. Fish vendors were compelled to sell the product as it was perishable commodity even as hundreds of fishermen who reached the coast with fresh cash found it difficult to dispose of the catch. The police erected barricades on all main roads and junctions in Mangaluru City and also enhanced patrolling by patrol vehicles to check ‘unnecessary’ movement of people. By 9.30 a.m., almost all streets in the city wore a deserted look. Only healthcare facilities, including hospitals, clinics and pharmacies, were allowed to function. At the same time, hotel kitchens too were allowed to remain to offer takeaways and parcels till 10 p.m. With the introduction of new rules in Dakshina Kannada since Thursday night, the Mangaluru City police seized 452 vehicles, including 401 two-wheelers, 11 three-wheelers, and 40 four-wheelers till Friday night. They also booked 35 cases under the National Disaster Management Authority Act and 23 under the Epidemic Diseases Act. As many as 946 people were imposed fine for not wearing masks. In Dakshina Kannada district, 100 vehicles were seized, 394 cases were booked for not wearing masks, and six FIRs were registered for violating COVID-19 guidelines. Demand for trains Meanwhile, there was increased demand for train services with Mangaluru Central and Mangaluru Junction witnessing heavy footfall. Hundreds intended to move out of the city in view of the fortnight lockdown starting Monday even as Railways has already cancelled many Kerala and Tamil Nadu-bound trains. Autorickshaw and taxi services were almost nil across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-lockdown-sees-roads-deserted-in-dakshina-kannada/article34518495.ece
09 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad may see shortage of medical oxygen||Dharwad district may be looking at a shortage of medical oxygen in the next couple of days if the allocation is not increased in accordance with the number of patients from north Karnataka pouring into the district for advanced treatment. The Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Hospital is the preferred choice for most patients. Private multi-speciality hospitals are also another reason for the increased inflow to Hubballi. This seems to be the likely cause of shortage of medical oxygen in the coming days. On Saturday, the district saw around 2,050 active cases of COVID-19 being treated in various hospitals and nearly 413 of them were from other districts according to official data. However, this is not the actual number as many usually give a local address of a relative or friend. A rough estimate puts the number at nearly 37% of the total numbers. “Most of these patients come to Hubballi with advanced stages of the infection and are in need of either oxygen support or ventilators. The high rate of infection is daily adding to the growing numbers of new cases. While the administration has made arrangements, the sheer number of patients from outside may upset them and shoot up the demand for oxygen,” said an official. Dharwad currently needs 45 tonnes of medical oxygen daily and is able to manage the active cases at present. However in the likelihood of more cases with oxygen requirement, it would be difficult to manage it, said another source. Another cause of worry seems to be the need for providing oxygen to the additional beds being made available. Makeshift hospitals coming up in the district and additional beds being provided in other government hospitals are likely to further increase the demand for more oxygen. In a welcome move, private hospitals in the district have come forward to earmark 15% to 20% beds over and above those stipulated by the government. What is concerning for the district administration is how to provide oxygen support to them if the allocation to the district is not increased. While the officials have reportedly informed the higher-ups, nobody wants to be officially quoted as it would send a wrong message. But internally they admit that if the allocation is not increased the situation may become difficult to handle. When contacted, Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district in charge Jagadish Shettar said that efforts were on to get the 1,200 MT allocated to the State. “We are trying to get more oxygen allocated to Dharwad district in particularly Hubballi,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharwad-may-see-shortage-of-medical-oxygen/article34518497.ece
09 May 2021||Patna,||Pappu Yadav ‘raids’ Rajiv Rudy’s ambulance fleet, demands their deployment for patients||Former Madhepura MP and president of Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav got into a spat on Saturday with BJP MP from Saran Rajiv Pratap Rudy over the latter keeping ambulances parked at his native village in Saran. Mr. Yadav asked Mr. Rudy to hand over keys of the “30 ambulances” to be deployed for ferrying COVID-19 patients. “I’ve nothing against Rudy ji, but as he had said the ambulances are parked due to a lack of drivers. I have a bunch of drivers with driving licences here ready to go to Saran in the service of COVID-19 patients,” Mr. Yadav told media persons in Patna, flanked by a group of drivers displaying their driving licences. On Friday, the Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) chief along with his associates had reached Amnour village in Saran district and found unused ambulances covered with plastic sheets and tarpaulin parked on the premises allegedly owned by Mr. Rudy. The ambulances, bought with the local area funds of Mr. Rudy, had “MPLADS-2019” labels on them. ‘In short supply’ “We want to know why they were being kept off the streets at a time when there is a huge rise in COVID-19 cases and oxygen, drugs and ambulances are in short supply. Ambulance service providers are exacting hefty charges from those in need,” said Mr. Yadav, urging the State government to look into it. “There is nothing about Rudy ji or Pappu... this is about Bihar and the people of Bihar,” he said. An incensed Mr. Rudy soon released a video, saying there were only 20 ambulances and that they were grounded because of a lack of drivers. “If Pappu Yadav wants to take all these ambulances, he can, but with a promise to the people of Saran that he will provide drivers for all of them. He should do politics in Madhepura, not in Saran,” the BJP MP retorted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pappu-raids-ambulance-fleet-of-rajiv-rudy-demands-deployment/article34518489.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Positive test for COVID-19 not a must for admission’||Requirement of a positive test for the COVID-19 virus is not mandatory for admission to a COVID-19 health facility and no patient will be refused services on any count, the Health Ministry said on Saturday, announcing the revised national policy for admission to various categories of COVID-19 facilities. This patient-centric measure aims to ensure prompt, effective and comprehensive treatment of patients suffering from COVID-19, said the Ministry. “The revised guidelines cover medications such as oxygen or essential drugs even if the patient belongs to a different city,” added the release. The revised guidelines noted that no patient shall be refused admission on the ground that he/she was not able to produce a valid identity card establishing they belonged to the city where the hospital is located. Based on need “Admissions to hospital must be based on need. It should be ensured that beds are not occupied by persons who do not need hospitalization. Further, the discharge should be strictly in accordance with the revised discharge policy,” added the Ministry. Appropriate policy The Ministry has advised Chief Secretaries of States/Union Territories to issue necessary orders and circulars, incorporating the new directions within three days, which shall be enforced till replaced by an appropriate uniform policy. The latest directive applies to all States and UTs, hospitals under the Central government, State governments and UT administrations, including private hospitals in States and UTs managing COVID-19 patients. Meanwhile, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday chaired the 25th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 and reiterated the importance of full protection through two COVID-19 vaccine doses. He appealed to all citizens to get the second dose, which boosts the immunity against COVID-19 manifold, and requested the States to set aside 70% of the vaccines received through the Central government channel for administration of the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/positive-test-for-covid-19-not-a-must-for-admission/article34518325.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Coronavirus | Recovery rate plummets to 70% in Karnataka||Although COVID-19 patients are discharged from hospitals on the fourth or fifth day if they develop clinical stability, the State’s recovery rate has reduced considerably in the last one month. From 98.1% on February 28, recovery rate reduced by over 1 per cent to touch 97.8% on March 15. Subsequently, it further dipped to 96.3% by March 30 and 90.1% in mid-April. In the next 15 days, the recovery rate saw a drastic reduction to touch 73.9% on April 30. As of Saturday (May 8), the recovery rate has touched 69.9%.     Karnataka’s COVID-19 situation had witnessed a steady improvement since September with a healthy recovery rate of 90.7% till October-end. The trend of recoveries outnumbering new cases further improved and touched 98.1% by the end of February.   Complications However, withthe pandemic spinning out of control and availability of beds becoming a challenge after the second wave set in, more patients are developing complications and landing in hospitals in an advanced stage. As a result, they are taking a longer time to recover. COVID-19 experts in the State attributed the plummeting recovery rate to a high caseload. V. Ravi, State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee member, who is also the nodal officer for SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said it was natural for the recovery rate to be low during the surge period. “Normally people will require 14 days for recovery. People who have tested positive in last 14 days will start recovering now. With some patients taking longer time to recover, more patients will be discharged in another 10 days,” he explained. He said recoveries would start going up after we cross the peak. “With nearly 50,000 cases being added every day, it is difficult for the recoveries to match the number of positive cases,” Dr. Ravi said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said even if patients were getting discharged from hospitals much earlier compared to the previous wave, they were taking a longer time to get classified as “recovered”, as most of them would need further monitoring at step-down hospitals, COVID care centres or at home. “With the State getting into a stricter lockdown, people should also cooperate. All those who have symptoms, irrespective of the severity, should get tested and isolated to prevent deterioration,” he said. Pointing out that vaccination was an important tool in the fight against the virus, Dr. Manjunath said vaccination would help reduce the severity of the disease, even if the person was infected. Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative involving Public Health Foundation of India, Indian Medical Association, and Proxima, a management consulting firm, said the growth of recovery rate was indirectly proportional to the active cases growth rate. “When the active cases increase due to surge in positive cases, the recovery rate falls because the incremental number of people who got infected during the said period would be either isolated in hospital or at home,” he added.  Recovery rate   98.1%: February 28   97.8%: March 15   96.3%: March 30     90.5%: April 15   73.9%: April 30   69.9%: May 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recovery-rate-plummets-to-70-in-karnataka/article34518379.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||IMA calls for national lockdown||Indian Medical Association on Saturday asked the Centre to announce a national lockdown to help the healthcare infrastructure recoup and replenish.page7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ima-calls-for-national-lockdown/article34518516.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Earning his daily bread||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/earning-his-daily-bread/article34518519.ece
09 May 2021||guwahati,||Probe into construction in Kaziranga||The authorities in Assam’s Golaghat and Nagaon districts have begun probing cases of clearance of forest land, digging and construction activities on three animal corridors within the eco-sensitive zone of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve. These two districts share large swathes of the 1,300-sq. km. tiger reserve that has nine identified animal corridors. Seven of these are in Nagaon district while Haldibari and Panbari corridors are in Golaghat district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-into-construction-in-kaziranga/article34518520.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||3.76 lakh fresh infections reported||India recorded 3,76,039 new COVID-19 cases until 9.50 p.m. on Saturday. As many as 3,661 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 2,22,68,324 cases.Page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/376-lakh-fresh-infections-reported/article34518483.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Hard times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hard-times/article34518385.ece
09 May 2021||KALABURAGI,||Boeing India to set up hospital in Kalaburagi||As part of its initiatives to join hands with the government in the fight against COVID-19, Boeing India, a major aerospace giant, is going to establish a hospital with 250 oxygenated beds in Kalaburagi. Addressing a media conference at Aiwan-e-Shahi guest house here on Saturday, Mines and Geology Minister and Kalaburagi in charge Murugesh Nirani said that the process of establishing the medical facility would shortly commence. “Besides Kalaburagi, Boeing India would also establish another hospital with 200 oxygen beds at Yelahanka, Bengaluru,” Mr. Nirani said. On the oxygen situation in the district, the Minister said that the real problem was not the production but the transportation. ‘Not enough tankers’ “The district needs 30 kl liquid medical oxygen a day. The production of oxygen is not a big problem as there are many plants. However, transportation is the problem as we don’t have enough cryogenic tankers,” he said. “We have ordered new tankers and they have already reached Ballari where oxygen is produced in a large quantity. They are expected to carry liquid medical oxygen to Kalaburagi within a day or two,” Mr. Nirani said When asked about the oxygen concentrators he had promised a few days ago, Mr. Nirani said that 100 concentrators were purchased as an emergency move and the same would reach Kalaburagi on Monday. “Two patients could be provided oxygen from one concentrator. As many as 100 concentrators would reach Kalaburagi on Monday. The Union government will also provide 3,000 oxygen concentrators to the State. We too will purchase more concentrators in the days to come,” he said. On the Remdesivir crunch, Mr. Nirani said that the Union government had given permission to 20 companies for manufacturing it. “There were only two companies that were manufacturing the injection. However, the Union government had given permission to 20 more companies and two of them are from Mudhol and Belagavi. They would start the production by May 17. As many as 200 vials of the injections reached Kalaburagi on Saturday and the government would increase the supply as per the demand,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boeing-india-to-set-up-hospital-in-kalaburagi/article34518496.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||IMA calls for national lockdown||Indian Medical Association on Saturday asked the Centre to announce a national lockdown to help the healthcare infrastructure recoup and replenish.page7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ima-calls-for-national-lockdown/article34518808.ece
09 May 2021||Mumbai,||53,605 cases, 864 deaths in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 50 lakh-mark as it reported 53,605 new cases on Saturday. The case tally rose to 50,53,336, while 864 fatalities took the toll to 75,277. A record 82,266 people were discharged, pushing recoveries to 43,47,592. There are 6,28,213 active cases in the State now. Mumbai reported 2,664 new COVID-19 cases, taking its tally to 6,73,235, while the death toll in the city increased to 13,713, with 62 fresh fatalities. Pune division reported 14,056 cases and 98 deaths. As many as 34 people died in Satara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/53605-cases-864-deaths-in-maharashtra/article34518811.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Earning his daily bread||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/earning-his-daily-bread/article34518813.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Tale of sustenanace and survival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tale-of-sustenanace-and-survival/article34518785.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Task force set up for oxygen allocation||The Supreme Court has constituted a 12-member National Task Force to streamline and ensure the “effective and transparent” allocation of liquid medical oxygen.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/task-force-set-up-for-oxygen-allocation/article34518333.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Rush hour!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rush-hour/article34518336.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Will arrest those moving out unnecessarily’||The Bengaluru City Police on Saturday warned citizens that the total lockdown, which comes into effect on Monday, would be enforced strictly. Those caught moving out unnecessarily would be arrested and their vehicles seized, warned Police Commissioner Kamal Pant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-arrest-those-moving-out-unnecessarily/article34518383.ece
09 May 2021||Kolkata,||Week after results, no let up in Bengal violence||Nearly a week after the results of the bitterly contested West Bengal Assembly elections, post-poll violence continues in different parts of the State. Even after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee appealed for peace, announced compensation for those who died and the Union Home Ministry sent a team to take stock of the situation, a string of posts and videos, including fake ones, have surfaced on social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/week-after-results-no-let-up-in-bengal-violence/article34518521.ece
09 May 2021||Kolkata,||Violence continues in West Bengal||Nearly a week after the result of the bitterly contested West Bengal Assembly poll was declared, post-poll violence continues in different parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/violence-continues-in-west-bengal/article34518492.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Now marriages allowed only at home||The State government on Saturday revised guidelines on conducting weddings and said they would be allowed only at homes, involving close family members not exceeding 40. The guidelines prohibit conducting marriages at convention halls and community halls. However, marriages already scheduled would be permitted. In Bengaluru, those who organise marriages should submit application, marriage invitation, and other relevant documents to the Joint Commissioner of the BBMP, to obtain permission and passes. In districts, those conducting marriages should submit applications and other documents to tahsildars. People attending the marriage function should strictly follow COVID-appropriate behaviour and show their passes to authorised inspecting officers. In an addendum to the guidelines issued on Friday, the government permittedoperation of iron ore mining for steel industry and limestone mining for cement industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-marriages-allowed-only-at-home/article34518377.ece
09 May 2021||Chennai,||12,500 oxygen beds being readied: Minister||A total of 12,500 oxygen beds are being readied across Tamil Nadu and they will be available by May 15, Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12500-oxygen-beds-being-readied-minister/article34518419.ece
09 May 2021||Chennai,||Cases continue to spike as 27,397 test positive||Tamil Nadu on Saturday continued to see a surge in COVID-19 cases and deaths, with 27,397 people testing positive for the infection and 241 succumbing to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-continue-to-spike-as-27397-test-positive/article34518421.ece
09 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||3 held for issuing fake COVID negative reports||The Central unit of the Navi Mumbai police’s Crime Branch has busted a gang that issued fake COVID-19 negative test reports. The accused have been identified as Sajeed Dawood Upadhye (47) from Kharghar, Aniket Raju Dudhawade (21) from Ghatkopar, and Rahul Rajendra Pandey (26) from Palghar. The Central unit had received information that Mr. Upadhye was issuing fake negative test reports at Rs. 2,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-negative-reports/article34518814.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The rise of professional political campaigners||The recently concluded round of assembly polls had clear winners and losers in each state, but the biggest winner by far was the Indian-Political Action Committee (I-PAC) and its lodestar Prashant Kishor, who helped steer the campaigns for the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in Tamil Nadu and the All India Trinamool Congress in West Bengal. In both cases, the parties were successful: one returned to power with a huge mandate and the other defeated the ruling party and captured power. The victories turned the spotlight on the I-PAC and its good record with campaign management (the 2017 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, in which Mr. Kishor’s team worked with the Congress party’s campaign, is the only blemish on its record, so far). The formation Mr. Kishor, the public face of the I-PAC, chucked a job in public health in the United Nations and was associated with Narendra Modi’s campaign in 2014, under the aegis of an organisation called Citizens for Accountable Governance (CAG). After the 2014 poll, however, Mr. Kishor and the Modi team parted ways. There are different accounts on why this happened, but all versions agree that Mr. Kishor did not find space in a set-up where current Home Minister Amit Shah was ruling the roost, resulting in some of the toughest grudge matches being fought between the two in polls across the country. What followed was a difficult period for him and the three associates from CAG who followed him out of the Modi war room — Pratik Jain and Rishi Raj Singh, both former IITians, and Vinesh Chandel from the National Law Institute University, Bhopal. In late 2014, however, the group decided to take over the campaign for the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) for the 2015 Assembly poll in the State. Mr. Kumar had aligned with the Lalu Prasad Yadav-led Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) to take on the BJP, fresh from the Modi wave. Mr. Kishor’s team went about setting up the I-PAC, and was operating at first from a shed in a ministerial bungalow in Patna. Mr. Kishor was operating out of Mr. Kumar’s residence on Anne Marg in the city. Staff were recruited from eager youngsters looking for a taste of political campaigns. The strange thing about the new organisation was that Mr. Kishor has no stake in the organisation. He is neither a director nor does he hold a formal position in the hierarchy. The three directors are Mr. Rishi Raj Singh, Mr. Pratik Jain and Mr. Vinesh Chandel. “This too was set up because rent agreements, contracts with vendors, etc. required an entity to sign,” says Mr. Singh. The three directors are at the top of the leadership hierarchy in the organisation and are joined by Esha Alagh, a graduate of Miranda House, Delhi University. Below this team is a set of executive committees that takes care of specific teams. The organisation sets up offices in places where their clients are located and have a back-up office in Hyderabad. Mr. Kishor’s role in all this, says Mr. Singh, is more like a “mentor”, and all agree that it is his brand recall that attracts a lot of the political parties. “We provide a 360 degree range for a political campaign, from initial surveys, to micro issues, campaigns, district wise flagging of issues, continuous seat calling, etc., the team expands and contracts as required, but the core leadership is what has been there from the beginning,” says Mr. Chandel, one of the directors. The average age of employees is between 25 and 26 years and of diverse backgrounds and skill sets. “There is even a doctor who gave up a position in AIIMS to join us,” says Mr. Rishi Raj Singh. The journey Mr. Kishor disses the fact that he may have birthed the professionalisation of political campaigns in India. “Every politician standing for polls will look for the best resources for managing the campaign, either from within the party or even kin groups. I like to keep things simple, the real tack is to convince the leader that we can add value to the campaign messaging, bring scale and bring it to the wider work. We work as an invisible force, not really the way that it’s done in the United States, for example,” he told The Hindu . The campaign in Bihar was a runaway success, with the Mahagathbandhan storming to power and Mr. Nitish Kumar becoming Chief Minister for the third time. Some of the things tried in that campaign were repeated elsewhere — close alignment with the top leader, projecting a face, doing micro-level messaging and district level feedbacks, etc. For a while, Mr. Kishor looked like he was going to grow political roots in Bihar. His close relationship with Mr. Kumar was said to have influenced the latter in seeing him as a political heir. That did not work out and the complications of party politics saw Mr. Kishor exit Bihar and work with Capt. Amarinder Singh in Punjab and the Congress party in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, a year of mixed success for the I-PAC. Subsequent campaigns in Andhra Pradesh with the YSR Congress Party (General Election 2019), Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena (Assembly poll 2019) and Delhi with the Aam Aadmi Party (Assembly poll 2020) saw more success come to the I-PAC. In all these, the question of larger party structures and their relationship with the I-PAC also came up. “That we are not from within the party structure helps with the fact that we are entering the space without a bias, a lack of political stakes, so to speak,” says Ms. Alagh. There have been frequent reports that old timers in parties have resented the I-PAC teams, especially the close relationship Mr. Kishor insists on having with the top leader of the party that he is working with. In several cases, he has had a strong say even in ticket distribution. Usually, resenting second-rung leaders have fallen in line once orders from the top were made clear. The ideology Over the years, the I-PAC has worked with a range of parties which has led to the accusation that the organisation is ideologically promiscuous, especially in India where professional campaign organisations are rare. Mr. Pratik Jain is quick to point out that the I-PAC is “not a gun for hire”. “The vision of the I-PAC is that of a political action committee, the first of its kind in India,” he says. The clients, they say, have been on “one side of the balance”, largely neutral parties or non-NDA. The one NDA party they worked with since 2014 was the Shiv Sena, in the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly poll. (Currently, the Shiv Sena is out of the NDA and is with the Maha Vikas Aghadi, an alliance with the Congress and the NCP). With Mr. Kishor declaring that he was “leaving the space” of campaigning, what lies ahead for the I-PAC? The founders are hoping that their track record and experience will help them keep the organisation in business, and that Mr. Kishor’s declaration that he would like to do “the things he wants to do” would not cut him off from the I-PAC. In India’s contested political landscape, however, the organisation can, in all honesty, pride itself for striking a maverick path.   In Focus  The roots of the I-PAC go back to the 2014 campaign of Narendra Modi, in which Prashant Kishor's Citizens for Accountable Governance played a major part  After falling out with the BJP, Kishor and his team formed the I-PAC as a professional campaign organisation, and have worked with mostly non-NDA parties and scored a high success rate  Kishor doesn't hold any formal position in the organisation's hierarchy. Its directors say he is like a ‘mentor’ for them   Countering criticism that the I-PAC, which has worked with many parties, is ideologically promiscuous, its leaders say they have a vision and are ‘not a gun for hire’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-rise-of-professional-political-campaigners/article34518284.ece
09 May 2021||Kolkata,||A week after election results, violence continues in Bengal||Nearly a week after the result of the bitterly contested West Bengal Assembly poll was declared, post-poll violence continues in different parts of the State. Even after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee appealed for peace, announced compensation for those who died and the Union Home Ministry sent a team to take stock of the situation, a string of posts and videos, including fake ones, have surfaced on different social media platforms. Verifying the videos has proved to be challenging not only for websites and journalists but also for law enforcement agencies. On Thursday, five days after the results of Assembly polls, the Kolkata police from its official Twitter handle urged people to report fake news. “If you have any information about FAKE NEWS You can send an email to cyberps@kolkatapolice.gov.in or Contact: Land 03322143000,” Kolkata police tweeted from its official handle. Over the past couple of days, the official handles of Kolkata police and West Bengal police have been busy sifting information relating to violence. Social media posts by verified Delhi-based handles about BJP polling agents allegedly being raped in Birbhum were called out as fake by West Bengal police as early as May 4. In another instance on May 6, the Kolkata police busted another fake post in which a pro-BJP handle claimed that a party worker Mainak Moitra was killed in Sitalkuchi. A scroll on the timeline of official handles of the police forces refers to at least half a dozen or more posts and videos of violence, burning of houses or vehicles being called out for being fake. The West Bengal Police Criminal Investigation Department has arrested a youth from Deganga in North 24 Parganas for spreading fake information and attributing it to post election violence. Police officials admit that they are constrained to act in many cases, as the handles peddling the misinformation are operated by people outside the State. In the violence that has raged for the past six days, supporters of both the BJP and the Trinamool have lost lives. The BJP has claimed 14 of its party workers have been killed, whereas the Trinamool has said that four of its supporters lost their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-week-after-election-results-violence-continues-in-bengal/article34518259.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC sets up task force for oxygen allocation||The Supreme Court has constituted a 12-member National Task Force to streamline and ensure the “effective and transparent” allocation of liquid medical oxygen on a “scientific, rational and equitable basis” to the States and the Union Territories fighting COVID-19. The top court had expressed its dissatisfaction at the Centre’s earlier “oxygen-for-bed” formula. This “rough-and-ready” arrangement, as the court put it, was based on calculating the allotment of oxygen based on the number of ICU/non-ICU beds. The court, however, said the formula did not take into consideration the fact that many COVID-19 patients in dire need of oxygen do not get beds or were confined to home care. A Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, in a 24-page order released on Saturday, said the formula should be scrapped and the problem of allocation of oxygen required to be looked into afresh. A new mechanism devised more scientifically should take care of present requirement for oxygen as well as be flexible enough to accommodate “unforeseen demands due to emergencies which may arise within the allocated territories”. “Different States may peak during different time… their needs for oxygen may vary,” Justice Chandrachud had pointed out. Scientific strategies The court said setting up an expert body or task force “drawn of renowned national experts with diverse experience in health institutions” to function within the Central government apparatus would facilitate a public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge. The court said the decision-makers should go beyond cobbling together ad-hoc solutions based on present problems. They have to prepare for the future. The task force’s work would provide the Centre with inputs and strategies. “We expect that the leading experts in the country shall associate with the work of the Task Force both as members and resource persons. This will facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with an unprecedented human crisis,” the court explained. The members The members of the Task Force are Dr. Bhabatosh Biswas, former Vice-Chancellor, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata; Dr. Devender Singh Rana, Chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairperson and Executive Director, Narayana Healthcare, Bengaluru; Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu; Dr J.V. Peter, Director, Christian Medical College; Dr. Naresh Trehan, Chairperson and Managing Director, Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurugram; Dr. Rahul Pandit, Director, Critical Care Medicine and ICU, Fortis Hospital, Mulund (Mumbai, Maharashtra) and Kalyan (Maharashtra); Dr. Saumitra Rawat, Chairman & Head, Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr. Shiv Kumar Sarin, Senior Professor and Head of Department of Hepatology, Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Science, Delhi; Dr. Zarir F. Udwadia, Consultant Chest Physician, Hinduja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital and Parsee General Hospital, Mumbai; Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India (ex officio member); and the Convenor of the National Task Force, who shall also be a member, will be the Cabinet Secretary to the Union Government. The Cabinet Secretary may nominate an officer not below the rank of Additional Secretary to depute for him, when necessary. The Task Force is to start work immediately and has an initial life-span of six months. The court urged it to take up and determine the “pressing issue” of the modalities of oxygen within a week. Public health institutions, government facilities and private hospitals have to cooperate with the Task Force. It could form sub-groups of experts on a regional basis in the specialised areas of infectious disease modelling, critical care, clinical virology/immunology and epidemiology/public health.  The primary term of reference of the Task Force set out by the court includes to assess and recommend the availability and distribution of medical oxygen across the country, formulate a methodology for its equitable distribution, recommend ways to augment the oxygen supply based on present and projected demands, facilitate audits on whether supply is reaching its destination in States, efficacy of distribution networks, transparent distribution of available oxygen stocks, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-sets-up-task-force-for-oxygen-allocation/article34518267.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||FCRA hurdle may block foreign COVID aid to hospitals, NGOs||Indian entities, including hospitals and charitable trusts, hoping to receive COVID-19 relief material from overseas individual donors or donor agencies, could be in trouble, unless they are registered under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) with a stated objective involving provision of medical care. On May 3, the government permitted imports without GST levies for pandemic relief material donated from abroad for free distribution in the country, delegating States to certify the entities that will receive such imports. However, no exemption has been granted from the FCRA law that requires any domestic entity receiving foreign material or cash donations to have requisite approvals from the Ministry of Home Affairs. Sources said this ambiguity and the prospect of facing prosecution under the FCRA Act’s strict provisions is jeopardising some large donors’ plans to buy equipment like oxygen plants and concentrators for Indian hospitals and smaller charities and informal groups of persons working in rural areas with weaker health infrastructure. In the case of a large hospital, where nearly two-dozen patients died after Oxygen supplies were not replenished in a timely manner, foreign donors are keen to donate an oxygen production plant on its premises, but the lack of an FCRA nod is holding up the process. As FCRA approvals take a lot of time, the government needs to urgently grant an exemption for all such donations, tax and legal experts told The Hindu.  “The notification would not meet the intended objective, in the sense that no entity can receive foreign aid in cash, medicines or equipment to save lives, without an FCRA registration. Moreover, the intended use of such foreign contribution should also match the specified objective of the trust at the time of FCRA registration,” said Gaurav Gupta, a Delhi-based lawyer who is privy to several similar cases. “The FCRA law does not provide any blanket exemption for imports exempted by the Central Government, so no such exemption is available for importers of such COVID aid. It is advisable that the Centre issues a clarification exempting the receiver/importer from complying with the FCRA provisions for approval and other compliances,” Suresh Surana, founder of tax consulting firm RSM India said. The said notification may at best be beneficial only for State-approved entities with FCRA approvals and a stated objective of providing healthcare services, said Mr. Gupta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fcra-hurdle-may-block-foreign-covid-aid-to-hospitals-ngos/article34518280.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Go beyond cobbling ad hoc solutions: SC||In its 24-page order on setting up the task force, the Supreme Court on Saturday said setting up an expert body or task force “drawn of renowned national experts with diverse experience in health institutions” to function within the Central government apparatus would facilitate a public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge. The court said the decision-makers should go beyond cobbling together ad hoc solutions based on present problems. They have to prepare for the future. The task force’s work would provide the Centre with inputs and strategies. “We expect that the leading experts in the country shall associate with the work of the Task Force both as members and resource persons. This will facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with an unprecedented human crisis,” the court explained. The members The members of the Task Force are Dr. Bhabatosh Biswas, former Vice-Chancellor, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata; Dr. Devender Singh Rana, Chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairperson and Executive Director, Narayana Healthcare, Bengaluru; Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu; Dr J.V. Peter, Director, Christian Medical College; Dr. Naresh Trehan, Chairperson and Managing Director, Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurugram; Dr. Rahul Pandit, Director, Critical Care Medicine and ICU, Fortis Hospital, Mulund (Mumbai, Maharashtra) and Kalyan (Maharashtra); Dr. Saumitra Rawat, Chairman & Head, Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr. Shiv Kumar Sarin, Senior Professor and Head of Department of Hepatology, Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Science, Delhi; Dr. Zarir F. Udwadia, Consultant Chest Physician, Hinduja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital and Parsee General Hospital, Mumbai; Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India (ex officio member); and the Convenor of the National Task Force, who shall also be a member, will be the Cabinet Secretary to the Union Government. The Cabinet Secretary may nominate an officer not below the rank of Additional Secretary to depute for him, when necessary. The Task Force is to start work immediately and has an initial life-span of six months. The court urged it to take up and determine the “pressing issue” of the modalities of oxygen within a week. Public health institutions, government facilities and private hospitals have to cooperate with the Task Force. It could form sub-groups of experts on a regional basis in the specialised areas of infectious disease modelling, critical care, clinical virology/immunology and epidemiology/public health. The Force is free to draw human resources from various designated governmental sources, including a member of Niti Aayog to be nominated by the Vice-Chairperson; Secretary, Ministry of Human Affairs; Secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade; Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways; Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi; Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi; Director General of Health Services; Director General, National Informatics Centre; and Head, Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC). The primary term of reference of the Task Force set out by the court includes to assess and recommend the availability and distribution of medical oxygen across the country, formulate a methodology for its equitable distribution, recommend ways to augment the oxygen supply based on present and projected demands, facilitate audits on whether supply is reaching its destination in States, efficacy of distribution networks, transparent distribution of available oxygen stocks, among others. The audits in States would be done by sub-groups or committees comprising a Secretary to the State Government, an Additional/Joint Secretary to the Central government, two medical doctors in the State/UT concerned including at least one with administrative experience of managing the medical facilities of a hospital; a Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation representative. For Delhi, the sub-group would consist of Dr. Randeep Guleria, Professor and Head, Department of Pulmonary Medicine and Sleep, AIIMS; Dr. Sandeep Budhiraja, Clinical Director & Director – Internal Medicine, Max Healthcare; and an IAS officer, each from the Union Government and GNCTD, not below rank of Joint Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/go-beyond-cobbling-ad-hoc-solutions-sc/article34518524.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Daughter of Onchiyam||Some time in a wet June nine years ago when Kerala was keenly engrossed in the Neyyattinkara Assembly bypoll in Thiruvananthapuram, veteran Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M] leader V.S. Achuthanandan made a surprise visit to the house of K.K. Rema, widow of the slain Revolutionary Marxist party (RMP) founder-leader T.P. Chandrasekharan, raising the political ombrometer during the monsoons in the State. The incident not only sent shock waves among the CPI (M) leadership, the image of Ms. Rema crying on the shoulders of the then Leader of the Opposition Achuthanandan still remains etched in the political memory of Kerala. The hacking of Chandrasekharan, who had walked out of the CPI(M) and floated a dissident outfit, by a seven-member gang engaged by a section of local CPI(M) leaders at Onchiyam on May 4, 2012, continues to haunt the party in the State. Even in the just-concluded Assembly poll, the Left-led coalition filed a complaint against Ms. Rema, a Congress-led UDF-backed candidate in Vadakara, for trying to influence voters by using pictures of VS, as Mr. Achuthanandan is popularly known, in the campaign material. Last week, Ms. Rema seemed to be the happiest, emerging victorious by a margin of 7,000 votes. Her victory gave a major embarrassment to the CPI(M). “This is the victory of T.P. Chandrasekharan. The electorate responded to his cold-blooded murder. The voters showed that the nine-year wound did not heal so easily. This is an achievement against political violence and injustice,” the 50-year-old proclaimed at Onchiyam. Ms. Rema was born the second of the three children of K.K. Madhavan and K.K. Dakshayani. By her own account, her political vibes began to merge when she joined the pre-university course at the Guruvayurappan College in Kozhikode. She was nominated to the district unit of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), the students affiliate of the CPI(M). In 1993, she met her future husband, the “brave and aggressive” TP. But the marriage proposal came via the party. “I knew TP, and we used to talk. It was a sort of arranged-love marriage,” she says. A year later, they tied the knot and she moved to Onchiyam. Though many CPI(M) leaders persuaded her to join active politics, she remained a home-maker. Her family life kindled in her after the birth of their son, Abhinand, in 1997. Party factionalism Meanwhile, factionalism in the CPI(M) Kerala unit had its reverberations in a bigger way in Onchiyam. Perhaps the infighting started much earlier than 2006 when Mr. Achuthanandan contested the Assembly election after initially being denied a ticket and then went on to become the Chief Minister. Chandrasekharan, identified with the Achuthanandan camp, had been DYFI Kozhikode district secretary. After a local intra-party dispute in 2008, he left the CPI (M) and formed the RMP. Ms. Rema recollects that the CPI(M) decided to eliminate him as its leadership did not want a parallel dissident unit to function in Onchiyam, a region of martyrs where 10 party workers were killed in 1948, eight in police firing and two others in police custody. Political realities changed after Chandrasekharan left the party. The CPI(M) lost the Vadakara Lok Sabha constituency in the 2009, 2014 and 2019 elections. Realities also changed for Ms. Rema. In 2016, the RMP merged with nine other small leftist parties scattered across the country to form the RMP India. Her endeavour against odds brought her to electoral politics. She unsuccessfully contested the Assembly poll in 2016, securing over 20,000 votes. None will forget when Ms. Rema sat on dharna before AKG Bhavan in New Delhi in 2018. Ms. Rema still feels that the conspiracy angle has not be probed into the murder of her husband although a special additional sessions court convicted 12 accused, including three leaders of the CPI(M) in 2014. Now, her dependence on the UDF appeared very obvious as the CPI(M) is still hostile to her and the party she leads. Today, Ms. Rema has a new job to move ahead on multiple fronts simultaneously. She has an agenda for her constituency to gain more public support. “Political culture should change in Kerala. Political leaders should learn to respect the opposition,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/daughter-of-onchiyam/article34518286.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The giant-killer of Nandigram||What did I not do for him?” At her rallies in Nandigram, after Mamata Banerjee took up the challenge to contest the West Bengal Assembly election from there instead of her home seat of Bhabanipur against her party man-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari, she often listed the largesse showered on him, both ministerial and others. She called Mr. Adhikari a ‘gaddar’ and Mir Jafar (traitor)’ as the crowd cheered her on. Taking the fight to her former aide in his bastion, she urged the people to come out and vote without fear for the ‘bhoomi kanya’ (daughter of the soil). The turnout was high — a little over 80% — amid bouts of violence, and Mr. Adhikari romped home by a tiny margin of 1,956 votes, but Ms. Banerjee led her party to a massive win for a third term in the State: the Trinamool Congress won a record 213 seats, garnering a 47.9% vote share compared to the BJP’s 77 seats (38.1% vote share). During the campaign, the 50-year-old Mr. Adhikari was accused of playing the polarisation card. He called Ms. Banerjee ‘Begum’ and an ‘outsider’, which the Trinamool chief fiercely rebutted. Till Mr. Adhikari switched to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last December, he was a powerful leader in the Trinamool. This was evident in the responsibility and power thrust on him by the Chief Minister. After he won from Nandigram in 2016, he held the portfolios of irrigation, environment and transport, headed the Haldia Development Authority, was part of the seven-member apex steering committee of the State, was a general secretary of the party, and was also asked to take charge of Murshidabad district, besides his home turf of Medinipur. After Trinamool co-founder Mukul Roy left the party in 2017, Mr. Adhikari emerged one of the most influential Ministers. With the elevation of Abhishek Banerjee, Diamond Harbour MP and nephew of Ms. Banerjee, in the party, there were whispers that the Adhikaris were miffed. The Adhikari family was key to the Trinamool’s rise, post the 2007 land agitation in Nandigram, which Mr. Suvendu Adhikari led from the front. The Nandigram and Singur movements spelt doom for the Left Front government, which was dislodged by Ms. Banerjee in 2011 after a 34-year run. In the 1990s, the Adhikaris were aligned with the Congress. When Ms. Banerjee broke away from the Congress in 1998 to form the Trinamool, the Adhikaris joined her. In the 2009 Lok Sabha election, Suvendhu Adhikari trounced CPI(M) heavyweight Lakshman Seth in Tamluk by a huge margin. Ms. Banerjee leant on the Adhikaris to look after the two Medinipurs (East and West) and Jhargram in Jungalmahal, which account for more than 30 seats in the 294-seat Assembly. Parting with the party By November last year, it was clear Mr. Adhikari was firm on switching loyalties. He stayed away from meetings before stepping down, and even a last-ditch effort by Trinamool leader Saugata Roy to stop him from leaving the party failed. He joined the BJP in December. The BJP exulted at the move and pinned its hopes on leaders like Mr. Adhikari to win Bengal. His father, Sisir Adhikari, a Trinamool MP, and one of his brothers Soumendu Adhikari, then Contai Municipality administrator, also joined the BJP. Mr. Suvendu Adhikari may have narrowly clung on to Nandigram, but the BJP has not fared well in Medinipur and adjoining districts. Some in the Trinamool, like Kolkata Municipal Corporation chairman Firhad Hakim, openly said he was happy Mr. Adhikari had quit the party. His name had come up in the chit fund scam and also in the Narada sting before the 2016 election that showed several party leaders accepting bribes. In Nandigram, people were confused — should they punish Mr. Adhikari for corruption at the local level or the Trinamool, of which he was a part? “He had nurtured Nandigram well at the behest of Didi, but now he is playing communal politics,” several women in his constituency said. Mr. Adhikari, said to have chief ministerial ambitions, will be an important face of the Opposition BJP in the Assembly. His task is cut out. He may have defeated Ms. Banerjee in Nandigram but he will have to start afresh to win over the State. He perhaps needs to go back to his early days as Nandigram MLA, when he vowed to represent all, without the polarisation pitch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-giant-killer-of-nandigram/article34518288.ece
09 May 2021||Chennai,||3.76 lakh fresh infections reported||India recorded 3,76,039 new COVID-19 cases until 9.50 p.m. on Saturday. As many as 3,661 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 2,22,68,324 cases and 2,41,968 deaths. Maharashtra reported 53,605 infections, followed by Karnataka (47,563) and Kerala (41,971). Maharashtra also recorded 864 casualties, followed by Karnataka (482) and Delhi (332). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Only arout 22.97 lakh daily vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Saturday, which is over 73,000 thousand doses lesser than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. It is also over 4.47 lakh doses lesser than what was recorded in the same period, one week ago. A total of 16.73 crore doses have been administered in the country as on 7 a.m. on Saturday. Vaccination count The number of daily doses has been on a declining trend since mid-April. The seven-day average of daily doses administered by May 7 stood at 17.65 lakh, significantly lower than the 35.83 lakh recorded a month ago. Around 18.08 lakh tests were conducted on Friday (the results for which were made available on Saturday), which is 18,076 tests fewer than the previous day. As many as 30.04 crore samples have been tested in the country since the beginning of the pandemic. India continues to register the highest number of recorded deaths daily in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/376-lakh-fresh-infections-reported/article34518281.ece
09 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Probe into digging, construction activities in Kaziranga||The authorities in Assam’s Golaghat and Nagaon districts have begun probing cases of clearance of forest land, digging and construction activities on at least three animal corridors within the eco-sensitive zone of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve. These two districts share large swathes of the 1,300-sq. km. tiger reserve that has nine identified animal corridors. Seven of these — Amguri, Bagori, Chirang, Deosur, Harmati, Hatidandi and Kanchanjuri — are in Nagaon district while Haldibari and Panbari corridors are in Golaghat district. Crucial for animals These corridors are crucial for the rhinos, elephants, tigers, deer and other animals that escape a flooded Kaziranga during the monsoon months for the safety of the hills of Karbi Anglong district beyond the highway skirting the southern boundary of the tiger reserve. Tiger reserve’s director P. Sivakumar said he had prior to the Assembly elections in March-April written to the Golaghat district authorities underlining some construction activities on the Haldibari corridor. “We had a joint inspection with officials of the Revenue Department two days ago and found three violations on the corridor, including expansion by a resort. Further action will be taken in the coming days,” he told The Hindu on Saturday. A bid to construct a permanent stage for religious activities was stopped a couple of months ago in a tea estate on the Panbari animal corridor, officials said. But the most blatant violation has been on the Kanchanjuri animal corridor in Nagaon district. A patch of forest land has been cleared and a section of a tea plantation dug up apparently for a water reservoir, wildlife activists in the area said. This has been happening over the past few days in plain view beside the highway. The activities are barely 50 metres from where a structure linked to the local MLA came up a year ago. SC’s order violated Rohit Choudhury, a green activist based in Bokakhat (headquarters of Kaziranga), lodged an FIR at the Jakhalabandha police station in Nagaon district on May 7 with photographs of these activities. He said these activities violated the Supreme Court’s order on April 4, 2019. The order said: “No new construction shall be permitted on private lands which form part of the nine identified animal corridors.” Mrinmoy Das, Nagaon’s DSP, said they have treated the FIR as a piece of information and would be seeking replies from the Forest and Revenue Departments concerned. “There are no legal provisions for registering a case if a member of the public complains about contempt of court unless the court itself or the government files an FIR. We can act when the departments involved give us the feedback and seek action,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-into-digging-construction-activities-in-kaziranga/article34518251.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||E.U., India relaunch FTA talks, sign connectivity partnership||India and the European Union agreed on Saturday to relaunch free trade negotiations by resuming talks that were suspended in 2013 for the Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA), as Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted virtually from Delhi with President of the European Commission Ursula Von der Leyen and E.U. Council President Charles Michel along with 27 European leaders gathered in Porto, Portugal, on Saturday. The E.U.-India leaders meeting also discussed COVID recovery plans and vaccine cooperation, adopted a Connectivity Partnership document outlining plans to cooperate on digital and infrastructure projects, and signed the contract for the second tranche of $150 million from the E.U. for the Pune Metro rail project. However, India failed to secure the support of the European leaders for its proposal at the World Trade Organisation at the meeting for patent waivers for COVID vaccine, and government officials said they hoped to see the E.U. continue to debate the issue. President of the European Commission Briefing the media at the end of the meeting, Ms. Von Der Leyen and Mr. Michel said a greater imperative at present was for countries to ramp up the production and delivery of SARS-Cov-2 vaccines through greater investment. “There are different feelings about the [Indian] request from around the world… In the short term many of us think that this may not be the magic solution, but we would like to keep a closer eye and keep discussing the issue,” said Mr. Michel. Ms. Von Der Leyen said the E.U., which was the “pharmacy of the world” and had exported 50% of its production of 400 million vaccine doses to other countries, had shown the way forward. India, which is facing vaccine shortages during the current crisis has had to halt its export programme for vaccines worldwide. When asked about the E.U. hesitation over supporting the proposal jointly presented by India and South Africa at the WTO, MEA officials pointed that the U.S. had recently changed its stand and now supports the idea of waiving intellectual property rights on vaccines for the duration of the pandemic, and India would therefore watch the “evolving E.U. position on this”. The support of a major bloc like the E.U. is crucial to passing the resolution at the WTO by consensus. The joint statement issued after the meeting said India and the E.U. agreed to work towards a “balanced, ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial trade agreement which would respond to the current challenges,” and launch negotiations for a “stand-alone” investment protection agreement and a separate agreement on “geographical indications” pertaining to intellectual property rights. Hailing the decision by the leaders to resume trade negotiations for the BTIA as a “remarkable moment”, Ms. Von Der Leyen said the talks that had begun in 2007, and stalled in 2013, will finally be picked up again. The talks had run into trouble over market access issues, and tariffs by India on products like wine, dairy and automotive parts, as well as E.U. resistance over visas for Indian professionals. In addition, the Modi government’s decision to scrap all Bilateral Investment Treaties (BITs) in 2015 posed hurdles for new E.U. investments in India. The timing and structure of the relaunched talks would be steered by the recently set up High-Level dialogue between Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and his counterpart, EU Trade Commissioner, said MEA Secretary (West) Vikas Swarup. The India-E.U. connectivity partnership signed on Saturday also committed the two sides to working together on digital, energy, transport, people to people connectivity that was “transparent, viable, inclusive, sustainable, comprehensive, with a rules-based approach”. The partnership is seen as a response to China’s Belt and Road Initiative, and comes as the E.U.’s negotiations with China on their Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) have run into trouble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eu-india-relaunch-fta-talks-sign-connectivity-partnership/article34518255.ece
09 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Hope soars as Second World War airport in Assam takes commercial wings||An airport built for warplanes in 1939 took commercial wings on Saturday, heralding the best of times for western Assam’s Dhubri district during the worst of times. Rupsi airport near Gauripur, about 15 km from district headquarters Dhubri, was one of South Asia’s largest airports with a 1.8 km runway used by Allied aircraft for supplying arms, manpower and ammunition to forces in Burma and China during World War II. Rupsi is Assam's 7th airport and 15th in the northeast including Pakyong in Sikkim. Commercial flights were allowed later. India’s Partition in 1947 began eroding the airport’s importance. It was abandoned after the last flight — a Vayudoot from Dhubri to Guwahati — took off in 1983. “It feels nice to be a part of history, and I hope the service is sustained for the sake of a corner of Assam that lost its importance as the regional communication hub soon after Independence,” Gauripur MLA Nizanur Rahman said. The All India United Democratic Front leader was one of the passengers who alighted from the 72-seater twin-engine turboprop touched down from Guwahati at 12.10 p.m. The flight took off for Kolkata at 12.40 p.m. and returned to Rupsi at 4.10 p.m. en route to Guwahati. Flybig, an Indore-based company, would be operating the Kolkata-Guwahati-Rupsi flight under the subsidised UDAAN scheme for regional connectivity. “Work on reviving the airport began in 2019. The return of the COVID-19 scare had dampened our spirits, but the flight happened despite the odds to make our hopes soar,” Dhubri-based Bimal Oswal, the president of Rupsi Airport Revival Demand Committee told The Hindu . “Rupsi is vital not only for western Assam. It used to and again will cater to the people of western Meghalaya, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar districts of West Bengal and south-western Bhutan, besides fuelling small-scale industries,” he said. Jyotirmoy Chakraborty, the committee’s general secretary said they had been fighting for the airport for more than 15 years. “Dhubri used to be the gateway to the northeast during the British area. It was a strategic river port (the Brahmaputra flows by Dhubri town) and an important stop on the pre-1947 railway line through present-day Bangladesh next door,” he said. Partition virtually turned Dhubri into a prisoner of geography. The river port was closed after the India-Pakistan war in 1965 and the railway service suspended in 1988. The East-West Corridor connecting the northeast with India’s “mainland” through Kokrajhar district to the east also reduced the dependence on the old highway via Gauripur. “Railway service resumed in 2011 after gauge conversion and the river port at Free India Ghat (Dhubri town) was revamped in 2018. We are now awaiting regular inland water service via Bangladesh, like in the pre-1965 days,” Mr. Oswal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hope-soars-as-second-world-war-airport-in-assam-takes-commercial-wings/article34518270.ece
09 May 2021||COIMBATORE,||As cases surge, vaccine hesitancy rife in rural T.N.||Despite the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic raging through the country with the number of cases rising everyday, vaccine hesitancy continues, preventing many from ensuring their safety. R. Kalavathi of Bodipatti village panchayat near Udumalpet in Tiruppur district in western Tamil Nadu, is one of several persons who has not gotten vaccinated and is unsure of whether she wants to take the shot, fearing the side effects. “Different people are saying different things, so I am still not sure,” the 54-year-old said on Thursday. The fact that her husband C. Venkatesan has taken his first shots has not convinced Ms. Kalavathi. An automobile dealer, Mr. Venkatesan, 57, said he had experienced mild side effects after taking the first shot of Covishield vaccine on April 10 such as fever and diarrhoea for about two days. Ms. Kalavathi said seeing her husband experiencing these side effects aggravated her apprehensions against vaccination further. On the other hand, she admitted that hearing about how vaccines reduce the severity of COVID-19 infection has left her confused. “It is now scary to take the vaccine shot and it is equally scary to not take it,” she remarked. Many apprehensions Her 27-year-old daughter V. Sathya said she was ready to take the vaccine shots. However, she is also apprehensive that taking the shots would cause problems in the future. She claimed that many have not been vaccinated in her locality in Udumalpet town, where she resides with her husband and daughter. At the premises of the government hospital at Jallipatti village panchayat near Bodipatti, about two dozen workers — most of them women — are working as cleaners, employed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. However, except for five, most said that they were unwilling to take the vaccine shots. “If we fall sick [after taking the vaccine shot] for 10 days, who will feed our families?” asked Lakshmi, one of the workers. “We generally get only Sundays as holidays and most of us take rest on that day,” said Sarojini, one of those who is yet to be vaccinated. Dhanalakshmi, who was among the few workers to get vaccinated, said that she managed to get her first vaccine dose at the Jallipatti government hospital recently, but she had to take rest for two days as she experienced mild fever and body ache. Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan told The Hindu on Thursday that the district administration will conduct more outreach camps in rural areas to counter vaccine hesitancy, especially among the vulnerable populations. “We have to keep creating awareness,” he said. As of Thursday, over 1.4 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated (including the first and second dose) in the district, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-cases-surge-vaccine-hesitancy-rife-in-rural-tn/article34518272.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Sympathy or schadenfreude? China’s social media debates India’s COVID crisis||A heated debate has dominated the Chinese social media attention this past week in the wake of a post linked to an official Communist Party account that mocked India’s COVID-19 crisis, and subsequently polarised opinion among those calling for sympathy and others justifying a comparison of the two countries’ responses to the pandemic. The social media post, from an account affiliated to the Communist Party of China’s top law enforcement body, the Political and Legal Affairs Committee, posted a message to its 15 million followers, sharing two images side-by-side of a rocket launch in China and a cremation ground in India, adding a message: “China lighting a fire, India lighting a fire”. The message initially went viral and prompted an instant backlash for its lack of sensitivity. Chinese journalists, including those who work for State media outlets, criticised the post, which was subsequently deleted. That backlash to an official account then prompted a backlash of its own, particularly among more nationalistic voices, who argued China was justified to contrast the COVID-19 situation in both countries and to speak unabashedly of its successes. Even Hu Xijin, firebrand editor of Global Times , a nationalist tabloid published by the People’s Daily , came under attack for criticising the post, though he was also critical of India for not acknowledging the medical supplies it is receiving from China. “The official mindset of Chinese society toward India’s epidemic situation must be sympathetic and supportive of their battle against it, and this is indeed the case. I don’t think it’s proper for social media accounts of certain Chinese official institutions or other influential forces to mock India at present,” he wrote. “Even today when India is in trouble and China is lending it a helping hand, India still holds a grudge and remains narrow-minded. But currently, our prevailing attitude toward India should be still to show our sympathy and support, without being distracted by other sentiments.” Shen Yi, a scholar at the Fudan University in Shanghai, criticised Mr. Hu and praised the original post. “Can so-called expressions of sympathy for India achieve the anticipated outcome?” Mr. Shen was quoted as saying by the New York Times.  “Where can an 800-pound gorilla sleep? Wherever it wants to,” he added, arguing the Communist Party-linked account was justified to say what it wished. The argument, reported the China Digital Times which tracks media in China, “led to a division of public opinion between a ‘support Hu faction’ and a ‘support Shen faction’.” A Global Times reporter, Qingqing Chen, also came under fire for criticising the post, saying it was “completely ridiculous to make such a comparison” in a message on Twitter, a website blocked in China. Screenshots of her tweet, however, went viral on Weibo, leading to wide criticism. Ms. Chen subsequently deleted her tweet, which Mr. Hu, her editor, described as “inappropriate” and “immature”. Crumbling barriers The debate hinted at broader tensions between internal messaging in China, including from official outlets which often tend to highlight China’s successes and failures elsewhere, and how such views are received abroad at a time when the barriers are crumbling between what’s intended for domestic use and what ends up being seen overseas. “Domestic opinions on this issue of China vs. India are quite divided, and are roughly divided into two factions,” observed the popular commentator Ren Yi. “One faction thinks that the official Weibo of the Central Political and Legal Committee is very good. That’s how it should be said, just say it. There is nothing that can’t be said. The other faction thinks the level was not high and an official account should not post such things,” he said, adding he supported the latter view. He said “as long as an account is considered to reflect the official position of the Chinese government, it needs to be very cautious” and even “any information released by a young editor” who is sometimes manning such social media handles, charged with getting clicks, will be regarded abroad “as China’s national opinion”. “China’s current international environment is very complicated and quite unfriendly,” Mr. Ren wrote. “The G7 Foreign Ministers’ meeting came to discuss China’s challenges, as well as the Taiwan issue…Biden intends to regain character for the United States. What should we do at this time? One has to be extra cautious about relations with neighbouring countries. We cannot guarantee to make friends, but we must make sure not to make enemies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sympathy-or-schadenfreude-chinas-social-media-debates-indias-covid-crisis/article34518261.ece
09 May 2021||Shimla,||Public transport suspended in Himachal from tomorrow||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to suspend public transport from Monday to check the spread of COVID-19, an official spokesperson said. The decision was taken during a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday, he said. It was also decided that the daily needs and essential commodity shops will remain open only for three hours in a day and the timing of the same will be fixed by the Deputy Commissioners, the spokesperson said. Coronavirus curfew is already in force in the State from May 7-17. These strict restrictions will come into force on May 10 from 6 a.m., the spokesperson said. All public transport will remain suspended till further orders and private vehicles will only be allowed in case of emergency services, he added. Mr. Thakur said these decisions have been taken to break the chain of the virus. He urged people to give their wholehearted support in effective implementation of the curfew to combat COVID-19 threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/public-transport-suspended-in-himachal-from-tomorrow/article34518719.ece
09 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Organise vaccination in tea estates: tea body||The North Eastern Tea Association (NETA) has appealed to the Assam government to urgently organise vaccination camps in the tea estates across the State. The Association made the request after 505 plantation workers tested COVID-19 positive across 90 tea estates in 15 districts, 133 of them in Zaloni Tea Estate in Dibrugarh district followed by 52 in Dekorai Tea Estate and 48 in Pertabghur Tea Estate in Biswanath district. “Please direct the district authorities to set up vaccination camps in tea gardens urgently, so that the front-line workers and residents are vaccinated at the earliest. Vaccination of the workforce is of utmost importance at this hour,” NETA advisor Bidyananda Borkakoty said in a letter to Samir Kumar Sinha, State Principal Secretary for Health and Family Welfare, on Saturday. “The tea garden population needs protection from the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic through vaccination. The estates did not face this problem last year. Vaccinating the workforce is crucial before things go beyond control,” Mr. Borkakoty told The Hindu . Containment zone Officials in the affected districts said the estates with COVID-19 positive cases have been declared containment zones by the local administration. Assam has 803 large estates and more than 1.5 lakh small tea gardens, together employing more than 10 lakh people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/organise-vaccination-in-tea-estates-tea-body/article34518722.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP Assam CM pick remains a suspense||A meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislative party in Assam has been called on Sunday to decide who will be the next Chief Minister of the State. The suspense over the name remained unresolved on Saturday despite incumbent Sarbananda Sonowal and State Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma hot footing it to Delhi for meetings with the BJP’s top leadership. Mr. Sarma, after a series of meetings with party president J.P. Nadda, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP general secretary, organisation, B.L. Santosh, said that a meeting of the BJP’s legislative party in the State will likely be called on Sunday, “during which all your questions (on who is to be the next Chief Minister) will be answered.” Sources confirmed that a legislative party meeting has been scheduled for Sunday, and that State in-charge Baijayant Panda and party general secretary Arun Singh may also travel to Assam on Saturday evening. After the party dragged its feet on the question of a new Chief Minister for the State, even after all other States that had gone into Assembly polls at the same time had new Chief Ministers taking oath of office, Mr. Santosh called up both Mr. Sonowal and Mr. Sarma on Friday night and asked them to travel to Delhi for meetings with Mr. Shah and Mr. Nadda. The MLAs from Naharkatia and Tingkhong — Taranga Gogoi and Bimal Borah, respectively — also travelled with Mr. Sarma. Mr. Gogoi is a former aide to Mr. Sarma, while Mr. Borah is said to be close to Mr. Sonowal. Both camps remained tight-lipped over the contents of the meeting or the decision taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-assam-cm-pick-remains-a-suspense/article34518253.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||IMA calls for national lockdown to help health infra recover||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday asked the Centre to announce a national lockdown to help the healthcare infrastructure “recoup and replenish both material and manpower”. In a statement, the Association said: “We are astonished to see the extreme lethargy and inappropriate actions from the Health Ministry in combating the agonising crisis born out of the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.” The largest grouping of physicians from across the country said it has been insisting on the need for a complete, well-planned pre-announced national lockdown rather than a few States declaring complete lockdown ranging for 10 days to 15 days. “This will allow breathing time for the health care infrastructure to recoup and replenish both the material and manpower. Lockdown will break the chain of devastating spread. However, the Central government had refused to heed, to implement lockdown resulting in the mounting of new patients beyond four lakh every day and the number of moderate to severe cases are increasing to nearly 40%,” it said. Stating that the sporadic night curfews had not done any good, the Association said “life is more precious than the economy”. The Association added that it was unfortunate that the government had failed to make the necessary road map to ensure vaccine stock, resulting in the fact that at a majority of the places vaccination could not be rolled out for people above 18. Universal vaccination It said that in 1997 and 2014 India could declare eradication of smallpox and polio, only by adopting universal free vaccination and not by a differential pricing system. “When Rs. 35,000 crore were allotted in the budget, with which the maximum required 200 crore vaccine doses are purchasable, why did the Central government not take full responsibility? Today for nearly a week no vaccine is available in small and medium private hospitals. People are succumbing to oxygen mismatch supply and it is creating panic both among patients and medical fraternity,” the Association said, appealing for urgent action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-calls-for-national-lockdown-to-help-health-infra-recover/article34518263.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Movid pandemic’: Congress||The editorial of top international medical journal The Lancet and a statement from the Indian Medical Association, both criticising the inept handling of the COVID-19 pandemic by the Modi government, gave the Opposition fresh ammunition, with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi terming it the “Movid pandemic”. Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said the Congress had been warning the government since the pandemic began last year but the government turned a deaf ear to any suggestions. “What The Lancet and the IMA have said are the same things that Mr. Rahul Gandhi pointed out in his letter to the Prime Minister written on Friday,” Mr. Maken said. Mr. Gandhi has been advocating a full lockdown in the country. Mr. Maken said this was no longer a natural calamity. “What we are going through today is a man-made disaster, in fact I would go on to say, a Modi-made disaster,” he said. GST on vaccines The party also attacked the government on GST being charged on vaccines. “It is preposterous that the Centre is charging GST on the vaccines being bought by the State government. Then it will use the same money to supply vaccines to the States from 45 and above category,” he added. Mr. Gandhi too in a tweet, flagging news reports revealing that less than Rs. 5,000 crores have been spent on vaccines out of the Rs. 35,000 crore budget, said, “Vaccine budget- underutilized. Human life- undervalued. Because the PM’s ego- overinflated.” The party also attacked the Central Vista project. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “The only thing that is bizarre is the Modi Govt thinks spending on a new Parliament, new mansion for the PM, and office buildings is an “essential service, while the country is reeling from shortage of oxygen, beds, medicines, and even vaccines. Stop defending the indefensible!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/movid-pandemic-congress/article34518268.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Crowd-funding treatment likely to become difficult||The government’s move to allow cash payments over Rs. 2 lakh for COVID-19 patients’ treatment could make it difficult for people to crowd-fund bill payments. Patients without a PAN card or Aadhaar, as well as those who arrange to pay their treatment costs through cash loans of over Rs. 2 lakh from a single lender may also face challenges, said tax lawyers. Section 269ST of the Income Tax Act, introduced after demonetisation, entails a 100% penalty for receipt of all cash payments over Rs. 2 lakh, but was proving to be a hurdle for several patients’ families as many don’t have access to cashless payment options. Following a petition filed in the Delhi High Court on Friday that sought a relaxation of the relevant Income Tax law provision, the government notified changes to permit such cash payments for COVID-19 patients’ treatment till May 31, provided the healthcare provider obtains the PAN or Aadhaar of the patient and the “payee”. “How many people will be willing to help with cash for meeting medical bills if it requires them to share their PAN or Aadhaar, with the fear of tax department queries that could follow?” said a senior tax lawyer. Moreover, families looking to raise a cash loan from a single individual of over Rs. 2 lakh to meet medical expenses, may not be able to do so as a related section in the law prohibits such loans. “Such large payments are usually required when a patient is becoming more critical and perhaps needs to move into an ICU from the regular ward and time is of the essence. Even digital payments through means such as NEFT sometimes take a couple of hours, but hospitals wait till these payments hit their accounts,” said a lawyer. The hospitals will also be required to note the relationship between the patient and the “payee”, the notification said. The Finance Ministry did not respond to queries on whether the word “payee”, which refers to the person being paid, was inadvertently inserted and would be corrected. “It is also seen that during times like this, people borrow money from family and friends and many are using the prepaid payment instruments such as Google Pay, which are faster. However, many hospitals are not accepting payment on these platforms,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crowd-funding-treatment-likely-to-become-difficult/article34518278.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Despite Supreme Court order, oxygen supply to Delhi falls short||Delhi received only 488 MT of medical oxygen on Friday — about 70% the current need of about 700 MT a day, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday. “At present, Delhi requires a minimum of 700 MT of oxygen supply to cater to patients, and an increase in COVID beds and health infrastructure would necessitate oxygen allocation of 976 MT in the city,” Mr. Sisodia said. “Delhi received 730 MT of oxygen for the first time ever on May 5. However, we saw a persistent decline from May 6 onwards as we received 577 MT on that day, and 488 MT on May 7,” he said. The Minister said it will be hard to manage proper oxygen supply to all hospitals with the current deficit. Mr. Sisodia pointed out that though the Supreme Court has asked that 700 MT of oxygen a day be allotted to Delhi, no step has been taken by the central government on this front. “We urge the Central government to provide us 700 MT oxygen daily as directed by the Supreme Court. We hope the Government of India will extend their full support in ensuring Delhi’s oxygen supply does not decrease,” the Minister said. Delhi has been facing an oxygen shortage since April 18. On May 1, 12 people died at Batra Hospital, a private hospital, due to lack of oxygen. Meanwhile, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha added that the government was “somehow managing the situation” even with 488 MT of oxygen. “A few days back, we observed that the Supreme Court, through its strongly-worded order, condemned the central government and stated that the centre must commit to supplying at least 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi. Right now, to conveniently run the total number of oxygenated beds in Delhi, whether ICU or non-ICU, we need at least 700 MT of oxygen,” Mr. Chadha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/despite-supreme-court-order-oxygen-supply-to-delhi-falls-short/article34518274.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Imports of supplies from China surge||Chinese companies manufacturing oxygen concentrators and other medical supplies are reporting a record surge in orders for April and May from Indian companies amid the current wave of COVID-19 cases and shortages in supplies. Since April, orders for at least 40,000 oxygen concentrators have been placed by Indian companies, of which 21,000 have so far been delivered, along with more than 5,000 ventilators, 21 million face masks and 3,800 tons of medicines, according to official Chinese customs figures. Shares of medical manufacturers in China are also soaring on the back of the surge in orders. Yuyue Medical, a prominent supplier, reported a 134% year-on-year increase in net profit to $278 million in April, reported Yicai, a Chinese outlet, with 18,000 orders for oxygen concentrators from India. “Its respiratory supplies division, which includes ventilators and oxygen concentrators, reported an 86% jump in revenue to $355 million,” Yicai reported. Another manufacturer of oxygen concentrators, Zhengzhou Olive Electronic Technology, said it received orders for 18,000 oxygen concentrators which prompted it to add another production line and more workers to increase its daily production capacity of 170, reported the official Xinhua news agency. Some Chinese companies have also said they are donating medical supplies. Among them is Fosun Pharma, a major pharmaceuticals company, which last week donated 150 ventilators through its subsidiary in Hyderabad Gland Pharma and 1,00,000 masks delivered to Mumbai. The company is also processing orders for 20,000 oxygen generators, Xinhua reported. Private companies Most of the supplies coming in from China have been imported by private Indian companies on a commercial basis. While some Chinese companies in the private sector are routing donations through various channels, India has so far not accepted official offers from China’s government for assistance, conveyed on April 30 in a letter from President Xi Jinping to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and in a phone call between the two Foreign Ministers on the same day. India has requested Chinese authorities to ensure that supply channels remained open, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said. He told his counterpart Wang Yi that “many of our companies are ordering stuff from China and we are encountering difficulties in logistics, so please take a look at it which is something which we would appreciate,” he said speaking at a virtual dialogue earlier this week. “After our conversation things did move,” he said. “Some of our airlines got quicker approvals, the logistics chain is flowing, and that is something which is very laudable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/imports-of-supplies-from-china-surge/article34518264.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Immediate measures needed for welfare of children’||The Supreme Court Juvenile Justice Committee, in coordination with UNICEF, highlighted the need to urgently provide care and protect children suddenly made vulnerable by the loss of one or both parents to the second wave of COVID-19. Supreme Court judge S. Ravindra Bhat, who is the Chairperson of the Juvenile Justice Committee, in a review meeting held with High Courts, representatives of States and the Centre, said concerted efforts should be made to provide interim care for children who have been orphaned, abandoned or even left unaccompanied in their own homes. “These children are more vulnerable now than ever before,” Justice Bhat noted. A statement released by the Supreme Court on Saturday said some of the measures discussed were the setting up State-level nodal officers and a district task force for rapid response for the care and protection of such children. Other steps include sponsorship for children who had lost parent/s or bread-earners or were facing economic hardship. Justice Bhat highlighted the need for clear guidance on steps to be taken in the event when such children in an extremely vulnerable state had been exposed to the virus or showed symptoms of infection. Care measures for their isolation and treatment needed to be stepped up, he said. In this regard, Justice Bhat said that caregivers and employees of childcare institutions — both government and private — should be vaccinated as frontline professionals. He said childcare institutions should be declared “essential services”. The judge emphasised the need to provide heightened medical watch for children in institutional care. The Supreme Court has been nudging the Centre to prepare for the third wave of the pandemic. Recently, a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud had highlighted reports that children would be affected in the third wave. The court has pushed for aggressive vaccination, especially for parents of young children, who would be accompanying their children to hospitals as primary caregivers. Justice Bhat is also part of the Special Bench hearing issues regarding COVID-19 management and lapses. Justice Bhat further spoke of the need to develop a mechanism to address the interim care needs of orphaned, separated, or unaccompanied children, including clear guidance on steps to be taken in the event that such a child has been exposed or has symptoms of the virus and requires a period of isolation and treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/immediate-measures-needed-for-welfare-of-children/article34518265.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on effects of pandemic on students||Over the past year, the pandemic has affected students enormously. To help them cope, the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu , hosted a webinar on ‘Helping Students Navigate the Uncertainties during the Pandemic’. The session began with Nandini Raman, consultant counsellor, corporate trainer and columnist, discussing the effects of the pandemic and virtual learning on students. She talked about the increasing number of students who are feeling overwhelmed, fatigued and heading towards a burnout. Some of the challenges reported included trouble staying focused, anxieties from being indoors, addiction to gadgets and frustrations with online classes. She advised students to set routines, find new hobbies, look after their health and to not hesitate to reach out if things get tough. Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, Founder of SNEHA and Head, Department of Psychiatry, Voluntary Health Services, highlighted the problem of improper usage of the Internet and ensuing addiction. She reiterated the pros and cons of increased Internet usage, especially during the pandemic, and emphasised the importance of being aware of adverse effects. Quoting Dan Zadra, she said, “Worrying is a misuse of the imagination.” Instead she suggested using one’s imagination for something positive. Three things would help one cope, she said: improving one’s abilities and skills, being more flexible and adaptable and being more responsible. Prince Kalyanasundaram, Deputy Director - Student Affairs, SRMIST, pointed out the importance of education even during these uncertain times. There’s more to education than getting good grades, he said, and offered pointers to cope with the challenges that students were facing currently. He also mentioned that proper support at home and from the institution is crucial. The session ended with panellists answering various questions from the viewers. Those who missed the session can view it at http://bit.ly/SRMTHYT1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-effects-of-pandemic-on-students/article34518249.ece
09 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Cong. demands aid for milk farmers in Odisha||The Congress on Saturday demanded monthly assistance of Rs. 6,000 to every milk farmer after the Odisha State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited (OMFED) put temporary restrictions on milk procurement during the lockdown. About 10 lakh milk farmers were facing uncertain future after OMFED and other milk companies brought down procurement from 5 lakh litre per day to 3.5 lakh per day, said Amiya Kumar Patnaik, president of the farmer wing of the Congress. According to OMFED, milk procurement of the unions is showing an increasing trend and the average procurement is around 5.45 lakh kg per day and on the other hand, the disposal has been reduced significantly from around 3.75 lakh LPD to 2.0 lakh LPD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-demands-aid-for-milk-farmers-in-odisha/article34518720.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||DCGI nod for DRDO’s anti-COVID-19 drug||Clinical trial results have shown that this molecule helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence, noted the release. It further said that higher proportion of patients treated with 2-DG showed RT-PCR negative conversion in COVID-19 patients. In April 2020, during the first wave of the pandemic, INMAS-DRDO scientists conducted laboratory experiments with the help of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, and found that this molecule works effectively against SARS-CoV-2 virus and inhibits the viral growth. The DCGI permitted Phase-II clinical trial of 2-DG in COVID-19 patients in May 2020.  In Phase-II trials (including dose ranging) conducted during May to October 2020, the drug was found to be safe in COVID-19 patients, and showed it led to significant improvement in their recovery. Phase IIa was conducted in six hospitals and Phase IIb (dose ranging) clinical trial was conducted at 11 hospitals all over the country. Phase-II trial was conducted on 110 patients. In efficacy trends, patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than Standard of Care (SoC) on various endpoints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dcgi-nod-for-drdos-anti-covid-19-drug/article34518246.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Test for COVID-19 not a must for admission’||“The revised guidelines cover medications such as oxygen or essential drugs even if the patient belongs to a different city,” added the release. The revised guidelines noted that no patient shall be refused admission on the ground that he/she was not able to produce a valid identity card establishing they belonged to the city where the hospital is located. “Admissions to hospital must be based on need. It should be ensured that beds are not occupied by persons who do not need hospitalization. Further, the discharge should be strictly in accordance with the revised discharge policy,” added the Ministry. The Ministry has advised Chief Secretaries of States/Union Territories to issue necessary orders and circulars, incorporating the new directions within three days, which shall be enforced till replaced by an appropriate uniform policy. The latest directive applies to all States and UTs, hospitals under the Central government, State governments and UT administrations, including private hospitals in States and UTs managing COVID-19 patients. Meanwhile, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday chaired the 25th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 and reiterated the importance of full protection through two COVID-19 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/test-for-covid-19-not-a-must-for-admission/article34518247.ece
09 May 2021||Mumbai,||All on board safe after fire on aircraft carrier||There was a minor fire on board aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya on Saturday morning, a Navy spokesperson said. The fire was doused and all personnel on board were safe, the spokesperson said in a statement here. “The duty staff observed smoke emanating from the part of the warship having accommodation for sailors.” “The ship’s duty personnel acted promptly to fight the fire. All personnel on board have been accounted for and no major damage has been reported,” the statement said. An inquiry into the incident is being ordered, the spokesperson said, adding that the aircraft carrier is at Karwar harbour in Karnataka. The warship is a modified Kiev-class aircraft carrier purchased by India from Russia in 2013 and was renamed in honour of Vikramaditya, the legendary emperor. Originally built as Baku and commissioned in 1987, the carrier served with the Soviet (until the dissolution of the Soviet Union) and Russian Navies before being decommissioned in 1996, it being too expensive to operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-on-board-safe-after-fire-on-aircraft-carrier/article34518252.ece
09 May 2021||KADIYAPULANKA,||Farmers forced to throw flowers into canals||Several farmers have been throwing flowers into canals of river Godavari near Kadiyapulanka flower market in East Godavari district as the produce remains unsold owing to partial lockdown, simple weddings and closure of temples across the State. The existing market scenario has also impacted the import of various varieties of flowers from southern States. Leaving in a helpless state in managing the daily flower production on the fields, the farmers are left with no option except to dump the day’s output into the canals after noon, when the curfew comes into force banning the trade activity at the flower market. “Over the past week, nearly four tonnes of jasmine, lilly and marigold have been thrown into the canals. The daily arrival of flowers is around 10 tonnes at our market from the six mandals of Kadiyam, Alamuru, Atreyapuram, Kottapeta, Seetanagaram, Rajanagaram, Ravulapalem and Mandapeta,” said Kadiyapu Lanka Flower Merchants’ Association president Gangamulla Nageswara Rao. According to Mr. Nageswara Rao, there is no buyer of flowers at the market as temples have been closed and weddings are being planned without any grandeur. Adding to the growers’ woes, the curfew is in force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-forced-to-throw-flowers-into-canals/article34518839.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||SC orders de-congestion of prisons immediately||In addition to these fresh releases, the court said prisoners who were released on interim bail during the 2020 surge should be freed again “forthwith”. Ninety percent of inmates released last year had returned to their prisons in February and March 2021. Similarly, inmates who were given parole in 2020 should be released again on a 90-day parole in a bid to de-congest prisons, control infections and save lives within the prison walls. “India has more than four lakh prison inmates. It is observed that some of the prisons in India are overburdened and are housing inmates beyond optimal capacity…. The requirement of decongestion is a matter concerning the health and right to life of both the prison inmates and the police personnel working,” the Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, and comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant, stressed. “From limiting arrests to taking care of COVID-19 patients, there is a requirement for effective management of pandemic from within the prison walls so as to defeat this deadly virus,” the court emphasised. More importantly, this time, the court took into consideration a situation where certain prisoners may be too scared to return home, though eligible for release on interim bail or parole, owing to their social circumstances or simply because they are afraid they may get infected with COVID-19 while outside. In such cases, the court ordered proper medical facilities, immediate treatment and regular tests for both inmates and jail staff. It said maintenance of daily hygiene in prisons should be put at a premium. Significantly, the court addressing the government, said “the fight against the pandemic is greatly benefitted by transparent administration”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-orders-de-congestion-of-prisons-immediately/article34518257.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||10 workers killed in blast at limestone quarry in A.P.||The impact was such that body parts were strewn over a half a kk radius. The toll was expected to rise as teams were formed to identify and collect the body parts. Rescue operations were delayed as the accident site is in a remote area, residents said. Those who received moderate injuries were rushed to hospitals in Badvel. A senior police officer, who rushed to the spot, said rescue operations had become difficult as the quarry was in a rough terrain, surrounded by hills and forest ranges of Kadapa, Kurnool and Prakasam districts. Superintendent of Police, Kadapa, K.K.N. Anburajan told The Hindu that they had received a complaint that 10 workers were killed. The police have so far traced six bodies, and a search is on to determine the fate of the other victims. “Our personnel rushed to the spot, and the investigation into the accident has begun,” he said. The SP said that as per preliminary information, the limestone quarry sites in Kalasapadu mandal had all valid permits. “However, we will be investigating the details to ascertain the facts,” Mr. Anburajan said.   Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the tragic death of the quarry workers and spoke to the district authorities about the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-workers-killed-in-blast-at-limestone-quarry-in-ap/article34518256.ece
09 May 2021||Srinagar,||100-bed COVID-19 hospital comes up in Srinagar||Pictures of pandemic-stricken patients from Delhi, gasping for oxygen on roads and outside hospitals, spurred a Good Samaritan effort in Srinagar this week — the setting up of a second-line of oxygen support in a pilgrimage centre-turned hospital in a record 72 hours. Kashmir Athrout, a charitable organisation, collaborated with the District Disaster Management Authority, Srinagar, to set up the facility in the Haj Complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/100-bed-covid-19-hospital-comes-up-in-srinagar/article34518275.ece
09 May 2021||Patna,||MLA booked for removing barricade||Ruling party Janata Dal (United) legislator in Bihar Narendra Kumar Neeraj alias Gopal Mandal has been booked for allegedly removing a barricade at a containment zone near Naugachhia railway station in Bhagalpur. He claimed he had to attend to an “urgent call of nature”. “I had a great urge to relieve myself and also felt hungry,” the MLA was heard saying in a video that went viral on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mla-booked-for-removing-barricade/article34518282.ece
09 May 2021||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||briefly||Traffic police in Jayamkondam on Friday sensitised the public to the protective measures to be taken. A team circulated pamphlets containing awareness messages such as symptoms of COVID-19, reasons for its rapid spread and the need to ensure personal distancing in public places to drivers of freight carriers and four-wheelers and riders of two-wheelers. The role of the public in containing the spread of COVID-19 was emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article34518822.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s quota, States’ power to identify BCs under focus after SC verdict||The Supreme Court striking down the Maharashtra State Reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018, extending reservation to the Maratha community, may have consequences for the reservation policy in Tamil Nadu. The Constitution Bench has held that reservation in excess of the 50% ceiling is unconstitutional. “The reservation policy of Tamil Nadu, both vertical and horizontal, is under a cloud, and there is uncertainty,” said K. Chandru, a retired judge of the Madras High Court. He pointed out that while the State’s Act providing for 69% total reservation had been included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, the Supreme Court, in I. R. Coelho vs the State of Tamil Nadu , had ruled that even such a law could be subjected to judicial review. Pleas pending Petitions questioning the validity of the Tamil Nadu reservation law of 1994, which has been included in the Ninth Schedule to put it outside the purview of judicial review, have been pending in the Supreme Court for years. Mr. Chandru said the basic argument was that the 69% reservation was not scientifically evolved. On the recently introduced sub-quota in the Most Backward Classes category for the Vanniyars, the Denotified Communities and other MBCs, he said: “After the State Backward Classes Commission made the recommendation, the State government created internal reservation. The State government gave an ad hoc 10.5% reservation for the Vanniyars, 7% for the Denotified Communities, and the remaining 2.5% to be shared by as many as 49 communities. If small reservations for several categories are added, the total reservation stands at 80%,” he said. As for PMK MP Anbumani Ramadoss’s demand for a caste-wise census and reservation for communities in proportionate to their population, Mr. Chandru said that constitutionally, proportionate reservation was not possible. He said reservation was an affirmative action, but “what is an exception has become a general rule”. The other aspect of the recent judgment that would impact the powers of the State is the court’s interpretation of the 102nd Constitution Amendment, under which the National Backward Classes Commission was established, and the President was given the power to notify a Central List of socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs) in relation to all States and the Union Territories. The court ruled that the list notified by the President will be the only list of SEBCs, and only Parliament can make inclusions and exclusions. Former Additional Solicitor-General and DMK MP P. Wilson said another amendment should be made to the Constitution to offset the court’s ruling that, he argued, invaded the power of the State governments to identify their SEBCs. “The Supreme Court has said the Centre and the President alone have the power to include communities in the backward classes list. But the State governments under Articles 5 and 16 have already been given the right to decide on reservation and its quantum. Only the State governments know which classes are backward and which are not. Why are you suspecting it now?” he said. Asked how one could justify reservation for a particular community if it was done with a political motive, Mr. Wilson wondered what was the guarantee that the Centre stand’s on the issue was non-political. Letter of dissent He also referred to the long letter of dissent by DMK MP Kanmozhi, when she was on a select committee that went into the Bill introducing the 102nd Amendment. She had highlighted that the proposed amendment, through the insertion of Article 342A, would have the effect of divesting the States of the power that they had hitherto exercised to identify SEBCs. “The Supreme Court has said her dissent has come true,” Mr Wilson said. PMK advocates’ wing leader K. Balu said the Supreme Court order could not be compared with the situation in Tamil Nadu. “Even the Mandal Commission had said the Marathas were a forward community. In Tamil Nadu, we have followed compartmental reservation. The reservation for the Arundathiyars and the Muslims was made on the recommendation of the State Backward Classes Commission. Moreover, the 69% quota has been included in the Ninth Schedule,” he explained. Mr. Balu recalled the Supreme Court’s ruling, dated August 28, 2020, declaring that States had the right to decide on reservation as well as sub-classification of the communities benefiting from it. On the Supreme Court’s rulings in the past that the quantum of reservation had to be based on quantifiable data, Mr. Balu said the Justice Kulasekaran Commission, established to compile caste-wise data in the State, would come up with the data.  The States under Articles 5 and 16 have already been given the right to decide on reservation and its quantum P. WilsonFormer Additional Solicitor-General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tns-quota-states-power-to-identify-bcs-under-focus-after-sc-verdict/article34518451.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unified Command Centre will function as COVID-19 War Room||The Unified Command Centre (UCC), which is already acting as a cross-departmental hub for COVID-19 control activities in the State, has been designated as the COVID-19 War Room. The war room will act as the single nodal point and command centre for managing bed availability for both government and private hospitals, especially for critically ill patients requiring oxygen. According to a press release, the Health Department had established the UCC at the Tamil Nadu office of the National Health Mission in the city on April 30 for coordination with all other line departments and directorates for effective management of hospitals beds, oxygen and other such resources for responding to the pandemic, especially in the Greater Chennai Corporation and adjacent districts. Centralised response On May 5, the Chief Minister announced that the State government would establish a COVID-19 War Room to monitor medical oxygen stock, vaccine requirement and bed availability. With the UCC being designated as the war room, the oxygen cylinder requirements in private hospitals will also be coordinated through it with the support of the State Drug Controller. Through the 104 health helpline and social media, it will reach out and address the needs of the public during the second wave of the pandemic. It will provide support to manage COVID-19 bed capacity and ensure the availability of oxygen in both government and private hospitals. It will also analyse, assess and forecast State-specific data on COVID-19 crisis and communicate accurate information to the government in a timely manner for taking data-driven decision making, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unified-command-centre-will-function-as-covid-19-war-room/article34518425.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free bus service rolled out||On the first day of free bus travel for women, thousands of passengers travelled on about 5,600 ordinary fare buses across Tamil Nadu and on 1,700 buses in Chennai on Saturday. The passengers welcomed the measure, but urged the government to run more ordinary buses. The Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers wanted the ruling DMK to keep its election promise to provide free bus transport to all persons with disabilities. After taking over as Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin announced free travel for women on government buses charging ordinary fare. Since transport corporations will stand to lose Rs. 1,200 crore in revenue a year, the government sanctioned the sum as a subsidy. On Saturday, Mr. Stalin said his government would consider extending the scheme to transpersons. Responding to a tweet by a journalist, he said a decision would be taken at the earliest. “There are over 9,000 buses across the State and of these, 5,600 are ordinary services. Besides, there are express, deluxe and air-conditioned buses. The main difference is the fare and the number of stops. An ordinary fare bus will halt at all stops, and it will be helpful to women,” said a senior official of the Transport Department. All ordinary fare buses have been pasted with stickers that say ‘free travel for women’. “Women are very happy. Working women say they will be able to save Rs. 1,000 a month,” said a conductor of an MTC bus. According to S. Selvi, a passenger, the scheme will benefit working women and students who have to change buses to reach their destinations . “On many routes, only deluxe buses are operated. It will be helpful if the number of ordinary fare buses is increased,” she said. A senior official said MTC buses operated on 700 routes. “But ordinary buses do not operate on some routes. We are taking steps to identify them for rolling out this service,” he said. More buses sought In Vellore, a few passengers said the frequency of services should be increased. “Sometimes, we wait for buses for long. Now the number of bus services has been reduced owing to COVID-19,” said Mutharasi, 50, waiting at Old Bus Stop. In Tiruchi, working women said they would save money. “The regular fare to Gandhi Market, where I purchase flowers, costs Rs. 1,000 a month... I am happy the government cancelled the fare for us as we would be able to use the money for household expenses. I hope the government will also cancel the fare on trains,” said R. Dheivanai, a flower seller. In the Coimbatore division, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) did not paste the stickers on the buses. “Many women were unaware that the scheme was starting [on Saturday],” said G.S. Lalitha, secretary of the women’s wing of the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam. A TNSTC official said women were allowed to travel free on 447 city buses. The scheme was not applicable to the 180 deluxe ‘red buses’. The production of stickers was delayed, and they would be ready in a few days, he said. In Madurai, M. Lakshmi, a garment factory worker who travels to Vadipatti every day, said the scheme would help working women. “Women farmers and those who work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme can save on the money they spend on bus travel,” she said. The scheme must be extended to deluxe buses too, said AIDWA district secretary R. Sasikala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-bus-service-rolled-out/article34518434.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||12,500 additional oxygen beds being readied: Minister||A total of 12,500 oxygen beds are being readied across Tamil Nadu, and they will be available by May 15, Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Saturday. Mr. Subramanian inspected the upcoming facilities for COVID-19 treatment at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. He said that besides these 12,500 beds, the Health Department proposed the creation of another 12,500 oxygen beds, at a meeting with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Measures would be taken immediately for adding these beds. Nearly 250 additional oxygen beds would be ready at Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on Monday, he said. Mr. Subramanian said Remdesivir was being sold only at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, Chennai, and people from across the State were travelling there to buy the drug. “To reduce the hassles faced by people, Remdesivir will be sold in five more districts — Madurai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi. The drug has been sent to the districts, and will be up for sale soon,” he said. With ambulances carrying COVID-19 patients queuing up outside hospitals, he said, patients were being triaged immediately. “ Beds are being provided within an hour of arrival,” he said. Oxygen needs met The oxygen needs of two private hospitals were met, thanks to the immediate action taken by officials, Mr. Subramanian said. “Two private hospitals informed us that their oxygen supply would last just three hours. The Health Secretary took immediate action and provided 10 cylinders to one hospital and 15 to the other hospital,” he said. One of the hospitals in Chennai acknowledged that the timely intervention of officials helped it sustain supply to 10 patients. “We have 10 patients on ventilator and about 30 on oxygen support. While the requirement is four tanks, the supplier said he could give only two tanks... We had no other option but to forcibly discharge the patients or let them collapse,” G.M. Ramasubramanian, managing director of Maya Hospital, told The Hindu . The hospital sent an SOS on social media that if it did not get at least two oxygen tanks by 1 p.m. Saturday, the patients on ventilators would collapse. “On knowing about the crisis, IAS officer Darez Ahmed immediately organised oxygen cylinders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12500-additional-oxygen-beds-being-readied-minister/article34518436.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over one-third of patients in hospitals||Official data in Tamil Nadu’s medical bulletin show a sharp increase in the percentage of COVID-19 patients getting hospitalised. Analysis of data from the past week shows that while 27% active patients were in hospitals a week ago, it jumped to 35.7% on Saturday. The jump has been particularly high in the last two days. This means one in every three COVID-19 patient is in hospital. The data also show that nearly 25% or one-fourth of all patients are in intensive care or oxygen-supported beds. While the State added around 11,000 new active cases between Wednesday and Saturday, it added an almost similar number of hospital admissions. The State’s bed capacity shows a befuddling trend — while efforts are on to increase it, the numbers show a decline in capacity between Wednesday and Friday, before seeing a marginal increase on Saturday. A total of 67,649 beds were available on Friday. It dropped by nearly 7,000 to 61,050 on Friday and then increased to 63,719 again on Saturday. Meanwhile, the percentage of vacant beds witnessed a steady decline over the past week from 48.3% of beds on May 1 to just 21.7% on May 8. Among ICU and oxygen-supported beds, only 13.7% are vacant. An official from the Health and Family Welfare Department said the fluctuation in bed capacity was probably due to gaps in updating data from all hospitals. P. Kuganantham, senior epidemiologist and former health officer of the Greater Chennai Corporation, said the late detection of cases could be a reason why more patients were requiring hospitalisation. “Earlier this year, we became a little complacent, and personnel and systems in place were largely dismantled. We should have retained the capacity,” he said. Another reason could be the hospitalisation of people who really do not need it, particularly in private facilities. Prabhdeep Kaur, Deputy Director, National Institute of Epidemiology-ICMR, said the percentage of active cases in hospitals need not be the bigger worry at this time. “What is more important is our bed capacity,” she said. A factor for a higher percentage of people in hospitals could be the lack of adequate testing. “If we are testing only symptomatic and sick cases, then naturally a higher percentage of detected cases will need hospitalisation,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-one-third-of-patients-in-hospitals/article34518440.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin appeals for people’s cooperation during lockdown||Fighting COVID-19 would be challenging without imposing a complete lockdown between May 10 and 24, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Saturday, seeking the cooperation of the people on the matter. In his televised address, Mr. Stalin said over 25,000 people were affected across the State every day. “Doctors say the rate of infection would be higher in the next two weeks. If it increases at this rate, it would be challenging to contain it.” Recalling his meetings with official and experts, Mr. Stalin said they had insisted on a lockdown. Acknowledging that the livelihood of the poor and the downtrodden would be affected, the Chief Minister said: “But if a lockdown is not imposed, it would be challenging to contain COVID-19.” He pointed out that States such as Kerala and Karnataka had announced total lockdowns. Twin objectives Maintaining that his government would not be just for a party but for all, he said the government’s twin primary objectives were to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and to save those infected by the virus. “This virus has mutated for worse, compared to the first wave. It is infecting the youth and children in large numbers. The death rate among the youth is on the rise. Within two or three days, it is infecting lungs,” he said. According to the doctors, there was rise in the death of even persons without co-morbidities, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-appeals-for-peoples-cooperation-during-lockdown/article34518448.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Enforcing lockdown, law and order are priorities: Police Commissioner||Taking over as Commissioner of Police on Saturday, Shankar Jiwal said necessary measures would be taken to enforce the lockdown and to maintain law and order in the city. Shankar Jiwal, a 1990-batch IPS officer, was posted as the Chennai Police Commissioner, replacing Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. Mr. Jiwal is a recipient of the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service in 2019. Talking to reporters on Saturday, he said, “Only with public cooperation can there be an effective implementation of the lockdown. It will help postpone medical emergencies and will curb the spread of the virus. The government has given elaborate guidelines for the implementation of the lockdown. We will ensure all guidelines are followed. We will enforce the lockdown in a polite manner,” he said. Mr. Jiwal said, “Unfortunately, some of our men have also lost their lives [due to COVID-19]. Soon we will have a standard operating procedure for policemen who are vulnerable to the virus. After an SOP was introduced in the Armed Police, no casualties have been reported. A similar SOP will be successfully implemented for the police.” “Under this initiative, if anyone in the police force has any symptom, he will be tested and quarantined immediately and necessary medical assistance will be given. Our officers will interact with them daily and monitor their health,” he said. On law and order, Mr. Jiwal said, “We will curb organised crime. We will be proactive in our policing and will spruce up intelligence gathering.” During the lockdown, people can lodge their complaints online, he said. Mr. Jiwal was earlier Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), Armed Police, Chennai. ADGP appointments P. Thamaraikannan on Saturday took over as ADGP, Law and Order. Incumbent K. Jayanth Murali was transferred and posted as ADGP, Welfare. ADGP S. Davidson Devasirvatham, a 1995 batch IPS officer, on Saturday took over as ADGP, Intelligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enforcing-lockdown-law-and-order-are-priorities-police-commissioner/article34518430.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has sought 15 lakh vaccine doses, says Subramanian||Tamil Nadu has sought 15 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines to start vaccinating persons aged 18-44, according to Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian. “The Health Department has paid Rs. 46.42 crore for the vaccines. We are expecting to get the vaccines soon, after which vaccination for persons aged 18-44 will begin,” he told reporters. He inspected the 108 emergency response centre and the State Vaccine Store on Saturday. Three lakh doses of vaccines were dispatched from Chennai to various districts. The Union Health Ministry earlier said Tamil Nadu accounted for 13% wastage of vaccines. “An audit was taken up, and the Ministry, on Friday, informed that the wastage was 3%. Initially, people were hesitant and delayed getting vaccinated. Now, they understand the importance of vaccination and are coming forward to get vaccinated,” he said. Presently, 202 private hospitals in Chennai and another 600 across the State are treating patients with COVID-19. He appealed to these hospitals to “prevent the wastage of oxygen”. Of the 1,300 ambulances part of the 108 network, 300 are exclusively for COVID-19 patients. Of these, 100 are operational in Chennai.  Use of Remdesivir Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said they were creating awareness on the use of Remdesivir and the judicious use of oxygen among private hospitals through the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services. “There are clinical protocols issued by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the Union Health Ministry... Similarly, not everyone needs oxygen. So, we will create awareness on the protocols through DMS. We will issue guidance under the Clinical Establishments Act,” he said. T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, reiterated that Remdesivir was not a life-saving drug. “It is not a mandated drug in any global protocol,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-has-sought-15-lakh-vaccine-doses-says-subramanian/article34518444.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin revises milk price for all categories||Aavin on Saturday announced new prices after the rate reduction announced by the State government on Friday. Half a litre of toned milk (blue packet) will now cost Rs. 20 in place of Rs. 21.50 and monthly card holders would have to pay Rs. 18.50. Standardised milk (green magic) would now be priced Rs. 22 (500 ml), full cream milk (orange packs) Rs. 24 (500 ml) and double toned milk (purple packs) Rs. 18.50 (500 ml). For a 30-day cycle, cardholders would pay Rs. 555 for 500 ml toned milk, Rs. 630 for 500 ml standardised milk, Rs. 690 for 500 ml full cream milk and Rs. 540 for 500 ml of double toned milk. Cardholders who paid in advance are being told that the excess amount would be adjusted next month. This reduction by Rs. 3 per litre would lead to an additional expense of Rs. 270 crore annually for the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers Federation, whose popular brand is Aavin. Tamil Nadu Milk Producers Welfare Association president M.G. Rajendran welcomed the move and said that it would get Aavin new consumers. “The government should subsidise this amount as otherwise the milk cooperative would suffer losses,” he said.  Procurement price Aavin clarified that procurement prices of milk would remain the same. Producers supplying cow’s milk with 4.3% fat and 8.2% solids-non-fat in a litre of cow’s milk would be paid Rs. 32 per litre and those supplying their respective cooperative societies buffalo’s milk with 7% fat and 8.8% SNF would be paid Rs. 41 per litre. “These prices have been in effect from August 2019,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-revises-milk-price-for-all-categories/article34518445.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Super Kings procures 450 oxygen concentrators for Tamil Nadu||Chennai Super Kings Cricket Ltd (CSKCL) has procured 450 oxygen concentrators to support the people of Tamil Nadu in their fight against the second wave of COVID-19. CSKCL Director R. Srinivasan handed over an oxygen concentrator to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday in the presence of Rupa Gurunath, president, Tamil Nadu Cricket Association. CSKCL would deliver the oxygen concentrators for the use of patients being treated in government hospitals and the Greater Chennai Corporation-run COVID-19 Care Centres. Bhoomika Trust, a voluntary organisation involved in COVID-19 relief operations, supported CSKCL in their efforts for arranging oxygen concentrators and would also coordinate in the distribution of the equipment. The concentrators are used by patients under home isolation and those with moderate symptoms in hospitals. CSK has been spreading awareness through its ‘Mask Podu’ campaign. Since April, CSK players have been highlighting the importance of safety measures against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-super-kings-procures-450-oxygen-concentrators-for-tamil-nadu/article34518428.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session convened on May 11||The 16th Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly has been summoned to meet for its first session at Kalaivanar Arangam in the Omandurar Government Estate at 10 a.m. on May 11. Senior DMK leader K. Pitchandi has been named the pro-tem Speaker of the Assembly and Minister Duraimurugan has been named the Leader of the House, Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan said. The election of the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker would be held at 10 a.m. on May 12. The newly-elected members will take their oath on that day in the multi-purpose hall on the third floor of Kalaivanar Arangam on Wallajah Salai in Chennai, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-convened-on-may-11/article34518446.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly couple found dead in Maduravoyal||An elderly couple was found dead at their residence in Vel Nagar, Maduravoyal, on Friday. The police said it was a case of suicide. The police identified the victims as Arjunan, 70, and his wife Anjalai, 60. They were living alone. A relative, who brought food for them, found the house locked and got no response when he tried contacting them. The police broke open the door and found the couple dead. The bodies were sent to the Government Kilpauk Hospital for a post-mortem examination. Police registered a case and began investigating. (Those in need of counselling may contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-couple-found-dead-in-maduravoyal/article34518423.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tokens for financial assistance by May 10||Tokens for the first instalment of the Rs. 4,000 COVID-19 financial assistance, amounting to Rs. 2,000, announced by the Tamil Nadu government for each of the 2.07 crore rice ration cardholders, will be distributed by May 10, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani said on Saturday. Mr. Sakkarapani said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would launch the scheme from Chennai and the Ministers from their respective districts. “As many as 200 tokens will be accepted at every ration shop, in exchange for the first instalment of financial assistance, every day, in each district. The process will be completed in a week,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tokens-for-financial-assistance-by-may-10/article34518432.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre increases oxygen allocation to Tamil Nadu||The Union government on Saturday increased the allocation of oxygen for Tamil Nadu from 220 MT to 419 MT, a day after Chief Minister M.K. Stalin flagged the sharply dwindling stock of liquid oxygen with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A communication from National Health Mission Director Sanjay Roy said the revised allocations were being made based on discussions. The changes will be effective from May 11, giving sufficient time to the States for the transition. The increase in oxygen allocation is proposed in INOX Sriperumbudur (from 50 MT/day to 140 MT/day), ISW Salem (from 10 MT/day to 15 MT/day), National Oxygen, Erode (from 30 MT/day to 38 MT/day), Sicgilsol Gases Pvt. Ltd., Thanjavur (from 20 MT/day to 40 MT/day) and INOX, Puducherry (from 40 MT/day to 44 MT/day).  Transition arrangement It said Linde St Gobain’s allocation had been increased from 20 MT to 60 MT. Earlier, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh had agreed to continue the existing supply of 35 MT for the next four days, as a transition arrangement to allow Andhra Pradesh to activate alternate supply sources allocated to it. “The existing capacity of MSME ASUs, at 52 MT/day, is proposed to be incorporated into the allocation plan,” the communication said. It added that the supply of 20 MT/day from Air Water, Ballari, to Tamil Nadu was proposed to be reduced and swapped with Telangana.  Earlier, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh had agreed to continue the existing supply for four days, as a transition arrangement to allow Andhra Pradesh to activate the alternate supply sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-increases-oxygen-allocation-to-tamil-nadu/article34518438.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder of wife, father-in-law in Royapettah||Ghouse Nisha, 52, and her father Muzzafar, 80, were killed on Saturday by her estranged second husband Abdul Kadhar, 42, in a domestic quarrel at their residence on Mohammed Hussain Street in Royapettah. Personnel from the Zam Bazaar police station arrested the accused, Abdul Kader, following information from the public. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder-of-wife-father-in-law-in-royapettah/article34518426.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMRL halts services from tomorrow||In the wake of the State government announcing a full lockdown between May 10 and 24, Chennai Metro Rail Limited has announced suspension of Metro Train services during this period. According to a CMRL release, it will be suspending Metro services from 4 a.m. on May 10 to 4 a.m. on May 24. On May 9, the holiday timetable will be followed with a 10-minute interval between trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmrl-halts-services-from-tomorrow/article34518422.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New OSD in Health Dept.||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday appointed former Public and Rehabilitation Secretary P. Senthil Kumar as Officer on Special Duty (OSD) in the Health and Family Welfare Department, a newly-created post. In his place, the government has appointed D. Jagannathan, formerly the Commissioner of Disaster Management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-osd-in-health-dept/article34518441.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister warns private bus operators||The State government on Saturday said it will take stern action against private bus operators under the Motor Vehicles Act if they are found to be fleecing passengers travelling to different parts of the State ahead of the lockdown. Transport Minister S.R. Rajakannappan said he held discussions with private bus operators on the issue. He was addressing mediapersons at the Dr. MGR Bus Terminus in Koyambedu after inspecting the arrangements made for people to leave for their hometowns, ahead of the complete lockdown on Monday. Transport Secretary C. Samayamoorthy accompanied him. “Apart from the usual fleet of 6,370 buses operated on Saturday and Sunday, we are operating 3,266 additional buses on the weekend. So 9,636 buses will be operated on both these days across the State,” he said. This meant that the people need not be at the mercy of private bus operators. He said similar arrangements had been made in Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Salem, Madurai and other important cities. Senior officials said that the nodal boarding point would be at Koyambedu bus terminus, but people could board buses at Tambaram, Perungalathur and Thiruvanmiyur. Last bus today On Sunday, while the last bus to Marthandam would leave at 6 p.m., the one to Nagercoil and Thoothukudi would leave at 7 p.m. The bus to Sengottai would leave at 7.30 p.m. and for Tirunelveli and Dindigul at 8 p.m. The last bus to Madurai would leave at 11.30 p.m. and the one to Tiruchi at 11.45 p.m. Passengers can book their tickets throughwww.tnstc.inor the TNSTC official app to avoid rush at counters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-warns-private-bus-operators/article34518450.ece
09 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Diabetologist cautions against fungus||V. Mohan, chairman of Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, on Saturday cautioned against increased prevalence of mucormycosis, a fungal infection that can be fatal, during COVID-19 and urged all those who were diabetic to keep their sugar levels under check to reduce the risk. In a talk delivered online to create awareness, he said that cases of mucormycosis were being reported in cities such Mumbai and Ahmedabad, and Tamil Nadu might also see such cases. Highlighting that the use of steroids for treating certain cases of COVID-19 would shoot up sugar levels, he said this would put diabetic people at a higher risk of catching mucormycosis. He said a person affected with mucormycosis may need early detection and powerful diagnosis for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diabetologist-cautions-against-fungus/article34518447.ece
09 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||A journey of 70 km to get vaccine||For 47-year-old Raghu (name changed on request) a resident of Tiruppur district, taking the first shot of the COVID-19 vaccine turned out to be challenging, as private hospitals had run out of stocks and there was a rush at the Tiruppur Government Hospital. Since Raghu has to often travel on work to other districts and did not want to take a risk with his health, based on a suggestion from a relative, he decided to try getting the vaccine at a rural primary health centre. He decided to drive down to a rural areas. He stopped at a PHC near Dharapuram, over 70 km from Tiruppur. There was no one there except the doctor and a healthcare worker and vaccines were available. He gave his Aadhaar card, registered and got his first dose. Many like Raghu in Coimbatore and Tiruppur are travelling to villages for the vaccine, mainly due to lack of availability in some towns and to get vaccinated at a centre where there is no crowd. Some large companies are enquiring in different locations where they have plants, for the vaccine, for their employees. Vaccine shortage However, this trend worked only for a week or 10 days when vaccination was opened for those aged above 45. Now, people face problems of crowding and vaccine shortage in rural areas too, says a textile sector entrepreneur in Coimbatore. In some of the PHCs and hospitals located close to the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border in Coimbatore, many are coming in from the border areas of both States to take the vaccines. “There is a huge rush and people who come for a short visit get restless when they are told that there is no vaccine stock as they have waited for hours,” says the doctor at a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-journey-of-70-km-to-get-vaccine/article34518457.ece
09 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No stickers on buses about new scheme||On the first day of the rollout of the scheme for women to travel free of cost in ordinary city buses on Saturday, the Coimbatore Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) did not paste the stickers announcing the new scheme on the buses, causing confusion among women passengers. “Many women were unaware that the scheme was starting (on Saturday),” said G.S. Lalitha, secretary of the women’s wing of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK). She said that members of the TPDK women’s wing issued pamphlets and chocolates to women at Gandhipuram Town Bus Terminus announcing the scheme, following which they travelled free of cost from Gandhipuram to Pappanaickenpalayam in the city. Ms. Lalitha said that two young women boarded the bus at Pappanaickenpalayam and asked for tickets to the conductor. ”We gave them chocolates and they asked why, after which we told them about the scheme and they were surprised,” she said. A TNSTC official said that the women were allowed to travel for free in 447 city buses on Saturday. He noted that the scheme is not applicable for the 180 deluxe ‘red buses’ that were being operated in Coimbatore. The production of stickers highlighting that women can travel for free in the ordinary city buses in Coimbatore ran into delays and would be ready in a few days, the official said. “After the two-week lockdown, we will ensure that all the eligible buses would bear these stickers,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-stickers-on-buses-about-new-scheme/article34518478.ece
09 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mirakle to expand to more markets||ABT Limited, which is producing and selling Mirakle, a liposomal Vitamin C drink, is now looking at launching the product on more e-commerce platforms. Manickam Mahalingam, Chairman and Managing Director of ABT, said the company had the capacity to produce 18 lakh packs a day and it could be scaled up. “We are discussing exports. We are getting into Amazon soon and through it we will reach more overseas markets,” he added. Since last March,ABT is supplying the drink to four hospitals here. It supplies about 8000 packs a week. While almost 50 % of it goes free of cost to government hospitals here, the rest are sold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mirakle-to-expand-to-more-markets/article34518458.ece
09 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bed strength to be increased at Govt. Erode Medical College Hospital||Following a surge in COVID-19 cases, the district administration has proposed to add 100 beds to the existing facility at the Government Erode Medical College Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai here. Of the 25,240 cases reported so far in the district, 21,454 were discharged and 3,615 were under treatment. A total of 171 persons had lost their lives due to COVID-19. On an average over 500 cases were reported everyday in the last one week in the district, pushing the need for more beds. Total beds At present, the government facilities in the district have a total of 876 beds-- including 550 in GEMCH, 250 in District Headquarters Hospital and the remaining in the government hospitals at Bhavani, Gobichettipalayam, Perundurai, Sathyamangalam and Anthiyur. The COVID-19 Care Centres across the district have 2,580 beds and there are 1,085 beds in private hospitals. Since the beds in GEMCH were fully occupied, and the demand for beds attached with oxygen and ventilator support has gone up, District Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the hospital premises and held discussions with doctors and officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bed-strength-to-be-increased-at-govt-erode-medical-college-hospital/article34518472.ece
09 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||This community pantry ensures people don’t go hungry in Gobichettipalayam||At a time when the nation is battling the second wave of COVID-19 and frontline workers are racing against time to treat patients, 44-year-old Clement Premkumar, principal of a private school, is on a mission to ensure that no one goes without food during the pandemic in Gobichettipalayam. “If you feel hungry, take the food, no need [for] money,” reads a display board on a push cart placed in front of a bus stand in Gobichettipalayam that invites the attention of people. “Due to restrictions, many lost their livelihood and the poor are facing difficulty in getting food. Hence, I decided to lend a helping hand during the pandemic,” said Mr. Premkumar. He rented a push cart and placed 300 food packets and bananas on it at 12.30 p.m. on May 6, which were taken by the needy by 2.30 p.m. “The response was overwhelming and after seeing the initiative, many are contributing food items and bread packets,” he added. “I encourage volunteers to place food items on the cart by themselves and I do not accept money.” On Friday, food packets, loaves of bread, biscuits and water bottles were placed on the cart by philanthropists, which benefited over 150 people. “Anyone who wants to help the needy can place food on the cart,” Mr. Clement said. “Help can be done not only during the pandemic, but also throughout the year if organised properly,” he noted. The good thing is only those who need the food are utilising the service, he said, and added that no monitoring was done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-community-pantry-ensures-people-dont-go-hungry-in-gobichettipalayam/article34518474.ece
09 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power looms stop production in Erode||Over 50,000 power looms that were functioning in one shift for the past two weeks have halted production after the new restrictions to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic came into force from Thursday. About 55,000 power loom units function at Lakkapuram, Veerappanchatiram, Ashokapuram, Surampatti, Chithode, Rasampalayam and few locations in the district providing jobs to over 50,000 workers and loadmen. Due to the night curfew imposed by the State government in the last week of April, units started functioning in one shift instead of the usual two shifts. Hence, workers were provided jobs only for three days a week instead of six. L.P. Balasubramanian, secretary, Lakkapuram Power Loom Owners Association said that about 3,500 power looms functioning at Lakkapuram village halted production. “Since owners could not provide wages, we are supporting workers with essentials”, he added. B. Kandavel, coordinator, Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Loom Association said that all the textile merchants have downed their shutters and no orders were received from other States in the past two months. Since all the spare parts shops and workshops were closed, we cannot run the units continuously, he said and added that units have halted production till May 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-looms-stop-production-in-erode/article34518479.ece
09 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Assistance for children of COVID-19 victims||The District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) has asked the people to alert the office if they come across children who lost their parents due to COVID-19, so that required assistance can be provided to the children immediately. P. Priyadevi, DCPO, Erode district, said that if children had lost their parents to the disease and there were no guardians to take care of them, the office would lodge them in government homes and provide shelter, food and fulfil their educational needs, she added. If the parents were hospitalised due to COVID-19, the children would be provided temporary shelter at government homes until their parents recover, she added. Call the District Child Protection Office at 0424-2225010 to provide information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-for-children-of-covid-19-victims/article34518462.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Parla roosters command a hefty premium||If you have saved up enough money to buy a bike or a brand new smartphone, you have enough money to buy a Parla rooster. Rajanagaram village, adjacent to Wanaparthy town, is home to a 72-year-old farmer selling cocks and hens for up to Rs. 60,000 each, thanks to the special Tamil Nadu breed called Parla. What’s more, even their two-month-old chicks go for Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000 each, and the eggs for not less than Rs. 1,000. Not for food “The most wonderful thing about the breed is that passionate people buy these birds not to eat them but simply to breed them and sell them at a higher price later,” said Konda Gurunandan Reddy, who retired as secretary of the Atmakur Market Committee in 2006. Since then, he has been trading in Parla breed birds. Asked if he knows anybody who eats chicken from this breed, the farmer laughed. “Who would eat something that expensive? Eating these birds is out of the question, as people buy them for breeding,” he said, adding that in the past two decades, he had never encountered a person who bought this breed to cook and eat. Parla cocks and hens, which are familiar in Tamil Nadu and Nellore district in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, have a long tail and parrot-like short beak, in white or black colour. There, the price of each cock is anywhere between Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh, and it further depends on the size and “fitness” of the poultry birds, Mr. Reddy said. Parla are rarely used for cockfights, and a fully grown bird weighs between 3-4 kg, he said. While a cock is sold for Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 60,000, the septuagenarian farmer sells a hen for Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 30,000. “After hatching and observing its health condition for more than two months, a chick is sold for Rs. 6,000 or more,” he said. Mr. Reddy, who was interested in sheep cultivation and poultry breeding since childhood, said that he only fed millets, including ragi, jawar, corn and wheat to the Parla birds. “Food is important for the fitness of these birds. The more fit they are, the more money we get. Further, the value depends on the interest of the breeder,” he said. Soon after his retirement, Mr Reddy, purchased local sheep and mated them with family Nellore woollies, and managed to reproduce more than 1,000 lambs. “Since childhood, I was interested in sheep, poultry, and dairy business. I also had a dairy farm a few years ago, but due to shortage of manpower, I was forced to sell my buffaloes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parla-roosters-command-a-hefty-premium/article34518310.ece
09 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sale of Remdesivir begins in Madurai Medical College||A counter for selling Remdesivir was opened at Madurai Medical College opposite Gandhi Memorial Museum here on Saturday. Collector T. Anbalagan, who visited the centre, said that this measure was taken by the State government to ensure that Remdesivir, which is important for treating patients with severe COVID-19 infections, was available at many places across the State. Each vial of Remdesivir would be sold at Rs. 1,568. For one person, a maximum of six vials would be sold at a cost of Rs. 9,408. Those who want to buy Remdesivir will have to submit the doctor’s prescription, CT scan report, RT-PCR test report, a photocopy of the patient’s Aadhaar card as well as the buyer’s Aadhaar card. The Collector said that people from government as well as private hospitals and from other districts too can buy Remdesivir at the counter. The Government Rajaji Hospital has deployed a doctor at the centre. The doctor will verify the medical records and accordingly Remdesivir will be sold only to eligible persons. The Tamil Nadu Medical Sciences Corporation has provided 500 vials to the counter as on Saturday. More number of vials will be provided to the counter regularly depending upon the demand, said the Collector. Earlier, many government and private hospitals across the district faced shortage of the drug. This resulted in black marketing of the drug. According to sources, a vial of Remdesivir was sold as high as Rs. 10,000 in the black market in Madurai. The Collector said that selling Remdesivir through the government counter will avoid black marketing of the drug. Mr. Anbalagan said that oxygen requirement in the district has increased by three times. As more number of patients required oxygen support in the second wave, the district administration was taking steps to source additional oxygen for hospitals in Madurai, he added.  People from other districts too can buy Remdesivir at the counter T. Anbalagan Madurai Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-remdesivir-begins-in-madurai-medical-college/article34518554.ece
09 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||1,217 new cases recorded in Madurai||The district recorded 1,217 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday increasing the total number of cases to 37,940 and seven deaths taking the death toll to 579. According to the health bulletin, 825 persons were discharged and there were 5,795 active cases. Out of 1,876 beds earmarked in COVID-19 Care Centres, 898 beds have been occupied. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district recorded five COVID-19 related deaths taking the toll to 258 till date. The number of fresh positive cases continued to be on the higher side and stood at 294.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1217-new-cases-recorded-in-madurai/article34518556.ece
09 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Apollo Hospitals starts vaccination for those above 18 years||Apollo Speciality Hospitals in Madurai has started the third phase of vaccination for citizens aged above 18 years. A press release from the Chief Operating Officer of Apollo Hospitals Rohini Sridhar said that the beneficiaries are required to register on the CoWIN app or Aarogya Setu app to book their appointment slot before arriving for the vaccination. In the second wave of infections, more younger patients were getting affected and thus vaccinating everyone aged above 18 was an important precautionary measure. Till now, around 3,000 persons aged 45 and above have been vaccinated in the hospital, added the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apollo-hospitals-starts-vaccination-for-those-above-18-years/article34518557.ece
09 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||briefly||Six trains have been cancelled. Train no. 09424 Gandhidam-Tirunelveli (Mondays) is cancelled from May 10 and Train no. 09423 Tirunelveli-Gandhidam (Thursdays) is cancelled from May 13 Train No. 09262 Porbandar-Tirunelveli (Thursdays) is cancelled from May 13 and in return direction Train No. 09261 Tirunelveli-Porbandar (Sundays) is cancelled from May16. Train No. 09332 Indore-Tirunelveli (Tuesdays) is cancelled from May 11 and its 09331 Tirunelveli- Indore (Fridays) from May 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article34518563.ece
09 May 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Two GHs to get oxygen generation units||Oxygen manufacturing units will be established at Government Hospitals in Kuzhithurai and Thuckalay to meet the demand for the life-saving gas, Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj has said. In a statement, he said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had announced that the treatment for COVID-19 would be included in the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme in a bid to save the poor undergoing treatment in private hospitals. Similarly, oxygen production had to be increased to meet the demand. “I have spoken with the Health Secretary to increase the quota of Remdesivir and COVID-19 vaccines to Kanniyakumari district,” Mr. Mano Thangaraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-ghs-to-get-oxygen-generation-units/article34518562.ece
09 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 19 more deaths, adds 1,703 new cases||The Union Territory of Puducherry on Saturday registered 19 COVID-19 deaths and 1,703 new cases. The Puducherry region alone accounted for 14 deaths and 1,355 new admissions. The case fatality rate now stands at 1.34%, according to data released by the Health Department. The new cases were diagnosed while screening 9,132 people, the highest number of tests conducted on a single day, for the novel coronavirus. So far, 8,47,293 people have been tested for the virus, data revealed. The active cases in the Union Territory had now gone up to 13,585. Of the total active cases, 2,057 are admitted at various government hospitals, including 438 at JIPMER and 368 at medical colleges. The remaining are under home isolation. The overall tally is 939 deaths, a total of 70,076 cases and 55,552 patients treated and discharged. The Health Department has vaccinated 2,12,078 people in all the four regions. After the mass vaccination programme commenced, 32,835 healthcare workers, 19,364 frontline workers and 1,59,879 members of the public were vaccinated, data revealed. 574 new cases in Vellore The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 30,910 with 574 new cases reported on Saturday. In Ranipet district, 325 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 23,736. In Tirupattur district, 318 new cases were reported. In Tiruvannamalai district, 346 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 25,958.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-19-more-deaths-adds-1703-new-cases/article34518456.ece
09 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lt. Governor warns people of imposing a lockdown||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan warned that a lockdown would be imposed if the people continued to flout guidelines issued to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the Union Territory. Interacting with reporters after distributing free rice under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, launched to mitigate the sufferings of people during the pandemic, on Saturday, Ms. Soundararajan said the administration expected the people to adopt self-discipline and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to prevent the spread of the virus. A lockdown would become inevitable if the people failed to follow the norms, she said. ‘Masks must’ “I have seen youth roaming without wearing masks. They expose themselves and also spread the virus. I appeal to the youth to wear masks in public places,” she added.  I have seen youth roaming without wearing masks. They expose themselves and spread the virus. I appeal to the youth to wear mask in public places Tamilisai Soundararajan, Lt. Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lt-governor-warns-people-of-imposing-a-lockdown/article34518453.ece
09 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Restrictions extended till May 24||The territorial administration has extended the lockdown restrictions up to May 24 in view of the rise in the number of COVID- 19 cases. Ashok Kumar, Secretary, Revenue, in an order said that the restrictions planned earlier up to May 10 had further been extended to May 24. In a slight modification of the existing restrictions, provision and grocery stores, vegetables, fruits, meat/fish marts and shops selling animal fodder would function only till 12 p.m. Milk parlours, medical shops and those selling medical equipment would remain open. Liquor outlets, shopping malls and commercial establishments would remain closed, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrictions-extended-till-may-24/article34518454.ece
09 May 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||No need for panic buying of essentials: Collector||People need not resort to panic buying and stock up on essential commodities ahead of the total lockdown, said Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver here on Saturday. Speaking at a meeting attended by Superintendent of Police E. Karthik and other senior officials, he said the State government had announced the total lockdown from May 10 to May 24, in a bid to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus. Prior to making the announcement, the Chief Minister had instructed the officials concerned to ensure that the supply chain was not affected. A special team led by the Joint Director of Agriculture had been formed to oversee distribution of vegetables, milk, meat and fish in the district. Standalone grocery shops, milk depots and vegetable stores would function up to 12 noon during the lockdown period. Essential commodities procured from other States/districts by wholesale merchants and retail traders through road transport shall not be stopped at check posts. People can air grievances, if any, on one of these numbers: 94981 01615, 94981 29498, 83000 31100 and 83000 36138, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-for-panic-buying-of-essentials-collector/article34518561.ece
09 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corporation sets up new CCC with triage centre||The Salem Corporation has set up additional COVID-19 care centres (CCC) with triage centre considering the increase in COVID-19 cases. Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran, City Health Officer K. Parthibhan and other senior officials inspected the COVID-19 care centre at Gandhi Stadium on Friday and reviewed the arrangements. According to officials, the facility would have 150 beds, and the triage centre would screen patients who test positive for COVID-19. This is second such centre set up by the Corporation. It was also planning to set up a CCC at a college near Ammapet. The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital is working on setting up a separate triage centre for patients brought in ambulance. Recently, three patients died while being treated in ambulances at the hospital due to lack of beds. The effort to set up a triage centre is aimed at avoiding such deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corporation-sets-up-new-ccc-with-triage-centre/article34518463.ece
09 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Kin of patient allege hospital asked them to procure ventilator||The kin of a patient who was admitted with COVID-19 to a private hospital in Salem have alleged that the hospital asked them to get a ventilator to provide further treatment to him. A 40-year-old man, working as marketing executive, from the outskirts of Salem was admitted to a private hospital at Kondalampatti in early May. He was symptomatic and suffering from co-morbid conditions. His health condition deteriorated a couple days after admission and he required ventilator support. The hospital, which was running short of beds, had asked his relatives to get a ventilator for further treatment, sources close to the patient alleged. As per the State government’s portal on beds, the hospital has allotted 37 beds for COVID-19 treatment, including two ICU beds. The attenders of the patient were unaware that it would not be possible to get ventilators in the open market though they were ready to bear the cost. They tried through their contacts, but unable to get the ventilator. Later, with help from their contacts, they shifted him to another hospital. Senior health officials said action would be taken against the hospital once they received a complaint from the patient or his relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kin-of-patient-allege-hospital-asked-them-to-procure-ventilator/article34518465.ece
09 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Hospital asks patient to get ventilator||A private hospital in Salem allegedly asked a COVID-19 patient to get a ventilator. A 40-year-old man, working as marketing executive, was admitted to a hospital at Kondalampatti in early May. The hospital, which was running short of beds, allegedly asked the kin of the patient to get a ventilator for further treatment. The attendants of the patient were unaware that it would not be possible to get ventilators in the open market. Health officials said that action would be taken against the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-asks-patient-to-get-ventilator/article34518789.ece
09 May 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||MLAs review COVID-19 situation||The newly-elected legislators in Salem and Namakkal visited the government hospitals in their respective districts and reviewed the COVID-19 treatment facilities and other containment measures. Salem West legislator R. Arul visited the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and interacted with doctors. Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal, Resident Medical Officer Rani, Head of General Medicine Suresh Kanna and other doctors were present. Mr. Arul enquired with doctors on the bed and oxygen status at the hospital and the treatment provided to patients. In Namakkal, Tiruchengode legislator E.R. Eswaran visited the Tiruchengode government hospital and enquired about the facilities to treat patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-review-covid-19-situation/article34518464.ece
09 May 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||briefly||Around 30 workers of Senthur Murugan Sparklers unit near here had a providential escape when lightning triggered a fire after they had left the unit, on Friday. They had left for home early following rain in the afternoon. Some 30 minutes thereafter, lightning struck the magazine room and all finished goods went up in flames. No one was injured in the incident, the police said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article34518564.ece
09 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Banned plastic products seized||The Kumbakonam Municipal authorities seized three tonnes of banned plastics from two establishments on Thursday night. A team from the Health wing in the local body acted on information that banned plastic products were being handled at a parcel service establishment in the town, and seized two tonnes of materials after a raid. A sum of Rs. 25,000 was levied as fine and the premises was sealed. Subsequently, the team tracked the delivery address inscribed on the parcels and seized one more tonne of the materials stored in a shop along Bazaar Street. The same extent of fine was imposed and the shop was also sealed, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-plastic-products-seized/article34518821.ece
09 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Ventilators donated to hospital||Three ventilators were donated by the SASTRA to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital to treat COVID-19 patients. The equipment along with oxygen flow meters and pulse oximeters were handed over to the Collector in the presence of the Thanjavur Medical College Dean, Maruthu Durai, and the Deputy Director (Health) (in-charge), Namasivayam, recently. Another set of three ventilators, oxygen flow meters and pulse oximeters were also donated to the ESIC hospital in Chennai where the equipment was handed over to the ESIC hospital authorities by the SASTRA Vice-Chancellor, S. Vaidhyasubramaniam, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ventilators-donated-to-hospital/article34518823.ece
09 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Stir put off||The Hindu Makkal Katchi has accepted the reason given by the police for the denial of permission to hold a demonstration here on Saturday and postponed it. Talking to reporters here, HMK founder Arjun Sampath said a fast was planned to demand that administration of Hindu temples be handed over to an independent board comprising of devotees sans participation of government and politicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stir-put-off/article34518824.ece
09 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Borrower arrested||Gopalakrishnan (42) of Manalur near Thiruvidaimaruthur was arrested on the charge of attempting to set fire to a private financial service company branch office at Aduthurai. Inquiries reveal that the accused, who had borrowed Rs. 2.10 lakh as loan by pledging the jewellery at the finance company branch June last, arrived at the office on May 6 evening to close the loan account. After checking the records, the finance company employees directed Gopalakrishnan to remit Rs. 40,000 as interest along with the loan. Contending that the company was collecting hefty interest, he picked up a quarrel with the employees and in the process attempted to set fire to the office by pouring kerosene on the floor and on the furniture at the office. He was handed over to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/borrower-arrested/article34518825.ece
09 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T hostel to be converted into COVID Care Centre||As COVID-19 cases continue to surge, health officials in Tiruchi have reached out to educational institutions to establish more beds to accommodate patients with mild symptoms. The National Institute of Technology (T) is among the institutions approached by the officials to establish centres for treating COVID-19 patients. Facing the pressure of creating oxygen supported beds, a team of officials visited the NIT premises on the outskirts of the city a few days ago and studied the possibilities of converting the hostel with oxygen supply. S. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi, told The Hindu that the average daily count of patients testing positive for the virus had gone up to about 800 from 500. Of them, nearly 200 patients required hospitalization. A total of 45 micro containment zones had been established in different parts of the district, where more than three patients were tested positive. The patients had to be in the hospital for at least one week. The demand for the beds, especially with oxygen support, was also going up. It had forced the officials to look for exploring alternative avenues to establish beds. “We have studied the facilities available at NIT and a few other institutions to create more beds. There are some practical difficulties in converting the hostels with oxygen supply. It may take some time to provide oxygen supply. Hence, we have decided to convert them as COVID care centres to accommodate the patients with mild symptoms,” says Dr. Ganesh. He said that the COVID care centres had already been functioning at Government College of Engineering at Sethurapatti, Nehru Memorial College in Puthanampattti, Kurinji College in Manapparai and Yatri Nivas in Srirangam. The city campus of the Bharathidasan University at Khajamalai had been earmarked for accommodating the suspected COVID-19 patients, who travelled to Tiruchi by air and train. The Deputy Director said that the centre established at Bishop Heber College had been kept for supporting the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. If cases were overflowing there, the patients, who showed improvement, would be sent to the centre at Bishop Heber College. To support the growing demand of oxygen supported beds, more facilities had been created at the Government Hospital in Srirangam. A total of 40 patients, who needed oxygen support, could be admitted to the GH in Srirangam. A first batch of 10 patients had already been admitted. Similarly, 70 more patients could be admitted in the Government Hospital in Manapparai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-hostel-to-be-converted-into-covid-care-centre/article34518827.ece
09 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||People throng markets||Heavy movement of vehicles and large gatherings of people at markets and textile showrooms are a cause for worry in the city on Saturday as residents fear a possible spread of the pandemic. Shortly after the State government’s announcement on allowing business activities for two days ahead of the total lockdown beginning on Monday, shoppers made a beeline to the commercial streets. Though many shops remained closed, a section of traders opened shops to cash in on the sale in view of the Ramzan festival, which is just a week away. Heavy crowds were seen in textile shops. Many of them failed to follow the social distancing norms. In their anxiety to purchase their requirements as quickly as possible, they stood up in close vicinity in most of the shops on Big Bazaar Street, N.S.B. Road, Singarathope, Super Bazaar and other commercial zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throng-markets/article34518832.ece
09 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not ignore symptoms’||Doctors have advised people to stay at their homes since the number of deaths is increasing day by day. The number of deaths has markedly increased due to ignorance of symptoms. ‘We have seen some patients coming to us with oxygen levels falling below 85. A patient ideally needs to be admitted if it is below 92,’ a senior doctor at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital said. The patients ignore cold, breathlessness and attribute them to their pre-existing ailments and rush to the hospital when it is too late. Meanwhile, another senior doctor at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital alleged that the authorities were downplaying the number of deaths . Patients, who tested negative for COVID-19 but had severe lung infection, were not counted as COVID-19 patients. These patients are admitted to a separate ward, called the Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) ward, and given the same treatment as a COVID-19 patient. ‘On any given day, the number of deaths at the SARI ward is at least double the number of deaths at the COVID-19 ward,’ he said. The authorities need to accept that there is a community spread and begin to work on a protocol to control it. Further, researchers must work on genomic sequencing to understand the potency of the virus. ‘Last year, we reported deaths of patients over the age of 60 but this year, I have had cases where patients as young as 28 succumbing to the viral infection,’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-ignore-symptoms/article34518837.ece
09 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Transgenders write to CM for inclusion in welfare schemes||Transgenders have written to the newly elected Chief Minister M.K. Stalin seeking their inclusion in the welfare schemes allocated for women in the state. They sought free travel in buses, job opportunities among other needs. A former member of the Tamil Nadu Transgender Welfare Board P. Kajol wrote a letter to the CM Cell, and also approached him through social media to draw attention to the fact that transgenders are also women who deserve the welfare schemes extended by his government. While free rides on buses were one of the requests, it would also be able to allow them to travel to places to seek out job opportunities, they said. Kajol said that various ministers in the past have been photographed helping transgender women but ignore them otherwise. ‘I am asking that the government extend the same benefits that they have given to women, to us. After all, we are women too,’ she said. The benefits would help alleviate many transwomen from poverty and change their lives for the better, she said. Many transgender women were being thrown out of their homes, disowned from families, and not received a share of ancestral property, Kajol complained. ‘In our list of demands, we have also sought that there be a government order passed to include us in these ancestral property matters,’ she said. Kajol hoped that this government would be able to provide reservations in all categories of jobs and not ignore their presence in the state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgenders-write-to-cm-for-inclusion-in-welfare-schemes/article34518833.ece
09 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,000 positive cases in central region||The central region reported 3,145 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, the highest single-day number in the region since March 2020. With 27 deaths, the casualty rate in a day was the highest so far. Tiruchi reported the highest number of deaths in the region with 12 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Thanjavur reported seven, four in Karur, two in Nagapattinam and one each in Pudukottai and Tiruvarur. Thanjavur district reported the highest single-day spike with 857 fresh cases recorded in a single day. Senior officials in the district said that there was a marked increase in admissions among patients younger than 50 years old. These patients come with a severe lung infection, and dropped oxygen levels, they said. Tiruchi district reported a marked increase in the number of patients who tested positive for COVID-19. This is the highest-single day number reported in the district with 820 fresh cases. Officials maintained that the spike in the cases was due to increased testing and that it would come down days after the lockdown was enforced. Meanwhile, Nagapattinam reported a sharp increase compared to the previous days with 392 fresh cases. Tiruvarur reported 338 fresh cases, while Karur had 292. Pudukottai district reported 208 fresh cases. Both Ariyalur and Perambalur districts reported a significant increase in the number of fresh cases. Perambalur reported 133, almost three times the number of cases as in the previous days, and Ariyalur, 105.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3000-positive-cases-in-central-region/article34518834.ece
09 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Remdesivir counter opened at Govt. College of Physiotherapy||Taking into account of the sale of Remdesivir in the black market at steep costs, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation has set up a counter at the Government College of Physiotherapy for the antiviral injection being used for the treatment of COVID-19. The counter, which was opened on Saturday, will stock the medicine for patients in need and supply it after checking the requisite documents. At the counter located opposite the Tiruchi Collectorate, those in need of the medicine must bring — prescription from the doctor showing that Remdesivir is required, RT-PCR Report, CT scan of the lungs, Aadhaar card of the patient, Aadhaar card of the person purchasing the medicine for the patient. The counter will be kept open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and it will be sold in a pack of 6 consisting of 100 mg vials at a cost of Rs. 9408.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remdesivir-counter-opened-at-govt-college-of-physiotherapy/article34518835.ece
09 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.97 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1125 cusecs with a discharge of 801 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34518828.ece
09 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Drones come to the rescue again||The Tirunelveli Corporation has started using drones again to spray disinfectants in crowded public places and at containment zones with narrow lanes to check the spread of COVID-19 as the number of fresh cases is on the rise. The practice, introduced last year during the total lockdown, was found to be effective and protected sanitary workers from the harmful effects of the disinfectants. Moreover, when the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, evaluated the efficacy of this procedure in killing SARS Cov-1 virus, it was found that the area of coverage was six times more, compared to spraying the disinfectants manually. “A drone, powered by petrol, can lift 16 litres of disinfectant. So it can be used to cover a vast area, which a battery-powered drone cannot do,” said Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan. Higher Education Secretary and district’s Monitoring Officer Apoorva, who chaired a COVID-19 review meeting, and Collector V. Vishnu witnessed the use of drone in disinfection operation on Saturday. “If this exercise yields desirable results, we’ll increase the frequency of use in the anti-COVID-19 operations,” Mr. Vishnu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drones-come-to-the-rescue-again/article34518560.ece
09 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two oxygen plants to come up in Tiruppur||To boost the availability of oxygen to hospitals in Tiruppur amid a raging second wave of COVID-19, the district administration will establish two plants -- one at Dharapuram and the other at Uthukuli. Administration sources said lands had been identified for the purpose. The plants will be established under an initiative of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), in association with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The DRDO announced in April that it would set up 500 medical oxygen plants across the country under the PM CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) Fund within three months. Confirming the development, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said on Saturday that the land inspection was completed. “The work is expected to commence by next week,” he said. Sources in the district administration told The Hindu on Saturday that the oxygen plant in Dharapuram was expected to have a capacity of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) and the plant in Uthukuli was likely to have a capacity of 500 LPM. While a third oxygen plant might be set up in the district, these two would be prioritised, the sources said. The government hospitals in the district that are treating COVID-19 patients, including Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, require nearly 200 oxygen cylinders a day. With a few private hospitals already flagging shortage in liquid oxygen availability against a rising COVID-19 daily caseload, the oxygen demand was expected to increase in the district. The two oxygen plants that were to come up would help meet the demand, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-oxygen-plants-to-come-up-in-tiruppur/article34518459.ece
09 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||DMK member petitions police||A DMK member petitioned the Kangeyam police on Saturday alleging that miscreants tore three banners erected on behalf of the party congratulating Minister M.P. Saminathan, near Kangeyam in Tiruppur district. In the petition, P. Periasami alleged that he placed two banners in Pappini village panchayat and another DMK member placed the third banner on Friday evening. The petition alleged that the three banners were torn by miscreants in an attempt to disrupt public harmony. Kangeyam police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-member-petitions-police/article34518475.ece
09 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Free bus journey welcomed||Free bus journey for women came into force on Saturday. “This is a good service that will empower women mobility,” said M. Vellaidurai, general secretary, Virudhunagar –TNSTC. “Our MD has advised us to run at least 50% of the ordinary buses in all main routes linking towns,” GM Sivalingam said. In Madurai district, 385 out of 730 city buses allowed free transportation for women, according to TNSTC General Manager S. Rajeswaran. The new scheme has hit hard share-autorickshaw drivers, said State president of Abe, Optima autodrivers’ Association R. P. Chandrabose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-bus-journey-welcomed/article34518791.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Spike continues with 27,397 new cases||The State on Saturday continued to see a surge in COVID-19 cases and fatalities, with 27,397 more people testing positive for the infection and 241 succumbing to it. The State’s tally rose to 13,51,362, while its toll touched 15,412. The fresh cases pushed its active caseload to 1,39,401. The 241 fatalities (90 in private hospitals and 151 in government facilities) took place over the past week. However, a majority of these people died between May 5 and 7. Of these, Chennai accounted for 72 deaths. This was followed by Tiruvallur which saw 17, Kancheepuram 14, Tiruchi 12 and Tirupattur 11. Chengalpattu and Salem recorded 10 deaths each. Sixty-one of the deceased did not have co-morbidities. They included a 27-year-old man from Thoothukudi, who died at the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on May 7 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Among the deceased, 15 people were in their 30s and 38 in their 40s. As many as 6,846 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai, while Chengalpattu and Coimbatore recorded 2,458 and 2,117 cases respectively. There were 1,284 cases in Tiruvallur and 1,217 in Madurai. Kancheepuram reported 906 cases, Thanjavur 857 and Thoothukudi 853. There were 820 cases in Tiruchi. With 23,110 more people being discharged after treatment, Tamil Nadu’s total figure of discharged people touched 11,96,549. In 24 hours, 1,55,998 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 2,38,54,797. Some 13,948 beds — 4,346 oxygen-supported beds, 8,607 non-oxygen ones and 995 ICU beds — are vacant in COVID-19 hospitals and health centres in the State. Of the total earmarked beds of 43,566 in COVID-19 Care Centres, 24,129 are vacant. Status of beds in the State is available onhttp://tncovidbeds.tnega.org / As many as 59,671 people, including 31,400 in the 45-59 age group and 17,908 senior citizens, were vaccinated on Saturday, taking the State’s total coverage to 63,88,078.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spike-continues-with-27397-new-cases/article34518443.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||2,117 new cases, four deaths in Coimbatore||A total of 2,117 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The number of persons who recovered from the disease on the day stood at 1,656. The Health Department said that the district on Saturday had 10,925 active cases, including patients who were under treatment in hospitals, those in COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC), and in home isolation. Coimbatore district’s toll increased to 750 after four persons succumbed to the disease at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Tuesday and Thursday. As per the media bulletin, 896 beds earmarked for COVID-19 patients at different hospitals in the district remained vacant as on Saturday evening, of which 12 were ICU beds, 45 oxygen beds and 839 non-oxygen beds. As many as 454 beds were vacant in different CCCs. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive in the district was crippled on Saturday due to vaccine shortage. The vaccination centre run by the CMCH at the Government Arts College remained closed for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday. A board kept at the centre said that it would not be open on Sunday. According to the district administration, just 280 doses were left in different government hospitals and urban/block primary health centres as on Saturday evening. Tiruppur district reported 655 new cases and three deaths on Saturday. The overall case tally stood at 30,529. The district has 3,032 active cases and 451 persons were discharged on Saturday. A total of 221 beds (oxygen, non-oxygen and ICU) in government and private hospitals and 309 beds in COVID-19 Care Centres in the district were reported to be vacant as on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 148 persons tested positive for the disease on Saturday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 10,781. The number of deaths stood at 51, and 796 persons are under treatment. Erode district reported 779 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 26,016. While 551 persons were discharged, 3,839 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 172. . Of the 550 COVID-19 positive cases reported in Salem on Saturday, 308 were reported in the Corporation limits. Ten persons in the age group of 30 to 75 died at private and government facilities in Salem. Namakkal district reported 288 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2117-new-cases-four-deaths-in-coimbatore/article34518471.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Remdesivir sales counters opened in Coimbatore, Salem||Special counters for the sale of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug used for COVID-19 treatment, have been opened at the Coimbatore Medical College (CMC) at Peelamedu and the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College in Salem. According to CMC dean A. Nirmala, a person can buy a maximum of six vials of Remdesivir upon producing a set of documents --RT-PCR test result, CT scan report of the patient, original prescription for the drug by the doctor who treats the patient, photocopies of the Aadhaar cards of the patient and the person who comes to buy the drug. One vial costs Rs. 1,568 and a pack of six vials costs Rs. 9,408. The counter will be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on all days except Sundays. In Salem, the sale of Remdesivir began on the premises of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College near Steel Plant here on Saturday. Dean R. Murugeshan said, “the sale would be handled by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited (TNMSC) and we have provided only a team of doctors and pharmacists to verify the documents and provide the medicine. The counter would function from 10 a.m to 4 p.m on all days and police personnel have been posted to manage crowd. The place has been necessarily barricaded.” He added that they had received 500 vials on Saturday and TNMSC had promised them continuous supply of stock. Dr. Murugeshan said that tokens would issued based on stock availability and a person can buy a maximum of six vials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remdesivir-sales-counters-opened-in-coimbatore-salem/article34518469.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu readies for 14-day total lockdown||All shops, other than provision stores, vegetable shops, meat and fish stalls, shall remain closed. “Standalone shops selling provisions, vegetables, meat and fish would be permitted to function till noon without the air-conditioning facility. A maximum of 50% customers shall be allowed in these shops at a time.” TASMAC liquor outlets would be closed. E-commerce companies would be permitted to deliver only provisions, vegetables, meat and fish till noon. As per the current restrictions, only parcel food (take-away service) would be permitted at restaurants, hotels and bakeries during three windows in a day — between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m., noon and 3 p.m., and 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. Tea shops can offer take-away services till noon. While road-side eateries would not be permitted to operate, the State-run Amma canteens would continue to function. Platform vendors selling vegetables and flowers would be permitted till noon. Ration shops would be permitted to function between 8 a.m. and noon. Essential services such as fuel stations, banks, ATMs, insurance services and SEBI-regulated financial entities would be permitted to operate with a maximum of 50% workforce. International air travel, except those passengers permitted by the Home Ministry, would not be allowed. To monitor passengers coming by air and train from foreign countries and other States, e-registration (https://eregister.tnega.org) would remain in force. Except for the Secretariat and the Departments of Medical, Revenue, Police, Fire Services and those dealing with essential services, all government offices will be closed. Post offices and some Central and defence services will function. All private offices and information technology companies will remain closed and their employees can work from home. The existing ban on cinema theatres, malls, large shopping complexes, cultural/political events and visits to tourist destinations, places of worship, beaches, parks, amusement parks and stadiums will remain in force. Educational institutions, too, will be closed. The number of persons at marriages should not exceed 50 and at funerals should not exceed 20. ( The order on the activities restricted/allowed can be accessed at http: //bit.ly/TNGOonlockdown )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-readies-for-14-day-total-lockdown/article34518435.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Additional charge for West Zone IG||Inspector General of Police (West Zone) A. Amalraj will hold additional charge of Coimbatore City Police Commissioner. The arrangement was made after City Police Commissioner S. Davidson Devasirvatham was transferred and appointed as Additional Director General of Police, Intelligence. The Home Department is yet to announce a replacement for the post. A senior official from the city police said that Mr. Amalraj, who had earlier been the Commissioner of Coimbatore City Police, will hold the additional charge until the new appointment is made. Mr. Devasirvatham was appointed as the Commissioner on March 25 based on a direction of the Election Commission of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-charge-for-west-zone-ig/article34518476.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||People rush to stock up on essentials ahead of two-week complete lockdown||With the Tamil Nadu government announcing a two-week complete lockdown in the State from May 10, people rushed to super markets on Saturday morning to stock up on essentials.  “I went to a hyper market to purchase rice. But I could not buy anything as the queue was long,” said Pradeep, a private company employee, here. By afternoon, the crowd had reduced at several shops. Though the shops will be open on Sunday, many wanted to stock their requirements. Liquor shops Huge crowd was witnessed in front of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) in the district on Saturday. Physical distancing went for a toss in most of the liquor stores. A total of 292 shops in Coimbatore south and north divisions functioned from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday. Tasmac officials said the same timing would be followed on Sunday too. The police said that liquor outlets would be monitored during lockdown to check illegal sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-rush-to-stock-up-on-essentials-ahead-of-two-week-complete-lockdown/article34518467.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kerala stays indoors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-stays-indoors/article34518317.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police: Those caught moving out unnecessarily will be arrested||The Bengaluru City Police on Saturday warned citizens that the total lockdown, which comes into effect on Monday, would be enforced strictly. Barricades were put up in several neighbourhoods as a deterrent to motorists. To drive the message home, the police caned motorists in several parts of the city, especially in the city market area, for violating the partial lockdown rules that are currently in force. The police warned that come Monday, no one would be allowed to take their cars out. Those caught moving out unnecessarily would be arrested and their vehicles seized, warned Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. “Except in emergency situations and for vaccination and travel to the airport or stations, no one will be allowed on the roads during the lockdown period, unless they have valid reasons,” said Mr. Pant. “The fresh guidelines have been issued keeping in mind the safety of people; violations will not be considered leniently.” ‘Trial run’ The police also held a ‘trial run’ on Saturday ahead of the lockdown and came down heavily on motorists who had taken out their cars and two-wheelers without valid reasons. As many as 3,000 vehicles were seized and 24 shops booked under the Disaster Management Act. “Most of the vehicles seized — 2,723 — were two-wheelers while the rest were autorickshaws and cars,” a senior police officer. Mr. Pant later went around the city and led the enforcement drive in many areas. Many motorists were caught by surprise as the police caned them and seized their vehicles. Within a few hours, major roads across the city were empty of vehicles. On the subject of food deliveries he said, “We are going to contain people coming to hotels and restaurants to get parcels. Those who want to collect parcels should walk.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-those-caught-moving-out-unnecessarily-will-be-arrested/article34518392.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ward-level committees set up for triaging, emergency response||Taking a decentralised approach to fighting the pandemic, the government has decided to empower residential neighbourhoods and constitute Ward Decentralised Triage and Emergency Response Committees (WDCs) for COVID-19 management. The primary aim of the WDCs will be to ensure that there are no delays in hospitalising patients and that those who require oxygen find support within two hours. An order to this effect was issued by N. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary to the Revenue Department (Disaster Management) and member secretary of the State Executive Committee, on Friday. These committees will run in coordination with the ward committees, volunteer residents’ welfare associations, civil society organisations, and disaster support initiatives. They will act as Ward Disaster Management Cells (WDMCs). Open-source technology platforms will be utilised to operationalise WDC functioning and a suitable online platform will be used by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to support this. The committee will become the first point of contact for those with COVID-19 in the ward. Members will also be involved in monitoring testing, contact tracing, and triaging (whether a person should be placed under home isolation, needs admission in stabilisation centres, or requires hospitalisation, etc.). Mapping resources The Ward Decentralised Triage and Emergency Response Committees will also be responsible for resource mapping such as identifying general practitioners, existing RWAs, colonies, apartments, slums, and NGOs working in the public health sector. To take up all these activities, a command and control centre should be established at the ward level, said the notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ward-level-committees-set-up-for-triaging-emergency-response/article34518409.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many citizens unhappy with ban on vehicles||As the countdown to what is being termed a more stringent lockdown in Karnataka begins, most people are taking exception to one of the guidelines — not being able to take out vehicles even during the permitted hours. While the government made it clear that the guidelines were aimed at curbing unnecessary movement of people, citizens say it will lead to some inconvenience. The guidelines state that “no vehicles will be allowed to be used by persons for taking parcels/takeaway. Only movement by walk is allowed for this purpose”. However, hotels, restaurants, and eateries can use vehicles for home delivery. Lakshmi, a resident of Gubblala, pointed out that for those in nuclear families who are managing work, children, and household chores without any help, it could pose an issue. “Mornings are busy with cooking and completing chores. And you are under pressure to start office work. So ideally, one parent stays back at home to look after the child while the other goes out to buy stuff. The quickest way is to go by a two-wheeler so that you can finish everything in minimum time. The no-vehicle rule poses a challenge to this,” she said. She added that although deliveries are available, there are no slots. Many asked how they would go to markets without vehicles to bring back groceries. The no-vehicle rule has also left those who vend at popular markets in the city at a crossroads. The guidelines says shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, and animal fodder will be allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. “Sale of vegetables and fruits through pushcarts is allowed from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.,” state the guidelines. However, G.M. Diwakar, president, K.R. Market Flower Merchants’ Association, said with the market closed from five days, around 5% of vendors were selling on the roadside. “These goods are perishable. One year’s investment will go down the drain for farmers. Liquor has been given consideration because of the income it generates for the government, but what about farmers’ income?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-citizens-unhappy-with-ban-on-vehicles/article34518388.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR cancels 88 trains citing poor ridership||Though a strict lockdown will come into effect from Monday, people who have booked flight and train tickets will be allowed to travel. However, citing poor ridership, South Western Railway (SWR) has cancelled 88 trains, most of which operated on intra-State routes. In the Bengaluru division, 44 express trains and 12 MEMU and 6 DEMU trains have been cancelled till Saturday. Some of the cancellations include trains operating to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) as well as suburban services from Bengaluru city to Marikuppam, Hosur, and others. Chief PRO of SWR Aneesh Hegde said trains with ridership under 30% had been cancelled temporarily. “When the lockdown was imposed, there were no restrictions on train services. However, ridership dropped drastically on certain routes. A decision on resumption of services will be taken after the lockdown is lifted,” he said. Divisional Railway Manager Ashok Kumar Verma pointed out that other railway zones too had cancelled trains such as Mysuru-Chennai Shatabdi Express. “Wherever there is a demand, we are running trains in adequate numbers,” said Mr. Verma. However, the decision to cancel services, especially to the KIA has not gone down well with rail activists. Rail activist Sanjeev Dyamannavar said: “ The Railways should have continued with the airport services for the benefit of people working there as they are working even during the lockdown. Officials could have explored the possibility of running express trains to the airport with limited stops at Kengeri, Bengaluru, and Baiyappanahalli as tracks do not have much traffic. It could have helped people working at the cargo division of the airport and air passengers.” The SWR had introduced train services with a halt at the KIA in the first week of January, but according to officials, patronage remained poor. This is the second time the SWR is cancelling services to the airport. In March, services were suspended for over 20 days to facilitate maintenance work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-cancels-88-trains-citing-poor-ridership/article34518387.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bed scam: BJP MP’s ‘exposé’ is fake, says Congress||Terming the problems that have cropped up in bed allocation system in Bengaluru City a ‘BJP bed scam’, Karnataka Congress leaders on Saturday demanded a judicial probe into it. They said that the ‘exposé’ by BJP Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya and party MLAs Satish Reddy, Ravi Subramanya and Uday Garudachar was fake. Senior Congress MLAs Ramalinga Reddy, Krishna Byre Gowda and Dinesh Gundu Rao alleged that loyalists of the BJP MP and legislators had interfered in the functioning of the bed allocation system of the BBMP COVID-19 war room and diverted beds to asymptomatic patients and denied beds to patients having severe symptoms. Legislators’ demand BJP legislators wanted a share of 75% of beds allocated in war rooms. The differences between the BJP legislators and war room officials started when IAS officers stopped party workers from interference in bed allocation. The rift between officials and legislators led to the MP’s demand for the ouster of 17 workers of war room belonging to the minority community, the Congress leaders alleged. In the presence of BJP MLA Satish Reddy and local police, men had created a ruckus and manhandled the BBMP officials in Bommanahalli. No action has been initiated against any of the people who disrupted the operations of the war room, they alleged. Officials have written to Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar about interference of supporters of BJP MLAs in the allocation of ICU beds and ventilators. Mr. Ramalinga Reddy said BJP had created a fake bed scam in order to hush up the government’s failures in supplying oxygen that led to 24 deaths in Chamarajanagar district hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bed-scam-bjp-mps-expos-is-fake-says-congress/article34518399.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Leaders’ meeting with Shah fuels speculation again||As the leadership of the State government has come under the scanner for its alleged inability to handle the second wave of COVID-19, speculation is growing about the possibility of a replacement for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Sources in the State BJP revealed that the party high command last Thursday summoned Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and BJP vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Mr. Yediyurappa, to New Delhi for discussions on various issues pertaining to the party, the State administration, the handling of the pandemic, and the sale of over 3,600 acres in Ballari district for JSW Steel Ltd. However, Mr. Bommai and Mr. Vijayendra meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the party’s national general secretary in charge of Karnataka, Arun Singh, has triggered many interpretations and speculation in party circles. But it is not yet clear whether discussions have occurred around a change in leadership in the State, sources said. According to a party functionary, besides the age factor of the Chief Minister and the handling of the pandemic, complaints regarding Mr. Yediyurappa’s style of functioning had been pouring in from many quarters. There has been a demand for leadership change from a section of party MLAs during the past few months. Senior leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has said several times that the party would replace Mr. Yediyurappa soon after the elections to five States. “The BJP high command knows well Mr. Yediyurappa’s stature in the State BJP. The party will initiate a dialogue on a change of guard only with his consent. Moreover, the candidate replacing him would be his choice,” a source. The central leadership has been weighing the party’s prospects in the 2023 Assembly elections and other polls in the event of a change in leadership in the State, the source maintained. At present, Mr. Bommai is close and loyal to the Chief Minister. Moreover, he belongs to the dominant Lingayat community and hails from North Karnataka. But the party would not discount the leadership qualities of other Ministers, including C.N. Ashwath Narayan. Mr. Narayan is a Vokkaliga leader and the party has been working to woo the community in the south, sources said. In case of a change in leadership, the high command in all possibility might provide a suitable position to Mr. Vijayendra, either in the government or in the party. “One thing is certain, the party will not take a decision in a hurry, keeping in view its poll prospects in 2023 and 2024,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leaders-meeting-with-shah-fuels-speculation-again/article34518415.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal sale of Remdesivir continues, eight arrested||In two cases, the north division police arrested five people, one a manager of a private bank, for allegedly selling Remdesivir in black. “Four were arrested by the Mahalakshmi Layout police at a bus stop near a private hospital on Friday evening,” said Dharmendra Kumar Meena, DCP (North). The accused have been identified as Shivakumar, 32, a bank manager and resident of R.R. Nagar; Darshan, 29, a medical representative, his friend Girish, 30, a lab technician; and Nagesh, 43, a vegetable vendor. Nagesh had bought Remdesivir when his father contracted COVID-19. However, his father died, following which he decided to sell the remaining vials. The police seized three vials from them. In another operation, the Srirampura police caught a delivery boy of a pharma company with two vials at Bandireddy Circle. He had made a fake prescription in his brother’s name. Meanwhile, officials with the Drugs Control Department caught the owner of a private hospital, a manager, and a pharmacist at Chickpet for selling Remdesivir illegally. The police arrested D.R. Anupama, the owner of the hospital and pharmacy, her associates, Doddamma Goudappagol, the pharmacist, and Mohan Kumar, manager of the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-sale-of-remdesivir-continues-eight-arrested/article34518390.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bed blocking: One more person arrested||The police are probing yet another bed allotment scam involving an Arogya Mitra that was allegedly running a racket at Manipal Hospital on Old Airport Road. An inspection team comprising several officials including Manivannan, Secretary, Animal Husbandry Department, and Alok Kumar, ADGP, (KSRP), found irregularities in connection with the admission and discharge of the patients. As part of his job, the accused, Pavan Shetty, coordinated with the government’s Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) portal which shows the available government quota beds both in government and private hospitals. Kolar and Tumakuru “Pavan was in charge of the admission of 19 COVID-19 patients that had been referred to the hospital by the BBMP with BU numbers. However, an inspection team comprising two senior officials discovered that he had two patients from Kolar and Tumakuru districts,” said a senior police officer. When the team visited the ward they learned that Shetty had allegedly blocked as many as seven beds in the name of a few patients who had been discharged a week ago. “He admitted two persons from Kolar and Tumakuru without verification and had allotted those beds to them with different index names. The BU code is generated only for residents of Bengaluru,” said a senior police official. Based on the complaint filed by Ravindra Kumar, Executive Engineer of BWSSB, who was part of the inspection team, the JB Nagar police registered a FIR against Shetty and arrested him. He has been booked under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and also under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. The police have taken him into custody for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bed-blocking-one-more-person-arrested/article34518395.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IAS officer files complaint against 60 people||IAS officer Yeshwanth Gurukar, in charge of Bommanahalli zone war room, on Saturday, filed a complaint against a group of 60 people for allegedly misbehaving and manhandling him and a BBMP joint commissioner during a violent protest on April 30. The IAS officer has not mentioned any names in the complaint. However, Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy was reportedly part of the group that barged into the war room demanding bed allotment, which when refused, led to a melee where Mr. Yeshwanth was pushed around and manhandled. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media. Mr. Reddy told The Hindu that he had gone to the war room on behalf of his agitated voters, on a day that saw a large number of deaths in the area, due to non-availability of beds. Based on the complaint, the police booked the unknown people under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duties) 504 (intentional insult to provoke) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ias-officer-files-complaint-against-60-people/article34518401.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No major rush at train stations||With the authorities set to impose a strict lockdown from Monday, many families left the city on Saturday. However, their numbers were comparatively lower when compared to previous lockdowns. At the railway stations, people who had confirmed tickets were allowed entry. South Western Railways (SWR) officials attributed the lack of panic to the additional trains that had been running as per demand. Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) of Bengaluru Division Ashok Kumar Verma said, “Last year due to the sudden announcement of lockdown, people had started rushing to railway stations. However, this time, due to various factors, we do not see a major rush. We have been running trains as per demand to Danapur and other destinations in Bihar and West Bengal. Depending on the waiting list, we operated additional trains and that has helped,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-major-rush-at-train-stations/article34518389.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Corporates donate oxygen concentrators||Bengaluru-based Give India Foundation has come forward to donate 2,000 oxygen concentrators. The first batch of 80 concentrators was handed over to GKVK COVID Care Centre on Saturday. These concentrators, of 10 litres capacity, would augment the care being given at the care centre, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. A 250-bed COVID hospital will be set up in Yelahanka region immediately by Boeing company, manufacturers of Boeing jets, and the work has already been initiated. Boeing has said it is also willing to set up another 250-bed COVID-19 hospital in the same region. Texas Instruments managing director Santosh Kumar on Saturday met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and promised to donate 86 ICU beds for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corporates-donate-oxygen-concentrators/article34518403.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labour leader no more||Labour leader H.K. Ramachandrappa, who was the working president of All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Karnataka, succumbed to COVID-19 on Saturday at Davangere. He was part of the anganwadi workers’ movement for over three decades and was an organiser of the unorganised workers, said an AITUC release. He began his trade union career by organising the mill workers of Davangere in the 1970s, and after the closure of the mills there he focused his energies on organising the unorganised workers, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labour-leader-no-more/article34518404.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HRCT price cap revised||A day after capping the price of High Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT) of the chest at Rs. 1,500 in private diagnostic facilities, the State government on Saturday revised the prices and fixed it at Rs. 1,500 per scan for patients falling Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Rs. 2,500 for other patients. This price includes consumables and sanitisation expenses incurred by the diagnostic centre on each patient. The Association of Diagnostic Centres, Bengaluru, had submitted a representation to the Chief Minister requesting that the government should reconsider the price cap. The association said diagnostic centres incur huge costs on the salaries of radiologists and supporting staff, which makes the working cost of a single HRCT scan come up to Rs. 4,000. Following this, a revised order was issued on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hrct-price-cap-revised/article34518416.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Banashankari crematorium to be closed for repairs||A week after the two furnaces at the Sumanahalli electric crematorium broke down forcing the BBMP to shut the facility temporarily, the Banashankari electric crematorium, too, will soon be closed for repairs from May 11 to May 20. However, civic officials are hoping to get the Sumanahalli electric crematorium up and running first. According to a senior official overseeing the 12 electric crematoriums in the city, repair work was progressing at the Sumanahalli facility. It is likely to be completed by Monday. “Work at the Banashankari facility will be taken up only after the Sumanahalli crematorium is reopened,” the official said. With the second wave of COVID-19 showing no signs of easing, electric crematoriums in the city are unable to bear the daily load. Prior to the problems at the Sumanahalli crematorium, the furnaces at Mysuru Road and Kudlu had also broken down. The civic official admitted that given the load on the furnaces over the past month, regular maintenance was essential to prevent wear and tear. “Maintenance and repair work will be taken up in a phased manner in the other crematoria as well,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/banashankari-crematorium-to-be-closed-for-repairs/article34518393.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Data collected from 16 hospitals||The CCB police, investigating the alleged bed allotment scam, visited 16 hospitals and collected data on patients assigned beds by BBMP war room staff. “These hospitals have been roped in by the BBMP’s bed management system and data regarding this has been collected for investigation,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). On May 4, BJP legislatures led by MP Tejasvi Surya stormed into the South Zone war room and live-streamed their exposé on the bed scam. Since then, the CCB has arrested four people, including two doctors. Special teams questioned 18 staff across all 8 war rooms. “We have found irregularities in the allotment and discrepancies in management,” said a senior police officer.  KAS officers deputed BBMP has also deputed nine KAS officials as nodal officers of the zonal control rooms. This was one of the recommendations made by the committee formed to make the Central Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS) transparent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/data-collected-from-16-hospitals/article34518394.ece
09 May 2021||Benglauru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for cheating||A BBMP ambulance driver and a social worker helped nab a conman who had cheated a family of Rs. 12,000 by pretending to be a civic volunteer. The conman, Shivanth, and his associate offered to see to the last rites of a 79-year-old COVID-19 patient who had passed away at St. John’s Hospital for a price. While transporting the body to the crematorium at Kudlu, the driver realised that something was amiss and alerted the helpline. Helpline staff informed Mahesh N.M., a social worker from Bandepalya, who arrived at the crematorium. Mahesh in his plaint said the accused Shivanth and his associate Selva Meena met the family of the deceased, Hema Raman, at St. John’s Hospital while they were calling the BBMP control room to arrange for an ambulance. Shivanth, claiming to be a BBMP volunteer, took Rs. 12,000 as service charge, to take care of cremations and sent the family home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-cheating/article34518396.ece
09 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 tests have reduced in Hassan: MP||Prajwal Revanna, MP, has alleged that the Hassan district administration reduced the number of COVID-19 tests, considering the shortage of beds in the hospitals. In a press conference in Hassan on Saturday, Mr. Prajwal Revanna said earlier 5,000 samples were collected in the district every day. Now, the number had been reduced to 2,500 a day. The officers justified their decision stating that it had been difficult to treat all patients. “This is the most irresponsible statement by the officers. They are allowing people suffer without making arrangements for people, who need treatment,” he said. The situation in Hassan distirct, he said, has gone out of control. If the administration failed to take up strict measures, the deaths would increase. The State and the Centre should fulfill the needs of medical equipment in the district. The MP said an oxygen plant would come up on Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences campus soon at a cost of Rs. 1.25 crore. The work would start within two days and would be completed in 25 days. The six JD(S) MLAs of the district had agreed to contribute funds from the local area development fund for the project. It woud fulfill the medical oxygen requirement of the district hospitals, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-tests-have-reduced-in-hassan-mp/article34518506.ece
09 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||1,288 new cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 1,288 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 15 more deaths due to the infection on Saturday. With that, the total number of cases increased to 51,871 and the death toll increased to 675. So far 37,474 have recovered from the infection and 13,722 are under treatment. Among them, 105 are in the intensive care unit. Seven victims are from Hassan, three each from Arsikere and Channarayapatna, and one each from Alur and Holenarasipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1288-new-cases-in-hassan/article34518505.ece
09 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Centre discriminating against State: Jarkiholi||KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi has alleged that that the Union government was discriminating against Karnataka with regard to the supply of vaccine and oxygen. Speaking to presspersons at his home office in Gogak on Saturday, Mr. Satish Jarkiholi said that while he welcomed the State government’s decision to enforce a lockdown, there was a need for the MPs from the State to raise their voice against the discrimination in the supply of vaccine and oxygen. He said that at a time when the State was facing the brunt of the pandemic and was direly in need of the requisite supply of vaccine and oxygen, the MPs should fight for the people of the State. However, none of the MPs were opening their mouth and had become elected representatives just in name, he said. ‘Acute shortage’ Mr. Satish Jarkiholi said that there was acute oxygen shortage in the State because of which the hospitals were not getting the required quantity and consequently the doctors were finding it difficult to treat the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-discriminating-against-state-jarkiholi/article34518504.ece
09 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Priyank Kharge slams Centre’s handling of COVID-19 crisis||Criticising the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis, Priyank Kharge, former Minister and Chittapur MLA, asked whether all the 25 BJP MPs from the State were alive. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, Mr. Kharge accused the government of failing to check the spread of COVID-19 that resulted in the rise in the number of deaths. Though the oxygen shortage that is killing COVID-19 patients is the result of the Modi government’s failure, BJP MPs have maintained silence, he alleged. “The BJP MPs should either raise their voice against the failure of the government or tender resignation and support our agitation against the BJP government,” Mr. Kharge said. The Supreme Court had upheld the Karnataka High Court order directing the Centre to supply 1,200 MT of oxygen daily to the State, but the oxygen was further transported to Telangana and Maharashtra State, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priyank-kharge-slams-centres-handling-of-covid-19-crisis/article34518502.ece
09 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Interaction||Mangaluru Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar will interact with people on Twitter and Facebook on Sunday between 11 a.m. and noon on COVID-19 norms enforcement. Dakshina Kannada District Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane tweeted that if people want to report guidelines violation or give suggestions, they can send a WhatsApp message to 9480805300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/interaction/article34518499.ece
09 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two booked for assault||The Bantwal Rural police on Saturday booked two persons for allegedly assaulting an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA), when she was returning after informing a relative of the accused not to move around as she had tested positive for COVID-19. The incident occurred in Sarapady village of Bantwal Taluk on Saturday. The Bantwal Rural police said the aunt of the accused, identified as Sandeep and Santosh, had cough three days ago. She later tested positive for COVID-19. On Saturday, Sandeep and Santosh allegedly assaulted the ASHA and accused her of conspiring with the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-booked-for-assault/article34518500.ece
09 May 2021||Mini Tejaswi Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP gets tech firm’s help to set up COVID-19 Care Dashboard||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is in the process of setting up a COVID-19 Care Dashboard and a data-driven analytical system in collaboration with ITC Infotech, a wholly-owned subsidiary of business conglomerate ITC Ltd. The move is aimed at upgrading the local body’s existing pandemic care infrastructure and removing the multiple hurdles people have been facing in the chase for beds. The second wave has seen horror stories of people scrambling to find oxygenated beds. Sarfaraz Khan, BBMP Joint Commissioner, told The Hindu that the civic body was setting up a dedicated COVID-19 support system with the help of technology. “This will mainly help patients who require only oxygen. Currently, there is a lot of confusion among patients and relatives who are running around for hospital beds. We are revamping our existing system. ITC Infotech is helping us with technology.” The new system will make test result analysis available for decision-making by authority. The interactive dashboard will also provide a summary view of metrics. In addition, it will generate details such as patient requests, age profile, tests done per day, number of active swab collectors at work, average time taken between placing a request and swab collection and demographic breakup of tests. ITC Infotech has already mobilised a team of over 250 volunteers, comprising its employees and their family members. . Sundaresh Shankaran, president, ITC Infotech said, “We are keen to extend technology support to local bodies in these difficult times. This initiative will streamline and speed up the testing process thus providing relief to people. We are actively exploring additional collaboration opportunities.” According to ITC Infotech, this dashboard will help volunteers and back-office operators improve the efficiency of the COVID-19 testing process, by enabling them to significantly scale-up operations. It will also help in resource allocation for zones that come with a large number of test requests. The tech firm is currently designing a data warehouse, and laying data ingestion routines, to produce these analytical reports and interactive dashboard, according to the company. It is also in talks with local authorities to extend the services of this volunteer group to government helplines in three languages: English, Hindi and Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-gets-tech-firms-help-to-set-up-covid-19-care-dashboard/article34518398.ece
09 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Cases grew by more than 30% during lockdown||Thevirulent surge of COVID-19 in Karnataka showed no signs of abating during the lockdown, with the State showing a sharp 31% rise in number of positive cases reported between April 27 and May 7. While the number of cases in the State grew from 11.41 lakh cases on April 17 to 14 lakh cases on April 27, registering a growth of 22.6% during the 10-day period prior to the imposition of lockdown, the number of cases swelled to 18.38 lakh cases on May 7, recording a growth of 31.2% during the lockdown period between April 27 and May 7. But Giridhar R. Babu, professor and head of Life Course Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), said the effect of the lockdown would set in only after 10 to 14 days, which is the incubation period for the coronavirus. “So we might see a lower number of cases after a few more days,” he said. The State government has already extended the lockdown till May 24. Dr. Babu, who is also a member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), was in favour of a lockdown to check the virus transmission. The number of COVID-19 cases in the State could have been much more without a lockdown, he said. He said the lockdown so far has only been implemented partially and people have continued to move around. At the same time, the number of tests also went down. “Hence, people who are infected, but not tested, will keep moving around,” he said. Meanwhile, Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative by Proxima, a management consulting firm, with technical support and guidance of the PHFI, observed that the State has reported 4.38 lakh cases during the lockdown period so far. The districts witnessing the sharpest surge during the lockdown period were Kodagu (55%), Chamarajanagar (47%), Tumakuru (43%), Mandya (39%), and Ramanagaram (38%). “This means that the doubling period of COVID-19 cases in these districts was relatively shorter when compared to others,” said Sanjeev Mysore, convenor of Jeevan Raksha. Active cases Also, during the lockdown, the number of active cases in the State surged by more than 2.3 lakh, from 3.01 lakh on April 27 to 5.36 lakh on May 7. The substantial increase in active cases added to the woes of the already stretched healthcare infrastructure of the State. Jeevan Raksha also observed that the surge in active cases during the lockdown was sharp in districts that had a weak medical infrastructure and inadequate qualified medical professionals. In Uttara Kannada, the active cases increased by 219%, in Haveri by 162%, in Koppal by 161%, in Bagalkot by 138%, and in Ramanagaram by 136%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-grew-by-more-than-30-during-lockdown/article34518412.ece
09 May 2021||Vijayawada,KARNATAKA||Indigo flight makes emergency landing as woman falls sicks||An Indigo flight made an emergency and unscheduled landing at Vijayawada International Airport after one of the passengers on board fell sick on Saturday morning. The flight was en route to Bagdogra in West Bengal from Bengaluru. The passenger was rushed to a hospital subsequently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indigo-flight-makes-emergency-landing-as-woman-falls-sicks/article34518402.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mental health issues being aggravated||“There are simple things, such as a husband who has hospitalised his wife asking us how to support her emotionally. Some are grieving the loss of dear ones and want to reach out and share what they’re feeling. We have more than 50 mental health professionals on rotation taking calls from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. We decided to keep it simple and telephonic, as not everyone is equipped to handle technology,”she said. The Foundation has counsellors who are comfortable speaking in different languages. “People have self-isolated and are seeking out others to speak out their innermost fears. In other cases, there is nobody to support them and they say they have too many thoughts to pour out. It could be loneliness in self-isolation, fear of contracting the virus, frustration of not getting beds; all we are doing is lending our ears,”she said. What they are offering, she said, is “psychological first aid” to people suffering emotional distress. “We know we’re not healing them fully. But we are offering emotional support.” The counsellors allot 30 minutes to one hour to each person. Though most calls are primarily from Bengaluru, where they are based, they are also receiving calls from Maharashtra, Delhi and Haryana. They are getting calls from organisations too seeking support for children who have been orphanedby COVID-19. Counsellors pointed to the difference in people’s response to the pandemic last year and this year. Mohammad Sayeed, a certified senior mentor who has been counselling at no cost, said in March 2020, people thought that this was a passing phenomenon and tried to brush it aside, diverting their attention by indulging in streaming platforms, etc. By September, they felt the situation was normalising and started travelling. “Last year, it was more about coping with sudden changes and coming to the reality of disappointments of futureplans; about financial crisis and sustainability issues. In April and May this year, the cases are of deep frustrations and hopelessness. When we counsel people to be positive and happy, they have reasons for not responding as they have come across death among their family members, neighbours and friends,” he said. The trauma is leaving emotional scars. “Now, it seems we are heading towards a more serious situation of uncertainty, hopelessness and anger towards governments, political parties, countries and communities,” he added. Priyanka Prabhakar, psychologist and Co-founder, Credo Psychological Services, said fear was one of the biggest issues. “There is so much uncertainty about when it’ll get better. The surge was sudden. There is grief to a large extent. People have lost loved ones and are not coming to terms with it. Some others are worried about getting infected and passing it on to others. Loss of security if something happens to parents or partners is also a reason for the increase in anxiety in people,” she said, adding that news about the scarcity of medical facilities, loneliness and work pressure are adding toit. Some are finding different coping mechanisms. “There is death, pain and suffering all around. People are numbing their emotions because it’s too painful to feel,” she explained. Somya Awasthi, who has a private practice, said she saw an increase in consultations when the situation was getting better. “Right now, everyone is in sort of survival mode. Physical health is the priority rather than mental health. In March and February, we were getting more enquiries. When the lockdown started, there was a sharp decline. But a lot of underlying conditions are getting amplified because of the situation. The safety of the individual is threatened, not specifically because of COVID-19, but because of anxiety. If a person has OCD or social anxiety, this is not very conducive to their condition,” she explained.        Last year, it was more about coping with changes and coming to the reality of disappointments of future plans; about financial crisis and sustainability issues. In April and May this year, the cases are of deep frustration and hopelessness Mohammad Sayeed,certified senior mentor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mental-health-issues-being-aggravated/article34518406.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Boeing India to set up hospital||“We have ordered new tankers and they have already reached Ballari where oxygen is produced in a large quantity. They are expected to carry liquid medical oxygen to Kalaburagi within a day or two,” Mr. Nirani said When asked about the oxygen concentrators he had promised a few days ago, Mr. Nirani said that 100 concentrators were purchased as an emergency move and the same would reach Kalaburagi on Monday. “Two patients could be provided oxygen from one concentrator. As many as 100 concentrators would reach Kalaburagi on Monday. The Union government will also provide 3,000 oxygen concentrators to the State. We too will purchase more concentrators in the days to come,” he said. On the Remdesivir crunch, Mr. Nirani said that the Union government had given permission to 20 companies for manufacturing it. “There were only two companies that were manufacturing the injection. However, the Union government had given permission to 20 more companies and two of them are from Mudhol and Belagavi. They would start the production by May 17. As many as 200 vials of the injections reached Kalaburagi on Saturday and the government would increase the supply as per the demand,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boeing-india-to-set-up-hospital/article34518508.ece
09 May 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha’s fumigation move draws flak||The Alappuzha municipality has come under criticism for its suggestion to use ‘Aparajitha dhooma choornam’ (powder made of ayurvedic ingredients) for fumigation to tackle the spread of COVID-19. Under the civic body’s call a large number of households in the municipal area observed ‘Dhooma Sandhya’ at 6.30 p.m. on Saturday by fumigating the house and surroundings with smoke generated from burning ‘Aparajitha dhooma choornam.’ The municipality had earlier distributed packets of the powder to residents free of cost. In one of the notices promoting the event, the civic body urged the people to participate in the disinfection activity as part of COVID-19 prevention measures. “Aparajitha dhooma choornam’ could prevent all airborne infectious diseases. It is antibacterial and antiviral,” the notice reads. The Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) Alappuzha district committee has deplored the civic body's decision to conduct ‘Dhooma Sandhya.’ In a statement issued here on Saturday, KSSP district president B. Krishnakumar and district secretary Jayan Champakulam termed it unscientific. “The World Health Organisation or Indian Council of Medical Research have not found these kinds of methods to be useful in preventing COVID-19 or other infectious diseases. The Local Self Government Department has not issued an order for conducting the programme or spent money for it. COVID-19 second wave should be dealt with utmost caution and seriousness. At a time when people should be asked to follow COVID-19 protocols without any laxity, it is shocking that a municipality is promoting the use of ‘Aparajitha dhooma choornam’ and homoeo medicines to tackle the pandemic,” they said. The actions of the civic body will create misconceptions among people about achieving immunity and they will stop following COVID-19 protocols and restrictions. It will result in a spike in COVID-19 cases in the municipal area, the KSSP warned. The KSSP has written to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other officials concerned seeking their intervention to prevent the municipality from undertaking such measures. The Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics (CAPSULE) has also come out against the Alappuzha municipality. It urged the civic body to restrain itself from unscientific activities. Alappuzha municipal chairperson Soumya Raj, however, justified the decision to conduct ‘Dhooma Sandhya.’ Awareness campaign “Basically it is an awareness campaign and a show of oneness. We have never said the powder is capable of eliminating coronavirus or will help end the pandemic. The fumigation is part of the disinfection exercise, which is being done from time to time. Through the campaign we are also urging the people to abide by the disease containment measures and lockdown,” Ms. Raj said, adding that the municipality was promoting allopathy, ayurveda, and homoeopathy on an equal basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzhas-fumigation-move-draws-flak/article34518550.ece
09 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki bans entry of plantation workers from Tamil Nadu||The police on Saturday stopped the entry of taxis carrying plantation workers at the border checkposts here. Earlier, it was decided to ban the entry of vehicles from Tamil Nadu in the plantations on the border in the wake of the increased cases of SARS COV-2. On Friday a meeting chaired by Electricity Minister M. M. Mani decided to impose curbs on vehicles carrying workers to the plantations. However, plantations were allowed to work with those already present in the State. District Collector H. Dinesan said that agriculture activities including the works in the plantations can be continued using the minimum number of workers and adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Sources said that passengers in emergency situations were allowed to cross the inter-State and district borders. The police filed cases against 87 people for violating the COVID protocol in the district on Saturday. This is in addition to the 1,216 petty cases, said the police. The Forest Department in Marayur has started supplying essential medicines free of cost in the tribal hamlets to avoid people moving outside the forest area. There is also a curb on the entry of outsiders into the tribal settlements in the forest areas. Marayur Range officer M.G. Vinod Kumar said that the grocery items were supplied free of cost to the forest settlement at Koodakattukudy and they were monitoring the availability of essential items in other forest settlements..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-bans-entry-of-plantation-workers-from-tamil-nadu/article34518544.ece
09 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cases against resort owners||Cases were filed against the managements of two resorts which provided accommodation to priests to attend a retreat in Munnar from April 13 to 17, violating the COVID-19 protocol. The meeting resulted in the spread of the infection among the participants. Two of them have succumbed to the virus. The Devikulam Subcollector on Friday submitted a report to the District Collector on the violation of the protocol. As many as 480 priests and deacons, mostly from Thiruvananthapuram, attended the meeting organised by the CSI (Church of South India) and about 110 persons were infected with COVID-19. The condition of many of them was serious, it was alleged. Cases were filed against the managements of the resorts as they failed to inform the police or district administration of the violations and accommodated a large number of persons. Munnar Dy.SP R. Suresh said cases were also registered against the organisers and participants of the meeting. A section of the priests who attended the meeting had sent a complaint to the Chief Secretary along with photos of crowding at the retreat hall.  Many participants of a church retreat hosted by two Munnar resorts are down with COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-against-resort-owners/article34518586.ece
09 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi under heavy police security blanket||The Kochi City police have made it clear that the restrictions accompanying the nine-day State-wide lockdown that kicked in on Saturday will be enforced strictly even as surveillance along city borders was beefed up considerably. Inspector General of Police and District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju said as much while urging people to stay indoors as much as possible in view of the rapid surge in COVID-19 cases, and that even for purchase of essential commodities only one person from the family should step out of home. “Those found violating the COVID protocol will be slapped with provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance, and relevant sections of the IPC,” he said. Necessary arrangements have been made to ensure access to essential commodities, with shops and offices exempted from the lockdown. The police ensured that shops and other business establishments downed shutters at 7.30 p.m. on Saturday. Barricaded fast-track channels are being provided for swift movement of oxygen cylinders, oxygen tankers, doctors, nurses, and paramedical staff. Vehicle checking has been intensified at all city points sharing border with other districts. Nearly 100 picket posts have been erected. The city police have deployed 45 bike patrols and 42 jeep patrols as part of enforcing the lockdown. Employees of various departments and staff of private firms deemed as essential services are being allowed to move around carrying relevant identity cards. “Those heading to vaccination centres should carry the registration documents. People travelling out of the State or the country should produce train or flight tickets. Inter-State cargo movement continues unhindered,” said Mr. Nagaraju. Those attending marriages or funerals should duly register with the COVID Jagratha portal. Taxis and autorickshaws will be allowed only for hospital trips and conveyance of passengers to airport and railway stations. Mr. Nagaraju said the well-being of migrant workers had been ensured. No gatherings entailing crowding will be allowed. Strict action will be taken against those violating quarantine norms and loitering outside without valid reasons, and their vehicles will be seized. The seized vehicles will be detailed till further orders, and the Motor Vehicles Department will be recommended to suspend the driving licence of the erring motorists. Those booked for COVID protocol violations will not be given police clearance certificates for passports. Double-masking is mandatory. Mr. Nagaraju warned of stern action against shops that do not provide sanitisers and maintain lists of visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-under-heavy-police-security-blanket/article34518580.ece
09 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam records 5,492 new COVID-19 cases||Ernakulam district recorded 5,492 new COVID-19 cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 30.53% on Saturday. As many as 17 health workers tested positive. Thrikkakara recorded 217 new cases, Palluruthy 167, Kumbalanghi 124, Thripunithura 123, Chellanam 119, Vengola 111, and Kadungalloor 107. The source of infection could not be traced in 162 cases. Caseload The active caseload of the district is 65,867. While 56,112 people are recovering at home, 2,429 are at private hospitals, and 111 are at INHS Sanjivani. A total of 635 people are admitted at various government hospitals, 1,088 are at FLTCs, SLTCs and domiciliary care centres. As many as 419 patients are admitted in ICUs. The number has grown from 368 on May 4. With 4,052 recoveries on Saturday, 226 people were discharged from hospitals and other facilities. New admissions to treatment centres stood at 400. As many as 94,323 people remain in quarantine. A total of 17,990 samples were sent for testing, and 7,478 of them were RT-PCR tests. Bed availability Of the 1,522 vacant beds for COVID treatment, 1,049 are at domiciliary care centres meant for people with mild infection who are unable to remain in isolation at home. Bed availability A total of 174 beds are available at second-line treatment centres which are supplied with oxygen. At the 12 government hospitals where COVID treatment is being provided, a total of 299 beds are available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-5492-new-covid-19-cases/article34518576.ece
09 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi Corpn. councillor succumbs to COVID-19||K.K. Sivan, Kochi Corporation councillor and a leader of the CITU in Ernakulam, died of COVID-related complications here on Saturday morning. He was 55. His battle with COVID was a protracted one, according to Mayor M. Anilkumar. He had tested positive on April 19 and was initially recovering at the COVID care centre at PVS Hospital before he was shifted to a private hospital, and was in the ICU. Although he seemed to be getting better initially, he was placed on ventilator two days ago, the Mayor said. He was diabetic and had high creatinine levels. Sivan served as a Kochi Corporation councillor twice. He represented Ponnurunni East in the council that was elected in 2005 and was elected from Gandhinagar in the elections last year. He was the district secretary of the Head Load and General Workers Union and a district committee member of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU). He is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-corpn-councillor-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34518584.ece
09 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Double whammy for pokkali farming||The traditional pokkali rice farming in Ernakulam district has taken a double hit this season with heightened COVID-19 restrictions and fields not being drained off water to pave the way for field preparations. The pokkali season begins by mid-April when fish culture ends, and the fields are left for the annual rice cultivation in the ‘one rice, one fish’ cycle. Timely field preparations will be hindered, said Francis Kalathungal of Pokkali Samrakshana Samiti at Chellanam. The Maruvakkad paddy collective in Chellanam panchayat has around 260 acres of which less than 10 acres are cultivated. Chellanam is one of the regions worst affected by the rapid spread of COVID-19. The panchayat has seen a test positivity rate (TPR) of more than 50%. The Samiti has been constantly demanding the protection of pokkali, a unique variety of rice that is salt-resistant. It alleged that the shrimp culture lobby had been attempting to sabotage the crop calendar despite a court order that way should be made for draining off salt water from the fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/double-whammy-for-pokkali-farming/article34518582.ece
09 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Control room for migrants evokes good response||The round-the-clock control room set up in the district to address issues of migrant workers with regard to the pandemic has evoked a encouraging response. In the first three days since it turned operational, the control room operating from the civil station has clocked an average of 100 calls a day. It has successfully managed to ensure proper dissemination of information on pandemic restrictions and stave off misinformation campaigns targeting migrant workers. Fears of a potential lockdown in the wake of the new restrictions have triggered a reverse migration from the district. The control room is also facilitating medical help for those testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. The control room assistance is available in four languages — Assamese, Bengali, Odiya, and English — to maximise the reach. The control room has been set up under Athithi Devo Bhava, a migrant welfare project, in association with the Tata Institute of Social Sciences and an NGO working for migrant workers. The control room numbers are 90723-03275, 90723-03276, and 90372-20187.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/control-room-for-migrants-evokes-good-response/article34518581.ece
09 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi traders seek priority in vaccination||Shocked by the death of one of its members due to COVID-19 complications, Kochi-based SIM Card Dealers Association has urged the State government to administer vaccine to members of the trading community on a priority basis considering their close interaction with the general public. Risky business The incident throws light on the challenges faced by the trading community in the pandemic situation, association general secretary Shaji A.H. said in a meeting. The association urged its members to strictly comply with the COVID-19 protocol. SIM Card Dealers Association president Ansar P.J, vice president Abhilash N.A, secretary Aneeb Ali and treasurer Akhil were among those who attended the meeting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-traders-seek-priority-in-vaccination/article34518585.ece
09 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||LSGIs firm up COVID containment steps||As the test positivity rate in some parts of Kollam keeps going up, LSGIs in the district have strengthened COVID-19 containment measures in coordination with various departments. While service of a doctor will be ensured in 24-hour control rooms, medical students and youngsters with scientific insight will be made part of the rapid response team. The district administration has directed all private and cooperative hospitals to set aside 50% beds, ICUs and ventilator facilities for COVID-19 patients. In Kottarakara, Janakeeya hotel will home deliver Rs. 25 lunch packs and the municipal authorities have also made arrangements to ferry medicines. Tele-consultation will be provided to all patients while ambulances, taxis and autos will be made available in emergency situations. The service of medical students will be offered in all 35 wards and each ward will have special teams that include 10 volunteers. At present, the local body has two quarantine facilities functioning in Kottarakara for those who have no provision for home isolation. Punlaur has two COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) functioning in taluk hospital and auditorium along with a 24-hour help desk. Apart from the domiciliary care centre, Paravur municipality has formed a special COVID-19 care committee to curb the spread. All the 32 wards in the local body have Jagratha committees closely monitoring the situation while a war room and 24x7 help centre are also functional. A step-down FLTC with 100 beds will start functioning at Chittumala from Monday while Sasthamcotta block panchayat has arranged transportation and testing centres for patients. A domiciliary care centre with 100 beds has been set up at Kulasekharapuram where test positivity rate is very high. Pathanapuram taluk hospital has started a 24-hour help desk. Two executive magistrates will be in charge of ensuring oxygen supply to various treatment centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lsgis-firm-up-covid-containment-steps/article34518551.ece
09 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||TPR over 25% in local bodies in Kozhikode||Fifty-five of the 70 grama panchayats and six of the seven municipalities in Kozhikode now have a daily test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 above 25% even as fresh cases in the district dropped to 3,981 on Saturday. After a long time, the number of recoveries exceeded that of new cases. The district administration restricted public life in Kattippara and Narippatta grama panchayats and Koduvally and Payyoli municipalities on Saturday where the TPR exceeded 25%. Earlier, similar curbs had been imposed on 53 grama panchayats and four municipalities. Kakkur, Kayakkodi, Moodadi, and Thikkodi grama panchyats were declared critical local bodies where the TPR is over 30%. Meanwhile, 183 more sectoral magistrates were appointed under various police station limits for surveillance and coordination, taking their total number to 486. Fifteen of them would be under the Kozhikode Corporation limits, 26 in Mukkom, Koduvally, Vadakara, Koyilandy, Ramanattukara, and Payyoli, and 142 others would cover grama panchayats. According to the district medical officer, there were 3,864 locally acquired infections on Saturday and the source of 106 others was not known. A total of 4,991 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 52,219. The daily TPR is 27.68% when 15,120 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 917 cases of local transmission, Vadakara 170, Maniyoor 143, and Koyilandy 96.  1,196 cases in Wayanad Wayanad reported over 1,000 cases for the third day in a row, when 1,196 people, including nine health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. The daily test positivity rate was 26.03 % when 2,990 samples were examined. While 42 persons who came from abroad and other States were among those who were diagnosed with the disease, 607 people recovered on Saturday. The district has so far reported 47,440 cases. Of them, 33,078 have recovered. As many as 12,975 persons are undergoing treatment and 33,386 persons are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-over-25-in-local-bodies-in-kozhikode/article34518574.ece
09 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Skoch Award for community kitchen||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation’s community kitchen project, which was implemented during the lockdown in March-April 2020, has been selected for Skoch Award 2021. The initiative got the ‘Silver’ award for projects by local bodies in the country, in the sub-category of ‘Inspirational or Transformational Performance during COVID’. The corporation’s community kitchens were different in that they were run using public contributions. There were 12 community kitchens within the corporation limits, and they distributed two meals a day to 5.5 lakh people on 45 days. The expenses were borne by individuals, establishments, and voluntary organisations. The project was selected from 1,000 nominations from across the country. Skoch Awards were instituted by Skoch International, an NGO.. Mayor Beena Philip dedicated the award to the people of Kozhikode, whose compassion and generosity resulted in the success of community kitchens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/skoch-award-for-community-kitchen/article34518572.ece
09 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||4,560 positive cases in capital||The district’s COVID-19 caseload continued to reach uncharted levels as 4,560 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. The high caseload pushed the test positivity rate to 31.68%. With 2,403 people recovering from the illness, the count of active cases stood at 36,480. A total of 14,391 were subjected to tests during the last 24 hours. As many as 88,730 people are currently in quarantine in the district. These included 6,781 people who were ordered to self-isolate on the day. A total of 4,999 others were permitted to conclude quarantine. As many as 14,172 were inoculated on Saturday. These included 13,398 people who were administered Covishield. Among the beneficiaries, 11,167 people received their second doses. The vaccination drive will remain suspended on Sunday. District Collector Navjot Khosa said nine executive magistrates were appointed to monitor the availability of oxygen among oxygen cylinder agencies in the district. They have been tasked with maintaining the count and distribution of oxygen cylinders, preventing their hoarding and attempts to sell at excess rates. Nedumangad sub-collector Chetan Kumar Meena will coordinate such efforts, the Collector said. Kollam The district reported 2,838 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 1,412 recoveries on Saturday. The new patients include 2,827 contact cases, six health workers, two NRIs, and three others who had travelled from different States. The number of persons who tested positive in Kollam Corporation is 701. The district currently has 35,777 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 11,61,732. While 2,245 people completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 2,17,231 primary and 16,356 secondary contacts of the patients. Kollam currently has two COVID secondary-level treatment centres (SLTCs) and eight COVID first-level treatment centres (FLTCs) functioning in the district. Alappuzha The district logged 2,433 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 2,423 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of six other persons remains unidentified. Four persons who came from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 25.3 per cent. Meanwhile, 772 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 25,909. All local bodies in the district have arranged ambulance services to transport COVID-19 patients to hospitals and other treatment centres. The move followed criticism after a COVID-19 patient lodged in a domiciliary care centre at Punnapra was taken to hospital on a motorcycle after his condition worsened on Friday. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases witnessed a sharp surge on Saturday with 2,395 people testing positive for the virus. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day was 25%. Of the fresh cases, 2,382 people including a health worker contracted the virus through local transmission. The new cases also included 228 children and 409 people aged above 60. Among the local bodies, Kottayam municipality bled the tally with 249 cases, followed by Ettumanur with 101 cases. With 1,404 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 16,041 active cases. According to officials, as many as 100 beds and 20 oxygenated beds will be added to the second-line treatment centre in Pala, which currently has the capacity to accommodate 105 patients. The number of beds in the Government Medical College (GMC) too will be raised. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 1,180 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 1,165 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. With 100 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Aranmula with 47 cases. The district also reported 11 COVID-19 deaths. With 933 recoveries, Pathanamthitta currently has 12,829 active cases while 29,104 others are under surveillance. The TPR for Pathanamthitta over the past one week stood at 22.6%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4560-positive-cases-in-capital/article34518547.ece
09 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||e-pass for emergency travellers||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said citizens constrained to travel during lockdown to attend some emergency could apply for an online pass at pass.bsafe.kerala.gov.in. Domestic workers, manual labourers, and those working for essential services could also get a travel pass from the website. Applicants may download the pass on their mobile phone. Mr. Vijayan urged the public to use the facility sparingly. The government was disinclined to allow inter-district travel. However, citizens requiring to attend the funeral of a close relative or wedding of wards could avail themselves of a pass from the government website to move across districts. Those seeking to shift patients could also use the facility. Only nearby shops People venturing out to shop for food should carry an affidavit stating their purpose of journey. A simple statement written on white paper would suffice. A form on the website would serve as a template for the deposition. Citizens should confine their shopping to neighbourhood stores and not stray afar from their homes. Those having an appointment for vaccination should also carry an affidavit detailing their purpose of travel. The government would parole more prisoners given the pandemic. It wanted to prevent infection clusters in prisons. The Supreme Court had also favoured a liberal parole policy during the period. A committee headed by a High Court judge would whet the parole applications and recommendations. The government would accord leave to prisoners based on the panel’s advice. The police on Friday booked 21,534 persons for violating the mask mandate. Another 13,389 were penalised for not maintaining a physical distance of two metres. The law enforcement collected Rs. 76,18,100 in fines on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-pass-for-emergency-travellers/article34518589.ece
09 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district locked down||Barricades, check-points and police tents made a comeback after over a year as the capital district was ‘locked down’ on Saturday in a bid to contain the worrying COVID-19 spread. After a few initial hours when those engaged in essential services and a few others came out in considerable numbers, the city roads remained largely deserted for most part of the day. Tight screening was put in place at the nearly 20 entry points to the city including Pappanamcode, Kundamankadavu, Kazhakuttom and Vazhayila where vehicles were flagged down and allowed to pass only after producing their identity cards, affidavits or passes issued by station house officers (SHO). Many casual workers who were headed for construction sites were also allowed to pass. Certain areas along the coastal belt such as Valiyathura witnessed large gatherings during fish auctions. However, the crowds were dispersed by the police which later regulated the functioning of fish markets in the region. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the public largely cooperated with the curbs by remaining indoors unless absolutely necessary. The police expected the people to boost their efforts by learning from their experience during the lockdown last year. The situation was no different in the rural parts of the district where most shops remained closed. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range, Sanjaykumar Gurudin said the police are set to tighten checking during the next few days when only those with passes issued for exempted categories and others with emergency purposes will be allowed to travel far from their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-locked-down/article34518546.ece
09 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ganja worth Rs. 3.25 cr. seized||A day after seizing 405 kg of ganja near Balaramapuram, an excise enforcement squad caught two youths with alleged possession of 250 kg of the contraband at Akkulam on Saturday. The State Excise Enforcement Squad arrested Banash of Idukki and Ajnas of Areekode in Malappuram, both aged 27, with the stash found concealed in a parked lorry. They crossed the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border at Vazhikkadavu, near Nilambur, in the guise of transporting disposable cups. The consignment, which is suspected to have been sourced from Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh, was intended to be supplied among drug peddlers in the city. The excise officers received information about the operation from Harikrishnan of Thirumala and Ashkar of Vallakkadavu, who were caught a day ago with alleged possession of 405 kg of ganja from Thachottukavu. According to Excise Circle Inspector T. Anikumar, the ganja confiscated over two days could be worth over Rs. 3.25 crore in the black market. Lockdown impact He pointed out that drug rackets had been exploring various avenues to smuggle large quantities into the State in anticipation of an extended lockdown that could send many youths in search of addictive substances when liquor outlets remained closed. In a bid to exploit the scenario, the racketeers had also doubled the rates of such contraband. Each kg of ganja was now sold for around Rs. 50,000. The racket, which is allegedly operated by two Kowdiar and two Sreekaryam natives from Bengaluru and Andhra Pradesh, is also suspected to have been storing narcotics consignments in a godown at Edavacode, near Sreekaryam. Efforts were currently on to locate the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganja-worth-rs-325-cr-seized/article34518591.ece
09 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Teams to monitor patients in home care||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has called for increased monitoring and care of COVID-19 patients who are in home care and isolation so that their condition does not worsen suddenly. Each individual and family should be made aware of the risks and the precautions they need to take to prevent the disease from worsening. Ward-level committees should monitor families on home isolation, he said. These committees should have a pool of pulse oximeters, and at least five numbers. Each local body should have a plan for transportation of patients to hospitals and a list of vehicles and ambulances for moving patients without delay. Mr. Vijayan said a clear plan of action has been charted out on the next course of action to be followed by the Health system for a person testing positive. Test results are sent to the district programme management and support units, who will hand over the same to rapid response teams (RRTs) and the individual. The RRTs would get in touch with the individual, check their condition, and give directions on the next step of care. Those who do not have facilities for home isolation could be accommodated in domiciliary care centres arranged by the LSGs. If condition worsens Those on home care should be moved quickly to the hospital if they experience shortness of breath or fall in oxygenation. The rapid response teams should be contacted. They will take care of the next course of action. He said the State’s oxygen position was at present satisfactory. Hospitals, in case of shortage, should get in touch with the oxygen war room and the district authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teams-to-monitor-patients-in-home-care/article34518592.ece
09 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Decks cleared to collect relief products from abroad||Kerala has made special arrangements for the import of relief products related to COVID-19 following the tax exemption granted by the Centre. Kerala Medical Services Corporation Limited (KMSCL) will receive COVID relief products from foreign donors on behalf of the State government. The State government has commissioned NoRKA- Roots to procure the relief products. NoRKA-Roots will issue SOP for expatriate associations and other foreign providers to facilitate the export and import of products. Letter of consent A letter of consent from donors and expatriate associations willing to supply the products should be sent toceo.norka@kerala.gov.in. All imported products should be sent to the Managing Director, KMSCL, Thycaud, Thiruvananthapuram. The supplier delivering the relief products should forward the cargo information to KMSCL and NoRKA Roots. Once these are received, KMSCL will coordinate with Customs. KMSCL Norka-Roots and State Nodal Officer will be notified within 24 hours of receipt of products. A special cell has been set up under the Principal Secretary, Industries and NoRKA, K. Elangovan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decks-cleared-to-collect-relief-products-from-abroad/article34518593.ece
09 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||FB blocks poet’s account||Facebook blocked poet K. Satchidanandan’s account for 24 hours on Friday for allegedly violating ‘community standards.’ The poet said Facebook took the step after he posted a humorous video on Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the BJP’s election loss in Kerala and another humour-tinged meme on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Satchidanandan had received both on his WhatsApp account as forwards. He also reportedly received a warning ‘You are trying to post something other people on Facebook have found abusive’ when he tried to post a Lancet article on attempts to stifle criticism. The ban ends on Saturday night. The poet has also been banned from appearing live on Facebook for 30 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fb-blocks-poets-account/article34518594.ece
09 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested with IMFL||The Kovalam police arrested two people during an alleged bid to smuggle bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) from Tamil Nadu on Saturday. The accused, Binumon, 44, of Kannanthura, and Fernandes, 38, of Pallithura, were nabbed during a vehicle check Iin the capital when they were found to possess 27 liquor bottles. Having purchased the liquor from Kanyakumari, the duo intended to sell them the liquor at exorbitant rates in the city in a bid to cash in on the closure of liquor outlets, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-with-imfl/article34518548.ece
09 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Councillor dies of COVID complications||COVID-19 cases is on the rise in Thrissur. The district recorded 4,230 cases on Saturday, while 1,686 persons recovered from disease. The test positivity rate is 28.57%. On Friday there were 3,738 positive cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 27.30 %. The pandemic claimed life of a councillor of the Irinjalakuda Municipality on Saturday.  Jose Chakola, councillor of the 18th ward, had won the election with a thumping majority in the council. He was undergoing treatment for the last one week. The number of active cases in the district is 48,146, and 96 persons from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in various other districts. So far 1,77,479 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district, and 1,28,430 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 4,204 people, including nine health workers, contracted the disease through local transmission on Saturday. High vigil Meanhile, the police have strengthened vigil across the district. The Thrissur City police registered 300 cases and arrested 350 people for violation of COVID protocol on Saturday. The police levied a fine of Rs. 7,28,000 on Saturday alone. Oxygen plant The oxygen plant at the Thrissur Medical College Hospital has started functioning. The plant that can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen in a minute, was installed at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore. The plant will function 24x7 and is expected to meet the oxygen needs of the medical college hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/councillor-dies-of-covid-complications/article34518578.ece
09 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Special team to probe hawala money robbery||A special team led by Thrissur Range DIG will investigate the Kodakara hawala money robbery case. On a directive of the State Police Chief, the special team was constituted as the case involved international money dealings. The police have already started collecting evidence in the case. They recreated the crime sequence at Kodakara along with accused Ranjith, Deepak, Martin, and Babu. According to a complaint lodged by Shamjeer Shamsudheen, 37, of Kozhikode, with the Kodakara police, a gang waylaid him on the Kodakara flyover and robbed him of Rs. 25 lakh and his car when he was en route to Kochi from Kozhikode on April 3. Later, the car was recovered from West Fort. The police arrested those involved in the crime from Thrissur and Kannur. G. Poonkuzhali, Thrissur SP, had earlier said that Dharmarajan of Kozhikode, who handed over the money to driver Shamjeer, was a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh worker. The responsibility of bringing the money from Kozhikode to Kochi was for Dharmarajan. It was Sunil Naik, former State treasurer of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, who handed over the money to Dharmarajan. Sunil Naik told the police he had only business links with Dharmarajan. Though the complainant mentioned robbery of Rs. 25 lakh, the police found that the money involved was much more than that. The police had already recovered around Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-team-to-probe-hawala-money-robbery/article34518587.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lifeline||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lifeline/article34518787.ece
09 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monitoring panel ‘detects’ large-scale misuse of oxygen by pvt. hospitals||The District Oxygen Monitoring Committee has detected large-scale misuse of cylinders by a few private hospitals, as the number of patients being treated in them and the consumption of cylinders did not match. At an urgently convened meeting of the representatives of the oxygen supplying agencies, nodal officers of private designated COVID Hospitals, and private hospitals here on Saturday, Joint Collectors Nishant Kumar and A. Siri, who head the monitoring committee, said the district was receiving 15 KL of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) for all the government hospitals with a capacity of 53 KL. The oxygen supplying agencies from whom the private hospitals source their supplies have their own commercial contracts with various LMO producers, and any disruption in supplies would have to be resolved by themselves. “We will step in and help them only when our intervention becomes essential, as we too have contacts with the Linde and other producers. But it is the Central government that makes oxygen allocations,” Mr. Nishant Kumar said. The committee began the meeting by taking cognisance of the news item published in The Hindu on Saturday. It was of the view that that many hospitals were not admitting patients citing oxygen scarcity as an alibi. “We will conduct a thorough audit of the supply and usage of oxygen and take stringent punitive action against the hospital managements and the nodal officers should there be any discrepancy,” Mr. Nishant Kumar said. Earlier in the day, Parvathi Agencies received 10 KL (half its quota) for refilling at its Kumar Oxygen unit on the Ballari Road in Anantapur, its owner Anand Kumar told The Hindu . Admission process Ms. Siri said the district administration was streamlining the admission process in the hospitals and updating the availability of beds as early as possible. District Forest Officer and Oxygen Monitoring Committee member cross-checked cases of Asha Hospital, Anand Ortho, Pavani Hospital, and S.V. Hospital, and found “large-scale misuse, or use of oxygen for COVID-19 patients not being treated under Aarogyasri.” The nodal officers complained that the hospitals were not providing the required information and not cooperating with them. A few representatives of the private hospitals later individually met the committee members to air their side of the story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monitoring-panel-detects-large-scale-misuse-of-oxygen-by-pvt-hospitals/article34518847.ece
09 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Subsidised groundnut seeds to cost Rs. 5,208 per quintal||The price of the subsidised groundnut seed has been pegged at Rs. 5,208 per quintal, up from Rs. 4,710 last year, with a 40% subsidy from the government. The original price is Rs. 8,680 per quintal as against last year when it was Rs. 7,860 and a subsidy of Rs. 3,472 will be given this year with the percentage of subsidy remaining unchanged. Focus on downtrodden sections Anantapur district has been allocated 2.90 lakh quintals of groundnut seed and the targeted number of farmers is 3.17 lakhs against 2.80 lakh quintals given to 2.87 lakh beneficiaries last year. The government proposes to meet the needs of 30% of the farmers with a focus on the SC/ST and downtrodden farmers, Joint Director Agriculture Y. Ramakrishna told The Hindu . Registration The district has 7 lakh farmers and the area sown in 2020 kharif season was 4.82 lakh hectares. An equal size is expected to be sown this year too with seeds being distributed from May 17. “The farmers need to register with the Rythu Bharosa Kendra from May 10 (Monday) in their village on D-Krishi App and pay the money for the required quantum of seeds according to their eligibility by providing the Aadhaar number,” Mr. Ramakrishna added. The groundnut crop in 2020 had failed in majority of the areas due to excessive rains, but the rabi crop was good and the Agriculture Department could procure 3.25 lakh quintals till last month meeting the entire target, the Joint Director of Agriculture said. Supply in three phases Supply would be made in each mandal in three phases in view of the existing COVID conditions so that there was no assembling of too many farmers at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras. Some farmers have saved the seeds from the rabi crop and will use them beyond what is given on subsidy, or buy from the market at full price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subsidised-groundnut-seeds-to-cost-rs-5208-per-quintal/article34518338.ece
09 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shops to down shutters today in Anantapur||New COVID-19 infections in Anantapur remained very high on Saturday with the positivity rate at 37.97% for the 4,585 samples tested. The number of positive cases was 1,741 in Anantapur and 1,421 in Kurnool and active cases 14,036 and 13,185 respectively. While Anantapur registered 10 fatalities, Kurnool district reported seven taking the cumulative figures to 721 and 589 respectively. While the 270 ICU beds available in Anantapur district have been occupied, out of 1,941 oxygen-supported beds, 1,382 were occupied by Saturday evening. The district vaccinated 3,83,119 persons and of them, 1,27,040 took the second dose. Shoppers’ rush Meanwhile, the Anantapur Chamber of Commerce has announced that all its members will close their shops on Sunday and reopen at 6 a.m. on Monday. Following the announcement, people rushed to shops in the city to make general purchases and also in view of Laylat al-Qadr, also known as Shab-e-Qadr or Night of Decree. People gathered in large numbers before noon at the Rythu Bazaar and the main market in the Old Town area to buy essentials as there is going to be a 36-hour gap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shops-to-down-shutters-today-in-anantapur/article34518339.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka, Kerala pin their hopes on a strict lockdown||Kerala’s COVID-19 worries persisted with 41,971 new cases on Saturday from 1,48,546 samples, representing an average TPR of 28.25%. The State had 4,17,101 active cases. A record number of 64 recent deaths were added to the State toll. Kerala went into a nine-day lockdown on Saturday. Ernakulam continued to have the highest number of active cases at 65,856, followed by Kozhikode (52,638), Malappuram (46,183), Thrissur (48,718) and Thiruvananthapuram (36,480). Andhra Pradesh reported 96 deaths, the highest daily toll in eight and half months, and 20,065 new infections on Saturday. For 1,01,571 samples tested, the TPR was 19.75%. West Godavari reported 14 new deaths. Visakhapatnam and neighbouring East Godavari reported 2,525 and 2,370 new cases respectively. Active COVID-19 cases in Telangana were below the 70,000 mark for the first time in 12 days, even as 5,186 new cases and 38 deaths were reported as of Saturday evening. There were 68,462 active cases. An official bulletin indicated that the daily infection rate was dropping slowly as it stood at 7.5% on Saturday out of 69,148 samples tested. The Greater Hyderabad area, a major contributor of positive cases, remained below the 1,000 mark for the second day after touching four-digits on April 22. On Saturday, 904 cases were reported from the GHMC area. Tamil Nadu on Saturday saw a surge in COVID-19 cases and fatalities, with 27,397 people testing positive and 241 succumbing to it. The State’s tally rose to 13,51,362, while its toll touched 15,412.  (With inputs from Chennai, Vijayawada, and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-kerala-pin-their-hopes-on-a-strict-lockdown/article34518319.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will consider relief in oxygen deaths case’||The Karnataka High Court has said it will consider the plea for payment of compensation to kin of COVID-19 patients who died in Chamarajanagar district, allegedly due to lack of oxygen supply, after the inquiry into the incident. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order on May 6 while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by K.M. Shreeniwasmurthy, a Chamarajanagar-based advocate. The Bench said it would hear the petition seeking payment of compensation for the 23 persons who died in the Chamarajanagar district hospital on May 2 and 3 after the preliminary report of inquiry, either by the IAS officer appointed by the State government or by the committee appointed by the Legal Services Authority, was submitted before the court. Rules out autopsy On the prayer of the petitioner to direct the government to conduct autopsy of the persons who have died of COVID-19, the Bench said, “We do not think that at this stage, we can issue a direction to the State government to undertake autopsy of each and every person who has died of COVID-19.” Regarding the plea for conducting an inquiry into the death of COVID-19 patients, allegedly due to lack of oxygen supply, in Kalaburagi, the Bench said that it need not consider this plea at this stage. The court, however, kept open the plea for payment of compensation even for the deceased in Kalaburagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-consider-relief-in-oxygen-deaths-case-says-hc/article34518308.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka:Man held for selling oxygen cylinders at exorbitant price to patients||A man has been arrested for selling oxygen cylinders to patients at ten times the government price of Rs. 300, the police said on Saturday. Ravi Kumar, who is the branch in charge of Siga Gases at Peenya Industrial Area in the city, was selling oxygen cylinders for Rs. 3,000 per 47 litres of oxygen.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnatakaman-held-for-selling-oxygen-cylinders-at-exorbitant-price-to-patients/article34518313.ece
09 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Darshan timings changed at TTD temples||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) has restricted darshan timings at Sri Kapileswara temple in Tirupati and other sub temples in view of the rising COVID cases. While Sri Kapileswara temple would be open to public from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m., sub temples would be open between 7.20 a.m. and 11 a.m. The list of temples with the revised timings are: Sri Kodandarama Swami temple at Chandragiri, Sri Seshachala Lingeswara temple at Kandulavarupalli, Sri Prasanna Venkateswara temple in Mangalampeta, Sri Venkateswara temple in Tondamanadu, Sri Alaghamalla Krishna temple at Munnar Paluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/darshan-timings-changed-at-ttd-temples/article34518340.ece
09 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kodali hits out at Naidu for ‘spreading falsehood’||Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) has said the State government is ready to vaccinate 10 lakh people per day and complete the entire process in 40 days provided the vaccine doses are available. The government had already consulted Bharat Biotech (for Covaxin) and Serum Institute of India (for Covishield), but the companies expressed their inability to supply the doses immediately. It could take a longer time, the Minister said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had already written to the Centre twice seeking adequate supply of the vaccines. Referring to the TDP leaders’ demand for handing over the Chief Minister’s post the Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu for a week to bring the situation under control, the Minister said that the people had defeated the TDP in 2019 as Mr. Naidu had failed to develop the State, and instead pushed it into a debt trap. “It is not fair for Mr. Naidu to make allegations against the government in these tough times. Those who spread false propaganda should be prosecuted and imprisoned,” he said. “Mr. Naidu is resorting to false propaganda about the N440K strain of the virus, which is creating panic among the people,” he said. The Minister said the government was spending crores of rupees to provide treatment for COVID-19 patients and taking measures to control the virus, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kodali-hits-out-at-naidu-for-spreading-falsehood/article34518848.ece
09 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRMJEE to be held in May, July||The entrance exam for admission to B.Tech programmes in the SRM group of institutions, including SRM University(A.P.), will be conducted in two phases. Aspirants will have the option to either take the SRMJEEE-2021 exam in phase I, to be held on May 23 and 24, or in phase II, to be held on July 25 and 26. Examinations will be conducted through remote proctored online mode (RPOM). The last date of application is May 15 and July 21 for phase I and II respectively. So far, 92% of students of the maiden batch at SRM-A.P. have been placed, with the highest salary touching Rs. 29.5 lakh per annum and average salary of Rs. 6.25 lakh per annum. The campus drive continues for having 100% placements.  Scholarships A wide range of scholarships is made available for meritorious students on enrolment. For details, visit www.srmap.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srm-entrance-test-to-be-held-in-may-july/article34518341.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare sculptures of Rani Rudrama Devi unearthed||Two rare sculptural portraits of Kakatiya queen Rudrama Devi were unearthed and identified by an archaeologist in the premises of the Sangameswara Swamy Temple at Teerthala village in Telangana’s Khammam district recently. D. Kanna Babu, former Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, Chennai, told The Hindu the celebrated temple is panchakuta — a five-unit marvellous shrine monument consisting of wonderful architectural features and requisite components for the comfortable worship of divinities. The shrine stands on a well built jagati platform now being covered under flooring and the most baffling aspect of the shrine is its complex enriched with two most marvellous sculptural representations. “Although both the sculptured slabs are abraded due to ravages of nature over the passage of time, the portraits have safely retained queen Rudrama Devi`s (A.D 1262 – 89) imperial personality and her characteristic gesticulation as an ardent devotee of Lord Siva — otherwise it could be a great loss to the history of Kakatiyas,” he said. Mr. Babu said one panel is in an oval frame and depicts the majestic personality. “She is seated on her forefeet while her hands are in Anjali mudra [a gesture of worship]. The face is oval, eyes are closed in deep meditation, and dress and ornaments of the queen are quite stunning,” he noticed. She wears elaborate earrings, beaded necklaces, armlets, wristlets and anklets. Her typical royal upper robe is very handsome and the lower garment covers up to ankles and tied with a waistband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rare-sculptures-of-rani-rudrama-devi-unearthed/article34518315.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police pick up TRS ZP chairman for questioning||Ramagundam police have picked up TRS leader and Peddapally zilla parishad chairman Putta Madhu, who had reportedly disappeared a week ago, from Bhimavaram of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh State. He was being questioned in connection with the twin murder of lawyer couple Gattu Vaman Rao and P.V. Nagamani, the police said in a statement. The TRS leader from Peddapally district was being interrogated in the light of fresh allegations made by Vaman Rao’s father Kishan Rao. The slain lawyer’s father lodged a fresh petition to Warangal IGP Nagi Reddy alleging that Madhu played a key role in the killings of his son and daughter-in-law. Investigators grilled Madhu earlier when the double murder was reported in the third week of this February. Five persons, including a close aide of Putta Madhu, were arrested in the sensational double murder. However, investigators then said that they had no clinching evidence to arrest Madhu despite serious allegations levelled against him by Vaman Rao’s father. Interestingly, Madhu’s ‘disappearance’ coincided following his reported closed-door meeting with another TRS leader Eatala Rajender, who was dropped from the Cabinet recently. It is said that Madhu met Rajender at a farmhouse on Hyderabad outskirts. Soon after that meeting ended, Madhu was not to be seen. His family members too reportedly had no clue where he had gone after that meeting. Rumours did round that the top TRS leaders wanted to cut Madhu down to his size since he tried to side with Rajender who challenged the party supremo K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Ramagundam police are yet to announce if they found any fresh evidence linking Madhu with the lawyer couple murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-pick-up-trs-zp-chairman-for-questioning/article34518307.ece
09 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Comments on COVID strain: police to serve notice on Naidu||The Kurnool I Town police Circle Inspector will travel to Hyderabad on Sunday to serve notice on Telugu Desam Party chief N. Chandrababu Naidu under 41 (a) Cr.P.C. for his alleged video statements on the N440K strain of COVID-19. A case was registered in the I Town police station on Friday against Mr. Naidu. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said all clarifications had been given on the N440K strain of the virus and none should spread canards and false information about it. None should spread falsehood on social media or other public forums. Meanwhile, the D. Hirehal Police have registered a case against the former minister and TDP leader Nara Lokesh for his Twitter comments on Rayadurg MLA Kapu Ramachandra Reddy for his alleged involvement in the alleged thrashing of some TDP workers in Karnataka. The case has been registered under sections 153(A),505, and 506.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/comments-on-covid-strain-police-to-serve-notice-on-naidu/article34518845.ece
09 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infections shoot up again in South Coastal Andhra||After reporting less than 2,000 cases on Friday giving temporary relief, COVID cases shot up again as more than 2,500 persons contracted the viral infection in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases climbed to 29,683 as 2,598 persons, including 1,515 Nellore district, tested positive for the disease, according to a health bulletin released by the State government late on Saturday. A day after fresh cases came down to 385, Prakasam district reported a near three-fold rise with 1,083 cases. The only solace was that there were no casualties during the period. As a result, the death toll remained static at 669 in Prakasam, while Nellore’s toll rose to 649 with seven COVID-related casualties. Recoveries Meanwhile, more than 1,600 persons recovered during the period. Hospitals still overflowed with patients as the gap between fresh admissions and recoveries continued be high at over 1,000. With the pandemic raging unabated, session sites across the two districts witnessed a heavy rush of people who jostled to take the jab. A majority of them had already taken taken the first dose and were waiting for the second dose. In SPSR Nellore district, more than 9,700 took the jab till late on Saturday and in Prakasam, over 7,800 persons took the shot, health officials said. As many as 10.54 lakh doses of vaccine have been administered in the two districts with SPSR Nellore district accounting for 5.46 doses and Prakasam for 5.08 doses, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infections-shoot-up-again-in-south-coastal-andhra/article34518343.ece
09 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery rate slow in second wave: doctor||A group of patients with oxygen cylinders under the shade of a tree is no spectacle from Nalamalla forests in Prakasam. Right in the heart of Ongole, a steady stream of patients gasping for breath can been trying to get much needed relief by arranging oxygen cylinders on their own on the picturesque Government General Hospital (GGH) campus and desperately wait for allotment of beds. Scores of anxious relatives of patients can be seen seen waiting at the reception centre, even as the patients lie on the pavements as the number of fresh cases, many of them critical ones, rose exponentially in the recent times resulting in a very tight bed availability situation at the GGH as also in Vaidyavidan Parishad hospitals and private hospitals. “'We have converted all the beds in the GGH to oxygen beds and admitting only critical cases,” said COVID-19 wing nodal officer at GGH John Richardson, leading a team of 120 medical officers and over 500 nurses providing medical treatment round the clock. The active cases dropped to less than 50, as Prakasam district registered zero cases on many days till March 2021 before new cases started to rise once again exponentially to cross the 13,000-mark now. “The virus now is more virulent that the one during the first wave. As a result, recovery is slow,” he observed after a whistle-stop examination of a large number of patients on the floor in the COVID-19 ward overseen by him. “The availability of beds is very tight as the cases have risen in geometric proportion of late,” he reveals during a conversation with The Hindu . “The health situation is very critical with very heavy case load. It may take another month to bring the situation under control. We will be out of the woods in about two months’ time,” he opined as the fresh positive cases continued unabated day in and day out. More than 700 patients required oxygen therapy at the hospital at any given point of time at the hospital with a bed with 20 kl oxygen plant. “There is no shortage of medicines as such in the hospital with 1,200 beds to treat COVID patients,” he added. Meanwhile, Prakasam District Medical and Health officer P. Ratnavalli explained that only critical cases were referred to 35 designated hospitals. About 900 patients not requiring hositalisation were being treated in the 19 COVID Care Centres functioning across the district. Rest of the positive cases were being provided treatment from their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recovery-rate-slow-in-second-wave-doctor/article34518851.ece
09 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Over 25 lakh people need vaccination in Srikakulam’||The Telugu Desam Party State Secretary Boina Govindarajulu on Saturday said that more than 25 lakh people out of 28 lakh population of Srikakulam district were eagerly waiting for COVID-19 vaccination. Along with his wife, he staged a protest in Srikakulam to step up pressure on the government for providing vaccination to all the people in the district. “Thousands of people are waiting in vain at Primary Health Centres for the second dose of vaccination. There is a huge gap between demand and supply. The State government is giving top priority to suppress voice of people as well as the Opposition leaders instead of concentrating on its prime responsibility,” Mr. Govinda Rajulu alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-25-lakh-people-need-vaccination-in-srikakulam/article34518861.ece
09 May 2021||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 ambulances deployed to shift bodies of victims: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Saturday said that 10 ambulances have been deployed for transportation of COVID-19 victims from the hospitals to the crematoriums in Rajamahendravaram in the East Godavari district. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna took stock of the COVID care facilities and treatment in various private hospitals, District Government Hospitals and COVID Care Centre at Bommuru . “We have been able to prevent the exploitation of the ambulance services operators who charged Rs. 30,000 to shift a body to the crematorium. Now, Rs. 4, 500 is charged to shift a body,” he said. He has appealed the private hospital managements to show humanity and don’t collect exorbitant fees from the patients. Speaking to the media here, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna has said that Forest Department has been directed to supply wood and fuel to the crematoriums which were being run under the aegis of a designated official to ensure decent last rites for the victims. The Minister has announced that the government would soon conduct a special vaccination drive for the inmates of the Rajamahendravaram Central Prison to contain the spread of the coronavirus in the prison. He has directed the officials to take steps to increase bed strength at the Bommuru centre. Sub-Collector Anupama Anjali has said that the city would soon get additional supply of medical oxygen that is set to be produced by Andhra Paper Mill authorities in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-ambulances-deployed-to-shift-bodies-of-victims-minister/article34518864.ece
09 May 2021||T. Appala NaiduKUCHIPUDI (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||Kuchipudi loses its ambassador to COVID||Kuchipudi village in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district, where the Indian classical dance of Kuchipudi flourishes, has with the death of the multi-faceted Pasumarthy Keshav Prasad here on Friday lost its ambassador to the Indian classical dance form. Prasad suffered a heart stroke while curating a classical dance festival here, but survived. However, he lost the battle against COVID-19. Being the direct disciple of Vedantam Parvateesam and Padma Bhushan Vempati China Satyam, he accepted Vempati’s obligation of leading the 37-year-old Akhila Bharata Kuchipudi Natya Kala Mandali (ABKNKM) since its formative years. Sangeet Natak Academy Awardee Vedantam Radheshyam put it: “Mr. Keshav (as fondly called by the Kuchipudi Gurus) ran the ABKNKM on the lines of what our yesteryear gurus had dreamt of. It was he who brought the dancers from every other classical dance forms to our village. He was the ambassador for Kuchipudi dance and the village to the rest of the world of dance. We could not find someone who could replace him.” Born to the family of Pasumarthy Subramanya Sastri, renowned Yakshagana expert, Prasad spent most of his life in Kuchipudi village, where his task was to monitor prayer rituals to Goddess Balatripura Sundari in the village temple. He had initiated two of his three sons to Kuchipudi dance, Mutyam (dance guru) and Hari (mridangam).  Devastated to see that State bifurcation had affected the academic activity at the Telugu University’s campus here, the humble guru succeeded in reviving the guru-sishya tradition of teaching in the Vempati’s house here by signing a pact with Krishna University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kuchipudi-loses-its-humble-ambassador-to-covid-19/article34518312.ece
09 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counsellors offer lifeline to patients, kin||A retired nurse at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram lost her husband to COVID-19. Her son too tested positive and had to enter isolation. Caught between grief for her husband and worry for her son, she went through a harrowing time. There was no family or friend to hold on to amid the pandemic. As reassurance and support were what she needed most, Anilkumar T.V., professor of psychiatry at the hospital, communicated with her over the phone regularly. Not gradual Unlike the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, when there was a gradual build-up of cases and people had time to come to terms with what was happening, the second wave has spread like wildfire, bringing with it fear and anxiety. To cope with these, people are increasingly turning to counsellors and psychiatrists. Shintu Sebastian, a mental health counsellor attached to the Kozhikode-based Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (IMHANS), says in the initial days of the lockdown last year, many were scared about the impact of the pandemic. Some were depressed after they lost their jobs. There were parents concerned about behavioural changes in children. However, when the number of fresh cases declined, so did the calls. Now, as the second wave of infection spreads, the calls too have started coming in at IMHANS, says Ms. Shintu. Asha Raj, a counsellor at the GLV Higher Secondary School, Arayoor, near Parassala, who also provides counselling under the State Mental Health Programme, says people undergo immense stress worrying about the infection. Stressors can be varied. A young bank employee Ms. Raj counselled was in isolation when news about the pandemic all-round and how people in his age group were vulnerable left him so shaken he would stay up all night conjuring up unwelcome scenarios. Home isolation worsens the mental health problems of those under treatment for such issues. Ms. Raj narrates how a young woman teetered on the brink of suicide when the rest of her family became infected. Her sister used to supervise her medication, but alone in a room, the young woman expressed apprehension that she would overdose on them. As she was under treatment as part of the District Mental Health Programme, her details were passed on to them for follow-up. Trauma and isolation experienced by people will only increase as cases surge, especially if there are deaths. When people do not get to bid a final farewell to their loved ones, they are denied a closure and the healing process suffers, Dr. Anilkumar points out. Cinu Rajan, a resident of Thiruvananthapuram, has first-hand experience of this. From losing his job abroad to the death of both parents from COVID-19 to spending time in the ICU, he went through an ordeal last year. By the time his wife tested positive, he felt strong enough to cope with her illness. After all, he had seen six people die in a single day in the ICU and spent over two months in quarantine in total. But he is infinitely thankful to family, friends and healthcare workers who supported him. Online therapy Meanwhile, IMHANS is conducting online therapy sessions for people with existing mental health issues who might have missed medications or routine check-ups, says Ms. Sebastian. The helpline of Manasa, a non-governmental organisation of medical college doctors in Thiruvananthapuram, is also available for patients who have returned home to call up and seek clarifications.  As the second wave of infection spreads, the calls too have started coming in at Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences. Shintu Sebastian, Mental health counsellor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counsellors-offer-lifeline-to-patients-kin/article34518305.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case against Naidu breach of SC order, says Congress||The Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president S. Sailajanath on Saturday found fault with the registration of a complaint against the TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu on the charge that he was creating fear among the people of Kurnool by saying that the N440K coronavirus strain was still prevalent and was deadly as compared to other strains. In a statement, the Congress leader said filing of an FIR against the Opposition TDP leader was tantamount to a breach of the order of the Supreme Court which had made an observation that cases cannot be booked based on criticism by political leaders and that the ruling governments should use the constructive criticism to plug the loopholes in the system. Mr. Sailajanath accused the YSRCP government of resorting to ‘politics of vendetta’. Turning the heat on the Centre, he said it had failed to protect the lives of people who had contracted the virus. “Leaving the youth out of the inoculation drive can prove to be disastrous as many young are succumbing to the infection,” he said. Mr. Sailajanath demanded that the Centre release the vaccine to the State on a war-footing and the State government, if the need arose, should not hesitate to spend Rs. 1,600 crore for purchase of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/case-against-naidu-breach-of-sc-order-says-congress/article34518852.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||491 tonnes of oxygen supplied to hospitals in a day: Singhal||Health, Medical and Family Welfare Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal has said that the oxygen supply to hospitals by the State increased in the past several days and in the past day, 491 tonnes of liquid oxygen for COVID-19 patients has been supplied. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, he said that the Central government also increased the allocation for the State from 480 tonnes to 590 tonnes after several requests. He said that the State had requested the Centre to provide more supply and also ensure it from the plants near to the State for easy transportation as the requirement by hospitals was growing daily. More COVID hospitals Further, the State government also called tenders for the supply of liquid oxygen and the response is awaited. The State is ready to import oxygen. The 25 cryogenic tankers purchased by the State will reach in three weeks, he said. The number of hospitals treating COVID-19 patients increased to 662 in the State and there are 7,065 ICU beds and 23,585 oxygen beds as of Saturday afternoon. As many as 6,300 ICU beds and 21,950 oxygen beds were occupied and the number of patients in COVID Care Centres increased to 14,784. Mr. Singhal said that there were no complaints of shortage of Remdesivir from private hospitals and in the past 24 hours 15,476 doses were supplied to them as per the requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/491-tonnes-of-oxygen-supplied-to-hospitals-in-a-day-singhal/article34518843.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay ex gratia to quarry blast victims: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday expressed shock over the death of workers in the blast at a limestone quarry at Mamillapalle in Kadapa district. In a statement, Mr. Naidu said many others were injured in the explosion, and demanded that the government announce ex gratia to the next of kin of the deceased on the lines of the one announced for the victims of gas leak at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam last year. Demanding that proper medical care be provided to all those who were injured in the blast, Mr. Naidu sought to know why the government had allowed mining works at a time when there was an 18-hour curfew in the State to check spread of COVID-19. He said a criminal case should be booked against the CM for his “failure” to guarantee protection to the lives of workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-ex-gratia-to-quarry-blast-victims-naidu/article34518853.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP supplying 20 tonnes LMO to State||The Jindal Steel and Power (JSP) plant at Angul in the neighbouring Odisha has been supplying 20 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) to Andhra Pradesh every day for providing treatment to the COVID-19 patients. The JSP had started supplying oxygen to the State on April 24. It had assured the State government of continuous supply till it was needed, a press release from the A.P. Covid Command Control Room said. “The oxygen supplied is being used in hospitals across the State, giving a fresh lease of life to those who seriously ill due to COVID-19,” it said. The State government thanked the JSP for coming to the rescue of the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-supplying-20-tonnes-lmo-to-state/article34518854.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare bone marrow transplant performed||Manipal Hospital in the city has successfully carried out haploidentical bone marrow transplant on a 20-year-old B.Com student with the support of the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The patient, K. Eswar Sai Ganesh, underwent the rare procedure in which doctors take a half-matched human leukocyte antigen (HLA) from a parent or a sibling. In a release, Haemato Oncology consultant Madhav Danthala said that the patient was diagnosed with T-lymphoblastic Lymphoma in 2016. He said the condition relapsed in 2019 after the patient had undergone treatment for two-and-a-half years. “The patient got admitted to the hospital in January after which he underwent salvage chemotherapy. Once we got the disease under control, we performed a Haploidentical Stem Cell Transplant so that the disease doesn’t relapse again. For this treatment, the patient received the stem cells from his father,” Dr. Madhav said. Hospital director Sudhakar Kantipudi said that the fatality rate is as high as 48% in this particular surgery. Dr. Sudhakar thanked CM Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy for supporting many patients through the CMRF so that the financial ability of the patient would be the least of the concerns during such trying times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rare-bone-marrow-transplant-performed/article34518337.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID helpline ‘104’ handles 1.92 lakh calls so far||The State's COVID Command Control Centre's helpline 104 handled 1.92 lakh calls from the public seeking information and services related to treatment, tests and others since the helpline was resumed on April 16. In a press release, the Health Department stated that in the past 24 hours as of 4 p.m. on Saturday 17,690 calls were received. A similar number of calls were received in 24 hours ending 4 p.m. on Friday. The majority of the calls were made for general information on COVID-19. Around 35,000 calls each were made regarding COVID tests, hospital admissions, and around 30,000 calls were made to find out test results. The helpline also provided information regarding vaccines, vaccine centres locations and others. However, the release did not specify how many tests, vaccination appointments, hospital admissions were facilitated. The helpline in coordination with district Command Control centres handled the calls from the public across the State round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-helpline-104-handles-192-lakh-calls-so-far/article34518841.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helpdesks for children hit by COVID-19||The State government has set up COVID helpdesks for children affected by COVID-19 in their family. The State government would take temporary care of the children who were orphaned by the death of parents due to COVID or those who had no place to go when both parents were admitted to hospitals. In such cases, the government can be informed by dialling 181 or 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helpdesks-for-children-hit-by-covid-19/article34518842.ece
09 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quarry accident shocks Governor, CM||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed anguish over the death of 10 workers and injuries to several others in a quarry following explosion of incendiary material, at Mamillapalli village in Kadapa district on Saturday. Mr. Harichandan instructed the officials to provide better medical care to the injured persons, and conveyed condolences to the members of the bereaved families. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock and enquired about its cause. He ordered that proper care be taken care of the injured and condoled the death of workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quarry-accident-shocks-governor-cm/article34518855.ece
09 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||300 beds with oxygen supply likely to be added tomorrow||The first step towards enhancing the bed strength in the city has been initiated and 300 beds with oxygen supply are likely to be added on Monday. MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s Pragathi Bharathi Trust and the district administration have taken over a private college building on the National Highway near Sheela Nagar and the first and the second floors in the building will be converted into a full-fledged 300-bed COVID hospital. “Last year, during the first wave, the same building served as a quarantine centre and this year, due to the demand, we have converted into a hospital under the private-public partnership with the trust,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. Under the partnership, the trust will provide the infrastructure and the district administration will provide the medical staff, drugs and medication. “We are under the process of laying the oxygen pipelines and identifying the doctors and nurses to serve at the hospital. If everything goes as per the plan, then by Monday it should be operational,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “About 25 beds in RCD Hospital, 90 in family ward in psychiatry hospital and 50 in Regional Eye Hospital, all oxygenated, will be ready by early next week. We have already opened up 96 beds in ENT hospital, and with this the total oxygenated bed count will go up from 4,000 to about 4,700 by early next week,” he said. It is also learnt that former District Collector Pravin Kumar, who is now acting as the Special COVID Officer for the district, held a meeting with the Health Department officials on Friday and have proposed enhancement of beds at the KGH. According to the proposal, two wards in KGH, Rajendra Prasad and Bhavanagar, with a combined bed strength of around 400, may be converted shorty into COVID wards. “The idea has been mooted and it is up to the KGH to give the confirmation. It is true that there are regular patients in the wards, but keeping the present emergency-like situation in mind, we hope that things will work out. If that be the case, then both the wards can be converted into COVID wards by middle of the next week,” said a senior officer from the Health Department. Triage centre The district administration and the KGH have already agreed to convert the parking lot, which is called the ‘German hangar’ into a triage centre with the help of the TTD. It will be operational by early next week and about 100 beds, some with oxygen support, will be made available to make patients comfortable. Meanwhile, industry leaders such as Shiv Kumar from Maple Software, Sridhar Panuganti of Xinthe Technologies, Murali Krishna Gannamani of Fluentgrid, Neeraj Sarda of Sarda Metals & FerroAalloys, RVS Raju of RHI Clasil, Mallika Grandhi and Satish Mangalgiri of Vaibhav Jewellers, Chaman Baid of ACN Infotech, Dharmender Varada of Novus Construction group, Dr. Murali Voona of Gandhi Cancer Institute, and Raju Indukuri of Sunray Resorts have joined hands to support Gayatri Vidya Parishad Institute of Health Care & Medical Technology, by way of funding and extending support to help it to quickly ramp up bed capacity and oxygen availability for additional 50-60 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/300-beds-with-oxygen-supply-likely-to-be-added-tomorrow/article34518872.ece
09 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One person held, 12 oxygen cylinders seized||A man was taken into custody and 10 medical oxygen cylinders of 68-litre capacity and two cylinders of 48-litre capacity were seized from his possession for stocking and selling medical oxygen without licence, by the officials of the Drugs Control Administration(DCA), Visakhapatnam on Friday night. B. Jagadeesh Kumar, the accused, was allegedly involved in the illegal sale and black marketing of medical oxygen cylinders at M/s Moray Smart Solutions at MVP Colony in the city. According to K. Rajitha, Assistant Director, DCA, Visakhapatnam, based on information received from the Director General, DCA, Guntur, on Friday, a decoy operation was conducted. Drugs Inspector D. Suneeta contacted the accused over telephone for medical oxygen, he told her that the stock would be ready in the evening and the price was Rs. 55,000. In the evening, the accused told Ms. Suneeta that he had big cylinders only and the price was Rs. 78,000. The Drugs Inspector along with the CI(V&E), Viaskhapatnam, approached the accused, posing as customers to purchase the cylinder. He asked them to pay Rs. 50,000 in cash and the remaining Rs. 28,000 through online. The cylinders were seized by Drugs Inspector (Sales), Visakhapatnam, P.N.V.V.S.Kalyani. The seizure was completed by 11 p.m. and the accused was handed over to the MVP Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-person-held-12-oxygen-cylinders-seized/article34518865.ece
09 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sai devotees serving the needy||Members of Visakhapatnam District Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisations(SSSSO) are providing vitamin C, D and Zinc tablets and sanitisers to the needy as part of their service to the needy during the pandemic, inspired by the ideology of ‘love all - serve all’. Medical kits are also being provided to COVID patients. In some public health centres, staff were given sanitisers, masks and PPE kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sai-devotees-serving-the-needy/article34518867.ece
09 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online services launched at temple||Online services have been launched at Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple, Burujupeta, for the benefit of devotees, who are unable to attend the temple due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Devotees can make online payment for different pujas. Trikala Archana (panchamruthabhishekam) – Rs. 516 (to be held at 5 a.m.,11 a.m. and at 6 p.m.), Ashtadala Padmarchana (7 a.m.) - Rs. 1,116, Ksheerabhishekam (Fridays, 8 a.m.) - Rs. 200, Laksha Kumkumarchana (2nd Tuesday of every month) – Rs. 10,000, Srichakranavavarnanchana (on Pournami days) Rs. 2,516. Devotees can make online payments for the respective pujas to SB A/c no. 060810011006691 IFSC UBIN 0806081. Devotees have to send details of the puja, transaction ID, name, gothram and address via WhatsApp to the temple mobile nos. 9398942537 / 9966518162, according to Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi. Kumkuma and prasadam of the goddess and payment receipt will be sent to the devotees by post. E-hundi facility has also been launched at the temple. Devotees can send their donations throughwww.tms.ap.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-services-launched-at-temple/article34518866.ece
09 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains to clear summer rush||Special trains will be run by the railways to clear rush of passengers. Train no. 05696 Agartala- Trivandrum summer special will leave Agartala at 5.30 p.m. on May 12 and arrive in Visakhapatnam on May 14 at 2.55 p.m. and depart at 3.15 p.m. and will reach Trivandrum at 8.45 p.m. on May 15. The one-way special will also have halts at Bhadrak and Palasa over East Coast Railway. Train no. 07312 Mysuru – Danapur summer special express will leave Mysuru at 11 a.m. on May 11 (Tuesday) and will reach Danapur at 8:45 p.m. on May 13 (Thursday) for one trip only. The special will arrive in Visakhapatnam at 7.55 p.m. and leave 8.15 p.m. on May 12. It will also have halts at Khurda Road and Bhadrak over East Coast Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-to-clear-summer-rush/article34518868.ece
09 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 2,505 new COVID cases, 12 deaths||There appears to be no respite from the spike in COVID-19 cases during the second wave, as the district recorded 2,505 cases, in the last 24 hours on Saturday. This was for the second time since the outbreak of the pandemic last March that the daily case tally had breached the 2,000-mark. Last Wednesday, the district recorded 2,293 cases taking the total tally to 96,125 cases and active cases to 17,857. The district also recorded 12 deaths, highest since the last eight months, taking the total toll to 688. Meanwhile, 1,185 persons undergoing treatment were discharged, taking the total discharges to 77,580.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-2505-new-covid-cases-12-deaths/article34518873.ece
09 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found murdered||A 23-year-old-man was found murdered near the Convent Junction Bridge under Two Town police station limits here on Friday night. The deceased was identified as Neelapu Chandrasekhar alias Chandu alias Iron Man, a resident of Bhupathinagar of Kobbarithota in the city. The police said that there were stab injuries on the body. Chandu was involved in collection of scrap and a few others for livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-found-murdered/article34518874.ece
09 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. failed to tackle second wave effectively’||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu has lashed out at the YSRCP government for “wasting time on targeting the Opposition leaders instead of initiating measures to control the pandemic and save lives of people.” Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Atchannaidu said the sole objective of the Chief Minister should be to save the lives of people and not extending benefits of welfare schemes. He alleged that the government failed to utilise the seven months time at its disposal effectively to tackle the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-to-tackle-second-wave-effectively/article34518862.ece
09 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rambabu takes over as VIMS Director||K. Rambabu, Professor of General Medicine, Andhra Medical College, assumed charge as the new Director of Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) here on Saturday. Administrative Officer SK. Bajith greeted the new Director. K. Satya Vara Prasad, the outgoing Director, was present. Doctors, administrative staff, nurses and paramedical staff greeted the new VIMS Director. Dr. Rambabu called upon the staff to extend their cooperation to him and inform him if there were any problems at the hospital. He enquired about the services being rendered by the hospital during the second wave surge. He advised the public to take adequate precautions as the pandemic was spreading rapidly during the second wave. Earlier, AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar handed over the appointment orders to Dr. Rambabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rambabu-takes-over-as-vims-director/article34518870.ece
09 May 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Final rites of COVID victims should be performed with full respect’||YSR Congress Party MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu said that the final rites of the COVID victims should be performed with full respect according to their religious beliefs. He urged volunteers to come forward to ensure proper cremation for the victims as many family members were unable to perform final rites due to their own illness and restriction on women’s participation. Dr. Suresh Babu and Naa Vooru Vizianagaram founder Gummuluri Vishala ensured clearance of debris in old cremation ground located at Balaji Market. Speaking to the media, Dr. Suresh Babu said that cremation was delayed at many places with the sudden death of many patients in Vizianagaram and its surrounding places. He hoped that the new ground would be useful for the Cantonment region. Ms. Vishala said that the association was trying to create basic infrastructure such as water and cement benches near the ground. The members of the association N. Pridhvi, Battula Mutyalu, L.Sekhar, Gampa Jogarao, Allu Rajesh and others laid small road for the movement of people to the ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/final-rites-of-covid-victims-should-be-performed-with-full-respect/article34518859.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The eye above!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-eye-above/article34518857.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frayed tempers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/frayed-tempers/article34518877.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fear of stigma makes people dodge fever survey||Fear of stigma and ostracism are forcing villagers in Telangana to dodge the questions of ASHA workers conducting door-to-door fever survey. “People are not giving correct information as they fear they will get isolated. There is a sense of fear,” says Purna Nagula from Sircilla. To add to the problem, the testing for COVID-19 in rural areas has declined. “Earlier we were doing the tests in our village but now the testing has been shifted to Narmetta,” informed an ASHA worker from Jangaon district. Dip in testing The sharp dip in the number of rapid antigen tests as well as reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction tests in the rural districts of the State can be seen in the daily media bulletins issued by the Health Department. On April 23, there were 3027 tests, of which 58 were positive in Mulug. On May 5, the number dropped to 763, with 55 citizens testing positive. This is not the only district where the number of tests being conducted dropped. In Bhadradri, the number of tests on April 23 were 5449 and on May 5 this dipped to less than half 2064. The same story is repeated in many districts and is the clue to the dip in positive cases in the State. A State Bank of India research report shows how the disease has spread to the hinterlands of India. “The share of the top 15 districts in total new cases has significantly dipped to 26.3% in May from 55% in March, indicating the spread of infections is now widely dispersed across the country. The other worrying trend is the increase in rural penetration. The share of rural districts in new cases has increased to 48.5% in May compared to 36.8% in March,” says the SBI report. Viral fevers are not unknown in the rural areas of Telangana in the forest belt of Khammam, Mulug, Adilabad and Bhadradri. “Sunstroke, fever, and diarrhoea are common during summer. We ask people having fever to take paracetamol and painkillers and if the fever persists over five days, we are asking them to undergo the COVID-19 test,” says Kanakalakshmi, an ASHA worker. Recently, a teacher in Govindraopet mandal (we are refraining from identifying the village) passed away after contracting the disease. Adding to the chaos is that patients are getting a positive result for typhoid test while they are affected by SARS-CoV2. “There are cases in villages but they are being misidentified as typhoid, and by the time the disease is correctly diagnosed, it is too late. If one person gets it, everyone in the family is getting it,” says a social activist working in Talamadugu village in Adilabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fear-of-stigma-makes-people-dodge-fever-survey/article34518778.ece
09 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||To avoid misuse, labels peeled off empty Remdesivir vials||Yes, it is true. Labels are being peeled off empty Remdesivir vials before discarding them at a few government hospitals to avoid misuse by fraudsters. Earlier, vials of medicines were discarded as part of biomedical waste without removing the labels. But, with instances of fraudsters selling the anti-viral vials filled with saline or distilled water have put hospitals on alert. With shortage of the Remdesivir drug, scores of families are desperately searching for Remdesivir vials and some have even bought it from the black market, which opens the possibility for unethical people to cash in on the high demand. At Government General and Chest Hospital, Erraggada, the vials are placed in water mixed with chemicals for disinfection. This process also helps in removing the labels. A few days ago, five persons sold Remdesivir vials filled with saline, which came to the notice of police in Mysuru, and some other places. “We got to know of instances in other States where some unscrupulous elements are filling the empty vials with saline and selling them to desperate family members. So, we are removing the labels from the empty vials,” said a senior doctor of Chest Hospital. Before the antiviral drug is given to a patient, details of the patient, requirement and other facts are noted down. After use, the empty vials have to be returned to the official concerned at hospitals. At Gandhi Hospital, parameters of patients such as IL-6 and D-Dimer levels, are considered before sanctioning the antiviral drug. The vials are issued in instalments of two, followed by one each for four more days, or based on requirement. “After using a vial, labels of the vials have to be pasted on a patient’s case sheet and empty vials have to be handed over. New vials are issued after cross checking this,” said Dr. T Prabhakar Reddy, nodal officer for COVID at Gandhi Hospital. Doctors have also raised complaints of one anti-viral vial sold in the black market at Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 30,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/to-avoid-misuse-labels-peeled-off-empty-remdesivir-vials/article34518761.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID takes sheen off Ramzan||It will be the second year in a row when the city will not see congregational Eid prayers at Idgahs to mark the end of Ramzan. GO Ms no. 98 issued on Friday bars all communal gatherings. “All gatherings such as social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/religious/cultural are prohibited,” according to the GO. Meanwhile, a clutch of 29 social organisations and NGOs have issued a collective appeal to Muslims in Hyderabad to stay at home and avoid gatherings in masjids, markets and other places. Photographs of large gatherings during Jamat-ul-Vida, the prayers on the last Friday of Ramzan month, as well as crowded market places have been doing the rounds triggering alarm in many quarters. Some elders in masjids have already taken a call on splitting the congregation for prayers. “A statement will be issued by Islamic scholars in a day or two. But in our masjid, Eid prayers will be held in two or three batches with social distancing and masks,” said Maulana Ghayasuddin Ahmed. Instead of large congregation prayers in Idgahs, prayers will be held in masjids. Ramzan is one of the biggest shopping events in the city as people throng markets to do their annual shopping. But this year, the curfew at 9 p.m. has come as a dampener as is the fear of COVID spread. “I have more stock than customers. I have time to talk that shows how our business is doing. It has never been this bad,” said Aslam, who sells the ingredients that go into the Hyderabad Eid speciality Sheer Khorma. The shop is near the entrance of the Afzalgunj Masjid and is surrounded by other shops selling similar wares. However, the main street leading to Charminar from Madina remained crowded with shoppers on Friday and Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-takes-sheen-off-ramzan/article34518770.ece
09 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Oxygen facility for 100 beds at Golconda Area Hospital in a week, says CS||The Golconda Area Hospital will have 100 beds with oxygen facility in a week, apart from an additional 120 beds in a month to scale up health services in the area. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, along with senior Health officials and GHMC officers, visited the hospital on Saturday and observed the special drive taken up for administering the second dose of COVID vaccine there. He interacted with people present there for the second dose. According to officials, people who went to the vaccination centre there expressed satisfaction over the arrangements. They told the officials that about 15 minutes was all that it took to have the dose administered. Health officials accompanying the Chief Secretary stated that people who have taken their first dose of vaccine and have completed four weeks in case of Covaxin and six weeks for Covishield could go to any government vaccination centre till May 12 to get their second dose on priority basis. The Chief Secretary also went around the wards and other facilities in the Area Hospital. As directed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, all beds were being arranged with oxygen supply pipeline facility in an accelerated manner, the Chief Secretary said. Within a week, about 100 beds in the hospital would have the oxygen facility. At the same time, it was also being ensured that an adequate number of beds were available for maternity and other emergency purposes. As part of augmenting availability of beds, a new floor was being added to the hospital to arrange 120 additional beds within a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oxygen-facility-for-100-beds-at-golconda-area-hospital-in-a-week-says-cs/article34518760.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID support centre for police personnel||A dedicated COVID-19 support services centre was inaugurated at Hyderabad Police Commissionerate here on Saturday. This centre will act as a one-stop point of contact for police personnel affected by COVID-19 and provide various services, including tele-consultation, transport services and emergency bed provisioning. Officials who test positive will be provided a care kit consisting of essential basic medicines as well as dry fruits. “The cell will work 24x7 and help improve the information flow and service offerings that already exist in the system. It has hospital liaison officers, dedicated vehicles, and other facilities in place,” said Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime and SIT) Shikha Goel, who is the designated nodal officer for the centre. Isolation facility Sahaya, a COVID-19 isolation centre for asymptomatic police personnel, was inaugurated at the Police Training Centre in Peltaburj on Saturday. The facility has been set up to cater to the police personnel with mild symptoms and also those who have tested positive but are asymptomatic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-support-centre-for-police-personnel/article34518763.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sultan Bazaar Additional Inspector, wife killed in road accident||A police inspector and his wife were killed while their seven-year-old son suffered injuries in a road accident on the Vijayawada Highway (NH-65) at Abdullapurmet in the wee hours of Saturday. Sundari Laxman (39), a sub-inspector of the 2009 batch, who was promoted to the rank of inspector, was posted as Additional Inspector at Sultan Bazaar Police Station. His wife Jhansi (33) was a home-maker. The couple along with their son Sahasa were returning to Hyderabad from Suryapet, their native place, when the accident took place around 1.20 a.m. near Brilliant College on the NH. As per the police, Jhansi who was driving the car crashed into a lorry moving in the same direction. Mangled car Lorry driver Kamal suddenly applied brakes and the victim lost control and rammed it. The impact of the accident was such that both Laxman and Jhansi suffered severe bleeding injuries and died on the spot. The car got mangled completely. Case against lorry driver A case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) and Section 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the lorry driver, who was taken into custody for questioning. The bodies were shifted to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy. A licence was issued to Jhansi only last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sultan-bazaar-additional-inspector-wife-killed-in-road-accident/article34518774.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP, TRS govts let down the country, State: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy has said the mismanagement of COVID treatment by both Central and State governments led to the country becoming unpopular in the eye of the world. Appealing to Congress workers to participate in the fight against COVID by helping patients and those seeking medical assistance, he said since the governments had failed it was the responsibility of Congress workers to help those in need. In a statement, he said that AICC president Sonia Gandhi and former president and MP Rahul Gandhi had instructed party leaders and workers to help COVID patients. He said the second wave had been spreading due to lack of foresight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-trs-govts-let-down-the-country-state-uttam/article34518779.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Adopt Mumbai model: Sravan||AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to adopt the Mumbai model for curtailing the spread of coronavirus in Hyderabad and also across Telangana. He suggested that the Chief Minister ask senior IAS officers to study the model, which is being hailed even by the Supreme Court. “Use the expertise of Marri Shashidhar Reddy, who headed NDRF in the past, Satyam Computer Founder Ramalinga Raju, who also founded 108 services and an expert in technology, apart from senior IAS officers as core members to effectively monitor, review, guide and implement innovative ways of containing the dangerous virus.” “The Chief Minister is deploying the officers to survey the Devarayanmal lands to target ousted Health Minister Eatala Rajendar and others who defied the former’s directions,” he alleged adding that there was no use with “Yes Boss” kind of officers and advisers but specialists who helped us overcome the perils of prevailing conditions.” Reminding that Reliance group was helping Mumbai to overcome the crisis, Mr. Sravan urged the Chief Minister to seek the help of MEIL, Myhome Group, Navayuga, Dr Reddy’s and other corporate groups which had immensely benefited after the formation of Telangana. He criticised the government for not even setting up a COVID-19 control room to help people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adopt-mumbai-model-sravan/article34518780.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mee Seva centre looted||Unidentified burglars broke into the Mee Seva centre at Moti Nagar under Sanathnagar PS in the wee hours of Saturday and made away with Rs. 25,000. The cash was kept in an unlocked safe, and CCTV cameras inside the centre were not functioning for last six months, police said. Police said that the burglars gained access to the centre after breaking the grill gate and wooden door. “We are analysing the video footage of the area for clues,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mee-seva-centre-looted/article34518764.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SCR employee stabbed to death||A 30-year-old South Central Railway employee was stabbed to death by unidentified persons at his residence at Malkajgiri here on Saturday. Maadi Chandrashekar, a class IV employee in the electrical division of SCR, was a resident of Mirjalguda in the area. According to the police, the offence took place around 7.30 a.m. and came to light only after his neighbour noticed him in a pool of blood and alerted the police, who rushed to the spot and launched a probe. The victim was alone at home as his wife went to Visakhapatnam to attend a family wedding, and his mother was admitted to a hospital in the city for COVID-19 treatment. “We are yet to know the motive behind the murder. There are stab marks on his back,” Malkajgiri police said, adding that they were analysing the video footage of the area to identify and nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-employee-stabbed-to-death/article34518765.ece
09 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Critically-ill MP doc cured of COVID||A pulmonologist and COVID warrior from Madhya Pradesh, Satyendra Mishra, recovered from a critical phase of the disease on admission at the Secunderabad unit of Yashoda Hospitals. He was admitted at the hospital with the support of his friends, family, patients and Madhya Pradesh government, a release said. Dr. Mishra had contracted the virus in the line of duty as he treated the highest number of positive cases in Madhya Pradesh. His symptoms rapidly progressed requiring non-invasive ventilation. He was airlifted and brought here after extensive damage to his lungs due to COVID and remained dependent on ventilator with high oxygen requirement. The first step on him at Yashoda Hospital was to offer him prone ventilation and latest medical care. He responded well to the treatment and was taken off ventilator by the end of the first week of admission. He would be successfully discharged without the need for ECMO or lung transplantation, which is generally required for such patients after four to six weeks, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/critically-ill-mp-doc-cured-of-covid/article34518767.ece
09 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 2/3 Webinars with sarpanches on Covid||A senior pulmonologist, Pradyut Waghray, organised a series of webinars with sarpanches and villagers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to create awareness among rural masses about COVID. The initiative was taken to prevent rural areas from getting affected by the pandemic. He was a member of the task force on COVID management, headed by Bengaluru MP Tejaswi Surya, constituted by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-23-webinars-with-sarpanches-on-covid/article34518768.ece
09 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||People with symptoms should stay at home: Harish||Finance Minister Harish Rao said that some people with COVID symptoms were moving freely without taking any precautions, resulting in the spread of the virus to family members and others in villages. He directed officials to take strict action against those violating the norms by imposing a fine of Rs. 500. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had directed officials to conduct door-to-door survey, and 581 teams were formed to conduct the survey. So far, 1.4 lakh houses have been covered and 6,126 people were detected with corona symptoms. Kits were handed over to 3,491 people and the remaining will be given shortly. The teams should participate in the survey with at least 25 kits and hand them over to the needy then and there itself,” said Mr. Harish Rao at a review meeting on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/people-with-symptoms-should-stay-at-home-harish/article34518771.ece
09 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Over 5,000 symptomatic cases in Sangareddy alone||Slowly, but surely, facts relating to the actual magnitude of coronavirus second wave are coming to the fore, at least in Sangareddy More than 5,000 symptomatic cases were found in the district alone in a survey that commenced only on Thursday. In fact, day one of the survey was delayed by a few hours as the teams, which were mostly comprising Anganwadi and ASHA workers assisted by local maskuri (village assistants), reached the centre the same day. The second survey commenced early on Friday morning and was continuing till late in the evening. As many as 1,272 teams are involved in the survey being conducted across the district. On the first day, 36,327 houses were covered followed by 82,798 on second day. While 2,019 cases symptomatic cases were found on day one, the number increased to 3,027 on the second day, taking it to a cumulative figure of 5,136. However, the distribution of testing kits was relatively poor and officials say that the gap will be filled shortly. “We are noting down details like age, gender of people having symptoms like fever, cough, sneezing, body pains and other details. Kits are being supplied to those with symptoms. If the symptoms persist for more than four days, they will be asked to visit the nearby health centre,” said a health worker, stating that the survey will be completed in the next two days in her area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-5000-symptomatic-cases-in-sangareddy-alone/article34518782.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unused crematoriums revived in Ghaziabad as space runs out||Unable to cremate all COVID-19 bodies due to ‘never ending’ queues at the Hindon crematorium, the Ghaziabad administration has decided to reuse the defunct crematoriums in the city. Recently, the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC) has revived cremation grounds in Shalimar Garden, Indirapuram, Raj Nagar Extension and Karhera. Last week, a priest at the Hindon crematorium had put ‘houseful’ board at the entry gate after there was no space left for cremation of bodies. More platforms “We were getting complaints regarding waiting hours at the Hindon crematorium. Though we had constructed more platforms but still there was a long waiting time. Initially, we revived a crematorium in Indirapuram that was not in use as people preferred Hindon. But that too was also running out of space, so we have revived the one in Sahibabad area,” said an official with the GMC. Aditya Gaur, a priest at the Sahibabad crematorium, said in Ghaziabad people had preferred cremation at Hindon banks as it is a tributary of the Ganga. Therefore the other cremation grounds in the city were abandoned. “During the second wave, Ghaziabad witnessed around 50 deaths per day that put the existing system out of order,” said Mr. Gaur. At present, the GMC has provided 34 platforms at the Indirapuram cremation ground for COVID and non-COVID bodies. If required more platforms will be constructed. “Before the ashes cool down, another body takes over the space. Back-to-back cremations have caused a shortage of wood,” said Triloki Nath, a priest at the Indirapuram cremation ground. Another crematorium in Noor Nagar area of Raj Nagar has been made operational. “Earlier there was only one crematorium for COVID bodies. Several platforms have been reserved for COVID bodies. We have deployed staff members at each crematorium to take care of facilities like wood, sanitation, parking and waiting area,” said a senior GMC official. Vimal Singh, who had come to cremate his cousin at the Shalimar Garden crematorium, said those who are unaware of the new crematoriums are still going to Hindon. By reviving these crematoriums, the GMC has decongested Hindon and it will help people to maintain social distancing at cremation grounds too. “The Ghaziabad administration has woken up late to the crisis. There should be more electric crematoriums for COVID bodies,” said Mr. Singh. Santosh Kumar, who had come to cremate his nephew, said now at least they will get ashes of their loved ones. “I went to the Hindon crematorium 10 days ago for the creation of a man who died of natural causes. I was shocked to see the chaos. We were not even allowed to wait till the body got cremated. We left the crematorium without collecting the ashes,” he said. Sushil Kumar, a farmer from Karhera area of Sahibabad, was disturbed after seeing the videos and photos of queues at the crematoriums. He has offered his 1,500 gaj land worth of several crores for a crematorium. “I have written a letter to the GMC and offered land for cremation of COVID-19 bodies. A team visited the plot and they have started constructing 10 platforms,” he said. A GMC official said after verifying the documents and getting other formalities done, they have started constructing platforms and have arranged wood and other facilities at the location for the visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/unused-crematoriums-revived-in-ghaziabad-as-space-runs-out/article34518728.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 332 deaths, over 17K new cases||The Capital reported 332 COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing the toll to 19,071 on Saturday. A total of 17,364 new infections were also reported during the same period, taking the tally to 13,10,231, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Of the total cases, 12,03,253 people have recovered and there are 87,907 active cases in the national capital. A total of 74,384 tests were conducted in 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 23.34%. This means that about 23 out of 100 people tested turned out to be COVID-19 positive. There was a sharp rise in test positivity rate from 3.5% on April 1 to 36.2% on April 22. The test positivity rate fell below 25% on May 6 and has stayed below the mark since. Decreasing test positivity rate is a good sign, said experts. The test positivity rate should be ideally below 5%. Meanwhile, the rush outside Safdarjung Hospital has reduced compared to two weeks back when the number of new cases in the city was around 25,000 a day. There was no ambulance waiting outside the building around 5 p.m. on Saturday. Officials said that other hospitals such as Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur are also witnessing a reduction in number of ambulances arriving at COVID wards. At GTB Hospital, the emergency ward is now less crowded and there are no long queues, said doctors. The Delhi government on Saturday also declared Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka as a dedicated COVID-19 facility. Initially, 250 beds of the 900-bed facility will be opened for COVID-19 patients, read an order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-reports-332-deaths-over-17k-new-cases/article34518726.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crime Branch to probe hoarding of oxygen concentrators at posh eateries||A case registered in connection with black marketing and hoarding of oxygen concentrators at restaurants in Khan Market was transferred to the Crime Branch on Saturday. On May 6, Delhi Police had recovered 419 oxygen concentrators following a raid at an upscale restaurant in Lodhi Colony. The owner was identified as Navneet Kalra. The oxygen concentrators were being sold at exorbitant prices, police said. Four persons, including restaurant manager Hitesh, were arrested. Subsequently, raids were conducted at two other restaurants owned by Mr. Kalra in Khan Market. A total of 96 oxygen concentrators were found at Khan Chacha and nine at Town Hall. “With further seizure of 105 #OxygenConcentrator from Khan Chacha & Town Hall, 2 upscale restaurants in Khan Mkt, total 524 seized frm #blackmarketers Owner Navneet Kalra, also owns Dayal Opticals, is on run. Manager, 3 staffers arrested by #DelhiPolice SouthDist. Further raids on [sic],” the Delhi Police had tweeted. Initial probe revealed that the concentrators were imported from China by a private company for Rs. 16,000-Rs. 22,000. They were being sold for Rs. 50,000-Rs. 70,0000. Teams have been formed to trace Mr. Kalra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/crime-branch-to-probe-hoarding-of-oxygen-concentrators-at-posh-eateries/article34518723.ece
09 May 2021||Noida,||‘Oxygen langar’ breathes life into patients||A free, drive-thru ‘oxygen langar’ at a parking lot in Noida is literally breathing life into COVID patients with dangerously fluctuating oxygen levels. They are given assistance till such time as their families manage to arrange liquid oxygen or get a hospital bed on their own.  The langar, which started functioning on May 6, has assisted at least 15 patients daily in getting their oxygen levels boosted. It was set up at the multilevel parking behind the Botanical Garden metro station in the heart of Gautam Buddha Nagar district by the management of Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, NGO Khalsa Aid and the district administration.  The facility has 14 oxygen concentrators, with more expected over the coming days, as well as oxygen cylinders for emergency cases. The service is available for patients with an oxygen level till 80. “Relatives can drive up with patients in their vehicles whenever they need oxygen on a first-come-first-serve basis. They can either receive support in their vehicles or on beds along with assistance from paramedical staff till their oxygen level is up to 95,” said Lt. Colonel Surjeet Singh (retired), who is part of the initiative.  “There are times when some patients with oxygen levels below 80 also turn up and we attend to them on a humanitarian basis, however, we do advise anyone with an oxygen level below 80 to go to a hospital. In the meantime, we are getting cylinders from the administration to tend to such emergency cases,” he added.  Food service Bhai Gurdeep Singh, headgranthiof the gurdwara that manages the service, said they are operating round the clock and have 12 volunteers divided into groups working 12-hour shifts. The gurdwara, with a separate team of around 25 volunteers, also provides meals to 1,000 COVID-affected households in Noida twice a day. Mr. Singh said he could be contacted at 9654714986 for the emergency ‘oxygen sewa’ as well as food arrangements.  Mandeep Awana (name changed on request), a property dealer, took his 75-year-old grandmother to the facility on Saturday. “I was trying to arrange an oxygen concentrator but could not despite trying all my contacts. Either they were only available on rent or not at all. My grandmother’s oxygen level has been fluctuating for days and I could not risk her life waiting for a miracle, so I brought her here,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/oxygen-langar-breathes-life-into-patients/article34518725.ece
09 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||TPR above 20% in 19 districts of Odisha||Odisha, which has been successively reporting daily surge of over 10,000 for past three days, continues to witness high test positivity rate with 19 of its 30 districts figuring in 300 districts of India, where TPR is above 20%. The weekly list of district-wise positivity rate above 20%, released by Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, says Odisha is among first 10 States having 19 or above districts reporting TPR higher than 20%. The TPR table for May 1 to 7 says most of western Odisha have reported high TPR. Sambalpur is probably among very few districts where the TPR exceeded 50%. As many as 57 persons in Sambalpur test positive for COVID-19 out of every 100 persons undergoing tests. Sambalpur is followed by Kalahandi with TPR estimated at 46.2% and Sundargarh (37.4%). Boudh, Nuapada, Khordha, Bargarh and Angul are other districts, where one of every three persons getting tested is affected by COVID-19. Deogarh, Jharsuguda, Balangir, Bhadrak, Cuttack, Puri, Nabarangpur, Balasore, Bhadrak, Keonjhar, Jajpur and Subarnapur have reported TPR higher than 20%. Incidentally, the TPR has crossed 20% in 19 districts each of Chhattisgarh and West Bengal also, two neighbouring States of Odisha. It is said that Odisha’s COVID-19 graph in the second wave shot up steeply mainly due to high rate of infection in Chhattisgarh. Odisha on Saturday reported 11,807 new cases taking the total positive cases to 5,24,207. With five digit numbers being added daily to tally, the active cases also swelled to 90,337, which is in striking distance of touching six digit numbers. The State reported highest ever single day fatality with 21 persons succumbing to COVID-19 on Saturday. The death-toll has reached 2,161. It is alleged that the death-toll was hugely under-reported.  Vaccine consignment Meanwhile, the first consignment (one lakh doses) of Covishield vaccine for 18-44 age group has reached Bhubaneswar Airport, from Serum Institute of India on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tpr-above-20-in-19-districts-of-odisha/article34518744.ece
09 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Sidhu hits out at Amarinder||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu once again on Saturday targeted Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, alleging that the State government was “forced” to accept the Punjab and Haryana High Court order in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case due to his “incompetence”. The Amritsar MLA further said that giving six months to a new special investigation team (SIT) for probing the case involving firing at people protesting against the desecration of a religious text will further “extend the delay” in giving justice. The Congress MLA has been critical of his own government after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report into the firing case last month. He had attacked Amarinder Singh, accusing him of evading responsibility in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sidhu-hits-out-at-amarinder/article34518746.ece
09 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan plans to treat patients in their villages||A detailed plan is being worked out in Rajasthan for treatment of COVID-19 patients at the primary health centres and community health centres with arrangements for beds, medical oxygen and other facilities. The patients, who become critical after testing positive, will get treatment in their villages without the need to travel long distances.  Shortage of oxygen Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said here on Saturday that though the State government was trying its best for an effective resource management during the second wave of pandemic, it was facing difficulty in getting the State’s allotted quota of oxygen. “We are working on all alternatives of getting oxygen, including purchasing the oxygen concentrators from foreign countries,” he said. While appealing to people to comply with the guidelines of a strict lockdown being enforced in the State from May 10 to 24, Mr. Gehlot said a decision regarding the lockdown should have been made by the Centre for better coordination among the States. “Several States have imposed lockdown to break the chain of virus infection... On the basis of previous experience, I believe that the decision should have been made at the level of the Centre. This would have caused the minimum hardships to the common people, including labourers, and ensured better coordination among the States,” he said. The Chief Minister expressed concern over the infection spreading fast in the rural areas. However, Rajasthan was still in a better position than other States and the virus would be defeated if the people supported the State government, he said. Mr. Gehlot said the vaccination of the maximum population in the country could help slow down the rise in new infection cases. For this, either the production of indigenous vaccines should be scaled up or vaccines should be imported in large quantities from the foreign countries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-plans-to-treat-patients-in-their-villages/article34518745.ece
09 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Three held for issuing fake COVID-19 negative reports||The Central unit of the Navi Mumbai police’s Crime Branch has busted a gang that issued fake COVID-19 negative test reports. The accused have been identified as Sajeed Dawood Upadhye (47) from Kharghar, Aniket Raju Dudhawade (21) from Ghatkopar, and Rahul Rajendra Pandey (26) from Palghar. The Central unit had received information that Mr. Upadhye was issuing fake negative test reports at Rs. 2,500. On May 3, senior police inspector Nivrutti Kolhatkar sent a decoy to Mr. Upadhye for procuring a negative test report. The accused asked for the decoy’s Aadhaar card details, mobile number and Rs. 2,000 as advance. The accused then issued him a negative test report in two days. On May 6, the Central unit team arrested Mr. Upadhye and his two accomplices. “From the accused’s phone, we recovered several similar fake reports with the letterhead of Thyrocare. The accused have been remanded in police custody till Tuesday,” Assistant Police Inspector Nilesh Tambe said. According to the police, the three accused are graduates. While Mr. Upadhye ran a food stall, the other two worked in a private firm. They had been running the racket for the past one month, the police said. Accomplice on the run While Mr. Upadhye looked out for shopkeepers, workers and travellers in need of a negative COVID-19 test report, Mr. Dudhawade and Mr. Pandey forged the reports. The police are now on the lookout for another gang member who is absconding. It is suspected that the accused provided such fake reports to several people in Navi Mumbai, Raigad and Thane.  From the accused’s phone, we recovered several similar fake reports with the letterhead of Thyrocare Nilesh Tambe Assistant Police Inspector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-19-negative-reports/article34518533.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi sees 332 deaths, over 17,000 new cases||The Capital reported 332 COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing the toll to 19,071 on Saturday. A total of 17,364 new infections were also reported during the same period, taking the tally to 13,10,231, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Of the total cases, 12,03,253 people have recovered and there are 87,907 active cases in the national capital. A total of 74,384 tests were conducted in 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 23.34%. This means that about 23 out of 100 people tested turned out to be COVID-19 positive. There was a sharp rise in test positivity rate from 3.5% on April 1 to 36.2% on April 22. The test positivity rate fell below 25% on May 6 and has stayed below the mark since. Decreasing test positivity rate is a good sign, said experts. The test positivity rate should be ideally below 5%. Meanwhile, the rush outside Safdarjung Hospital has reduced compared to two weeks back when the number of new cases in the city was around 25,000 a day. There was no ambulance waiting outside the building around 5 p.m. on Saturday. Officials said that other hospitals such as Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur are also witnessing a reduction in number of ambulances arriving at COVID wards. At GTB Hospital, the emergency ward is now less crowded and there are no long queues, said doctors. Dedicated facility The Delhi government on Saturday also declared Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka as a dedicated COVID-19 facility. Initially, 250 beds of the 900-bed facility will be opened for COVID-19 patients, read an order. A total of 1,112 oxygen cylinders were distributed to people under home isolation on Saturday through offices of all 11 district magistrates, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-sees-332-deaths-over-17000-new-cases/article34518528.ece
09 May 2021||Special CorrespondentMumbai,||Bombay HC grants bail to union worker charged under UAPA||The Bombay High Court recently granted bail to Saidulu Singapanga, an employee of the registered Mumbai Electric Employees’ Union, arrested in 2018, accused of being a member of a terrorist organisation and charged with several provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Justice Bharati Dangre was hearing a bail plea filed by Mr. Singapanga, who has been employed as a workman in Reliance Energy since 1997. On January 1, 2018, information was received by the anti-Naxal operations team that some people were working for a terrorist organisation, the Communist Party of India (Maoist), and organising a secret meeting with the intention of causing threat to the nation’s security. They were also allegedly involved in unlawful activities like collecting funds, recruiting new members, propagating the organisation’s anti-national philosophy, organising meetings of active members, and making lodging arrangements for its office-bearers. A team was deputed and a person was arrested who named Mr. Singapanga and a few others. He was arrested and charged under relevant sections of the UAPA, and Sections 465 (punishment for forgery) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code Not named in FIR Advocates Sudeep Pasbola and Susan Abraham, appearing for Mr. Singapanga, argued that he was not named in the FIR and was arrested after the crime was registered, and on his arrest, nothing incriminating was seized from him. They pointed out that Mr. Singapanga was roped in as a mistaken identity in place of Saidulu Gondrigalla, who has been chargesheeted in some departmental proceedings by the Reliance Energy Group and that he is not the same person. Justice Dangre said, “I do not, prima facie , see the material sufficient to indict Mr. Singapanga under all the aforesaid sections of UAPA. He need not languish in prison any more in the wake of the material compiled against him. The material also does not indicate any act which causes or intended to cause disaffection against India.” ‘No sufficient evidence’ Granting him bail on a bond of Rs. 50,000, the court said, “I do not prima facie see the material sufficient to indict Mr. Singapanga as a member of a terrorist gang or an organisation or supporting a terrorist organisation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-union-worker-charged-under-uapa/article34518535.ece
09 May 2021||Thane,||Bar raided, 19 held, 4 women rescued||Nineteen people were arrested after a bar was raided in Thane district around 3 a.m. on Saturday, the Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar police said. Senior inspector Sanjay Hazare said that four women were rescued from a cavity in the restaurant where they were being kept in extremely dingy and dirty conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bar-raided-19-held-4-women-rescued/article34518534.ece
09 May 2021||COLOMBO,||Nasheed taken off life support, vows to ‘come back stronger’||Maldives parliamentary Speaker and former president Mohamed Nasheed, who survived an assassination attempt on May 6, is off life support and conscious, his family said on Saturday, while police arrested two persons in connection with the explosion. Maldives police said they are on the lookout for further suspects involved in the blast, that they termed an “act of terror”, outside Mr. Nasheed’s home in Male. The attack, they said, appeared to have links with religious extremists, according to local media. Meanwhile, Mr. Nasheed’s condition showed improvement, according to family members. “The doctors are very happy with recovery progress. He is out of life support and breathing on his own. Managed to exchange a few words. Promised to come back stronger. I believe him,” his brother Ibrahim Nasheed said in a tweet on Saturday. Mr. Nasheed remained in a critical condition on Friday following complex, “life-saving” surgeries, hospital authorities had earlier said. The pro-democracy politician, who has consistently condemned religious extremism, sustained multiple injuries in an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) blast, in what police described as a “deliberate act of terror”. Police are probing the incident — no one has claimed the attacks so far — with help from Australian Federal Police, while other countries have also offered assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nasheed-taken-off-life-support-vows-to-come-back-stronger/article34518231.ece
09 May 2021||kabul,||Blast near Afghan school kills 30||A blast outside a girls’ school in an area of the Afghan capital populated largely by the Shia Hazara community killed at least 30 people and wounded scores, including students, on Saturday, officials said. Interior Ministry spokesman Tareq Arian told reporters that at least “30 people were killed and 52 wounded” in the blast. “People have been evacuated to hospitals from the site,” he added. Mr. Arian’s deputy Hamid Roshan told AFP that an investigation had begun into the explosion, adding that casualties included students. The blast occurred in the west Kabul district of Dasht-e-Barchi as residents were out for shopping ahead of Eid-ul-Fitr next week that marks the end of Ramzan, the Muslim holy month of fasting. The neighbourhood is populated largely by the Shia Hazaras and is often a target for Sunni Islamist militants. Mr. Roshan said that an investigation had begun into what he said was a “terrorist attack”, adding that casualties included students. Health ministry spokesman Dastagir Nazari said several ambulances had been rushed to the site and were evacuating the wounded. “People in the area are angry and have beaten a number of ambulance workers,” he told reporters. The blast comes as the U.S. military continues to pull out its last remaining 2,500 troops from the country, despite faltering peace efforts between the Taliban and Afghan government to end a decades-long war in Afghanistan. Officials have regularly blamed the Taliban for attacks in Kabul, which the insurgents have steadfastly denied. The Taliban have largely refrained from launching major attacks in Kabul since February last year, when they signed a deal with the United States that paved the way for peace talks and withdrawal of the remaining U.S. troops. But the group has clashed in near daily battles in the rugged countryside with Afghan forces even as the U.S. military continues its withdrawal. Taliban blamed The Dasht-e-Barchi neighbourhood has been a regular target of attacks from Sunni Islamist militants. In May last year a group of gunmen attacked a hospital in the area in a brazen daylight raid that left 25 people killed, including 16 mothers of new-born babies. The hospital was supported by Doctors Without Borders, the international medical charity, which later pulled out of the project. No group claimed that attack, but President Ashraf Ghani blamed the Taliban and the Islamic State group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blast-near-afghan-school-kills-30/article34518233.ece
09 May 2021||Lahore,||Pakistan opposition leader stopped from flying abroad||Pakistan’s ailing opposition leader, who has been charged with corruption, was turned back on Saturday at the international airport in Lahore and prevented from leaving the country, his party spokesperson said. Shahbaz Sharif, head of the opposition bloc in the lower house of Parliament and the Pakistan Muslim League party, was not allowed to board a Qatar Airways flight to London, said Maryam Aurangzeb, the party spokeswoman. She said immigration officials at the airport said Mr. Sharif’s name was still “on the black list” so he could not leave. On Friday, the Lahore High Court ruled that Sharif could leave Pakistan and stay abroad for treatment till early July. The court had acted on a petition from Mr. Sharif, who pleaded that as a cancer survivor he now needed treatment outside of Pakistan. The court order drew criticism from Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government, which said it would explore legal options to stop Sharif from leaving. Information Minister Fawad Chaudhry said the government had not received any application from Sharif or his party asking that he be taken off the black list. Mr. Sharif faces corruption charges in three separate court cases. He leads his brother’s Pakistan’s Muslim League party after Nawaz Sharif, a three-time PM, was disqualified from office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-opposition-leader-stopped-from-flying-abroad/article34518238.ece
09 May 2021||Jerusalem,||Israeli police, Palestinians clash at Al-Aqsa mosque||More than 160 people were wounded when Israeli riot police clashed with Palestinians at Jerusalem’s flashpoint Al-Aqsa mosque compound late on Friday, capping a week of violence in the Holy City and the occupied West Bank. Stones, bottles and fireworks were hurled at officers who fired rubber bullets and stun grenades at the crowds at Islam’s third-holiest site, also revered by Jews as the location of two biblical-era temples. At least 163 Palestinians and six Israeli officers were reported wounded at Al-Aqsa and elsewhere in east Jerusalem, as the Palestinian Red Crescent said it had opened a field hospital because emergency rooms were full. Police said officers had restored order following the “rioting of thousands of worshippers” after evening prayers. Tensions in Jerusalem have soared in recent weeks as Palestinians have protested against Israel’s restrictions on access to parts of the Old City during the Muslim holy month of Ramzan, and after authorities ordered several Palestinian families to leave their homes to make way for Israeli settlers. The United Nations had warned the forced evictions could amount to “war crimes”. The U.S. called for “de-escalation”, later adding that the violence was “especially disturbing now, coming as it does on the last days of Ramzan”.  Friday’s unrest came on Al-Quds Day, an annual day of pro-Palestinian rallies held by Israel’s arch-enemy Iran, which also saw many thousands march in Muslim-majority countries across the region and as far as Pakistan. Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas said he held the Israeli government “responsible” for the unrest and voiced “full support for our heroes in Aqsa”. International observers urged calm, with UN envoy Tor Vennesland tweeting his concern, and urging all parties to “respect the status quo of holy sites in Jerusalem’s Old City in the interest of peace & stability”. The clashes erupted as Muslims packed the Al-Aqsa compound to pray on the last Friday of Ramzan. In 2000, the compound was where the second Palestinian intifada broke out after a visit there by former opposition and right-wing Israeli leader Ariel Sharon, seen as a painful provocation by Palestinians. Earlier on Friday, Israeli security forces killed two Palestinians and wounded a third after the trio opened fire on the Salem base in the occupied West Bank, police said, with the incident following days of bloody clashes and killings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-police-palestinians-clash-at-al-aqsa-mosque/article34518232.ece
09 May 2021||Washington,||Trump govt. secretly got journalists’ records: report||The Trump Justice Department secretly seized the phone records of three Washington Post reporters who covered the federal investigation into ties between Russia and Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, the newspaper said on Friday. The disclosure sets up a new clash between the federal government and news organisations and advocates for press freedom, who regard the seizures of reporters’ records as incursions into constitutionally protected newsgathering activity. Similar actions have occurred only rarely over the past decade, including a seizure of phone records of Associated Press reporters and editors over a 2012 news report that revealed a foiled bomb plot. In a statement published by the newspaper, Cameron Barr, the Post ’s acting executive editor, said: “We are deeply troubled by this use of government power to seek access to the communications of journalists. The Department of Justice should immediately make clear its reasons for this intrusion into the activities of reporters doing their jobs, an activity protected under the First Amendment.” The action is presumably aimed at identifying the reporters’ sources in national security stories published in the early months of Mr. Trump’s administration, as federal investigators scrutinised whether his 2016 campaign had coordinated with the Kremlin to sway the election. The records’ seizure was approved by Justice Department leadership last year. The reporters — Ellen Nakashima, Greg Miller and Adam Entous, who has since left the Post — were notified in letters dated May 3 that the Justice Department had obtained records for their home, work or cellphone numbers. The records sought cover the period of April 15, 2017, to July 31, 2017, according to the newspaper. Justice Department guidelines for media leak investigations mandate that such actions are to be taken only when other avenues for obtaining the information have been exhausted, and that the affected reporters are to be notified unless it’s determined that it would impede the investigation or interfere with national security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-govt-secretly-got-journalists-records-report/article34518245.ece
09 May 2021||London,||Scotland’s pro-independence governing party close to a majority||Scotland’s governing Scottish National Party was on course on Saturday to win its fourth straight parliamentary election and very close to securing a majority that would enable it to make a push for another referendum on independence from the U.K. With 60 constituencies counted, the SNP had won 51 of the 129 seats and was clearly on course to extend its dominance of Scottish politics. However, given Scotland’s electoral system, also allocates some seats by a form of proportional representation, the party may fall short of the 65 seats it would need in the Edinburgh-based Parliament to have a majority. In Wales, the concluded vote count showed the Labour Party doing better than expected in the parliamentary election as it extended its 22 years in control of the Welsh government. Ballots continue to be counted from local elections in England, which already have been particularly good for U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party. But it’s the Scottish election that could have the biggest U.K.-wide implications by fast-tracking another referendum on Scotland’s future within the U.K. Were the SNP to win a majority, its leader, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, would argue that she has a mandate to call another referendum. Speaking after winning her seat in Glasgow on Friday, Ms. Sturgeon said her immediate priority would be to deal with the pandemic and “then when the time is right to offer this country the choice of a better future.” Scotland has been part of the U.K. since 1707 and the issue of Scottish independence appeared settled when Scottish voters rejected secession by 55%-45% in a 2014 referendum. But the U.K.-wide decision in 2016 to leave the European Union ran against the wishes of most Scots — 62% voted in favor of staying within the bloc while most voters in England and Wales wanted to leave. That gave the Scottish nationalist cause fresh legs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/scotlands-pro-independence-governing-party-close-to-a-majority/article34518241.ece
09 May 2021||TRIPOLI,||Libya rebels raid hotel where rulers met||A senior official at Libya’s new Presidency Council denied on Saturday that groups who entered a hotel where the body meets had been armed or used force, playing down an incident that had appeared to illustrate the risks facing the unity government. Earlier, the Council’s spokeswoman had said armed groups had stormed the Corinthia Hotel on Friday, though she also said nobody from the body had been in the building at the time. “There was no kidnapping, gunfire, or an attack on me or the hotel,” the head of the Presidency Council’s office, Mohamed al-Mabrouk said in a social media video, adding that he had been in the hotel at the time of the incident. The Presidency Council was chosen through a UN-facilitated process that also selected a new Government of National Unity that took office in March, replacing rival administrations in east and west. Armed groups based in western Libya have voiced anger at the Government of National Unity’s Foreign Minister, Najla el-Mangoush. In eastern Libya, commander Khalifa Haftar and his Libyan National Army (LNA) still hold sway. In Tripoli, the armed groups that pushed Haftar back from the capital with Turkish support still control the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/libya-rebels-raid-hotel-where-rulers-met/article34518234.ece
09 May 2021||geneva,||WHO approves China’s Sinopharm vaccine||The World Health Organization on Friday approved the Sinopharm COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use — the first Chinese jab to receive the WHO’s green light. The UN health agency signed off on the two-dose vaccine, which is already being deployed in dozens of countries around the world. The WHO has already given emergency use listing to the vaccines being made by Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, J&J, and the AstraZeneca jab being produced at sites in India and in South Korea. “This afternoon, WHO gave emergency use listing to Sinopharm Beijing’s Covid-19 vaccine, making it the sixth vaccine to receive WHO validation for safety, efficacy and quality,” WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said. The WHO recommended that the two Sinopharm shots be taken three to four weeks apart. The vaccine’s efficacy for symptomatic and hospitalised cases of COVID-19 was estimated to be 79% when all age groups are combined, it said. The agency said few adults over 60 were enrolled in clinical trials of the vaccine, so its efficacy could not be estimated in that age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-approves-chinas-sinopharm-vaccine/article34518243.ece
09 May 2021||Jeddah,||Saudi Arabia, Pakistan vow to reset ties||Saudi Arabia and longstanding ally Pakistan signed several agreements on Saturday and vowed to reset ties strained by months of disagreement over policy on the Kashmir dispute. On his seventh visit to the wealthy kingdom since his 2018 election, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan was given a warm welcome by Saudi officials in the western coastal city of Jeddah. He was greeted by Saudi Arabia’s de-facto ruler Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the airport, before holding talks with Saudi officials at Jeddah’s Al-Salam Palace. “They affirmed the depth of relations between the two brotherly countries and underscored the importance of expanding and intensifying aspects of bilateral cooperation and coordination,” a Saudi statement said. Although the kingdom was the first foreign country Mr. Khan visited after taking office, Riyadh appeared frustrated with Islamabad last year. In a sharply worded statement in August, Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi called on the Saudi-based Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) to convene a high-level meeting on Kashmir. The call raised eyebrows in Riyadh, where it was widely seen as a warning that Pakistan was preparing to call for a session outside OIC auspices. Riyadh is particularly sensitive about any move that might undermine its leadership of the 57-member pan-Islamic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-arabia-pakistan-vow-to-reset-ties/article34518239.ece
09 May 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar junta designates shadow government as a ‘terrorist’ group||Myanmar’s junta declared on Saturday night that a group of ousted lawmakers running a shadow government would now be classified as “terrorists”.. This comes after the “National Unity Government” announced the formation of a“people’s defence force” to protect civilians facing violence by the military.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-junta-designates-shadow-government-as-a-terrorist-group/article34518236.ece
09 May 2021||Lyon,||Two French Alps avalanches kill seven||Two avalanches in the French Alpine region of Savoie left seven people dead on Saturday, prefecture sources said. Local authorities had already warned on Friday of unstable snow formations given a recent falloff in temperatures. The first avalanche in the morning claimed four lives while another one claimed three lives in the afternoon.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-french-alps-avalanches-kill-seven/article34518242.ece
09 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Oxygen curbs hit container availability||The curbs placed on industrial use of oxygen by the Centre to augment availability of medical grade oxygen for hospitals to save lives of critically ill COVID-19 patients, is impacting exporters by exacerbating a shortage of containers. Thousands of damaged containers, which arrived with import consignments on shipping lines, have not been repaired due to lack of oxygen and are hence not available for exporters, said industry executives. ‘Damage unavoidable’ With containers being handled by heavy cranes and transported over long distances by trains and trucks, some containers get damaged and typically undergo repairs before being returned to the system. The percentage of damaged containers may be in the range of 1-5% of the total containerised trade, but this volume is significant enough to impede foreign trade when the economy is at a critical juncture, already facing shortages of containers, said freight forwarders and executives from the maritime trade. “Since mid-January, the situation in container movement was easing, following government intervention. But the second wave of the pandemic and shortage of industrial oxygen supply has aggravated the issue of container shortage,” said Sanjay Bhatia, co-founder & CEO, Freightwalla, a digital freight-forwarding company. “Oxygen is essential for repairs and welding of damaged containers; due to the prohibition it cannot be availed of. It has now become a big issue. There are thousands of empty containers lying unrepaired. This has further added to the crisis for exporters,” he said, adding the problem started from the third week of April. According to industry officials, exports of commodities moving in large volume have been impacted. These include rice, sugar, stones and tiles, as well as plant and machinery. However, light-weight containerised cargo is getting loaded on ships. Besides, the dwelling time of containers has has almost doubled to 45-50 days due to the emergence of the second wave of the pandemic globally on account of short supply of workers, officials said. ‘Imbalance began early’ The imbalance in container supply surfaced from the beginning of the pandemic due to congestion at major ports worldwide and piling of containers in key global destinations due to lockdowns and slower consumption. In such a scenario, any shortage in the supply would naturally hit exporters hard, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oxygen-curbs-hit-container-availability/article34518213.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBIC allows goods import, export sans Customs bond||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on Saturday allowed businesses to import and export goods without furnishing bonds to the Customs authorities until June-end, a move aimed at ensuring no delay or disruption in EXIM trade due to COVID-19. In a circular, the CBIC said importers and exporters will have to furnish an undertaking in lieu of the bonds till June 30. The indirect tax body said it has received representation from traders to accept undertaking in lieu of bonds in certain cases of Customs clearance, in view of the difficulties being faced in the ongoing lockdown/constraints imposed in different regions of India. Expediting clearance To expedite Customs clearance of goods and for maintaining balance between Customs control and facilitation of legitimate trade, the CBIC said it has approved relaxation of the requirement to submit bonds. “The Board has decided to restore the facility of acceptance of an undertaking in lieu of bond by Customs formation ... till June 30, 2021,” the CBIC said in a circular. “Importers/exporters availing this facility shall ensure that the undertaking furnished ... is duly replaced with a proper bond by July 15, 2021,” it added. Last year too in the wake of COVID pandemic, the CBIC had allowed businesses to import and export goods without furnishing bonds. “These measures would facilitate international trade and ensure continuance of business operations,” said AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cbic-allows-goods-import-export-sans-customs-bond/article34518219.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘OTT will become as popular as TV cable connection now is’||Software firm Contus is set to unveil GudSho, an Over The Top (OTT) platform that will focus on content in the south Indian languages. Sriram Manoharan , founder and MD, said OTT platforms are set for rapid growth but also that post-pandemic, the theatre industry will still co-exist with OTT platforms.  Software development has been your strength. Why are you now betting on OTT? One of our flagship products is VPlayed, a platform that enables audio and video streaming across the Web and on mobile phones, game consoles, set-top boxes and smart televisions. It is used by customers in the fitness, enterprise and edutech space and also by OTT platforms across the globe. So, it was a logical step for us to enter the OTT space. Do you think there is space for one more platform in an already crowded arena?  The OTT industry in India has over 3 crore paid subscribers, and the number is increasing daily. It has got a staggering 30% to 35% surge in the number of subscribed users in the past 12 months. Netflix and Amazon Prime are global platforms but their content in south Indian languages leaves a lot to be desired. They cater more to the urban population. We are not in competition with them. GudSho is a hyperlocal, vernacular platform that will have content only in the four south Indian languages. If you go to any tier-2 or tier-3 city in Tamil Nadu, very few people know about or subscribe to Netflix or Amazon Prime. These are the people we are looking to serve. Content costs are high. How will you compete? We are concentrating only on movies and have no plans to develop original content. We have already built up a library of over 100 movies and continue to acquire more. We have set aside a sum of Rs. 50 crore to buy content for the first six months. The funds are from internal accruals only; we have no plans to bring in any investor from outside. Smaller OTT players are either knocking on the wrong producer’s door or finding it hard to create a business model that suits film-makers. Users, on the other hand, are confused as to which platform to choose. We are promising content creators and producers favourable terms and also revenue share with an assured guarantee model, which other players do not give. Will these be enough to get in people on your platform? People living in the interior parts of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh or Karnataka are exposed to the same Hindi content that is being provided for urban audiences by top operators. The south Indian OTT market has around 10 million active users. People are willing to spend but a lack of awareness and a lack of preferred content is stopping them. Unlike others, GudSho will not have a fixed subscription model. For example, if you pay Rs. 200, you can watch one movie or a pack of movies whenever you want. It will be total value for money for the end users. Besides, we will have a lot of free content. Post-pandemic, what will happen when things return to normal? There is a major shift in mindset; people are now used to watching new movies from the comfort of their homes. They are aware that any movie that releases in theatres will be available on an OTT platform soon. But the reverse is also true. Several big films like Master , Krack , Uppena and Karnan have performed well in theatres. Many people watched Master on the big screen even after its OTT release. This just proves that both theatres and OTT platforms can co-exist. When will GudSho be unveiled? Its USP? GudSho is in testing mode now, and we will launch it soon. We will be introducing a social watching concept to OTT, with a recommendation engine that works on friends and family networks. With GudSho, you can invite friends and family using Facebook and WhatsApp links, and have a watch party.  (Full interview at http://bit.ly/SriramManoharan)   Theatres and OTT platforms will co-exist. People know that all new movies will be telecast on OTT soon. But theatres are still preferred for superstar or grand-theme movies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ott-will-become-as-popular-as-tv-cable-connection-now-is/article34518215.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||India requires two lakh ICU ventilators, says device maker||India would ideally require at least two lakh ICU ventilators, to cope with the current COVID wave, if it had enough doctors, respiratory technicians and paramedical staff trained to efficiently operate these technologically sophisticated machines, said Vishwaprasad Alva, MD of Skanray Technologies, a manufacturer of medical equipment including ICU ventilators. “Prior to the pandemic, the country had 11,000 ICU ventilators and some 15,000 doctors/ICU staff who can handle these machines effectively,” said Mr. Alva. “During the first wave, over 40,000 additional ICU ventilators were introduced to the healthcare industry, of which some 10,000 units are still lying idle somewhere due to shortage of qualified medicos,” he added. “Last year, the country may have added 10,000 semi-trained doctors and medical staff who can operate ICU ventilators. It is extremely critical to have skilled professionals who can handle these high-tech machines to derive better outcomes from ICU ventilators,’’ he added. Last year, officials from Niti Aayog contacted Skanray with a requirement for 1 lakh ICU ventilators. “This was a huge order for us when our annual production capacity was 5,000 units,” said Mr. Alva, adding the company partnered with BEL for scaling up production. The alliance developed and supplied 30,000 ventilators worth Rs. 1,600 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-requires-two-lakh-icu-ventilators-says-device-maker/article34518210.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. alerts PSBs as Cairn may seize overseas assets||The Finance Ministry has asked public sector banks (PSBs) to be on a high vigil against any attempt being made to seize their overseas deposits to recover $1.2 billion that the U.K.’s Cairn Energy has been awarded against India levying retrospective taxes, sources said. Cairn had previously stated it can seize Indian assets abroad if it is not paid $1.2 billion plus interest and cost an international arbitration panel had awarded against levy of retrospective taxes. Cash of Indian banks lying in nations such as the U.S. and the U.K. are said to be easy targets for seizing and enforcing the arbitration award. To guard against cash being taken over, the Ministry has asked PSBs to be extra vigilant and immediately report back any attempt Cairn makes to legally attach the deposits, two sources aware of the matter said. This will allow the Indian government to quickly take legal recourse to prevent the assets from being taken over, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-alerts-psbs-as-cairn-may-seize-overseas-assets/article34518217.ece
09 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Bandhan Bank net dives on microfinance loans||Bandhan Bank on Saturday reported an 80% dip in its March quarter net profit to Rs. 103 crore, as it wrote off a huge portfolio of loans in the flagship microlending business by recognising stress upfront. The bank’s post-tax profit for FY21 also reduced by 27.1% to Rs. 2,205 crore as a result of the hit to the business in the last quarter. MD and CEO C. S. Ghosh said the bank wrote off Rs. 1,929 crore of loans, a bulk of them in the microfinance segment, in the March quarter because it wanted to start the new fiscal with a clean balance sheet. As a result of the accelerated write-off, the bank’s overall provisions shot up to Rs. 1,594 crore from the year-earlier period’s Rs. 827 crore, which had a direct impact on the profit line. Operating profit, which is arrived at by excluding the provisions, was up 13% to Rs. 1,729 crore.   Additionally, Bandhan Bank restructured over Rs. 600 crore of advances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bandhan-bank-net-dives-on-microfinance-loans/article34518222.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||D-Mart sees ‘severe impact’ on revenue||Avenue Supermarts Ltd., that owns and operates retail chain D-Mart, on Saturday said it is having an ‘adverse and severe impact’ on its revenue due to ‘significant disruptions’ of its store operations from March. Besides, D-Mart may also have to face a challenge of ‘excess inventory’ as with the receding threat of the pandemic and sales surge in the last two quarters, it had optimistically made plans. According to the company, over 80% of stores are operating for a significantly lower number of hours or are even shut for one-two weeks or on weekends. “These shutdowns are having an adverse impact on revenues,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/d-mart-sees-severe-impact-on-revenue/article34518220.ece
09 May 2021||MUMBAI,||ICICI Lombard extends pay to COVID-hit staff||Private sector non-life insurer ICICI Lombard on Saturday said it will give up to two months’ gross salary in advance to all its COVID- positive employees.  The individual can pay back the advance in 6 or 12 monthly instalments at a later date, the insurer said. The company will also reimburse medical infrastructure support expenses up to a maximum of Rs. 10,000 per family member, arising from home quarantine in case of infected employees.  The company is also providing a family floater cover of Rs. 4 lakh and a corporate buffer of Rs. 3 lakh to support their employees and families during such trying times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-lombard-extends-pay-to-covid-hit-staff/article34518223.ece
09 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Norms eased for LIC claims settlement||Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) has relaxed claims settlement norms on account of the pandemic. The insurer will accept alternative proofs in lieu of municipal certificates where death has occurred in a hospital. For annuities with return of capital options, production of life certificates has been waived for annuities due up to October 31. Besides, life certificates sent via email, in other cases, will be accepted. Life certificates can be procured via video calls. Also, documents can be submitted at any local LIC office for claims settlement at the servicing branch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/norms-eased-for-lic-claims-settlement/article34518211.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||1980 Olympic Games gold-winning hockey stalwarts pass away||Olympic gold medallist, former India coach, Arjuna, and Dronacharya awardee Maharaj Kishen Kaushik passed away at a city hospital on Saturday. He was 66 and is survived by his wife and two sons. Kaushik had been hospitalised two weeks ago after scans revealed his lungs had been affected with pneumonia despite testing negative for COVID-19 after developing symptoms. His Oxygen saturation levels kept fluctuating, falling as low as 50 at nights after meals although he remained stable through the day. His lungs, however, did not get better and doctors had tried life-saving drugs as well but things did not improve. He was shifted on to a ventilator earlier in the day but that did not help, his family said. His wife had also tested positive but had recovered and returned home a few days back. A member of the 1980 gold-winning Olympic side, Kaushik was one of the rare hockey personalities who shone both as a player and coach. Successful coach He excelled as coach with both the men’s and women’s teams, guiding them to podium at major continental events including the Asian Games and the Asia Cup. A right-winger, Kaushik was known for his speed and thrust as a player. Having retired as Deputy Director of Sports with Haryana, Kaushik was also in charge of the Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy and later at the National Hockey Academy in New Delhi as part of Khelo India before retiring late last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/1980-olympic-games-gold-winning-hockey-stalwarts-pass-away/article34518361.ece
09 May 2021||Chennai,||Selectors missed a trick by not picking Prithvi Shaw||The selectors have missed a glorious opportunity to groom the young Prithvi Shaw in the long English summer which includes the World Test championship final and the five Tests against England. Despite his inconsistency in Test cricket — the gifted Shaw is still only 21 — he still averages 42.37 in Tests. Away from home, he showed flashes of brilliance against New Zealand and got just one Test, the day/night game in Adelaide, to display his wares. While Tests and T20 cricket are two different formats altogether, Shaw’s form in the recently held but truncated IPL suggested his mind and body were in harmony. Six fours in an over Representing Delhi Capitals, the opener sent all six legal deliveries from the Kolkata Knight Riders paceman Shivam Mavi for boundaries. He was balanced, his head was still, his feet moved and he found the gaps. Qualities that would serve him well in Test cricket too. There was no slogging. Only crisp striking of the ball. India has four openers in the squad — Rohit Sharma, Shubman Gill, Mayank Agarwal and K.L. Rahul (subject to fitness). Shaw could have been included in Rahul’s place as a future investment. While he remains an influential white-ball cricketer, it remains unclear if Rahul has overcome his difficulties with the incoming delivery in red-ball cricket. Worse, Shaw does not even find a place among the four stand-byes who will travel to England along with a jumbo 20-member squad, keeping in mind the COVID situation and the need for additional players. Perfect conditions Swing bowler Bhuvneshwar Kumar too is not among 24. The decision is baffling since Bhuvneshwar’s bowling is made for English conditions. He moves the ball both ways — his wrist position is exemplary — and bowls an effective off-stump line. While Bhuvneshwar is a genuine swing bowler, he can also seam the ball. And after some outstanding work with former Indian team fitness chief Shankar Basu, he upped his pace by a couple of yards. If you don’t play Bhuvneshwar in England, where would you play him? He could have easily come in for Axar Patel, who is a luxury in the Old Blighty with Ravindra Jadeja in the team. Otherwise, the squad is on predictable lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/selectors-missed-a-trick-by-not-picking-prithvi-shaw/article34518350.ece
09 May 2021||BARCELONA,||Hamilton claims his 100th pole||Seven-time World champion Lewis Hamilton became the first Formula One driver to take 100 pole positions after lapping fastest in Spanish Grand Prix qualifying on Saturday. The 36-year-old Mercedes driver was already the record holder by a big margin, with retired Ferrari great and fellow seven-time champion Michael Schumacher second on the list with 68. Red Bull’s Max Verstappen qualified on the front row alongside the championship-leading Briton, who has an eight- point lead over the Dutch driver, with Valtteri Bottas qualifying third for Mercedes. “I feel very humble and very grateful. I’m ecstatic, like it’s my first,” said Hamilton after the session at the Circuit de Catalunya. “I can’t believe we’re at 100 and it’s down to the men and women back at the factory who are continuously raising the bar and never giving up,” said Hamilton, who will be chasing a record-extending 98th career win on Sunday.  Most pole postions (top-5)  100: Lewis Hamilton  68: Michael Schumacher  65: Ayrton Senna  57: Sebastian Vettel  33: Jim Clark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-claims-his-100th-pole/article34518355.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Former players pay tributes||V. Baskaran, who captained the 1980 Olympics gold medal-winning squad, lamented that the passing away of teammates Ravinder Pal Singh and Kaushik on the same day was “too much to take.” Baskaran said Kaushik had a fantastic final against Spain. “I vividly remember him scoring a goal and being instrumental in getting the team a penalty stroke, which Surinder Singh Sodhi converted,” he said. “He was equally successful as a coach and gave a facelift to the Indian women’s team, ” added Baskaran. Baskaran labelled Ravinder Pal as a ‘complete player’. “His basics were sound. He had speed, endurance and strength. He enjoyed his role as centre-half and moreover he came at a time when there was a big vacuum in that centre-half position,” he said. Calm and composed Zafar Iqbal, Ravinder Pal’s teammate and senior at the Olympics, said “he was excellent with his ball-distribution and anticipation. Calm and composed, he was a complete player.” Triple Olympian N. Mukesh Kumar said the death of Kaushik was a personal loss to him. “I remember every moment of my association with this wonderful coach, especially being a member of the gold medal-winning team at the 1998 Bangkok Asian Games. “He knew who would deliver the results and ensured that the whole team gelled well.” Former India goalkeeper and Olympic medallist Muneer Sait expressed his condolences. Tragic loss “Kaushik was a speedy right winger with skill and thrust. And he became a successful coach too. His death is a tragic loss,” said Sait. Speaking about Ravinder Pal, Sait said “A very depressing piece of news. I was hoping and praying that he would pull through. I was one of the selectors who picked him in the Indian team.”  (with inputs from   K. Keerthivasan,   Uthra Ganesan,   V.V. Subrahmanyam,   S. Dinakar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-players-pay-tributes/article34518364.ece
09 May 2021||MUNICH,||Bayern’s Bundesliga reign continues||Bayern Munich secured a record-extending ninth consecutive Bundesliga title on Saturday without kicking a ball, after RB Leipzig’s 3-2 defeat at Borussia Dortmund kept the Bavarians seven points clear with two games left for their rivals. The LaLiga title race was blown wide open after Barcelona and Atletico Madrid played out a 0-0 draw. If Real Madrid beats Sevilla on Sunday, it will move top of the table — level on 77 points with Atletico — but ahead given the superior head-to-head record. Barcelona has moved up to second place with 75 points. Tottenham Hotspur’s slim hopes of finishing in the Premier League top four faded as host Leeds United condemned it to a 3-1 defeat.  Important results: Premier League: Leeds 3 (Dallas 13, Bamford 42, Rodrigo 84) bt Tottenham 1 (Son 25); Sheffield United 0 lost to Crystal Palace 2 (Benteke 2, Eze 88).   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 3 (Reus 7, Sancho 51, 87) bt Leipzig 2 (Klostermann 63, Olmo 77); Wolfsburg 3 (Brekalo 12, 63, 90) bt Union Berlin 0; Stuttgart 2 (Foerster 11, Kalajdzic 74) bt Augsburg 1 (Niederlechner 59).   LaLiga: Alaves 2 (Pons 30, Joselu 87) drew with Levante 2 (Nogales 36, 42); Barcelona 0 drew with Atletico Madrid 0; Real Sociedad 2 (Elustondo 72, Oyarzabal 90+2) bt Elche 0.   Serie A: Spezia 1 (Piccoli 64) lost to Napoli 4 (Zielinski 15, Osimhen 23, 44, Lozano 79) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayerns-bundesliga-reign-continues/article34518357.ece
09 May 2021||MADRID,||Zverev cruises into final||Alexander Zverev produced an impressive display to beat Dominic Thiem in straight sets on Saturday and book his spot in the Madrid Open final. Fifth seed Zverev, who stunned five-time champion Rafael Nadal in the quarterfinals, saw off Thiem 6-3, 6-4 in a repeat of the 2018 final, which was also won by the German. Thiem threatened a late fightback after trailing 4-1 in the second set, but had too much to do to reach a third Madrid final. The Austrian third seed will now turn his attentions to Rome next week and then the French Open which starts later this month, where he is also a two-time runner-up. The tournament has seen a welcome return to form for Zverev, who had won only two matches in his previous three events since lifting the Acapulco title in March.  The results:   Men: Semifinals: Alexander Zverev bt Dominic Thiem 6-3, 6-4.   Quarterfinals: Casper Ruud bt Alexander Bublik 7-5, 6-1; Matteo Berrettini bt Cristian Garín 5-7, 6-3, 6-0.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: Alexander Zverev (Ger) & Tim Puetz (Ger) bt Rohan Bopanna & Denis Shapovalov (Can) 6-4, 3-6, [10-5] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zverev-cruises-into-final/article34518371.ece
09 May 2021||SOFIA,||Golden joy for Seema||Seema Bisla’s joy doubled on Saturday as the Tokyo- bound wrestler ended her campaign in the World Olympics Qualifier here by bagging the 50kg gold. Seema, who secured an Olympic quota place on Friday, was awarded the gold after her opponent, Lucia Yamileth of Ecuador, withdrew from the final due to an injury. Nisha Dahiya (68kg) lost to Buse Tosun of Turkey 5-1 in repechage round match. The Indian Greco-Roman wrestlers had a disappointing day. Sachin Rana (60kg) forfeited his first round bout due to illness, while Ashu (67kg) and Deepanshu (97kg) lost in the first round. Gurpreet Singh (77kg) and Sunil Kumar (87kg) also lost early but remained in the race for bronze by time of going to the press. The Indian wrestlers gathered eight Olympic quota places, including four apiece in men and women freestyle sections. The country got eight wrestling slots, including three each in men and women freestyle and two in Greco-Roman, in the Rio Olympics as well. It could field only seven after Narsingh Yadav (74kg) was suspended by the CAS due to a doping violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/golden-joy-for-seema/article34518374.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pramod Sood no more||Well-known cricket organiser Pramod Sood passed following a heart attack while undergoing treatment for COVID at a hospital here in Dwarka on Friday. He was 62. Survived by wife and two sons, Pramod was the man behind the organisation of the prestigious Om Nath Sood tournament in the Captial for over three decades. In fact, the 31st edition of the tournament was suspended last month due to rise in COVID-related cases. Several players and officials expressed their condolences on the sudden passing away of Pramod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pramod-sood-no-more/article34518481.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||BCCI scorer Tiwari passes away||BCCI scorer Krishan Kumar Tiwari passed away due to COVID at the AIIMS, Jhajhar (Haryana) on Saturday. He was 52. He is survived by wife, two daughters and a son. Last fortnight, after Tiwari complained of uneasiness. He was admitted to Hedgewar Hospital where he tested positive. Later, following an intervention by DDCA president Rohan Jaitley, Tiwari was moved to Jhajhar, since no bed was available in the Capital. He was a member of the DDCA’s Umpire and Scoring Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-scorer-tiwari-passes-away/article34518482.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Rani Rampal, six teammates recover||India women’s hockey captain Rani Rampal, her six team-mates and two support staff members have recovered from COVID-19 after spending two weeks in quarantine at the Sports Authority of India’s (SAI) Centre in Bengaluru. The six other India players are Savita Punia, Sharmila Devi, Rajani, Navjot Kaur, Navneet Kaur and Sushila while the two support staff are video analyst Amrutaprakash and scientific advisor Wayne Lombard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rani-rampal-six-teammates-recover/article34518359.ece
09 May 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Bogdanovic blazes away||Bojan Bogdanovic torched Denver for a career-high 48 points as the Utah Jazz remained in top spot in the Western Conference with a 127-120 victory over the Nuggets on Friday night. Damian Lillard scored a game-high 38 points as the Trail Blazers defeated Los Angeles Lakers 106-101.   The results: Charlotte 122 bt Orlando 112; Miami 121 bt Minnesota 112; Dallas 110 bt Cleveland 90; Phoenix 128 bt New York 105; Portland 106 bt LA Lakers 101; Sacramento 104 lost to San Antonio 113; Utah 127 bt Denver 120; Milwaukee 141 bt Houston 133; Philadelphia 109 bt New Orleans 107; Chicago 121 bt Boston 99 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bogdanovic-blazes-away/article34518346.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Adhiban in semifinals||Top seed B. Adhiban stopped R. Praggnanandhaa 3-1 for a place in the semifinals of the online Indian Qualifier for the Champions Chess Tour on Saturday. Aravindh Chithambaram blanked Surya Shekhar Ganguly 2-0 in the blitz tie-break.   The results: Quarterfinals: B. Adhiban bt R. Praggnanandhaa 3-1; Aravindh Chithambaram bt Surya Shekhar Ganguly 4-2 (2-0 in blitz tie-break); D. Gukesh bt Mitrabha Guha 2.5-1.5; Arjun Erigaisi bt Harsha Bharathakoti 2.5-1.5.   First round: Adhiban bt Aronyak Ghosh 2.5-1.5; Praggnanandhaa bt M. Karthikeyan 2.5-1.5; Aravindh bt D. Harika 3-1; Ganguly bt N. R. Visakh 2.5-1.5; Arjun bt Nihal Sarin 2.5-1.5; Harsha bt S.P. Sethuraman 4-2 (2-0 in tie-breaker); Gukesh bt Abhijeet Gupta 2.5-0.5; Mitrabha bt K. Sasikiran 2.5-1.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adhiban-in-semifinals/article34518347.ece
09 May 2021||HARARE,||Abid completes double century||Pakistan took total control on the second day of the second Test against Zimbabwe here on Saturday, outclassing the home side with both bat and ball. Zimbabwe was 52 for four at the close in reply to Pakistan’s 510 for eight declared. Opening batsman Abid Ali made an unbeaten 215 and Nauman Ali slammed 97.  The scores: Pakistan 510/8 decl. in 147.1 overs (Abid Ali 215 n.o., Azhar Ali 126, Nauman Ali 97) vs Zimbabwe 52/4 in 30 overs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abid-completes-double-century/article34518352.ece
09 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Gopi, Jagan Mohan named in panel||Chief National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand and Handball Federation of India president A. Jagan Mohan Rao are among the four-member panel nominated by the Indian Olympic Association, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports and Sports Authority of India to provide support to ex-international athletes and coaches amid the pandemic. The other two members are Telangana Olympic Association general-secretary K. Jagdishwar Yadav and treasurer K. Maheshwar. For Andhra Pradesh, Raghvendra, member of AP Olympic Association, and Subhan Basha are the nominees. The former international athletes and coaches can put forward their requirements for medical aid, oxygen, hospitalisation and other support on an online platform, which is already operational. Besides a National committee, state-level working groups consisting of representatives of IOA, state government officials and SAI have also been formed to assist applicants from every State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gopi-jagan-mohan-named-in-panel/article34518747.ece
09 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Prasidh, Seifert test positive||Kolkata Knight Riders pacer Prasidh Krishna and wicketkeper batsman Tim Seifert have tested positive for coronavirus and the former is in quarantine in his home town Bengaluru, a BCCI source said on Saturday. The 25-year-old Prasidh is the fourth KKR player to have contracted the dreaded virus. “Prasidh is COVID positive and currently in home isolation in Bengaluru,” a BCCI source said. New Zealand’s Seifert is also in isolation in Ahmedabad from where he will go to Chennai for treatment at a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prasidh-seifert-test-positive/article34518370.ece
09 May 2021||London,||Murray to hit with Djokovic in Rome with Roland Garros on his mind||Andy Murray will head to the Rome Masters next week and practice with Novak Djokovic as he once again attempts to reignite his injury-stalled career.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/murray-to-hit-with-djokovic-in-rome-with-roland-garros-on-his-mind/article34518365.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 07:48 IST,||Sudoku - May 9, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-09-2021/article34519006.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from experience||Five years of treatment for infertility, three miscarriages and many disappointments later, Rohini S. Rajagopal became a mother. But the trauma she had to endure during treatment, she felt, was almost never recognised by her family or friends. “That is why I wrote the book,” she says; her book is titled, What’s a Lemon Squeezer Doing Inside My Vagina . “The desire to tell the world what it was like to go through the process — emotionally, physically and mentally — was uppermost on my mind. There was almost no kind of emotional support or experiential literature on the subject. All through the procedure, I was expected to function as normally as possible at home and the workplace,” she recalls. Without resorting to euphemisms or glossing over the details, Rohini tells it as it is: the confusion, the dehumanising treatment protocols, the lack of sensitivity and empathy. When she was going through physically invasive procedures, the internet became her go-to place for information and support. “There are several support groups on social media, all consisting of women going through the same journey. Empathetic and honest, they were a source of strength because each of them had been there and through the roller coasters that they were forced to endure,” Rohini explains. She adds that the book is a validation for their efforts to handhold women going through different medical procedures to have a baby. While she counts herself lucky that there was no pressure on her to have a child, she admits that she often wished her family had been more empathetic and open, about her efforts to become a mother. “Until they read the book, they had no idea of the mood swings and loneliness I was going through,” she says. Rohini learnt to monitor her ovulation, endometrial thickness, the growth of the embryo and so on; the medical terminology could not be avoided in her book as the numbers and dates are important for women opting for invitro fertilisation or intrauterine fertilisation. It is her sense of humour and candour that stops the book from becoming a journal of dashed hopes and uncomfortable medical interventions. Rohini hopes that more books will be written to address the lack of material on what women experience in labour rooms, and the entire cycle of physical examinations leading to the delivery of the baby. “Unless we talk about it, things won’t change. I am hoping that my book inspires more women to talk and write about pregnancy and labour, and bust the myths and taboos associated with it,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lessons-from-experience/article34518515.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Nurturing women of substance||K. Meena remembers carting a boxy personal computer in the 1990s in a van to the villages near Tiruchi and the look on the faces of the people who would crowd around them immediately. “There was a lot of curiosity; like a circus had come to town,” she says. “Our team would explain the different parts of the machine, and allow children to play basic games on it.” In 2021, with a much narrower urban-rural divide in technology, the story is being recast, with major changes. “Now I just take a laptop with me, and seek out women in rural areas to show them how the computer can be a tool of empowerment,” she says. At the age of 59, Meena has had a long and distinguished career in higher education. She was the first woman vice-chancellor of Bharatidasan University (BU) from 2010 to 2013, and has served in both academic and administrative capacities in several educational institutions in Tiruchi for over two decades. She has balanced this with a voluntary mission to educate rural women about technology, particularly the vocational skills that can help them with employment.  Having been part of several initiatives like the Internet Users Club and the Computer Society of India, Meena has seen the transformative power of technology at close quarters. “I have always believed that education, and employment or entrepreneurship are essential to make women economically independent. Even if women are heading self-help groups that make traditional products like handicrafts or pickles, they will definitely benefit from using computers to link up with customers or organise their own work schedule,” she says. Empowering rural women Meena has visited at least 24 villages in and around Tiruchi and Thanjavur during the pandemic months, addressing small groups of women, while following social distancing norms. “I have come across some highly-skilled women, with multiple college degrees, who have opted to stay at home after marriage. I advise these homemakers to try and use their education in a positive way. Sometimes, I feel sad that so many qualified women are thinking about utilising their talents only after we visit them,” she says. Meena is also working on the ‘Tamilum Kaninium’ (Tamil and Computers) project, to create a new corps of rural women technology workers. “There are sectors like data entry, computer-aided design and Tamil desktop publishing where skilled staff are always in demand. IT companies should do more to employ women from the villages on a work-from-home basis,” she says, adding, “Even if women are not going for a job, they should be active outside the home sphere.” Creating awareness Meena often combines her computer lessons with awareness programmes on a wide variety of issues, including menstrual hygiene, environmental protection and waste management. “To emphasise on basic health and hygiene during the pandemic, I have been handing out handmade kits. These are cloth pouches and masks stitched by rural women tailors, to which I add a small bar of soap. This keeps many women busy and is quite easy to put together,” she says. According to her, what is required now is a training faculty for rural technology education, preferably drawn from within the community. “We may not make revolutionary changes, but we will definitely be able to create an impact on the lives of these women. I have also seen how quickly they act on my advice, such as setting up kitchen gardens or taking up handicraft production. Higher education for girls is my biggest passion; I believe it can really improve life for everyone,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/nurturing-women-of-substance/article34518512.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Wastrels and dictators||The Spanish Flu ended in April 1920. Satyajit Ray, India’s most fêted filmmaker, was born a year later, on May 2, 1921. This year marks his birth centenary, as another pandemic ravages the world, its impact particularly harsh on India now more than anywhere else. A question that has arisen over the past year is how cinema will reflect this period. We have seen a few half-hearted efforts already, but the shadow of the pandemic will last far longer and we can expect cinema and its creators to rise to the challenge more substantially. In this context, it’s interesting to reflect on how Ray as a filmmaker might have responded to this scenario, 100 years later. Ray’s cinema captured a mutating India while remaining culturally rooted in Bengal. His films spoke to the dreams, aspirations, struggles, angst, challenges, and corrosiveness of the Indian plurality while telling stories that in many cases had already been told in other forms — by Tagore, Premchand, Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay, Tarasankar Bandyopadhyay, Narendranath Mitra, Premchand, Sunil Gangopadhyay, Mani Shankar Mukherjee and even his grandfather, Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury. Add to this his literary work and original screenplays and we get a picture of India, starting with Ray storyboarding Pather Panchali as the country became a republic and ending with the moral destitution and weariness of Agantuk . The neorealist aesthetics in Ray’s films depict characters in flux, complementing a country that was rapidly transforming in the wake of Independence. India’s multiculturalism, Hinduism’s deep-rooted caste system, and the volatile, still unformed State borders and a multilingual society created several fractures that made it clear that the culmination of 20th century’s fifth decade was more decolonisation than freedom. Ray turned towards material that spoke to him and people like him, the educated Bengali bourgeoisie. True to form, his films, most of them, featured Brahmin or privileged-caste leads who were either gaining a foothold in India’s new fabric or recalling a glorious past. In The Apu Trilogy , Ray captured the rural and urban disconnect, and the bildungsroman gave us a bird’s eye view of Apu’s journey from a Brahmin family below the poverty line, their lives touched by every catastrophe in the country but nonetheless finding hope on the horizon. Almost retroactively, his lyrical Jalsaghar with its mirror plays and wide-angle shots captured the withering away of a zamindar’s grandeur, of a man held captive by a music that symbolises his resonant past. The Renaissance Two of Ray’s greatest works fell on either side of the Bengal Renaissance, which stands as the foundation of his and many other famous legacies of the region. In Charulata, Madhabi Mukherjee becomes the forgotten figure in an upper-class house where her husband Bhupati (Sailen Mukherjee) is married to his voice, his newspaper, and the freedom movement, not only failing to register her presence but also the renaissance within her. While Madhabi Mukherjee’s Charulata is a still life enlivened by Soumitra Chatterjee’s Amal, Ray’s roving camera, more kinetic here than in his other films, captures this through the eyes and opera glasses of Charulata. A year before Charulata, Ray had already made Madhabi Mukherjee the newly independent woman in a newly decolonised India in Mahanagar . Arati’s discovery of the city, her cautious encroachment into the upmarket neighbourhoods of Kolkata, and how she negotiates her agency with the men and women she meets constitute the filmmaker’s most satisfying work. These were the experiments of a filmmaker who was looking back to look within, operating in the domain of the brahminical Bengali bhadralok . Often, Ray’s characters refuse to leave Kolkata. If they do, it is for a respite from their jobs and a weariness that is brought down upon them by destabilising events unravelling around them. In 1969’s Aranyer Din Ratri , we meet snooty city men who take a few days off to drive into the forest. The well-to-do Ashim (Soumitra Chatterjee), Sanjay, an executive, Hari, a failed cricketer, and Shekhar, a jobless wastrel who is the life of the party, bribe their way into a forest department guest house. Through such characters, Ray illustrated the apathy of a generation, cushy city slackers unaware of the hinterland’s mushrooming issues. Simi Garewal, in blackface, plays a hypersexualised Santhal tribeswoman and Sharmila Tagore solidifies her position as the educated woman representative of the bhadralok , from Nayak to Aranyer Din Ratri to Seemabaddha.  A marked shift in realising this moral decay on screen is apparent from Aranyer Din Ratri to his Calcutta trilogy — Pratidwandi , Seemabaddha and Jana Aranya . In Pratidwandi , Dhritiman Chatterjee’s Siddhartha declares that he doesn’t want to leave Kolkata, no matter that he is unemployed, with his mind unable to find an ideological footing. The film coincided with the Naxalite movement that began in Bengal, with the caste system and land rights at its root. It’s no coincidence that the trilogy charted the course of Indira Gandhi’s India as it inched towards Emergency, creating a swelling anger at the state. Ray’s films still focused on capturing the Bengali Brahmin’s, or more importantly, India’s ruling class’s frustration with itself and the country. The trilogy’s protagonists — Siddhartha in Pratidwandi , Shyamal (Barun Chanda) in Seemabaddha and Somnath (Pradip Mukherjee) in Jana Aranya — are all one and the same, crawling their way to a corrupt version of their former selves, unwilling to act, afraid to give up the existing privilege in their names — Mukherjees, Banerjees and Chatterjees. Political consciousness In Pratidwandi , Siddhartha is at a hotel with a college friend, who reminds him of his more politically conscious college days and beseeches him to return to that path. Ray focuses on Siddhartha for an unusually long close-up, with the friend talking about protests, labour rights and factory strikes. (This is eerily reminiscent of Uttam Kumar’s Arindam Mukherjee in the Fellini-esque 1966 film Nayak , who has grown apart from his childhood friend and activist Biresh, who wants Arindam to use his popularity for political causes.) Siddhartha’s mind wanders, only to think to himself, why won’t this man shut up. The growing unemployment and discontent only bolster their decision to give up on principles, to put themselves ahead of everything. (Contrast this with Mrinal Sen’s own Calcutta trilogy film Padatik, in which Chatterjee plays an assured Naxalite hiding from the police.) The hypersexualised woman becomes a symbol of this decay in Ray’s films — Siddhartha’s sister and his suspicions about her relationship with her employer, or the nurse he meets in the film, and Somnath’s startling discovery about his friend’s sister at the end of Jana Aranya . The descent from Arati to Juthika, Somnath’s friend’s sister who works as a prostitute, embodies the sinister cynicism that grabbed hold of a filmmaker trying to mine his country for cinema as an anthropological record. In 1977’s Shatranj Ke Khilari , made during and released just after the Emergency, Ray dials back to 1856 to show two uncaring lords in Lucknow — Mirza Sajjad Ali (Sanjeev Kumar) and Mir Roshan Ali (Saeed Jaffrey) — who control a comfortable fiefdom, play chess all day, singing paeans to the game and how it rewards the intellect, ignoring their duties and families. The film reflected the events leading up to Indira Gandhi’s assault on democracy, even as people in power ignored the long-term effects of that chapter in India’s history, some of which are being felt to this day. Once again, we return to a Ray film with the question, ‘Did he warn us? Should we have introspected more?’ While Ray’s films can be accused of featuring brahminical hegemony, they also document an important pattern of disillusionment that gave way to a more malevolent form of hedonism and warned of the aftermath of wearing privilege and supremacist dogmatism as a badge. Examining the subaltern This is not to say that Ray did not venture into examining the country’s subaltern. In his most whimsical and inventive Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne , Goopy (Tapen Chatterjee) and Bagha (Rabi Ghosh) are individuals from the lower stratas of society who find company in shared misery (brought upon them by the Brahmins of their village), until they encounter a ghost who grants them three boons. The signature piece is a six-and-a-half-minute musical sequence that is now widely understood to signify that the caste system can only end in violence. (The film too ends with weapons being put down and better treatment of the kingdom’s subjects.) The heady 70s forced Ray to re-examine the political class so much that he returned to Goopy and Bagha with Hirak Rajar Deshe , where a dictator prone to brainwashing the citizens is brought down by the magical powers of the two originally underprivileged wanderers. The film is as relevant now as it was timely then, the year Indira Gandhi was re-elected. Ray’s films became more confrontational and introspective from here on. For Doordarshan, he made Sadgati , almost as a retort to the criticism of his characters’ usual social standing. Om Puri and Smita Patil play Dalits, husband and wife, with a daughter about to be married. Dukhi (Puri) is dependent on the Brahmin priest (Mohan Agashe) to find an auspicious date, who takes advantage of Dukhi’s need to extract as much physical labour from him as possible. Dukhi’s family mirrors Apu’s, but here Ray course-corrects to reflect how the priest (the original occupation of Apu’s father) is the oppressor. A self-confessed rationalist, Ray took on religion as early as Devi in 1960, which ends with a plot point that was echoed in Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s 2019 film Super Deluxe — blind faith in an imaginary deity to cure a sick child. In 1984, Ray returned to Tagore for Ghare Baire , for a critique of blind nationalism that does not consider the underclass while participating in activism that misrepresents their cause. Ray, through his filmography, displayed a propensity to learn, unlearn and review the past. He unearthed contemporary themes from classics to tell stories that reflected their present, and his technical acumen was such that the films remain as fresh as when they arrived, with moments of brilliance continuing to be uncovered to this day. Didn’t we ask how Ray would have reacted to the pandemic? He did. He made Ganashatru in 1990, a chamber drama about a jaundice epidemic in Chandipur. That its cause is water contamination is suppressed by both the state and the local temple. Dr. Ashoke Gupta (Soumitra Chatterjee) becomes an enemy of the people. Cut to 2021, every dissenting voice is branded an enemy of the state. Hopefully, young filmmakers are taking notes. The Chennai-based writer and film critic hosts a South Indian cinema podcast calledThe Other Banana.  In 1984, Ray returned to Tagore forGhare Baire,for a critique of blind nationalism that does not consider the underclass while participating in activism that misrepresents their cause   The Calcutta trilogy’s protagonists are all one and the same, crawling their way to a corrupt version of their former selves, unwilling to act, afraid to give up the existing privilege in their names — Mukherjees, Banerjees and Chatterjees||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/wastrels-and-dictators/article34518161.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Interviewing the Beatles was the biggest thrill of my life’||S tories I Must Tell: The Emotional Journey Of An Actor is not at all an ageing celebrity’s nostalgic autobiography. It reads like a romcom, an action movie, a documentary and a tragedy, all melting into the narrative arc of the life of an actor. In this intimate self-portrait, the actor ponders on spirituality and the meaning of life while chatting with Federico Fellini, running into Audrey Hepburn at a party, dancing with Gina Lollobrigida, and enjoying the golden years of Bollywood. The stories Kabir Bedi tells are those of a lover, husband, father, son, an international actor for theatre, cinema and television, who doesn’t fear crossing into the contemporary by participating in a reality show. What is most impressive from the start is Bedi’s voice in this fast-paced book that is packed with life choices and lessons, ups and downs, details and revelations. The narrative voice he uses to tell the story of 75 years of life, from Bollywood to Hollywood via Cinecittà, the Italian chapter of Bedi’s stardom, wastes little time, and is sharp and courageously honest. Excerpts from an interview Why ‘emotional journey’ as a subtitle? Because my life has been a roller-coaster of emotions. Changing relationships, changing financial fortunes, changing cities and continents all create enormous emotional upheavals. My book is the story of the tumultuous life I’ve lived. You start off by telling how you interviewed the Beatles when you were 20 years old. How important is it to expose yourself to opportunity? My interview with the Beatles was the biggest thrill of my life as a young man. I was their biggest fan. Getting through to them, when every journalist in Delhi had failed, was because I was smart and very determined. When you see a challenge as ‘do or die’, you do find a way. And I did! So, you are saying that you have had to build your own opportunities. But how can you improve those useful chance encounters in life? Chance encounters are like miracles, they just happen. You can’t plan them, or will them to happen. Strangely, I didn’t want to build on the chance encounter with my first wife, Protima. But she did, with great determination too. So that chance encounter changed my life forever. For better or for worse, let the readers decide. It was transformative for me. You talk of transformations and betrayals, of open marriage, running naked on the beach… do you think today’s generation has more hang-ups or fewer? Today’s generation, and their morality, is far more fluid than in the 70s. But we were the bohemians of our age who challenged social norms. Even living together was considered scandalous at that time. Open marriage was considered outrageous. And Protima’s running naked on the beach as a publicity stunt for a magazine shocked everyone to the core. It would even today. The movie industry has changed a lot since. What is your opinion of Bollywood’s transformation? The biggest transformation in Bollywood is the money they pay the big stars. It’s gone up astronomically. The second biggest change has been the producers. In those days, producers were family firms that built close relationships with the stars. Today, Bollywood is more corporate in the way it operates. The third biggest transformation is that actors get bound scripts. We only ever got “narrations”, tailored to the ego of the actor who was listening. There are great lessons for actors in your book. How to act just by thinking, how to act with your shoulders… Should one of them be: do not marry an actor if you’re an actor? From what I’ve seen, it’s best if actors don’t marry actors. Two divas living under one roof doesn’t augur well for peace in the house. Besides, most actors’ incomes are irregular, which creates stresses that affect the relationship. But there are some notable exceptions. There are many lessons for actors in my book and I hope they learn from my mistakes. The examples you quote were my director’s instructions to me for the role of Sandokan (in the eponymous Italian TV mini-series, 1976), which led to a performance that made me a star across Europe. But they are not rules for every role. Your book also delves into your relationship with religion and mysticism. How important has spirituality been in your life? Many streams of spirituality have run through my life. Sikhism from my father, who was a descendant of Guru Nanak. Buddhism from my mother, who became the highest ranking nun in Tibetan Buddhism. Christianity from the schools where I studied. New-age Indian philosophers like Jiddu Krishnamurti, Osho and Deepak Chopra. And many other preachers, writers and thinkers. Hinduism is the ethos in which I grew up and it gave me many answers. I was always in search of “the truth”. There is a whole chapter in my memoir that is about my spiritual journey and what I’ve learned in the end. There is another chapter, ‘Saving my son, the wounded soul’, which is such a heartbreaking story. What advice do you have for other such parents? ‘Saving my son’ was a very difficult chapter to write. With schizophrenia, the person you see is not the person you knew. Something deep has changed within them. I feel very deeply for families who live with someone suffering from it. The only advice I can give them is to never stop loving them. Your love is felt by them, even if their behaviour is difficult to understand. What have you tried to tell the world through your story? I want to say that you can take the road less travelled and survive, even thrive. It may not be easy, it may not give you everything you want but, at the end of the day, you will have lived a life that is unique and, hopefully, fulfilling. For all my successes, I faced ruin too. But I resurrected myself each time. The interviewer’s most recent book isBending Over Backwards: A Journey to the End of the World to Find a Cure for a Chronic Backache.  Educated at Sherwood College, Nainital and St. Stephen's College, Delhi . Known for roles such as Shah Jahan inTaj Mahal: An Eternal Love Story(2005) and Sanjay Verma inKhoon Bari Maang(1988). Played the villain’s aide, Gobinda, in the James Bond filmOctopussy. Was made a ‘Cavaliere’ (knight) of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic in 2010.     It’s best if actors don’t marry actors. Two divas living under one roof doesn’t augur well for peace in the house||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/interviewing-the-beatles-was-the-biggest-thrill-of-my-life/article34518120.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Bit of a pickle||For as long as I can remember, gongura pachhadi (sorrel leaves pickle), an Andhra delicacy famous for its tangy and spicy taste,  has been my favourite pickle; the combination of piping hot rice, ghee, and some pachhadi tastes like heaven. I have fond memories of childhood when my mother and the neighbourhood ladies would assemble beneath the gooseberry tree in our back yard, spread a mat under the sky on a full-moon night, the auspicious Karthika Pournami, and eat rice mixed with gongura pachhadi and other delicacies, an annual tradition. I am lucky that my husband and children also share my love for the pachhadi, although my mother-in-law prepares a slightly different version, using green chillies rather than red. Pickle making was an elaborate affair when I was growing up. We lived in a colony of central government employees, each house with a huge back yard. Most often, the process was a combined effort, with the neighbourhood ladies pitching in to help. After the pickle was ground and emptied into a bowl, my mother would mix some leftover rice in the grindstone to soak up the last bits of pachhadi. She would roll it into small balls and hand them out and we kids would wait eagerly for this, often fighting for more. My mother does it even today. At home, the task of plucking the sorrel leaves from their stems was the job of the kids; my sisters and I would sit long hours doing this. Afterwards, we would stick the bare stems into the soil in our back yard; these would grow into plants months later. Festival special After marriage, when we visited my husband’s village every year during Dussehra and Sankranthi, knowing our fondness for the pachchadi, my father-in-law used to pluck sorrel leaves from the plants bordering our fields, and my mother-in-law would prepare the pickle and even pack some in a couple of bottles for us to carry back. In fact, she was known for her cooking prowess, and many happy friends would carry a bottle of pachchadi back with them after a visit. With tips from my mother, I have customised the gongura pachhadi to my liking. There are two types of gongura: the red-stemmed and the green-stemmed variety. I prefer the latter. At home, I keep handy a ready mix of red chillies ground with salt and turmeric in the refrigerator, and use it whenever needed. This is what I put in my gongura pachhadi, which makes the process quicker. Now, it’s my sisters who carry back bottles of my pachhadi with them. Gongura pickle is a must in every Andhra home, mandatory during all ceremonies and family reunions. Apart from being delicious, sorrel leaves are an excellent source of folate, vitamin C, B6 and A, and a rich source of calcium, iron and zinc. In addition, the leaves are also famously used in dishes like gongura mutton (a tangy mutton dish) and the more basic but healthy gongura pappu (sorrel leaves dal). The civil engineer has been a freelance writer for the past 15 years.    Apart from being delicious, sorrel leaves are an excellent source of folate, vitamin C, B6 and A, and a rich source of calcium, iron and zinc||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bit-of-a-pickle/article34518122.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Dream about me||A 100 years ago, a play debuted at the National Theatre in Prague. Written by Karel Čapek, the play featured an inventor who manufactures a race of artificial workers. The play was Rossum’s Universal Robots , the last being an invented word, derived from the Slavic root rabote , to work. The robots promptly rebel and extirpate the human race; the inventor, at the behest of a corporate backer, had unwisely ensured that the robots will be ultra-efficient but also feel pain, “because suffering makes them more technically perfect.” This set the stage not just for the word robot to enter our language, but also reaffirmed the highest tradition of science-fiction – to take a screenshot of the zeitgeist. Čapek’s play was a worldwide sensation, with successful runs from New York to Tokyo. A few years later came Fritz Lang’s 1927 film, Metropolis, with its iconic golden-bronze, eerie-eyed female Maschinenmensch robot, Futura — robots had made the leap to the silver screen, and into our cultural consciousness. Along with their cousins, the androids (who are human-looking robots deliberately designed to resemble the human form), they have summed up the hopes and anxieties of humanity — of predatory corporations, Frankenstein fears of creations turning against masters, mundane fears of our jobs being stolen in the process — forcing us to question what makes us human. She notices Alongside this concept of mankind’s unmakers — witness the T-800s in the Terminator films, their metal skulls reflecting atomic fires — there is also another tradition of robots as helpers and friends. The idea of mechanical automata was already millennia-old by the time of Čapek’s play. Ismail al-Jazari, an engineer from what is now Turkey, designed clockwork elephants complete with robotic mahouts, and a “programmable” ensemble of musicians which could play tunes. In his work, The Book of Knowledge of Ingenious Mechanical Devices, published in 1206, Jazari acknowledges that he improves on devices built by “ancient scholars and wise men”; one can trace the lineage all the way to the legends that King Ajatashatru had the Buddha’s tomb guarded by giant robot guardians, the bhuta vahana yantra . The Samarangana Sutradhara , a treatise on the dramatic arts composed by Raja Bhoja in the 10th century, mentions in passing “metal dolls” which could dance, sing, and enact scenes from Hindu mythology. It is this tradition that Kazuo Ishiguro’s latest novel, Klara and the Sun , draws from. Ishiguro is a doyen of the literary world, while SF, despite its transgressive energies, is “writing on the margins”, at least in the Anglosphere. In Ishiguro’s quietly philosophical cadence, the margin becomes the centre, asking us to judge the novel on par with any classic. Klara is an Artificial Friend, and we follow her from her days in the showroom to her purchase by a teenage girl, Josie. Evidently powered by a neural network, Klara has a distinct personality — the shop manager making the sales pitch says “she notices things no one else does and stores them away.” However, Ishiguro’s essential concept is far from unique. Isaac Asimov’s very first robot story, ‘Robbie’ , published in 1940, is about a robot purchased to act as nursemaid for a little girl. The sci-fi author Cory Doctorow has talked about the “the collaborative spirit of SF” where “tropes are ruthlessly plundered and reworked without apology.” Some of this verve is missing here because of Ishiguro’s literary approach to the theme. Carefully layered Josie and her mother live in a mansion in the countryside. The Mother (as she is referred to throughout) is fiercely protective of Josie, and for good reason, as she is not in good health. We soon learn that those who can afford it have their children genetically engineered to be superior, and while it worked for Josie, it also led to some devastating side effects, putting her life in peril. The only neighbour they have is the teenager Rick and his mother. Rick is a precocious talent tinkering with home-made drones, but is lower down the class ladder. He is also an “unlifted”, which means he is denied access to higher education and opportunities. A romance blooms between Rick and Josie, making up a subplot involving his attempts to get into the only college in the world still taking unlifteds. In trademark Ishiguro style, this exposition is carefully layered so that we see the world slowly unfold through Klara’s eyes, at once terribly perceptive and incurably naïve. After being humiliated by Josie’s brattish friends, she realises “that people often felt the need to prepare a side of themselves to display to passers-by — as they might at a store window — and that such a display needn’t be taken so seriously once the moment had passed.” Atomised lives One of the distinguishing features of SF is world-building, where a fictional realm saturated with telling details is intricately built up. There isn’t much on display here on that count but Ishiguro deftly creates the background. There are hints that AI-driven processes have replaced humans: Josie’s father, a skilled engineer, has been “substituted” and now lives in a kind of right-wing commune in the woods with other men who’ve been similarly left adrift. It is apparent that the West has been hit by shrinking demographics. Children lead increasingly atomised lives, taught by “screen professors”, and scored on ‘social interaction’. Loneliness plagues them — indeed, the primary utility of the Artificial Friends is to provide companionship. In the heroic tradition of SF, robots help humans colonise space or fight off obnoxious aliens — in Ishiguro’s take, the world’s gaze has turned inward and robots have to supply what would normally be left to other humans. In keeping with this outlook, Klara is no Enthiran. She fears falling into a ditch, thinks that the sun lives in a shed on the horizon, and is inexplicably scared of bulls. This too reflects changes in our relationship with computers. In computer chess for instance, the drive through the 1990s and early 2000s was to build software engines that could beat the best human players. Top Grandmasters pitted their skills against silicone minds. But over the last decade, engines have become way stronger, making this contest between man and machine trivial — even the world champion today would not survive against an app running on a smartphone. So now we have ‘bots’, which don’t play strongly but assume distinct personas — for example, of Magnus Carlsen, but at the age of 8. The idea is to allow humans to have the illusion of playing against someone their strength, and have a chance to win. Instead of displaying inhuman perfection, machines now strive to make human-like mistakes. Ishiguro builds on this aspect of robotics which is inspired by Japanese thought. The influential robotocist Shigeo Hirose once said, “People fear robots because they think they will rule human beings... but robots can act unselfishly. Robots can be saints — intelligent and unselfish. For humans, being intelligent is easy, but being unselfish is rather impossible.” Klara is this saintly robot — “intelligent and unselfish”, and, as such, a telling contrast to the humans around her. Far from being immortal, Klara and her kind can only survive a few years before the “slow fade” sets in. Hirose, in his rejection of immortal robots, recalls the “Buddhist emphasis upon the impermanence of all things.” Broken into grids As we progress deeper into the novel, our worldview is shaped entirely by Klara’s perceptions. As a machine, she sees the world through image-classification algorithms, which calculate the possibility of an object in an image and then localise this object by enclosing it in a ‘bounding box’. So Klara constantly breaks the world into a grid: “The Mother leaned closer over the tabletop and her eyes narrowed till her face filled eight boxes… and for a moment it felt to me her expression varied between one box and the next. In one... her eyes were laughing cruelly, but in the next they were filled with sadness.” Klara sees the world like a Paul Klee painting and so do we. It is an effective narrative trick that remakes the world as we know it. As Samuel Delany said, “You can put together more interesting combinations of words in science fiction than you can in any other kind of writing — and they actually mean something.” The novel falters in the third act, where an attempt to set up a twist goes awry. Still, the characterisation of Klara is an undoubted triumph. In a poignant exchange, Klara’s owner tells her, “It must be nice sometimes to have no feelings. I envy you,” to which Klara replies “I believe I have many feelings. The more I observe, the more feelings become available to me.” The writer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.  Klara and the Sun  Kazuo Ishiguro  Faber & Faber  Rs. 699    Klara is no Enthiran. She fears falling into a ditch, thinks that the sun lives in a shed on the horizon, and is inexplicably scared of bulls||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dream-about-me/article34518165.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s forgotten China links||The framing of the long history of India’s interactions with China tends to usually veer between two extremes. The centuries of exchanges, from trade along the Silk Road and Buddhism’s journey to China to maritime interactions, are sometimes invoked to suggest some idealised, pan-Asian, harmonious, and shared civilisational past. On the other end of the spectrum, more recent interactions, from the early 20th century policing of Chinese streets by policemen from British India, an episode that remains deeply etched in Chinese consciousness, to the difficulties in relations between the two new states that came into being in 1947 and 1949, are seen as evidence of dooming both neighbours to perennial confrontation. No easy labels In Beyond Pan-Asianism: Connecting China and India, 1840s-1960s , scholars Tansen Sen and Brian Tsui urge us to break out of this reductive framing and to instead embrace the complexity of interactions that, in truth, defies easy labelling. Sen and Tsui have put together a fascinating collection of essays exploring lesser known facets of engagement during a key period in India-China interactions. The Opium War and the Treaty of Nanjing in 1842 not only brought new contact but also mutual learning as both went through “multiple phases of turmoil, conflict and anti-colonial resistance”. This was also the time when the Sikh policemen of Shanghai would become a deep symbol for Chinese “of Indian capitulation to their European masters” and of India as a weak nation — a trope that persists today, along with, unfortunately, the pejorative of the time, “hongtou asan” or “red-headed asan”, a racial epithet for Indians that remains widely in use so many years later as an insult on Chinese social media. Cautionary tales Essays in this collection explore well-known events such as Tagore’s visit to China, and other perhaps less widely understood episodes that readers will find fascinating, such as Zhang Ke’s revisiting of late Qing travel writings on India. Among those writers was Kang Youwei, the Confucian reformist who travelled to India and whose writings capture the tension in the views of many Chinese, who saw India as a once glorious civilisation with an admirable past (and, of course, the birthplace of Buddhism) but also as a civilisation that was in “decay”, and for them, held out cautionary tales for China as it was dealing with its own turmoil. In a talk in Calcutta’s Chinatown, Kang would tell his hosts, “Indians are surely going to destroy their own country” while the Chinese, he said, “had the aspiration to be independent”. An essay by Madhavi Thampi looks at how Hong Kong and other cities of China became unlikely sites of Indian political activism in the first half of the 20th century in Republican China. Another by Yin Cao delves deep into how Hong Kong’s Queen’s Road got its famous Gurdwara in 1901 amid the spread of the Singh Sabha movement across Asia. The collective effect is to push the reader to get past reductive and easy framings of how two societies interacted. Push and pull In Tea War , Andrew Liu provides a deeply researched and granular account of one of those interactions – the tea industries in India and China, and the push and pull between them, mediated by the British, that would have lasting impacts on both neighbours. Liu’s book tells the story of global tea trade through this new dynamic between the tea industries of India and China, starting with the Opium War and the huge jump in Chinese tea exports. In a matter of decades, the colonial tea industry in India would supplant it and emerge dominant, even as nationalists in India rose up against the indentured labour that underpinned the industry. Similarly in China, Republican reformers in the early 20th century would look to push against what they saw as entrenched feudal systems. Liu challenges conventional wisdoms about the early years of capitalism in India and China and what it really meant to be capitalist, when you had exploitative systems and unfree labour driving a prosperous trade. His work provides a valuable lens, using the tea dynamic to study a rare “moment of concrete conjuncture” between two societies usually only compared in broad strokes but “rarely studied in terms of their material historical connections”. Unfortunately, the book’s prohibitive pricing and the dense writing — alas, par for the course for most academic works — will likely deprive it of the reach it deserves. Both works share one broader goal, which, as Sen and Tsui put it, is to make a case for why the “pan-Asian” lens to understand historical India-China engagement is inadequate in capturing the diversity and complexity of interactions in this period. They both seek to push the reader to rethink how we understand a spectrum of engagement that was far more diverse, even rife with its own inherent contradictions, than often understood, and in this endeavour, they both certainly succeed.    Beyond Pan-Asianism: Connecting China and India, 1840s-1960s Edited by Tansen Sen, Brian Tsui Oxford University Press  Rs. 1,495    Tea War: A History of Capitalism in China and India Andrew B. Liu Yale University Press  $50||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indias-forgotten-china-links/article34518178.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The unhealing wound||What I draw is the unfolding of my being — which in my case is inscribed as ‘wounds’.  — Somnath Hore Draupadi is a lonely old woman. The world marvelled at her tribulations and moved on, the storytellers killed her off once her narrative had served its purpose. But she seems to have one friend left, as she sits on the ground, supporting her head, supporting a lifetime of pain, on a thin bronze arm. There is someone who is faithfully recording her exhaustion. Distilled pain When he sculpts, a child clings to its mother’s breast though it is not clear if she has any life left to share with him. When he etches, young human bodies become an agglomeration of sharply defined ribs, vanishing limbs, and that bloated belly which is a cruel paradoxical marker of a starving stomach. The older bodies simply lie, skeletal and supine, powerless to rise. It is as if the artist has seen Draupadi being exiled, disrobed, humiliated, rendered destitute, witnessing her children getting killed, again and again. And in his own way, he has. Somnath Hore — born on April 13, 1921, in Barama, Chittagong — was 22 when he saw the Japanese bombing of Chittagong in 1942. He was 23 when the devastating Bengal famine — and the wartime policies of the colonial government — caused the displacement and death of around three million people the next year. Much of his life, the young boy had drawn images copied from magazines and books, wonder-struck by the talent of unknown artists. Now, he found himself taught by the Communist artist Chittaprasad on how to portray the brutal suffering and starvation around them, such that the drawings could be reproduced in party organs and posters. At the other end of the scale, he found inspiration and hope when he documented and sketched the Bengal sharecroppers’ uprising, called the Tebhaga movement, in 1946, and the tea garden workers’ protests. Hore never forgot these early lessons, though his understanding matured and took new shapes as he witnessed history unfolding around him: Communal massacres, the exodus of refugees, Partition, the Vietnam war, the shadow of nuclear destruction, the genocide in Bangladesh, the troubled and violent Naxalite years, the bitter and violent falling out among old comrades... All became distilled in the concept of ‘wounds’, which were, in his words, “intimations of only one subject matter — the helpless around us, the rejected, the hungry... a wound that would not heal”. Spiritual home The technical and experimental journey of the artist as he gave form to these concerns is remarkable. Though initially, Hore was introduced to printmaking — mainly woodcuts and linocuts — as a means to mass-produce images for the Communist party, in the 50s he came to see it as an artistic pursuit in its own right. Printmaking was not as well developed an art in India as in the West, and there weren’t many references for him to use. In the 1950s and 60s, especially after taking charge of the printmaking department at the Delhi Polytechnic in 1958, he kept expanding his horizons. He moved from relief prints to the ‘intaglio’ processes of etching, engraving and aquatints. He mastered the new viscosity process (in which you apply different processes and coloured inks to the same metal plate) by reading and experimenting. He was something of a pioneer in the field in India. Even as exploitation, injustice and suffering remained a steady theme, Hore moved away from figurative representations to more abstract depictions. Despite his creative flourishing, he left Delhi in 1967, feeling stifled by its “success-oriented attitude”. In 1968, he took charge of the printmaking department at Kala Bhavana in Shantiniketan, where he finally found his spiritual home, and lived there till the end. At Shantiniketan, the presence of the masters Benode Behari Mukherjee and Ramkinkar Baij was a crucial influence on Hore. In them, he found a template for a committed art practice, away from the patronage networks of commercial art. Sculptor K.S. Radhakrishnan narrates how Hore once caught a train to visit Delhi, but returned midway. He was reluctant to hold exhibitions, generously gifted his artwork to students, lived in a mud house near a pond after retirement, and refused the Padma Shri (though he was honoured with a posthumous Padma Bhushan in 2015). Luminous clarity In the early 70s, Hore’s practice of distilling human suffering into prints reached a stage of luminous clarity. He started making white-on-white paper pulp prints from clay or wax sheets that he slashed and lacerated. These were ‘wounds,’ he said: “The ruts left on the road by wheels, the cut from the axe on the side of the tree, the injuries on the human body left by weapons.” With this work, he moved on from depicting human or animal figures as objects of suffering and was now making himself, and us, participate in the suffering itself. We were face to face with the wound, where would we turn away now? Around 1974, Hore started playing with the wax thrown away by students of Kala Bhavana’s sculpting department, and made forays into waxwork and bronze casting. In 1975, moved by the Vietnam war, he embarked on his first formal sculpture — a nearly 3-feet high depiction of a mother and child. To his utter shock, the work was stolen, possibly destroyed, and never found again. It was a violent blow to the artist’s spirit. He gave up sculpting for a while and never made any piece at that scale again. In the 80s, when he did return to sculpting, Hore changed its meaning and language fearlessly. He would take sheets of wax and mould them with his fingers, creating intimate, emotional, palm-sized pieces with rough textures, unfinished surfaces, gaping spaces (“...armed with sheets of beeswax, I carry on with my endless investigations of the same subject”). You could look into and through these bodies. He even retained the conduits by which molten metal is poured onto the wax, which other artists remove, turning these appendages into stick-like limbs for his figures. Sculptors make moulds of their original work so that copies can be made. But Hore directly cast his waxwork into bronze, such that each piece was a unique creation. This intimacy and directness of process was perfectly appropriate for, indeed it emerged from, his utter involvement with the wounds he was carving. He did not even call them ‘sculpture,’ simply referring to them as bronzes. “They have no weight, no substance and no dimensions: all they have is the aspect of wounds. However, the wind can pass freely through these figures,” he said. Hore thought of his bronzes as ‘wounds’ too, because: “As long as there is exploitation, the problem of ending it remains”. Hore sculpted as long as he could, responding even to India’s nuclear testing at Pokhran. “During the final years of his life... as if in a final act of empathy”, says art historian R. Siva Kumar, “he came to resemble his own sculptures of wounded and suffering men.” And yet, was the artist a joyless, grieving man? Of course not. “I do enjoy working,” he had written. “I have never experienced the lack of joy... irrespective of what subject matter a work of art is grounded in, the very act of creation removes an artist to a different world.” He worked, as palpably evident in his art, “much like the songbird is overcome when the need to sing arises”. And what he could not help but sing about was the wound. The author is a Delhi-based writer and photographer. All images are from the forthcoming book,Somnath Hore, curated by K.S. Radhakrishnan and produced by Takshila Museum of Art.  Hore was reluctant to hold exhibitions, generously gifted his artwork to students, lived in a mud house near a pond after retirement, and refused the Padma Shri award||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-unhealing-wound/article34518194.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Robert Schuman was prime minister of France twice and played a major role in setting up NATO. He became the first president of the European Parliamentary Assembly. On May 9, 1950, he made a speech known as the ‘Schuman Declaration’ in which he sought to pacify relations between France and West Germany. Eventually, six member countries joined and created a trans-national community. This eventually became an organisation that now celebrates May 9 as ‘Europe Day’. What organisation is this that recently lost a member under strenuous conditions? 2This now quite easily identifiable and common trait is a relatively new evolutionary development in humans. It developed about 11,000 years ago in inhabitants of Northern Europe as a response to the lack of sunlight, to enable more Vitamin D synthesis in the body. The term for this trait comes from an old French word that meant ‘colour between golden and light chestnut’. What trait is this? 3Emperor Napoleon at one time held control over much of Europe and introduced a rule that stays till date. This was brought into place for two reasons — one, because it would deter swordfighting on horseback, as the dominant hand would be on the wrong side; two, because this was exactly opposite to the rule in aristocratic Britain. The U.S. later started following the same rule just to spite the British. What rule is this? 4On May 4, 1986, three Russian men — Alexei Ananenko, Valeri Bespalaov and Boris Baranov — stepped forward to undertake a mission that was considered suicidal. All they had to do was manually turn some valves in a flooded basement, which they successfully did. If they hadn’t, the result would have been a four-megaton explosion that would have rendered most of Europe uninhabitable for millennia. They miraculously survived and went on to be lauded for their efforts. In which Ukrainian city did these heroes work? 5In medieval Europe, people who practiced this profession also did surgery in their establishments. Due to their mastery of using sharp cutting instruments, and the readily available bandages, they were the go-to people for amputation. Till this day in Europe their places have a red-and-white swirl pole to denote blood and bandages, though they cannot do surgery. What profession is this that was hit quite badly during the lockdowns? 6In 1951, Hugh Beaver, the managing director of a popular brewery, raised a question to his friends while out on a hunt. He wanted to know which was the fastest bird in Europe — whether it was the peregrine falcon or the golden plover. He wasn’t able to answer the question, but this discussion led to the production and publication of one of the most popular series of books. What is this book that he named after his brewery and which sought to answer such questions? 7In the unusually cold winter of 1795, a certain cavalry force carried out a military manoeuvre that remains unique till this day. On the night of January 23, a regiment of horsemen led by Louis Joseph Lahure galloped across the frozen Zuiderzee bay and surrounded 14 Dutch warships that were stuck. This feat of horsemen capturing ships is very rare. The cavalry belonged to which country, falsely accused of not being very successful in wars in history? 8 Between the 15th and 17th centuries, in what’s known as the Spanish Price Revolution, enormous amounts of gold and silver were brought into Spain, leading to a high rate of inflation in Western Europe as a result of the balance of payments deficit. This led to a crash in the economy across Europe. All this influx was due to the Spanish fleet raiding a certain empire that soon collapsed due to disease brought by the invaders. Which now-vanished civilisation was plundered leading to this crash? 9Europeans feared eating a certain food item for 200 years, believing it to be poisonous. In fact, what was happening was that the wealthy who could afford it ate it off pewter plates; the lead from these plates would be leached out by the food item’s juices, leading to lead poisoning. What item is this, which thanks to the U.S. Supreme Court, is part of an eternal debate about whether it is a fruit or a vegetable? 10In 1807, a historic event occurred when Queen Maria I of Portugal, the royal Braganza family and the entire court, in a strategic retreat, left Lisbon, sailed to another country, and for 13 years governed Portugal from there. This transfer of the Portuguese court outside the country also led to the only known instance in history where the capital of a European country was outside the European continent. Which city, known for its beaches and giant statue, was the capital of Portugal from 1808 till 1821? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34518198.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||I can’t breathe||Twenty. That’s how many times George Floyd repeated, “I can’t breathe,” while Derek Chauvin, the officer pressing his knee onto his neck reportedly said, “It takes a heck of a lot of oxygen to talk.” For those of us in second wave afflicted India these past few weeks, neither talk nor oxygen has been cheap. We have watched in growing horror at the paucity of oxygen, beds, ventilators and leave alone action, empathy from the state. And as ever, citizenry has stepped up, gathering information, food, money, often at great risk to health and safety and sometimes even freedom. Pause for a second and see what this has come down to. Last time, this year, I wrote of the pandemic as a total social fact. And now this fact has come home, exposing to us the worst of humanity — greed, apathy, rapacity, and wilful oblivion. Alongside is also the best of humanity. In the midst of doomscrolling, I have watched so many patiently share and confirm resources, cook food, mobilise vehicles, oxygen, ambulances and mortuary vans and only speak very rarely of their own mental health and dwindling sanity. Weight of mortality Are we doomed to replay this dialectic over and over again? States fail, citizens step up. We speak about the heroism of ordinary folk that must be depended upon over and over again to pay cognizance to that to which everyone has a right — breath. And I think of the late neurosurgeon and writer, Paul Kalanithi, who in his book When Breath Becomes Air , asks, “If the weight of mortality does not grow lighter, does it at least get more familiar?” And we do have excess familiarity as of now. We know of so many who have died, we know not of so many who have died. A government official declared that knowing is not essential, for the dead won’t resurrect. What he forgot was the dead must be mourned, and that they need space, both physical and affective. For, a culture that does not make space for its dead or treat them with the cognizance they deserve is a culture that may have forgotten how to live. Sepulchral culture In the modernist city of Kassel, Germany, lies a museum for sepulchral culture. It bears little skeletal figurines, gravestones, tombs, tombstones, and ritualistic instruments meant to ease passage to other worlds. For those not in the know, a sepulchre is “a small room or monument, cut in rock or built of stone, in which a dead person is laid or buried.” There are no sepulchral museums in India. But there has been evidence found of sepulchral urns at Adichanallur in South India, stone circles at Junapani in Nagpur and pit burials in Burzahoma, Kashmir. The Iron Age in these regions marks the beginning of the creation of separate areas for the dead. Why this clambering for space, and this separation, I wonder. What is this nature of the uncanny body without life that haunts us, and must therefore be sent away un-numbered, un-counted, un-mourned? Once upon-a-long-non-Covid time ago, I remember walking into a mall in the U.S., and being confronted by the controversial exhibition Body Worlds (‘The Original Exhibition of Real Human Bodies’). Its claim to fame was the preservation and display of cadavers mummified and preserved through a process called Plastination. It displayed real human specimens, including whole bodies as well as organs. Counterintuitively, I was glued. Even as these cadavers had been sanitised and their innards exposed like so many laboratory specimens, I couldn’t help but remember that these machine-like objects once moved, and had the capacity for so much life, so much love, voice, thought, possibility, feeling, and action. The beauty of those bodies sans life was an uncanny reminder of bodies that we work so hard on when they are alive, and work so hard to forget once they lose life. Above all, we know mortality, but refuse it, in ourselves and in others. Good death Anthropologists of death have been interested in two main things. One, how does life persist? And two, what does it take to make death good? Last month, nearly a year after the fact, Derek Chauvin, a white former Minneapolis police officer, was convicted of murdering African-American George Floyd. Many had worked hard recording, amplifying, and insisting on Floyd’s right to breathe before this came to pass. For once, mortality couldn’t be refused. Now perhaps, the mourning can begin. What will it take for us? When will we be able to mourn?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-cant-breathe/article34518207.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Hopeless in hovels||Reminiscent of Sartre’s existential play No Exit , the characters in Lindsay Pereira’s debut novel, Gods and Ends, are trapped in a shared living space they cannot leave — a chawl named Obrigado Mansion. Set in the Catholic neighbourhood of Orlem in suburban Bombay of the 70s, the book is a scathing commentary on the local Roman Catholic community, its idiosyncrasies and hypocrisies, and religion. Disillusionment runs deep among the working-class alcoholic men, embittered women, and desperate young girls dreaming of escape from the confines of their oppressive matchbox-sized homes in Obrigado Mansion. The irony of the chawl’s name is not lost on the reader: obrigado means gratitude in Portuguese and the dilapidated ‘mansion’ seems to reflect the decay in the community. Seeking release Pereira’s colourful cast of characters includes factory workers, government employees, born-again Christians, a store manager, a local goon, among other people, and their families. One of the impermanent tenants residing in Room 106 — “a place where even dreams went to die” — is Jesus Christ. The lives of these characters are intertwined and their stories interlinked, the collision of their circumstances evoking Sartre’s famous line, “Hell is other people”. Pereira draws the reader into the rooms and lives of Brigette and Jude Sequeira and their daughter Philomena — who, trapped in her home and body, seeks release in dreams of a local boy; Peter Vaz, who, dumped by his family, finds respite in drink and porn; Michelle D’Costa, liberated by hostel life and love outside the community; the widow Bella Quadros, whose lonely, mundane existence is more tolerable than the marital life of her neighbours; the landlord Francisco Fernandez and his widowed daughter-in-law, Dulcine, who have little to look forward to in life except the monthly collection of rent. Anything but a party “Dat’s why dey have that joke, men, one Goan is Remo Fernandes, two Goans becomes feni factory, three Goans means you got football club and four Goans is all night beach party,” says Jude Sequeira of Room 108. But for the Goan, Mangalorean and East-Indian residents of Obrigado Mansion, life is anything but a party. Even Christmas celebrations are funereal here. Bound by the ennui of the wait for a better life that consistently eludes them, and the ensuing hopelessness, men confront their failures while women mourn a life that has passed them by. Religion fills this void and, like Gilbert D’Souza’s illicit affair, provides relief from boredom, if nothing else. Pointedly, one of the flag-bearers of religion, the parish priest Father Lawrence, is besieged with doubts about his calling and filled with desire for his young parishioner. Slow death Banter, bargaining and gossip at the local market provide temporary relief to the women of Orlem. Trapped in loveless, abusive relationships, they wish their men dead. Widows are liberated by their circumstances; their personal and sexual freedom is envied by those bound by domesticity. In these cramped living quarters buzzing with envy, vengefulness and violence, only death can offer respite. Pereira rips apart the popular image of the Roman Catholic community as one of bon vivants and liberated women, and exposes its superficiality. Death is all-pervasive in Gods and Ends , opening as it does with the mysterious events surrounding Jude Sequeira’s death. Meanwhile, for Michelle, to stay on in Orlem is “to choose a slow death”; she decides to “choose life” by leaving the place and the community. Yet, this searing critique is not without empathy or wit. Readers acquainted with the lingo of Mumbai’s Catholic neighbourhoods, will enjoy the language and the idiom: “Why the British left, men, my mumma used to say everytime. I don know wot she wanted from dem, but everytime she used to tell us” or “He [Jesus] was not drinking or wot? Where you saw the priests drinking holy sofdrink at mass, men?” But the humour does not linger. Pereira’s well-crafted characters are born of a familiarity with the milieu he writes about, and his honesty is brutal. He does not mince words: “When you sit in the toilet long enough, you stop noticing the smell.” To immerse oneself in this engaging, pulsating book is to be trapped in the world of its defeated characters. Be prepared for a fulfilling, disturbing read. The Mumbai-based writer is the author of several books including the novel,Wanderers, All.  Gods and Ends  Lindsay Pereira  Penguin Random House  Rs. 599    Banter, bargaining and gossip at the local market provide temporary relief to the women of Orlem||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hopeless-in-hovels/article34518168.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||A raging virus and its impact on the marginalised in India||Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, who led the fight against COVID-19 for the U.S., recently told The Indian Express in an interview that a shutdown “for a few weeks” could help to end the cycle of transmission in India, which crossed the 4 lakh mark in daily new cases last Saturday. The shutdown, he said, will provide the time to take “immediate, intermediate and long range steps” to bring the situation under control. If things are desperate in Delhi with people scrambling for everything from oxygen to life-saving medicines to a slot at the crematorium, several other States are also registering a steady climb in cases and showing signs that the health infrastructure is being overwhelmed. How did shutdowns impact India when they were  imposed in 2020? Did they stop the spread? How was life affected? In A Pandemic and the Politics of Life , Ranabir Samaddar, who holds the Distinguished Chair in Migrations and Forced Migration Studies of the Calcutta Research Group, attempts to answer these questions. He studies the outbreak as an epidemiological crisis, compounded by economic, social and political factors. He looks into the “phenomenon of the politics of life,” which emerges from the “conjunctures of history when life and death become the most crucial issues of social life.” In one chapter, Samaddar focuses on the migrant as “a figure” of the calamity and traces COVID’s effect on the poor. “The virus is at the centre,” he writes, “creating levels of difference — a specific kind of bordering exercise.” Question of priority Informal workers in the service sectors, including maids, care-givers, construction workers and labourers, found themselves in an “appalling condition” when they were made redundant following a COVID-led lockdown last year with no social safety net whatsoever. With migrant workers not a priority, a logistical step by the state to fight the disease becomes a nightmare for them — “they may turn the wheels, but are never the main consideration.” This leads him to raise several questions: What kind of society will be better able to prevent the outbreak of another epidemic? What new policies and new modes will widen the social bases of care and protection? What will be the new politics of responsibility? The public health infrastructure, points out Samaddar, is not equipped to “accommodate what in refugee literature are called ‘persons in limbo’ — in this case, informal migrant workers.” Invisible in the public political sphere, they are left to fend for themselves. In India, States have responded differently to the pandemic. Some like Kerala, he points out, “demonstrated the value of social mobilisation with disciplined organisations working at various levels, and a government working at tandem.” During the lockdown, Bengal saved the informal sector and agrarian society from hunger and malnutrition. “Both Kerala and the Bengal experiences showed that political will matters.” ‘Century of pandemics’ Samaddar calls the 21st century a “century of pandemics” with the SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) outbreak in 2003, “logged as the Chinese pandemic”, followed by H1N1 swine flu (which originated in Mexico), the H5N1 bird flu (Asia), MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome), and the Ebola virus in Africa. A myth was propagated that these diseases were ‘foreign’ to developed civilisations, broken only by the sweep of COVID-19 that first reared its head in China and spread quickly through a globalising world. Did these diseases lead to a change in health policy in countries like India? According to Samaddar, the Indian state has always taken its cue from the Atlantic world. Even when it was obvious that “mobile diseases were here to stay, affecting Indian populations in large numbers,” the state retained the belief that ‘foreign’ diseases would not affect India to any great extent. The fallout has been devastating, “the virus was mobile but our public health infrastructure was centralised and static.”   A Pandemic and the Politics of Life  Ranabir Samaddar  Women Unlimited  Rs. 450||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-raging-virus-and-its-impact-on-the-marginalised-in-india/article34518182.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The world’s most beautiful mountain?||Listed among the latest publications in the weekly “Browser” strip of The Hindu Magazine (Sunday, February 28) was the HarperCollins title Raj and Norah . The name Rajendra Kohli and his image on the dust jacket of the book at once lit up my memory of a mid-morning at Gangtok in May 1964. I was the junior-most staff officer, a captain with less than eight years in uniform, on active field service at Headquarters 17 Infantry Division. My makeshift office had a broad window, as though cut out on purpose to frame the Kanchenjunga summit to perfection. Brigadier R.S. Kohli had arrived to assume command of the 112 Infantry Brigade, and he came for a formal meeting with the Divisional Commander but mistaking my office for the ADC’s, he entered, made polite conversation and in the process happened to look out of the window, showcasing Kanchenjunga in sunlit grandeur. He fell silent, pulled a chair to sit and watch the summit in a kind of meditation till he was jolted out of the reverie to keep his appointment with the General. Turning to me, he said in a pleasant tone, “Baljit, Kanchenjunga is beguiling but do you know what is considered the world’s most beautiful mountain?” Of course, I had no clue but before I could say so, he left. Scaling the peak I happened to be among the first few graduates of the basic and advance mountaineering courses from the HMI, Darjeeling under Tenzing’s tutelage and in the process soaked in considerable amount of history and lore concerning explorations of summits in the high Himalayas. The most notable source was the book Fight for Everest by Colonel Edward Norton, leader of the 1924 British expedition. And I believed the most beautiful peak was Nuptse in the neighbourhood of Everest but in Sikkim, Pauhunri was Mr. Tenzing’s choice of the perfect pyramid. During my subsequent two conversations with the Brigadier, his emphatic pronouncement on the most beautiful peak was Siniolchu which overlooked the Zemu glacier and was in the immediate shadow of Kanchenjunga, a revelation that remained lodged in my memory bank. When 18 years later, I was placed in command of the very same 112 Mountain Brigade, Siniolchu would become a kind of obsession. Luckily, my operational jurisdiction comprised the entire northern half of Sikkim, hemmed in by Kanchenjunga-Siniolchu in the west and Chomulhari in the east. And I would have innumerable opportunities to watch the peak from every conceivable angle during frequent, routine aerial reconnaissance flights over this beautiful jumble of lofty peaks permanently encrusted in snow, glaciers vast and small perennially feeding streams to collectively form the Teesta river, hillsides clothed in dense forests of pink and scarlet rhododendrons, silver birch and Himalayan elm, home to gorgeous Monal pheasants and above all, an amphitheatre of pervasive silence. Under favourable flight conditions, helicopter pilots would oblige with one or more close circuits around Siniolchu, among my unforgettable moments of fulfilment. naturefan3@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-worlds-most-beautiful-mountain/article34518148.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||IPL gone? Jest relax||Dear Agony Akka,  I am in a thoroughly depressed state. The pandemic is taking the hell out of me. Being trapped at home for so long feels insane. The constant staring of dad due to my lack of job and mom’s scolding because I don’t help her with anything at home are unbearable. From all this, the only entertainment and love I get is to watch IPL. Now my parents want to deny that too. Mom says she wants to watch her daily dramas and dad is addicted to news. It’s better for his health that he should not watch news. He is panicked by the coronavirus and worries more by watching news. How do I stop my parents from watching TV for their own good and instead allow me to watch what I love? Please suggest some ways. —Signs of Depression   Dear SOD,  By the time you read this, the bad news would have already reached you. No more IPL.  Chee . What a disaster. I did not think that BCCI would be such losers. Imagine taking away India’s only source of entertainment. For so long we have been encouraging IPL organisers to keep on playing and playing and moving from city to city with their circus so that paavam Indian people stuck inside homes will have some source of fun and entertainment. So long they were listening but now they are scared because it seems 1-2 players have got infected. So what, I say. These are minimal numbers, why to panic? Even in Delhi High Court, government’s lawyer has told the judge not to get needlessly emotional about few deaths here and there, just wait. But nobody listens. I fully understand your house situation. Father watches dreadful news and gets depressed. Mother watches dreadful TV serials and gets depressed. Moreover, they want you to get a job? And help with housework? All this is very wrong. I think lockdown is affecting them. You must explain that just having child is ample reward, not to expect more. I think the best idea is to distract them. Can’t you encourage them to join some bhajan mandali? That will keep them busy for many hours in the evenings. Or maybe you can tell your father to make YouTube or Insta videos of your mother doing something? Anything is fine — making the bed, chopping vegetables, boiling egg, putting henna in hair. Whatever is filmed and put online means some million jobless people will watch with eyes peeled. Parents will become busy, you can do whatever you want. Which is nothing, as far as I can see. Like you, I am also simple person. I just want to be happy all the time without worrying about corona this and covid that. Too much depression. I am sure even during bubonic plague era, when everyone was dropping dead like flies, some jesters and minstrels were going around spreading positivity. Later on, they would have also died, but that is occupational hazard. I am sure they did not mind. Nowadays nobody has sense of service for humanity. IPL gone. Kangana also removed from Twitter. Life is looking bleak. But during such times, I always remember words of one great man. He was railway minister for ancient kingdom of Vistapur. Once when there was epidemic in the land, he scolded citizens and told them to keep demand for oxygen under control. Like that only I am telling you, keep demand for IPL under control. Till bubble comes back, keep seeing old matches on loop. — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ipl-gone-jest-relax/article34518196.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The first 12||North-South bid aggressively to a very good slam. 12 tricks would be easy if the trumps split 2-2, and there were plenty of extra chances. A 4-3 spade split would let declarer establish the long spade for a club discard and a club could then be ruffed. It looked good, but bad times were coming. South won the opening diamond lead with his ace and cashed the ace and king of hearts. West having a certain trump winner was the first piece of bad news. The ace and king of spades, shedding a diamond, and a spade ruff gave more bad news. Spades were splitting 5-2 and the long spade could not be established. There was still the club finesse, but that was now far less than a 50 percent play. East was known to have started with 10 minor suit cards to only five for West. Any specific minor suit card was therefore twice as likely to be with East. South persevered by ruffing a diamond in hand and ruffing another spade in dummy. South successfully ruffed another diamond in hand with his last trump. Had West been able to overruff, he would force declarer to take the club finesse. It was clear sailing, however, when West followed to this diamond. South ruffed his last spade with dummy’s last trump, led a club to his ace and another club to dummy’s king. South had taken the first 12 tricks. Beautifully played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-first-12/article34518201.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Turning the page again||When I returned home after a heart transplant in January 2019, I had every intention of continuing to work. I was 70 and running a non-profit for educating less privileged students. But the going was getting harder with immunosuppressants and other medication to take through the day. I loved my work but realised my health was more important. Retirement was the only option. My decision to retire after a 48-year-long career was unique. It was necessary to reinvent myself so idleness wouldn’t “kill” me. It rekindled my childhood ambition of becoming a writer. I had written before, but desultorily. I set up a schedule and wrote for four hours daily, enjoying every minute as ideas jostled in my head, seeking urgent expression. I began writing for national publications. In January 2020, I set my sights on publishing in international publications. After much struggle, a magazine bought my first article. Then followed rejections like soldiers advancing in a file. Rejections troubled me. I felt dejected. I even considered quitting. But being a fighter, I introspected and realised I would have to learn how to write the content wanted by publications. The difference in cultures was unbridgeable. The decision to write on health and help others understand disease took root. In October 2020, while COVID-19 raged, I enrolled for a certified course in health writing, working diligently on every assignment. I am taking baby steps, but feel delighted foreign magazines have published two more articles. Writing keeps me supremely happy. Daily, I learn new stuff and don’t feel lonely because writers, editors and readers make up my new community. New beginnings are possible at any age; everything is from within us. ceogiit@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/turning-the-page-again/article34518150.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Journeys on the Silk Road||In a welcome addition to the studies on India’s ancient international relationships, Sunita Dwivedi journeys through the erstwhile Buddhist domains known as Gandhara, looking for traces of Indian philosophical influence in what are now the patently Islamic states of Pakistan and Afghanistan.  Despite the obliteration of monuments in recent times — most notably the shelling of the Bamiyan colossuses, but also once majestic stupas of which only bases are in evidence — Dwivedi goes about her self-imposed task doggedly enough to spot broken sculptures in museums and even a begging bowl that allegedly belonged to the Buddha himself, but which more recently adorned an out-of-the-way Muslim shrine. The landscapes she traverses are dotted with dheris , mounds that indicate long-forgotten monastic settlements now obscured by fields; these ‘have been spewing out objects of Buddhist art’ whenever archaeologists, or treasure hunters, tuck their shovels in and she believes that ‘a thousand more Buddhas are waiting to be rediscovered from the sleeping dheris ’. Dwivedi outlines an ancient cultural give-and-take that’s resulted in the toga-like garment that Buddha sculptures sport (‘its execution was Greek while its inspiration was Buddhistic’) and multilingual Ashokan rock edicts in remote towns that earlier were dynamic Silk Road trading hubs. The Greeks took interest in Buddhism: Dwivedi notes votive offerings by donors with Hellenistic names such as Theodorus, whose Sanskrit inscription speaks of ‘the revered god Sakyamuni’, while others took Sanskritised titles like Yona Dhammadhaya — signifying that the person’s origin was Ionian (i.e. born on an Aegean island) but with more than a fleeting interest in the dhamma . It is this borderland between civilisations that Dwivedi sets about to investigate as she boards a bus from Old Delhi to Lahore, taking readers with her to the famed Taxila and beyond, to Balkh, Kapisa (where a treasure contained Silk Road wares sourced from China, India and the Mediterranean) and eventually Kandahar, a city founded by Alexander the Great. Kapoor haveli One of the finest moments comes about midway as she reaches Peshawar that has plenty to show for its illustrious past — there are caravanserais and wood-screened balakhana guesthouses perched atop bazaar shops. Qissa Khwani Bazaar is known for its storytellers of Silk Road sagas. Dwivedi finds herself in a heritage neighbourhood, Mohalla Sethian, where grand homes of Hindu merchants stand forlorn since the 1947 partition, though one such haveli has recently been opened to tourists — while others like the Kapoor and Khanna havelis, ancestral homes of Bollywood stars, are apportioned between multiple tenants. However, the real value of Buddha in Gandhara lies in how she combines her survey with onsite inspections of Buddhaland. Dwivedi has in her previous peregrinations explored Buddhist sites in India, China and Central Asia, making her a knowledgeable traveller. So her new book is part travelogue — it would actually have been interesting to read more about an Indian lady’s experiences in those countries — and part encyclopaedic survey of remains. The latter does make this a fairly dense read, but is useful for anybody interested in knowing about extant sights and the state of Buddhist antiquities in inaccessible Gandharan locations, as she provides 32 colour photographs, a good map, plenty of footnotes and a useful index. This book will come in handy for travellers to archaeological sites and at the same time open avenues for future studies.   The travel writer lives to eat strange things and poke his nose in antique potholes.  Buddha in Gandhara Sunita Dwivedi Rupa  Rs. 795||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/journeys-on-the-silk-road/article34518184.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||More: The 10,000 Year Rise of the World Economy||Philip Coggan  The Economist Books Rs. 799 Taking readers inside medieval cottages and hi-tech farms, Chinese burial mounds and modern central banks, Coggan finds that at every step of the journey, it was connections between people that created wealth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/more-the-10000-year-rise-of-the-world-economy/article34518190.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3149||Across  1 Fine food, a weakness (8) 5 Primarily unrealistic? Thomas once pictured it acerbically! (6) 10 Poet writes; ‘special’ Queen Elizabeth described! (7) 11 Marmite regularly seen around in France: well, that’s relaxing (7) 12 Reported harvest in country (5) 13 Instilled deeply in English: bad weather and, regularly, feuds (9) 14 Whirl twig around welcoming back rub for pilot (6,6) 18 Theatre backer, not bold, abandoned play (3,9) 21 Shuns cat (hedgehog’s partly free from injury) (9) 23 Horned beast losing oxygen and energy in river (5) 24 Tax part of ... most of ... unsophisticated neckwear (7) 25 Pop act of the ‘80s, The Firm? (7) 26 Where you see Italians get some shut-eye ... and the French (6) 27 Given three seconds, revolutionary lefty oddly missing kings, queens, etc (5,3)  Down  1 A little shade’s ignored in sketch (6) 2 Change course: slippery fish turns around with room to manoeuvre (6) 3 Country with value on continent (not France) (5,4) 4 He’s fed her bacon, fried, for meaty supper (6,4,4) 6 Shin up, Everyman? In a bit (5) 7 GNP’s fine! Rolling in cash ... once (8) 8 A holy book ... solemn vow ... what else? Finally, something to combat evil (8) 9 Terribly bad manners, drinking gallons: a Sirah’s drained with meal (7,3,4) 15 Skipping starter, greybeard’s chewed baked goods (3,6) 16 In ancient culture, centaurs made merry (8) 17 Instrument, Japanese (Eastern), sounding out of tune around West (4,4) 19 Enemies in European and Irish rising (6) 20 A bird going after bee, endlessly (and fly) (4,2) 22 Conscious of feature missing in tea set (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3149/article34518204.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Election results||Votes were counted for last month’s assembly elections. In West Bengal, the ruling Trinamool Congress won an overwhelming victory, with 213 seats to the BJP’s 77, while the Left and the Congress were wiped out. In Kerala, the ruling LDF won a historic second term with an increased majority, while a DMK-led alliance swept to power in Tamil Nadu. The NDA retained power in Assam and won in Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/election-results/article34518126.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Quota bombshell||The Supreme Court ruled that Maharashtra’s reservation for Marathas was unconstitutional, as it brought the State’s quotas above the 50% limit set by the 1992Indira Sawhneyjudgment. It also said that, as per the 102nd Amendment (2018), only the President, advised by the National Backward Classes Commission, can notify backward classes, stripping the States of their power to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/quota-bombshell/article34518128.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Oxygen plan||The Delhi High Court initiated contempt proceedings against central government officials for failing to supply 700 MT of oxygen to the capital as directed. The Supreme Court stayed this, saying “hauling officers up for contempt will not bring oxygen to Delhi,” but ordered the Centre to submit a plan for oxygen supply. The next day, the Centre said it had supplied 730 MT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/oxygen-plan/article34518130.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Stay there||Australia’s ban on its own citizens returning from India — with the threat of a five-year jail term or a $66,000 fine — drew flak from many quarters. The office of the U.N. high commissioner for human rights questioned whether it was consistent with Australia’s human rights obligations. Prime Minister Scott Morrison played down the threat, saying it was “highly unlikely” that anyone would be jailed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/stay-there/article34518132.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Alliance games||After Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu failed to form a majority government in Israel following a March election, President Reuven Rivlin invited opposition leader Yair Lapid (above) to try. Lapid, a former finance minister, heads the Yesh Atid party, which came second in the election. He was given four weeks to get enough allies. If he succeeds, Netanyahu, Israel’s longest-serving leader, will be out of power after 12 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/alliance-games/article34518134.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Gates split||Microsoft co-founder and billionaire Bill Gates and his wife Melinda announced their divorce on Twitter, ending 27 years of marriage. The sudden news casts a shadow on the future of the couple’s philanthropic mega enterprise, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which recently contributed to the AstraZeneca vaccine. Gates, 65, is estimated to be worth $144.2 billion, and the divorce will result in a substantial transfer of assets to Melinda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gates-split/article34518136.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Patently right||The U.S. reversed its stance and voiced support for waiving intellectual property rights for COVID-19 vaccines — a Biden campaign pledge. India and South Africa led a movement urging the World Trade Organization to sign off on the waiver, but were opposed by Big Pharma in the U.S. If the WTO votes for this, it will allow countries to make cheaper versions of the vaccines locally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/patently-right/article34518138.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Bubble burst||After a growing clamour for its suspension, the Indian Premier League was indefinitely postponed when a few players and support staff in its bio-secure bubble tested positive for COVID-19. Several international players are now stuck, unable to return home due to restrictions on travel from India. The remainder of the cash-rich tournament might be played in the U.A.E.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bubble-burst/article34518140.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Dished out||As protests heated up again in Myanmar, where some 760 civilians have been killed in total, the junta banned satellite television, which news agencies were allegedly using to transmit programmes that “harm the state security, the rule of law and community peace”. Anyone who installs a satellite dish could face a year in jail or a $320 fine. Mobile data has been banned for months, while more than 80 journalists have been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dished-out/article34518142.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||That Night||Nidhi Upadhyay  Penguin eBury Press Rs. 250 Natasha, Riya, Anjali and Katherine were best friends until that night of fun which ended with the death of Sania, their unlikeable hostel mate. Twenty years later, someone threatens to reveal the truth that only Sania knew. Is someone playing on their guilt or has Sania returned?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/that-night/article34518163.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The Paris Library||Janet Skeslien Charles  Two Roads Rs. 799 When World War II breaks out in Paris, Odile joins the Resistance with the only weapon she has: books. But by the war’s end, Odile is betrayed. Decades later, Odile’s solitary existence in Montana is interrupted by Lily, a lonely teenager, with whom she shares the love for books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-paris-library/article34518170.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Another Dozen Stories||Satyajit Ray, trs Indrani Majumdar  Puffin Classics Rs. 250 In this collection, we meet Professor Hijibijbij, the eccentric scientist bent on creating living replicas of peculiar creatures. In ‘The First-Class Compartment’, there’s a terrifying encounter with a British soldier in the middle of the night. Twelve hair-raising stories that are signature Ray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/another-dozen-stories/article34518172.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Prisoner’s Dilemma||Vish Dhamija  Pan Macmillan India Rs. 350 Two friends, Bipin Desai and Anuj Shastri, rob a van full of cash. They get caught but the cash is nowhere to be found. Senior Inspector Arfy Khan has 48 hours to make Bipin and Anuj confess to their crime by convincing one to go against the other. Will he succeed?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/prisoners-dilemma/article34518174.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Antitrust: Taking on Monopoly Power from the Gilded Age to the Digital Age||Amy Klobuchar  Alfred A. Knopf Rs. 684 (Kindle price) In a world where Google reportedly controls 90% of the search engine market and Big Pharma’s drug price hikes impact healthcare accessibility, monopolies can hurt consumers and cause marketplace stagnation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/antitrust-taking-on-monopoly-power-from-the-gilded-age-to-the-digital-age/article34518180.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Mega Mammals in Ancient India: Rhinos, Tigers, and Elephants||Shibani Bose  OUP Rs. 1,495 In this book, Bose chronicles the journeys of three mega mammals, the rhinoceros, elephant, and tiger, across millennia in early north India. Sifting through archaeological and literary evidence, she documents the presence of these big mammals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mega-mammals-in-ancient-india-rhinos-tigers-and-elephants/article34518186.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Finding the Mother Tree: Discovering the Wisdom of the Forest||Suzanne Simard  Allen Lane/PRH Rs. 941 (Kindle price) A pioneering ecologist takes readers into her world of trees, illuminating that forests are not simply the source of timber but are social, cooperative creatures connected through underground networks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/finding-the-mother-tree-discovering-the-wisdom-of-the-forest/article34518188.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article34518124.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||How to solve the Bengaluru COVID-19 conundrum?||The current public health efforts in managing the pandemic in most urban areas are similar, with some minor differences. Bengaluru is no exception. In contrast to rural areas, the proportionate number of frontline health workers are not appointed by urban local bodies, and therefore, urban primary healthcare services suffer from a design weakness. Consequently, fewer trained persons are available for carrying a syndromic approach to detect suspected cases, subject them to targeted testing and carry on contact tracing. In the first wave, this was temporarily addressed by mobilising staff from other departments in Bengaluru, which cannot be sustained when the pandemic rages on for many months. In the absence of such personnel, expanded testing and self-referral were the mainstays of case detection as the cases started surging in April. However, with the increasing workload on conducting RT-PCR in the laboratories, results of the tests could be available with a delay of five days, defeating the purpose of early isolation. Hence, the Government was compelled to decrease the total RT PCR tests to test mostly symptomatic persons and fewer categories. This led to an increase in test positivity in the later half of April from below 10% to 39% by May 5, 2021. At the same time, many persons who are not tested continue to spread the infection. Also, the contagious nature of the newer variant, at least in part might be responsible for the higher number of cases due to population movement. Weak mitigation In this scenario, a complete lockdown in Bengaluru would have helped to reduce the rate of transmission. However, the current mitigation measures (called Janata curfew first and semi-lockdown from May 10) are incomplete and ineffectively implemented. Due to inefficient containment (testing, tracking and treating) and weak mitigation (restrictive measures), the infection has continued to spread unabated resulting in a faster and wider spread. The capacity to provide critical care to persons with moderate-to-severe respiratory distress is limited in Bengaluru as in other areas. It is mostly the private hospitals that have more capacity for critical care, including ICUs and oxygenated beds, that have surrendered to the extent of 75% to treat persons with COVID-19. Despite this, there are not many beds available for critical care (https://bbmpgov.com/chbms/). Due to ICU beds not being available, not many persons with severe distress can be saved. At the same time, the occurrence of fewer oxygenated beds pushes many persons with mild or moderate respiratory distress to deteriorate towards severe distress, creating a vicious cycle leading to higher fatality. This chain can only be broken if timely oxygen availability is ensured to all persons mild and moderate, preventing them from worsening further. Since the death numbers rise with a lag time from case surges, Bengaluru will see an unfortunate increase in fatality from the current week. The solutions to address Bengaluru's problems cannot be transient since this is not the last wave and certainly not the last pandemic. Fortify human resource First and foremost, the human resources in all the urban local bodies need to be augmented. In Bengaluru, it amounts to having at least one primary health centre (PHC) and 5–10 health and wellness centres (HWC) for each of the 198 wards. In addition, there should be at least 2 to 3 medical officers and nurses permanently hired in each PHC. At the same time, each HWC should have permanent positions of nurse health practitioner, junior health assistants, also known as Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) ( one for every 5,000 population) and USHAs (one for every 1,000 population). Hiring them for a short duration and discontinuing them after the wave recedes will hurt their morale and this weakens the health system.  Second, the containment efforts should be strengthened as a permanent mechanism, pervasive and persuasive to withstand the long haul of COVID-19 management. It is time to have a State centre for disease control, an analogous body of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) at each State level to coordinate the control measures. Update strategies Third, the surveillance, testing and control strategies should be dynamically updated to guide the implementation in the field. For now, increasing the rapid antigen tests for all the symptomatic persons will accomplish dual goals of earlier isolation of more than 50% of people and reduce the burden on the labs to do the RT-PCR. Even beyond the second wave, stronger syndrome–based case detection and higher testing levels should be sustained to ensure that the signs of future waves are picked up earlier. Finally, managing the persons with poor oxygen saturation shall be the most critical aspect of managing current and future surge in cases. In addition to setting up newer facilities, the capacity of the oxygenated beds should be enhanced by oxygenation of all the available beds. Furthermore, the Government should set triage facilities having basic healthcare and oxygen supplementation in each of the wards. Doctors and Nurses alone cannot handle the workload during the surge in cases. Therefore, the Government should create a platform to engage volunteers and civil society in handling the supplementary clinical processes to make a meaningful impact. They can help in efficient community triage, prompt referral and offer support to the hospitals to fetch oxygen and other supplies as needed. Harsh lessons The fight against the novel coronavirus is a long-drawn-out battle. The second wave has offered some harsh lessons. While expanding vaccination coverage at faster rate is non-negotiable, the system should learn from the evidence and incorporate changes to combat this better in future. We simply cannot afford to repeat the same mistakes or commit newer ones.  (Giridhara R Babu is a Professor and Head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, a constituent institution of the Public Health Foundation of India.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-to-solve-the-bengaluru-covid-19-conundrum/article34518303.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Study reveals interesting facet of the novel coronavirus||Studies of the coronavirus have largely focused on its ‘spike’ protein. A new study from IISER Bhopal has found that other proteins, in particular, the nucleocapsid or ‘N’ protein may also be responsible for the infectivity of the virus. SARS-CoV-2 structure The SARS-CoV-2, or novel coronavirus, consists of an RNA genome contained in a spherical capsule which has many proteins, one of which is the ‘spike’ protein that gives it its characteristic spiky surface or ‘crown’. These spike proteins are the ones that help the virus penetrate and enter the body of human hosts. This is therefore used as a target by those developing vaccines as well as drugs. In order to test the effect of these formulations on the virus, scientists often use not live virus particles but ‘pseudotype’ them. That is, they use a core which is a different, harmless virus, encapsulate it in a lipid–protein sphere which has spikes on them made by the spike protein. Usually only the spike protein is used in pseudotyping. However, in real situations, the spike protein does not act in isolation but in conjunction with other proteins. Hence the IISER Bhopal team was curious to study the effect of combinations of proteins on the infectivity of the virus. In their study they used vectors of lentivirus that they had pseudotyped with not only the spike protein but with 24 other proteins in all, including the N protein. “We use lentivirus-derived vectors that have been proven really safe to handle inside the labs to study virus-entry processes,” says Ajit Chande from the Department of Biological Sciences at IISER, Bhopal, who led the study, in an email. Combination effect The infectivity of each of pseudoviruses containing the 24 proteins was tested separately, and the group found that the pseudovirus containing the nucleocapsid ‘N’ protein had higher infectivity than the others. The researchers used an assay where the extent of infectivity can be readily quantified using either enzymatic activity or fluorescence. “For this, we included a pair of reporter genes in the pseudoviruses (lentiviral vectors), which when delivered to the target cells expresses both an enzyme (called “luciferase”) and a green fluorescent protein,” explains Sreepadmanabh, an author of the paper published in Frontiers in Cellular and Infection Microbiology.  “After allowing the viral infection to occur, we measured the level of enzyme activity and counted the number of cells showing fluorescence, which gave a quantitative estimation of how infectious the virus would have been,” adds Tarun Mishra, also an author of the paper. The inference was that stronger the signal, higher was the infectivity. These results were found to hold when they studied the so-called U.K. variant also. “The results which hold true for the original spike protein remain unchanged in the case of this mutant as well – the N protein, when included, leads to the production of more infectious viral particles,” says Dr Chande. More possibilities According to him, this discovery opens up exciting possibilities. “Ongoing or planned studies which seek to screen neutralising antibodies or therapeutic drugs could benefit by incorporating the N protein as a part of their experimental setup while using such pseudotyping systems,” says Dr Chande. “This would help obtain more physiologically relevant infectivity levels and help set a proper threshold for such preliminary screenings which could improve their success rate.” As Dr Chande says, this work also highlights a new role for the N protein, which is worth further investigation by itself. “It is possible that a more comprehensive understanding of the impact of the N protein on the spike may help identify key portions of these proteins which help mediate this effect. Such segments could then be specifically targeted using drugs to disrupt this process,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/study-reveals-interesting-facet-of-the-novel-coronavirus/article34518293.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Wildlife forensics helps cause of pangolins||Pangolins, despite being listed in Schedule I of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 continue to be the world’s most trafficked mammal. The primary demand for its scales in the making of traditional East Asian medicines has led to an estimated illegal trade worth $2.5 billion every year. To enforce the appropriate national and international laws and to track the decline of the species, researchers of Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Kolkata, have now developed tools to tell apart the scales of Indian pangolin (Manis crassicaudata) and Chinese pangolin (Manis pentadactyla).  They characterised the morphological features and investigated genetic variations between the two species by sequencing 624 scales of pangolins and comparing the sequences with all eight pangolin species. Based on the size, shape, weight and ridge counts on the scales, the team was able to categorise the two species. “These simple morphological characters can be easily measured by the use of a simple Vernier caliper. These metric characters will be of immense utility for the law enforcement agencies for taking spot decision during larger seizures,” says Mukesh Thakur, lead author and the Coordinator of Wildlife Forensic Facilities at ZSI. The results were recently published in Forensic Science International.  Estimating casualty He explains that when scales are confiscated, the wildlife officers just weigh and estimate how many pangolins might have been killed. “This needs revision as the dry weight of the scales from one single mature Chinese pangolin is roughly about 500 to 700 grams. However, in the case of Indian pangolin it goes up to 1.5 kg to 1.8 kg,” explains Dr. Thakur. “Studies have shown that between 2000 and 2019, an estimate of about 8,95,000 pangolins was trafficked globally, which mainly involved Asian and African pangolins. This has led to a drastic decline of the species. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, Indian pangolins are endangered and the Chinese pangolins are critically endangered. Therefore, it is important to develop protocols that can readily identify species and the number of individuals poached in seizures,” explains first author Prajnashree Priyambada, a PhD scholar at the University of Calcutta. “Though the Chinese pangolin is distributed mostly in Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, the northeastern part of our country is also its home. The population is already limited as it has a limited geographical range, low fecundity with just one offspring a year. It is also facing pressure due to habitat degradation and is prone to local extinction,” adds Dr. Thakur. Skill-building workshops “We have been conducting training and skill-building workshops for the law enforcement agencies like various officials of forest department, police, revenue department and wildlife crime control bureau and this method of identifying scales will also be demonstrated soon. Forest guards, customs officials or the airport authority when they undertake search and seizure don't have much of a clue about identification. This study has laid out the methods to take a spot decision, which is crucial to prosecuting the case in the court of law,” adds Dr. Thakur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/wildlife-forensics-helps-cause-of-pangolins/article34518290.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Study finds vaccination correlated with lowering of infections||People who received the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine at a U.S. hospital had dramatically lower symptomatic and asymptomatic infections compared with their unvaccinated peers, according to a study. The research, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, is among the first to show an association between COVID-19 Pfizer-BioNTech vaccination and fewer asymptomatic infections.  U.S.-based study “While further research is needed, by preventing infections, including in people who have no symptoms, there is a high possibility that vaccination will decrease transmission of SARS-CoV-2,” said Diego Hijano from the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in the U.S. The study involved 5,217 St. Jude employees who were eligible under Tennessee state guidelines for vaccination between December 17, 2020, and March 20, 2021. More than 58% of employees were vaccinated during that period. Most workers received both doses. Overall, vaccination reduced the risk of asymptomatic and symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection by 79% in vaccinated employees compared with their unvaccinated colleagues, the researchers said. An analysis of asymptomatic infections alone found vaccination reduced the risk by 72%, they said.  Two doses Researchers found that protection was even greater for employees who completed two doses. A week or more after receiving the second dose, vaccinated employees were 96% less likely than unvaccinated workers to become infected with SARS-CoV-2, they said. When researchers looked just at asymptomatic infections, vaccination reduced the risk by 90%. During the study, 236 of the 5,217 employees included in the analysis tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. They included 185 unvaccinated employees and 51 of the 3,052 workers who had received at least one dose of the vaccine. Almost half of the positive cases, 108, reported no symptoms upon testing, the researchers said. The asymptomatic cases included 20 employees who had received one vaccine dose and three who tested positive within seven days of the second dose, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/study-finds-vaccination-correlated-with-lowering-of-infections/article34518291.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Homing sharks||Do sharks navigate using Earth's magnetic field? Several birds and animals have been known to use magnetoreception or the special sense to detect Earth’s magnetic field to perceive the location and also track the direction during migration. A new study published in (Current Biology) found the first solid evidence that sharks also use Earth’s magnetic fields for their long-distance travel. Sharks undergo precise, long-distance migrations and make round-trips for over 20,000 kilometres. For the study, the team captured 20 juvenile bonnethead sharks (Sphyrna tiburo) from the Gulf of Mexico and transported them to the Florida State University lab for experimentation. They exposed the animals to artificial magnetic conditions which represented locations hundreds of kilometres away from their capture location. They found that the sharks orientated themselves according to the provided artificial magnetic field. Project leader Bryan Keller explained in a release that bonnethead sharks return to the same estuaries each year demonstrating that the sharks know where ‘home’ is and can navigate back to it from a distant location. But the question of how sharks navigate has remained unanswered for about 50 years because sharks are difficult to study, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/homing-sharks/article34518292.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Use of CT scans and steroids for COVID-19||The story so far: As doctors try out different protocols to manage patients with COVID-19, Dr. Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and member of the National Taskforce on COVID-19, has cautioned against the use of CT scans indiscriminately to diagnose the disease, especially in the early stages. This exposes individuals to unnecessary radiation, which could be harmful in the long run, he said. A single CT scan is equal to 300 X-rays, Dr. Guleria warned, which may increase the risk of cancer later in life for young people. Doctors and the World Health Organization (WHO) are also cautioning against the use of corticosteroids like dexamethasone, a potent anti-inflammatory drug, for patients who have non-severe COVID-19. Corticosteroids have been proven to benefit patients with moderate and severe infection. When is a CT scan advised for a COVID-19 patient? An RT-PCR test is the standard for diagnosis or confirmation of COVID-19. Use of CT for the diagnosis of COVID-19 should be restricted to that subgroup of patients who may have classical symptoms of the illness but have a negative RT-PCR test result. However, a chest CT can be useful in evaluating patients with moderate or severe disease, to identify complications like thromboembolism or pneumomediastinum. There are certain situations involving COVID-19 patients in which a clinician might depend on a CT scan to arrive at treatment decisions. These include scenarios where a patient may have classical symptoms of COVID-19 but his RT-PCR test is negative, or situations when a CT pulmonary angiogram might be in order to rule out pulmonary embolism in a patient who is on anti-coagulants and steroids and is not showing any signs of recovery. Also, in cases where a patient in the ICU with severe COVID-19 is not showing any improvement and a chest X-ray shows new lesions, a CT appearance might give a clue towards a diagnosis of dangerous COVID-19-associated fungal super-infections like aspergillosis or mucormycosis. In a fourth scenario, a clinician might order a CT chest to rule out spontaneous pneumomediastinum, a life-threatening complication. “However, these four scenarios together constitute less than 2% of situations where a CT chest is ordered in COVID-19 cases. Rather than CT findings, it is oxygen saturation that is the key to treatment decisions. Yet, in 95% of the cases, CT scan is a misused tool, often prescribed to rule out pneumonia even in mild cases of COVID-19. There is no point in ordering CT early in the course of COVID-19 because even patients with mild severity may have some ground-glass opacities in the lungs, which do not merit treatment and will resolve on their own,” says R. Aravind, Head of Infectious Diseases, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. The consensus statement from Fleischner Society, an international, multidisciplinary association for thoracic radiology, states that “imaging is not indicated” in suspected COVID-19 infection with mild clinical features. The statement supports the use of imaging in patients with worsening respiratory status as well as in those with moderate to severe clinical features that are indicative of COVID-19 pneumonia. To sum up, although CT has been used in assessing the severity of COVID-19 pneumonia, its routine use is not recommended. Are multiple CT scans harmful? When indicated, a chest CT should be performed with a low-dose, single-phase protocol using fast scanning techniques to minimise motion artifacts (patient movement leading to subtle errors). There is no evidence to support the use of routine multi-phase chest CT in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia. Dr. Guleria said according to data from the International Atomic Energy Agency, one CT scan was equivalent to almost 300 to 400 chest X-rays, which put youngsters at substantial risk of cancer in the long term. A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2007 said based on data from 1991 to 1996, 0.4% of all cancers in the U.S. may be attributable to radiation from CT studies and that the current estimate could be in the range of 1.5% to 2%. Apart from all this, the risks of transmission and contamination faced by radiology technicians and staff every time a COVID-19 patient undergoes diagnostic imaging, especially in an air-conditioned, closed space, cannot be dismissed. Why are steroids being prescribed for COVID-19 patients? Even though many doctors in India had started treating seriously ill COVID-19 patients with corticosteroids like dexamethasone much earlier during the pandemic, recommendation on their use from international agencies like the WHO came only in September 2020, following the U.K.’s RECOVERY Trial, which found mortality benefit for patients who received steroids. In many patients, death occurs following a hyper-immune response (cytokine storm) to the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which damages the lungs and other organs, leading to multi-organ dysfunction syndrome. Corticosteroids like dexamethasone, as anti-inflammatory agents, work by calming down the immune system and preventing the progression of organ damage. “Steroids are the most potent weapon we have to combat COVID-19. But the therapeutic window for starting steroids has to be spot-on. Determining the timing, dosage and duration is an art which has to be mastered,” says Dr. Aravind. One of the main concerns is that we do not want to start steroids too early in the illness when viral replication is happening as it might interfere with the immune system’s natural ability to fight back. We also do not want to miss that critical point when steroids can prevent the immune system from unleashing the cytokine storm, he says. The WHO guidelines say that steroids may be administered to patients whose resting saturation levels are below 94% and whose respiration rate at rest is over 24 per minute. However, steroids can benefit some patients who are not on supplementary oxygen yet but are showing early indications that they might worsen. Kerala’s guidelines thus talk about recognising exertional desaturation — the fall or depletion in oxygen saturation reading by over 3% from the baseline oxygen levels, post-exercise or after the six-minute walk test — and addressing it at the right time so that interstitial inflammation can be arrested. The walk test requires individuals to walk for six straight minutes, without a pause, on an even surface with an oximeter on the finger. After six minutes, if the oxygen level does not go down, the individual will be considered healthy. But if the oxygen level drops below 93%, or by 3%, or if the individual suffers from breathlessness, then they are advised to seek medical attention. “We want to pick up patients who are at risk of progressing to hypoxemia at rest. The earliest feature of COVID-19 pneumonia will be interstitial involvement, which leads to a demand-supply mismatch of oxygen. So, patients with normal oxygen saturation (> 94%) at rest in room air and who are clinically stable are put through the six-minutes/40-step walk test. If the oxygen levels drop after the walk test, these patients may be started on low-dose steroids after consulting the pulmonary specialist or a physician to prevent the cytokine storm syndrome,” says Dr. Aravind. When do steroids become a double-edged sword? That said, steroids can turn out to be a double-edged sword if the dosage, timing or duration of the drug goes wrong. Steroids are not mandated for all patients and certainly not for mild patients in the early stages of the illness. The trigger for starting steroids has to be exertional desaturation and not the day of illness. Dr. Guleria had pointed out recently that he was seeing many mild COVID-19 cases where steroids had stimulated viral replication, causing oxygen levels to drop. There is potential harm associated with the long-term use of steroids in a serious COVID-19 patient. This includes a rise in blood glucose levels, which will need to be carefully managed with insulin to prevent secondary bacterial or fungal infections.  A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2007 said based on data from 1991 to 1996, 0.4% of all cancers in the U.S. may be attributable to radiation from CT studies and that the current estimate could be in the range of 1.5% to 2%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/use-of-ct-scans-and-steroids-for-covid-19/article34518225.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Vaccination process at Delhi govt. schools quick, smooth’||Amid the rush for vaccines, several people in the 18-44 age bracket, who got vaccinated at Delhi government schools, said that their initial apprehensions about the facilities proved wrong and that the entire vaccination process turned out to be seamless at the schools. For South Delhi resident Aneet Chetri, the dilemma of visiting a hospital to get vaccinated was cleared once slots for the government schools opened up. “I realised that getting vaccinated was important. But I kept thinking what if I visit a hospital and get infected instead of the vaccine? I was worried and not confident at all. Getting a slot was not easy but I somehow managed to book one in Central Delhi. To my surprise it turned out to be a government school in Karol Bagh where the process was extremely smooth,” said Mr. Chetri. Volunteers to help Stating that the entire process was over within an hour, including the 30-minute observation period, Mr. Chetri said, “There were volunteers to help at every corner. During the monitoring period, post-vaccination, the staff even responded to queries about the second dose and general side effects. Everything seemed well organised. I felt safe and even encouraged my friends and colleagues to get vaccinated as soon as possible.” At a government school in Safdarjung Enclave, those with appointments for the 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. slot began lining up outside the centre by 8:15 a.m. Those who got the jab on Saturday said while the vaccination process began at around 9:30 a.m., the rest of the process was quick and smooth. Properly demarcated waiting areas within the school premises and a well managed crowd by the civil defence volunteers and Delhi Police personnel were what made the experience favourable for Noida resident Vibhor Didwana.  ‘Amazing experience’ “The experience was amazing and in fact, not something that I was expecting. When my parents got the vaccine in hospitals in Delhi and Noida, the sites were not properly managed. However, the government school where I got vaccinated had about 100-150 people and was very efficiently by the volunteers and Delhi Police personnel. It took me 45 minutes for the entire process to get over, including the 30-minute observation period. The only thing I would have liked a bit more would be if the attendants shared some general information about the vaccine while administering it,” said Mr. Didwana, who took the jab at a school in Moti Bagh. For Suresh Kumar Chugh, a finance professional, the process of getting vaccinated was “unbelievably smooth”, he said. “Given that it was a government school, one is mentally prepared for long queues but there was no queue when I went during my time slot at 3 p.m. I got vaccinated within five minutes after getting my credentials and appointment slip checked. Half an hour later, I was out of the school. The staff was friendly and premises clean,” said Mr. Chugh. A steady stream of people has been lining up outside government schools over the past few days with several of them posting positive reviews on social media as well.  The workers replied to queries about the second vaccine dose and general side effects. Everything seemed well organised. I felt safe A beneficiary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccination-process-at-delhi-govt-schools-quick-smooth/article34518530.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The SC ruling on identifying backward classes||The story so far: In the judgment that declared the Maratha reservation unconstitutional, a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court dealt with another issue. By a 3:2 majority, it ruled that after the passage of the 102nd Constitution Amendment Act in 2018, the States do not have any power to identify ‘socially and educationally backward’ (SEBC) classes. The Union government argued that it was never its intention to deprive State governments of their power to identify SEBCs, but the Court interpreted the bare text of the Amendment to the effect that only the President can publish a list of backward classes in relation to each State and that only Parliament can make inclusions or exclusions in it. What does the 102nd Amendment say? The Amendment established a National Commission for Backward Classes by adding Article 338B to the Constitution. The five-member Commission was tasked with monitoring safeguards provided for socially and educationally backward classes, giving advice on their socio-economic development, inquiring into complaints and making recommendations, among other functions. Significantly, it was laid down that the Centre and the States shall consult the Commission on all policy matters concerning the SEBCs. The Amendment also added Article 342A, under which the President shall notify a list of SEBCs in relation to each State and Union Territory, in consultation with Governors of the respective States. Once this ‘Central List’ is notified, only Parliament could make inclusions or exclusions in the list by law. This provision is drafted in exactly the same word as the one concerning the lists of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Further, a definition of ‘SEBCs’ was added to the Constitution — ‘SEBC’ means “such backward classes as are so deemed under Article 342A for the purposes of this Constitution”. Why did this Amendment come up for judicial interpretation? The reservation for the Maratha community was challenged in the Bombay High Court on various grounds. One of the grounds was that the Act creating the Maratha quota through a new category called ‘SEBC’ was unconstitutional because after the introduction of the 102nd Amendment, the State legislature had no power to identify any new backward class. Separately, a writ petition was also filed in the Supreme Court questioning the validity of the Amendment as it violated the federal structure and deprived the States of their powers. In this context, the court had to examine the validity of the Amendment. What were the rival contentions? The crux of the issue was whether the State government’s role in identifying backward classes had been denuded by the Amendment. The Union government said Parliament’s intent was only to create a Central List that would be applied only in the Central government and its institutions. It had nothing to do with the State Lists of backward classes or the State governments’ powers to declare a community backward. Those who questioned it contended that the effect of the Amendment was that only the President, or the Union government, was authorised to make a list in relation to each State, and thereafter, any change in it would be made only by Parliament. How did the Supreme Court reach these conclusions? Justice S. Ravindra Bhat, with two others concurring with him, adopted a literal interpretation of the 102nd Amendment, holding that there was no ambiguity in its drafting that warranted a “purposive interpretation”. Writing for them, Justice Bhat cited three main reasons. One, the text was clear that the President alone could notify the list, and subsequent changes could be made only by Parliament by law. Two, the text was identical to the provisions governing the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and the procedure to identify SCs was exactly the same, which led to the conclusion that Parliament intended to “replicate” the same process for backward classes, too. Third, a definition clause was added to the effect that only a class found in the list notified by the President under Article 342A was an SEBC. Further, the definition was for “the purposes of the Constitution”, which meant that it was to apply to the Constitution as a whole, including Article 15(4) and Article 16(4), which enable special provisions for backward classes, including reservation in public services, and are also implemented by the States. The Supreme Court’s judgment also drew on deliberations before a Rajya Sabha Select Committee that showed that the Centre had rejected suggestions from members who demanded that a specific clause be added saying that States would continue to have the power to identify SEBCs. Justice Ashok Bhushan, with another judge agreeing with him and constituting the minority on this point, accepted the Union government’s position that it was never its intention to deprive the States of their powers. They held that the ‘Central List’ was only for use by the Centre in reservations for jobs and institutions under the Union government, and will not apply to States. What next? The Supreme Court has directed the Centre to notify the list of SEBCs for each State and Union territory, and until it is done, the present State Lists may continue to be in use. The Centre may either comply with this or seek to further amend the Constitution to clarify the position that the 102nd Amendment was not intended to denude the States of their power to identify SEBCs.  The Supreme Court has directed the Centre to notify the list of socially and educationally backward classes for each State and Union Territory, and until it is done, the present State Lists may continue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-sc-ruling-on-identifying-backward-classes/article34518229.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi to increase vaccination centres to 300, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday visited a vaccination centre at Chirag Delhi where he said the government needed to administer 3 lakh doses daily if the entire population of the city was to be inoculated within three months. The Delhi government, he said, was going to increase the number of vaccination centres from 100 to 300 for the same. “We want all of Delhi to get vaccinated as soon as possible. Vaccination is a defence mechanism that can save lives. Right now, the second wave is in operation and it is being said that the possibility of a third wave looms large. Thus, it is our aim that the entire Delhi be vaccinated within 3 months,” he said. “There are 1.5 crore people in Delhi above the age of 18. They need 3 crore vaccine doses. As of now, we have received only 40 lakh doses from the Centre... so we need an additional 2.6 crore doses,” he added. Mr. Kejriwal also said that so far arrangements had been made in 100 schools and 1 lakh vaccine doses were being administered daily. In the next few days, the Delhi government would increase the number of these sites to 300 schools and work on increasing capacity to administer 3 lakh doses per day. He also termed “a firm possibility” of ‘one vaccine programme’ in the country. “The Central government is offering full assistance. Whenever we needed facilities, we asked the Centre for aid and it did the best to provide help on their part. Hopefully, the Central government will assist in this too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-to-increase-vaccination-centres-to-300-says-kejriwal/article34518532.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Food service for families of patients||The Delhi BJP on Saturday launched a food service for family members of COVID-19 patients in three hospitals. Party unit president Adesh Gupta was part of the launch at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri at AIIMS, and State organisational general secretary Siddharthan at Lok Nayak Hospital. The drive was launched simultaneously at all three venues. “This service is now available near or outside these hospitals and food will be available between 1.30 p.m. and 2.30 p.m., and in the evening from 7.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m.,” Mr. Gupta said. He also inspected a COVID Care Centre at the North Delhi corporation-run Balak Ram Hospital, which has oxygen cylinders, concentrators and 100 beds. “The corporation’s concept of oxygen on wheels has now been realised and started here at Balak Ram Hospital. The idea is if any of three hospitals face oxygen shortage, it can be obtained from here,” said North corporation Mayor Jai Prakash. “In the past 25 days, the corporation has arranged 500 beds whereas the city government has reduced beds by 1,500,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-launches-food-service-for-families-of-patients/article34518527.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||IP rights and vaccines||The story so far: Breaking with a long-held position, the U.S. Trade Representative, Katherine Tai, announced that the Biden administration would support waiving trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) for the production of COVID-19 vaccines. The news was welcomed by liberal activists and some global leaders, given that the United States was until now a major World Trade Organization (WTO) member blocking such a proposal, framed by India and South Africa. The proposal, if passed by the WTO with the support of the European Union (EU), could dramatically alter how pharmaceutical companies worldwide access proprietary trade know-how for the production of leading vaccines. However, questions remain regarding whether the easing of TRIPS rules for COVID-19 vaccines will lead to a greater supply of efficacious vaccines in countries where they are the most needed, or if less circuitous options to boost supply are more relevant in the present scenario. What is the argument in favour of relaxing TRIPS rules? The broader context for emergency action aimed at rapidly increasing vaccine availability across the world is the sharp surge in COVID-19 cases in India and Brazil. Global concern also stems from the risk that the Indian variant, believed to be driving a second wave of devastating intensity in the country, could potentially fuel second or third waves across the world, causing a setback to the progress made in controlling transmission across the U.S. and EU. Additionally, the Brazil and South African variants still pose a threat in some pockets. Across many affected nations, vaccine availability has emerged as a bottleneck impeding progress. In this context, a fierce debate has been underway, pitting global-vaccine-access advocates against vaccine developers and pharmaceutical firms that rely on patented technology, usually of a highly specialised nature, to produce vaccines. The latest step by the U.S. to declare its support for TRIPS waivers for such vaccines stems from the promise Joe Biden made during his election campaign, to “absolutely positively” commit to sharing vaccine technology if elected. Can a waiver resolve the vaccine shortage? This is a complex question to which there is, so far, no clear answer. On the one hand, it is undeniable that intellectual property rights are a part of the problem of worldwide vaccine shortages — the logic of a wider production base globally leading to an exponential increase in vaccine production is undeniable. However, several caveats remain. First, there may be serious issues associated with manufacturing vaccines, for example, with those based on messenger RNA (mRNA) technology, if there is just an easing of the associated intellectual property rights rules but no further support to generic pharmaceutical firms in countries such as India and South Africa. This is because a “tech transfer” is also needed for the latter to actually commence production, especially for mRNA vaccines, including the ones produced by Moderna and Pfizer along with BioNTech. To illustrate, Pfizer has pointed out that its vaccine requires the use of 280 components from 86 suppliers and highly specialised manufacturing equipment. Second, there is a strong likelihood that it will take a considerable amount of time, even several years, for generic producers’ plants to become operational at optimal capacity. This raises the question of whether today’s vaccines would even be relevant at that point in time, especially if new variants prove resistant to vaccine formulations currently available. Finally, there is the classic counter-argument to calls for patent relaxations, that such policies could discourage pharmaceutical companies from investing in producing next-generation vaccines. Though many, including Mr. Biden, have argued that humanitarian need trumps the profit motive during a pandemic, the decision to waive all TRIPS rules should be preceded by a rigorous analysis of the effects such a policy would have on the biotechnology sector and global supply chains for its products. What actions are likely? No significant steps forward will be possible until other major member nations of the WTO sign on, including the EU. The speed of potential action will also be dampened by the fact that in parallel to the waivers, a transfer of personnel, raw materials and equipment to developing nations will be necessary. However, there is another possibility: Mr. Biden may either intend to release more of the existing U.S. vaccine stockpile to other countries to meet emergency needs and seek the cooperation of pharmaceutical companies in that mission, or he may be using the threat of the TRIPS waivers to nudge U.S. vaccine producers to ramp up their production and donate more doses to countries like India and Brazil. Either way, it would be unwise for countries like India to rely on this initiative for an increase in vaccine supply.  A ‘tech transfer’ is also needed for pharma companies to begin production. Pfizer has pointed out that its vaccine requires the use of 280 components from 86 suppliers and highly specialised manufacturing equipment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ip-rights-and-vaccines/article34518227.ece
09 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Couple held with 125 kg of heroin||A husband-wife duo has been arrested for allegedly supplying heroin, police said on Saturday, adding that drugs worth Rs. 860 crore have been recovered from their possession. The accused are allegedly refugees from Afghanistan. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel said 48-year-old Mohammad Shafi and 36-year-old Tareena, both from Kandahar in Afghanistan, were arrested with over 125.8 kg of heroin. “On May 7, the police received information that two people would come from Wazirabad with heroin in their car and will go towards Khyala. A trap was laid and the accused were apprehended. The heroin was kept in seven plastic bags,” Ms. Goel said. Shafi allegedly told the police that they were out to supply heroin from Wazirabad to Khyala and thereafter to Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/couple-held-with-125-kg-of-heroin/article34518526.ece
09 May 2021||New Delhi,||Task force set up to assist children||The Delhi government’s Women and Child Development Department has constituted a ‘District Task Force’ for COVID-19 positive children who are in Child Care Institutes or whose parents have died due to the virus. “The Delhi government has been taking effective measures to tackle the multiple issues of children orphaned due to the pandemic,” WCD Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said, adding that the newly constituted task force will set a good model of childcare, especially in COVID-19 management through testing, timely medical care, and good nutrition for children. Quarantine centres During the meeting, it was informed that the department has set up two quarantine centres for children so that new admissions sent through child welfare committees do not get mixed up with existing residents. The WCD department, through its network of Anganwadi services and newly created Saheli Samnavay Kendra, has been training Anganwadi workers for spreading awareness about COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/task-force-set-up-to-assist-children/article34518743.ece
09 May 2021||May 09 2021 00:00 IST,||9||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/9/article34518742.ece
