10 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Himanta to take over as Assam CM today||Himanta Biswa Sarma, the face of the BJP in Northeast India, will be sworn in on Monday as the 15th Chief Minister of Assam. Dr. Sarma and the outgoing Chief Minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, met Governor Jagdish Mukhi on Sunday afternoon and put forward the BJP’s claim to form the government. Earlier, Mr. Sonowal submitted his resignation to the Governor, paving the way for his younger colleague to succeed him. Both leaders had cut their political teeth in the All Assam Students’ Union. The BJP won 60 of the 126 seats in the Assam Assembly election. Its allies, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), won nine and six seats, respectively. Earlier in the day, Mr. Sonowal proposed the name of Dr. Sarma as the Chief Minister at the BJP Legislature Party meeting, ending a week of speculation over who would take charge of the new government. BJP State president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and MLA-elect Nandita Garlosa seconded the proposal. The AGP and the UPPL too extended support. The BJP’s central leaders Narendra Singh Tomar, B.L. Santosh, Arun Singh and Baijayant Panda attended the meeting. “A few MLAs of our party and the two allies will be sworn in as Cabinet Ministers along with Dr. Sarma around noon. Others will be sworn in later,” Dilip Saikia, Lok Sabha member, said. Party insiders said Dr. Sarma was likely to keep the Finance, Health and Home portfolios with him. He handled Finance and Health in the Sonowal government as also in the Tarun Gogoi-led Congress government earlier. Mr. Sonowal said he was confident of Dr. Sarma leading Assam well and strengthening the BJP. “We managed to ensure peace, progress and security because of which the people re-elected us. I have the faith Himanta will serve people honestly and fight corruption,” he said, urging the MLAs to stay united.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/himanta-to-take-over-as-assam-cm-today/article34523428.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi lockdown extended till May 17||Delhi Metro services will be suspended from May 10 till May 17 as the Delhi government on Sunday announced a more stringent lockdown in the city for a week. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a digital statement, announced that the lockdown in the Capital that was due to end on May 10, would be extended till May 17. Mr. Kejriwal said because of the lockdown, the positivity rate in the Capital that peaked at 36-37% in April has started coming down and over the past few days has settled below 25%. “Cases have come down, but we need to extend the lockdown. If we do not, we will lose what we have gained. We need to save lives at this point despite the hardships and will extend it by another week,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The Chief Minister said the government has used the lockdown to improve the health infrastructure in the national capital. “Over the past few days our oxygen situation has also improved and we have improved the system. We are no longer getting as many SOS calls and hearing that hospitals have run out of oxygen,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that the decision to extend the lockdown has been taken after consulting all stakeholders. On the vaccination drive, he said the 18-44 age group has shown a tremendous response to get vaccinated but vaccine stocks in the Capital were low and the government was hoping that the Centre would provide vaccines soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-lockdown-extended-till-may-17/article34523557.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gangwar unhappy with U.P.’s COVID-19 response||Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar flagged concerns over the COVID-19 response in Uttar Pradesh in a letter to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on May 8. Mr. Gangwar complained that officers were not answering phone calls and patients were being forced to visit multiple facilities before being admitted to hospital. Mr. Gangwar participated in a review meeting in Bareilly, his Lok Sabha constituency, called by the Chief Minister on May 8, where, sources said, the letter with suggestions and complaints was handed over. In a tweet on Sunday, Mr. Gangwar said the Chief Minister met the elected representatives and officials of Bareilly to review the measures against the second wave of COVID-19. He made suggestions to improve the healthcare facilities. ‘Cap prices of machines’ In the letter, Mr. Gangwar said vendors were selling essential equipment needed by hospitals such as ventilators at higher prices. He said the government should fix the prices. Mr. Gangwar wrote that it was important for COVID-19 patients to receive medical care as soon as possible, but he had come to know that when patients went to any government hospital, they were asked to first go to a district hospital and get a referral. The patients’ oxygen levels kept dropping while they had to visit multiple places before being admitted, he wrote. Terming it a cause of concern, he asked the Chief Minister to address the issue. He said those who hoarded oxygen cylinders should be identified. Mr. Gangwar complained that “important” officers involved with the COVID-19 response in Bareilly did not answer phone calls, which was leading to “inconvenience” to patients. He suggested that all private hospitals in Bareilly cater to COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gangwar-unhappy-with-ups-covid-19-response/article34523423.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||Grief, groceries, all shared in this fight||On Thursday, Pritam Singh helped cremate a 24-year-old man. But that wasn’t his worst experience over the past year. He remembers having to carry the body of a man past his young son, saying they were just taking him into a hospital emergency. “The family had told us not to reveal that his father had died,” he says. Mr. Singh and his team of seven, has, over the past year, supported free of cost, about 400 families struggling to perform the last rites of kin who have died of COVID-19. “Usually, when we go to a house, there are only two or three people. At the most, neighbours will come out of their homes when we are putting the body into the ambulance, but otherwise, there is no one to help,” says the 48-year-old, who heads United Sikhs. The lack of support from those they thought they could lean on and the breakdown in government machinery is what both angers and grieves people, he says. Mr. Singh and his team have helped with Hindu and Sikh cremations and Muslim and Christian burials, but feel bad that they have to turn down many people simply because they have neither the volunteers nor the vehicles. Last year, the daily calls were four or five; this year, it is 18-20. For a group of men who work at their businesses or in IT, their ages ranging from 20s-40s, dealing with death every day has not been easy. “ Hum roz rote hain (we cry every day),” Mr. Singh says. In Gurugram, Honey Tandon, who started Helping Hands to provide meals, says people are donating in kind — flour, pulses and fruit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grief-groceries-all-shared-in-this-fight/article34523426.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||Grief, groceries, all shared in this fight||On Thursday, Pritam Singh helped cremate a 24-year-old man. But that wasn’t his worst experience over the past year. He remembers having to carry the body of a man past his young son, saying they were just taking him into a hospital emergency. “The family had told us not to reveal that his father had died,” he says. Mr. Singh and his team of seven, has, over the past year, supported free of cost, about 400 families struggling to perform the last rites of kin who have died of COVID-19. “Usually, when we go to a house, there are only two or three people. At the most, neighbours will come out of their homes when we are putting the body into the ambulance, but otherwise, there is no one to help,” says the 48-year-old, who heads United Sikhs. The lack of support from those they thought they could lean on and the breakdown in government machinery is what both angers and grieves people, he says. Mr. Singh and his team have helped with Hindu and Sikh cremations and Muslim and Christian burials, but feel bad that they have to turn down many people simply because they have neither the volunteers nor the vehicles. Last year, the daily calls were four or five; this year, it is 18-20. ‘We cry every day’ For a group of men who work at their businesses or in IT, their ages ranging from 20s-40s, dealing with death every day has not been easy. “ Hum roz rote hain (we cry every day),” Mr. Singh says. In Gurugram, Honey Tandon, who started Helping Hands to provide meals, says people are donating in kind — flour, pulses and fruit. Even as Mr. Singh starts his day at 6.30 a.m. in West Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, in Gurugram dietician Honey Tandon packs breakfast for a few guards and people who live outside her condo gates. She quickly gives her father and son the same food and rushes out. Ms. Tandon began Helping Hands free of cost for those in her building who got COVID and a few workers who had planned to go back their villages. “Soon people in other parts of Gurgaon started asking for home-cooked meals, so I began charging Rs. 100 per meal, from those who can afford it,” she says. For those who can’t, it’s free. In the three weeks that Helping Hands has been operational, it has provided about 30 meals each for lunch and dinner, with fewer for breakfast. People have started reaching out with donations in kind — flour, pulses and fruit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grief-groceries-all-shared-in-this-fight/article34523555.ece
10 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||All fever clinics to treat COVID patients||In an attempt to provide better attention to patient care during the pandemic, the Health Department has issued orders converting all fever clinics in hospitals to COVID clinics, which will provide necessary consultation, lab services and medicines for COVID-positive patients as per the State’s treatment protocols. Till May 31, all government hospitals have been asked to focus on managing COVID cases and to restrict non-COVID care to emergency services. Oxygen beds All taluk hospitals should provide oxygen beds to patients and wherever possible, arrange at least five beds with BiPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) ventilators to provide oxygen support to patients who are referred from the field with oxygen requirement. All COVID second line treatment centres (CSLTCs) are to be linked to taluk hospital. The department has directed all hospitals, including primary and family health centres to ensure adequate stock of steroids and oral anti-coagulants. These hospitals are to refer to the home management advisory and take care of patients accordingly. In the event that any bed-ridden patient becomes COVID-positive, oxygen concentrator may be arranged at home, to be followed up with home care as per the advisory. Also, palliative care volunteers or the Rapid Response Teams at panchayat-level should be contacted for providing necessary care and support to these patients. The department has asked the tele-medicine units and counsellors under the district mental health programme to make sure that they get in touch with all patients on home care and isolation regularly and to ensure that their health status is followed up. Beds in private hospitals The department has again reiterated that private hospitals set aside 50% of their beds for COVID patients and that they should try to increase the availability of oxygen beds and ICUs. Private hospitals have also been asked to start COVID OPs and to provide necessary treatment, advice and necessary investigations to patients. No need for PPE kits? The order issued by the Health Department has suggested that it might be better for healthcare workers to move to disposable gowns, gloves, N95 masks and face shield, rather than PPE kits, when caring for COVID patients. At the national and international level, healthcare workers were now using the disposable protective gear, rather than PPE kits for providing patient care, said the Principal Secretary (Health) in the GO. However, rather than issue this as an order, the department has left the decision to healthcare workers themselves and has suggested that they discuss the matter at each hospital and take appropriate decision.  Private hospitals have been asked to start COVID OPs and to provide treatment, advice and necessary investigations to patients||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-fever-clinics-to-treat-covid-patients/article34523626.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi/Kolkata,||Nirmala lists tax waiver on relief goods||In response to a letter written by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman replied through her Twitter handle, on Sunday. In her letter, Ms. Banerjee had urged Mr. Modi to consider exempting organisations, agencies and individuals supplying equipment and drugs related to the management of the pandemic from customs duty and other Central taxes. “A large number of organisations, individuals and benevolent agencies have come forward to donate oxygen concentrators, cylinders, cryogenic storage tank, tankers and tank containers and COVID related drugs. Donations from these organisations will greatly supplement the efforts of the State government in meeting the huge gap in demand and supply,” the Chief Minister wrote in the letter. She added: “Many of the donors and agencies have approached the State government to consider exemptions of these items from customs duty/ SGST/CGST/IGST” [State Goods and Services Tax, Central Goods and Services Tax, Integrated Goods and Services Tax].” ‘Remove constraints’ The letter mentioned that “as the rate structure falls under the preview of the Central government, I would request that these items may be exempted GST/Customs duty and other such duty and taxes to help remove supply constraints of above mentioned drugs and equipment and contribute to effective management of COVID pandemic”. Ms. Banerjee also pointed out that everyone, including the State government, is “trying its best to face new challenges and making all efforts to channeling resources from different sources, including ensuring availability of life saving drugs and oxygen for Covid treatment” in the event of sudden spike of COVID-19 cases in general and also in West Bengal. Over the past few days, the Chief Minister has written letters to the Prime Minister to ensure that the medical oxygen required for the State is not diverted to other parts of the country. In response, Ms. Sitharaman tweeted: “A list of items for COVID relief granted exemption from IGST for imports was issued on May 3, 2021. These were given exemption from Customs Duty/health cess even earlier. Hon. CM @MamataOfficial, may notice that items in your list are covered.” The Union Finance Minister also said, “Full exemption from Customs duties, including IGST, is already available to ALL COVID relief material (not confined to a list) imported by @IndianRedCross for free distribution in the country.” Ms. Sitharaman further tweeted: “With effect from 3 May, 2021, full exemption from all duties has been provided to Remdesivir injections, Remdesivir API, and for a chemical for the manufacture of this drug.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nirmala-lists-tax-waiver-on-relief-goods/article34523600.ece
10 May 2021||Pune,||Over 60,000 recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra continued its recovery spree on Sunday with 60,226 patients being discharged as opposed to 48,401 COVID-19 new cases. The State’s active case tally has now dipped to 6,15,783. A spike of 572 deaths — of which 310 occurred over the last 48 hours — pushed the total death toll to 75,849. The ‘reconciled’ figures, as per the State Health Department, included 126 deaths during the last week and the remaining 136 from an earlier period. The total case tally has reached 51,01,737, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 44,07,818, with the recovery rate rising to 86.4%. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.49%. Pune district reported over 7,300 new cases to take its tally to 9,26,124. As per State Health Department figures, 25 deaths were reported as the total death toll rose to 10,049. As per district authorities, the active case tally has risen to 1,00,118, while the total death toll has surged past 14,500. 2,395 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 2,395 new cases to take its total case tally to 6,75,630, while the active case tally has declined to 51,165. With 68 more fatalities, the city’s total death toll rose to 13,781. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 2,200 cases as its total case tally reached 4,64,414, of whom 59,544 are active. A total of 45 deaths pushed the death toll to 5,624. Cases continued to mount in western Maharashtra, with Sangli reporting 20 deaths and more than 1,800 cases, taking its toll to 2,254 and case tally to 95,527, of whom 20,009 are active. Solapur reported 23 deaths and more than 2,100 cases as its total death toll rose to 2,975 and the total cases reached 1,27,174 of whom 23,375 are active. Ahmednagar reported 28 deaths and nearly 3,000 cases, taking its toll to 2,287 and case tally to 2,02,816, of whom 24,452 are active. Latur in Marathwada reported more than 900 new cases and 31 deaths, taking its tally to 81,109, of whom 11,463 are active. The death toll has risen to 1,313. Nashik reported over 3,000 new cases, taking its tally to 3,51,045, of whom 39,539 are active, while 49 deaths pushed its toll to 3,715. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, “Of 2,94,38,797 laboratory samples tested thus far, 51,01,737 (with the average case positivity rising to 17.33%) have returned positive with over 2.47 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-60000-recoveries-in-maharashtra/article34523876.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Daily positive cases slip below 5,000 as tests come down in Telangana||The daily COVID-19 positive cases in Telangana came down below the 5,000 mark on Sunday after a gap of three weeks as 4,976 new cases were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Sunday as the number of tests done too were the second lowest for the day since March 13. Although the daily positivity rate is still high in the State at around 8.99% — 4,976 positives out of 55,358 samples tested on Sunday — the daily positive cases are coming down gradually for the simple reason of low testing. A look at the statistics released by the Public Health Department clearly indicate the tendency. Following the directions of the High Court to scale up the tests, the daily COVID tests crossed one lakh mark for the first time on April 8 and it continued till April 24. However, from April 25 onwards the daily tests have been coming down gradually. After crossing the 5,000 mark on April 17, the daily positive cases remained over that number all these days with the exception on April 18. With the fresh cases, the total cases reported in the State so far have reached 4,97,361. With 35 more deaths reported on Sunday, the total fatalities due to the coronavirus infection have reached 2,739. As 7,646 persons infected with the virus were declared recovered on Sunday, the total recoveries have reached 4,28,865 so far. In spite of the lower number of tests, the GHMC and its surrounding districts continue to contribute to the COVID surge in the State as 851 cases were reported from the GHMC area followed by 417 from Rangareddy, 384 from Medchal-Malkajigiri and 304 from Siddipet. Nirmal and Kumram Bheem-Asifabad districts reported the lowest of 26 cases each on Sunday followed by 29 in Mulugu, 33 in Medak, 34 each in Kamareddy and Jangaon, 38 in Narayanpet, 46 in Jayashankar-Bupalapally and 47 in Adilabad. In the remaining 20 districts, the positive cases reported on Sunday ranged between 56 (Warangal Rural) and 271 (Karimnagar). Based on the active cases, the Health Department has identified 112 localities in the State as micro-containment zones with a highest of 14 in Hyderabad, 13 in Asifabad and 10 each in Rangareddy, Siddipet and Warangal Urban. In another 17 districts, the containment zones to limit the spread are in the single-digits and there are no such zones in the remaining 11 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-positive-cases-slip-below-5000-as-tests-come-down-in-telangana/article34523824.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||92 deaths and 22,164 new cases in State||The State reported 92 COVID-19 deaths and 22,164 new infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 12,87,603 and the toll to 8,707. In the last one week, the State reported 571 deaths and 1.23 lakh infections. The number of recoveries reached 10,88,264 with 18,832 patients recovering in the last one day. The recovery rate remained at 84.52%. The daily positivity rate again crossed 20% as 21.01% of the 1,05,494 samples tested turned positive. The overall positivity rate of the 1.73 crore samples tested so far was 7.41%. Three districts reported deaths in two digits – Guntur (12), Vizianagaram (11) and Visakhapatnam (10). They were followed by East Godavari (9), Anantapur (8), West Godavari (8), Nellore (7), Prakasam (6), Kurnool (6), Chittoor (5), Srikakulam (5) and Krishna (5). There were no fatalities in Kadapa. East Godavari reported the highest single-day tally of 2,844 infections in 24 hours. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (2,206), Chittoor (2,169), Guntur (2,099), Anantapur (2,039), West Godavari (1,748), Nellore (1,574), Kurnool (1,568), Srikakulam (1,432), Kadapa (1,267), Krishna (1,240), Vizianagaram (998) and Prakasam (980). The district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,63,193), Chittoor (1,39,937), Guntur (1,20,522), West Godavari (1,10,388), Anantapur (98,777), Visakhapatnam (97,819), Nellore (92,897), Kurnool (92,698), Srikakulam (85,356), Prakasam (82,968), Kadapa (71,914), Krishna (69,958) and Vizianagaram (58,281).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/92-deaths-and-22164-new-cases-in-state/article34523419.ece
10 May 2021||KURNOOL,||‘Kala jathas’ catering to emotional well-being of patients||Many psychoneuroimmunology experts believe that positive emotions can override the biological effects of adversity and improve immunity to fight any kind of disease, and an experiment at the Kurnool APTIDCO COVID Care Centre (CCC) has given excellent results. District Collector G. Veerapandian has come up with the idea of organising ‘kala jathas’ by engaging a group of PPE kit-clad artistes to cheer up the COVID-19 patients at the COVID Care Centres in the evenings. And the results are encouraging with one patient, after his discharge, writing a feedback in the social media about the positive impact of the initiative of the district administration. ‘Kala jathas’ are being organised at the CCCs at Adoni, Yemmiganur, and Nandyal as well. As soon as the artistes arrive, the patients gather to enjoy their performance. The artistes lace the songs with the mandatory awareness messages on COVID-19 such as ways of protecting oneself and what should be the diet after being discharged so that the nutrition requirements are taken care of. The patient, identified as Sunny, has likened the COIVD Care Centre to nothing less than a five-star hotel. He has even posted photographs of the games played, the hygienic conditions, and the performance of the ‘kala jatha’ artistes. “A regular visit by the doctors and their immediate response in case of necessity is being liked by many. The quality food being served three times a day has won the hearts of the patients,” he points out. The District Collector has thanked the officers for taking care of the patients with dedication. The positive feedback vouches for it, he opines. The administration has kept aside Rs. 4.5 lakh for organising the ‘kala jathas’, and the artistes have been given advance. The District Tourism Officer has been made in-charge of promoting these activities, which help the patients engage themselves in singing, playing games, an doing yoga or exercises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kala-jathas-catering-to-emotional-well-being-of-patients/article34523421.ece
10 May 2021||MANGALURU,||Police lathi-charge customers to prevent crowding||With the Dakshina Kannada district administration ordering closure of all vegetable and fruit shops except HOPCOMS outlets during the weekend curfew, the police resorted to lathi-charge customers at a few HOPCOMS outlets in the city to prevent crowding. A gentleman who escaped from falling victim to lathicharge by a whisker said that he was at the Urva Store outlet to buy fruits for his co-brother’s family whose members had tested positive to COVID-19. “I was not there for fun,” he said and added that with just a three-hour window to purchase essentials and with all other shops ordered to be closed, crowding naturally would happen at HOPCOMS, he said. Added to his woes, the HOPCOMS outlet charged him Rs. 1,400 for a kg each of Sapota, pomegranate, butter fruit and a water melon and did not issue a bill. “I had no time to argue with the outlet operator with lathi-wielding policemen around,” he said. It was nothing but daylight robbery by a government-supported cooperative society, the gentleman, who did not wish to be identified, said. The district administration on Thursday decided to reduce the window for purchasing essentials by an hour to 9 a.m. It also decided to impose a complete lockdown during the weekend allowing only HOPCOMS outlets, milk booths and healthcare facilities, including pharmacies, to remain open. The weekend lockdown thus commenced at 9 a.m. on Friday to end at 6 a.m. on Monday. Meanwhile, on Sunday, city roads became completely deserted even before 9 a.m. as HOPCOMS outlets and milk booths were ordered to be closed by the police personnel. Since it was Sunday, many people working for essential services that were allowed to function too were not seen travelling in their private vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-lathi-charge-customers-to-prevent-crowding/article34523567.ece
10 May 2021||Bengauru,||E-commerce deliveries of only essentials to be allowed||The State government on Sunday said that e-commerce deliveries will be restricted only to essential items during the lockdown period that kicks in from Monday. The government issued a clarification to this effect on Sunday. Several retailers dealing with non essentials had complained that it was not a level-playing field if e-commerce operators alone were being allowed delivery of non essentials, while their operations were shut. For vaccination The addendum further said that the movement of patients and their attendants will not be restricted, besides those travelling for their vaccination. They will be allowed with minimal documents, said the order. The clarification on the lockdown order also said that banks and insurance companies would be functioning with only 50% staff members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-commerce-deliveries-of-only-essentials-to-be-allowed/article34523460.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Free rice for white card holders for two months||The State government will issue 5 kgs of free rice per month to each person in white ration card families for two months. This was decided at a meeting of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with senior officials while discussing the COVID situation in the State on Sunday. The meeting also decided to extend the facility of Rs. 2,000 and 25 kg of rice per month for 1.20 lakh private teachers in the State to another 80,000 private teachers, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-rice-for-white-card-holders-for-two-months/article34523830.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Rs. 310 crore for new oxygen plants, tankers||In order to overcome the severe shortage of medical oxygen and the problems in transporting it to hospitals amid the COVID-19 crisis, the Andhra Pradesh government on Sunday accorded an administrative sanction of about Rs. 310 crore to augment the required infrastructure. According to government order (G.O.) Rt. No.214 issued by Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Anil Kumar Singhal, the funds would be spent on the procurement of 50 cryogenic oxygen tanker vehicles, setting up oxygen generation plants at 49 locations, laying 10,000 additional oxygen pipelines and on manpower and material required to undertake repairs to oxygen pipelines for six months. It was stated in the G.O. that the MD of A.P. Medical Services & Infrastructure Development Corporation had submitted a report to the government on the need for oxygen plants and other facilities prompted by the second wave of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-sanctions-rs-310-cr-for-oxygen-plants-tankers/article34523394.ece
10 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Excessive use of oxygen in U.P. hospitals’||Some hospitals in Uttar Pradesh are consuming oxygen at levels several times higher than the average, the State government said on Sunday based on the preliminary report of an oxygen audit conducted by it. Taking note of it, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed the Health and Medical Education departments to coordinate with such hospitals and take action to ‘balance’ the consumption. The government’s observation comes as hospitals and legislators of the ruling BJP are reporting a shortage of medical oxygen in the State. In the past 24 hours, 950 metric tonnes of oxygen was supplied and distributed in the State, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/excessive-use-of-oxygen-in-up-hospitals/article34523424.ece
10 May 2021||Kolkata,||TMC, Governor spar over ‘prosecution of ex-Ministers’||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said that he has accorded sanction to a Central investigating agency for prosecuting a few former ministers as he was their appointing authority. “Governor accorded sanction for prosecution of Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra & Sovan Chatterjee, being appointing authority of Ministers @MamataOfficial under Article 164 & thus competent authority. Media reports that sanction was for being MLA is incorrect,” Mr. Dhankhar said in a tweet, sharing a detailed press statement issued by the Raj Bhavan. The matter pertains to the Narada sting videos which is being probed by the CBI. The tapes had come to the fore in 2016 where several Ministers and leaders of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) were purportedly seen accepting cash on camera. TMC leader Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the sanction should have come from the Speaker. “We believe that the sanction to a Central investigation agency should come from the Speaker as the leaders were MLAs. However, this is a matter of law and the courts can deal with it,” the party spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-governor-spar-over-prosecution-of-ex-ministers/article34523601.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Bedi is new Chennai Corporation Commissioner||Gagandeep Singh Bedi, a senior IAS officer in the rank of Principal Secretary with many years of experience in disaster management, has been posted as the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation, replacing G. Prakash. Mr. Bedi, who took charge on Sunday, will conduct an inspection of fever surveillance in areas like Kodambakkam on Monday. Mr. Bedi, of the 1993 batch of the IAS, was formerly Agricultural Production Commissioner and Principal Secretary, Department of Agriculture. He has a degree in engineering. He has vast experience in the implementation of agriculture, urban and rural development and water supply projects. While working as the Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Madurai from 1999 to 2001, he completed the ring road project, the second phase of underground sewerage, over-bridges and parks. He also served as the Collector of Kanniyakumari and Cuddalore from 2001 to 2007. His role in handling the aftermath of the 2004 tsunami brought accolades not only from the Indian government but also UN agencies and the World Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bedi-is-new-chennai-corporation-commissioner/article34523499.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Distress signal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/distress-signal/article34523563.ece
10 May 2021||Mumbai,||‘Talks soon on alliance of Oppn. parties’||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said talks for the formation of an alliance of Opposition parties at the national level will start soon. He said he discussed the issue with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar. “There is a need to have a strong alliance of Opposition parties. But there can’t be an alliance without the Congress. It will be the soul. Leadership can be decided through consultations,” Mr. Raut said. “The Maha Vikas Aghadi in Maharashtra was formed after three ideologically different parties [the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress] came together and the leadership was unanimously given to Uddhav Thackeray. This is an ideal alliance, which is working fine,” he said. The Congress has done well in Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the recent Assembly elections. But it did not win a single seat in West Bengal and this is not good. The party needs to be strengthened further. It is a pan-India party, whether in government or in opposition, Mr. Raut said. “I discussed these issues with NCP president Sharad Pawar, but since he is indisposed, he is in Mumbai. Talks of forming an alliance of Opposition parties will start in a few days,” the Rajya Sabha MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/talks-soon-on-alliance-of-oppn-parties/article34523877.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State gets Rs. 1,898.18 cr. as Central grant||Kerala has received Rs. 1,657.58 crore from the Rs. 9,871 crore released to 17 States as post-devolution revenue deficit (PDRD) grant and another Rs. 240.6 crore from the Rs. 8,923.8 crore untied grants released by the Department of Expenditure, Union Ministry of Finance. The Rs. 1,657.58 crore is the second monthly instalment of PDRD grant. Kerala has so far got Rs. 3,315.16 crore in 2021-2022. The grants are released as per the recommendations of the Finance Commission in monthly instalments to meet the gap in revenue accounts of the States post-devolution. The 15th Finance Commission has recommended a total PDRD grant of Rs. 1,18,452 crore to 17 States in 2021-22. The Rs. 8,923.8 crore is the first instalment of the untied grants for 2021-22 released to 25 States by the Finance Ministry for all three tiers of Panchayati Raj institutions – village, block, and district. The rural local bodies can utilise the grants, among other things, for prevention and mitigation measures against the COVID-19 pandemic. The first instalment of untied grants had been released waiving certain conditions put forward by the 15th Finance Commission, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-gets-rs-189818-cr-as-central-grant/article34523625.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||50K doctors to be appointed for COVID duty||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has sanctioned appointment of about 50,000 MBBS degree holders for COVID duties on ad hoc basis to bring down pressure on health staff in the midst of a raging second wave of the pandemic. Mr. Rao also urged qualified nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians and para medics to come forth to render service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50k-doctors-to-be-appointed-for-covid-duty/article34523829.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||13 infected inmates escape from Rewari jail||Thirteen prisoners escaped from a jail in Haryana’s Rewari, a dedicated facility for COVID-positive inmates, officials said on Sunday. Four police teams have been formed to trace the prisoners. Rewari Police is also coordinating with police departments of neighbouring districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13-infected-inmates-escape-from-rewari-jail/article34523558.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Stricter lockdown in Karnataka from today||In the wake of a vicious second wave of COVID-19, the State enters a stricter two-week lockdown from Monday, which will be in force till May 24. However, the Bengaluru city police began implementing the rules on Sunday itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stricter-lockdown-in-karnataka-from-today/article34523462.ece
10 May 2021||Mangaluru,||Ash gourd farmer gets help from Australia||Sunil Shetty from Balkunje village in Dakshina Kannada is among the few farmers who has got help from afar to ensure that his entire lot of ash gourd crop did not go a waste. A Good Samaritan from Australia saved him from financial distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ash-gourd-farmer-gets-help-from-australia/article34523464.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Plaints of overcharging by some hospitals emerge||As some private hospitals in Karnataka have started vaccination for citizens in the age group of 18 to 44, allegations have been made that some of them are charging above the price fixed by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plaints-of-overcharging-by-some-hospitals-emerge/article34523463.ece
10 May 2021||Kolkata,||19,436 new COVID-19 cases in West Bengal||West Bengal on Sunday registered a record 19,436 new cases of COVID-19 infections, while the number of samples tested in the past 24 hours was 63,095. There has been a rise in the number of cases and deaths since the second wave of COVID-19 hit the State, which has recently witnessed a high-pitched election. Over the past few days, the State has recorded more than 100 deaths due to the viral infection, and on Sunday the number of COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours was 124. Even as a significant number of samples are testing positive, the State government’s official health bulletin said the rate was 9.05%. Manas Gumta, general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors, said that positive cases should be between 30-35%. There are reports of home collection of samples being unavailable in Kolkata, and the results of tests taking three to four days to arrive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/19436-new-covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal/article34523603.ece
10 May 2021||new delhi,||Actor Rahul Vohra dies of COVID complications||Actor-YouTuber Rahul Vohra died on Sunday at a hospital here due to COVID-19 complications, theatre director-playwright Arvind Gaur confirmed. On Saturday, Mr. Vohra, in a Facebook post, had tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and asked for better treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/actor-rahul-vohra-dies-of-covid-complications/article34523561.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi sees lowest daily cases in nearly a month||Delhi recorded 13,336 new COVID-19 cases in a 24-hour period — the lowest since April 12, said a health bulletin released on Sunday. Relatively fewer tests, 61,552, were conducted during the same period. A total of 273 people also succumbed to the virus in a single day, which is the lowest since April 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-sees-lowest-daily-cases-in-nearly-a-month/article34523560.ece
10 May 2021||BELAGAVI,||Oxygen supply to be streamlined shortly||Oxygen supply system in the State will be streamlined in three-four days as the Union government has agreed to increase allotment, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Sunday. He was speaking to officers in Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oxygen-supply-to-be-streamlined-shortly/article34523570.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Ensure optimum use of oxygen, officials told||The Cabinet, led by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, advised officials to ensure that government and private hospitals used medical oxygen effectively, without wastage. Mr. Stalin advised the authorities to spread awareness on the benefits of COVID-19 vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-optimum-use-of-oxygen-officials-told/article34523498.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,||28,897 fresh cases, 236 fatalities in T.N.||On Sunday, 28,897 people tested positive for COVID-19, taking Tamil Nadu’s tally to 13,80,259. The State recorded 236 deaths — 47 of them had no co-morbidities — pushing the toll to 15,648. Chennai recorded 7,130 fresh cases and 56 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/28897-fresh-cases-236-fatalities-in-tn/article34523501.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Darez Ahamed to head COVID-19 war room||The State government has named six nodal officers for the COVID-19 war room. Darez Ahamed, executive director, Guidance, will head the team. K. Nanthakumar, secretary, TNPSC, will be the nodal officer for oxygen monitoring and emergency response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/darez-ahamed-to-head-covid-19-war-room/article34523502.ece
10 May 2021||Mumbai,||CM: role of private doctors crucial in COVID-19 battle||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday stressed the role of private doctors, especially family physicians, in the fight against COVID-19, saying they could help in early diagnosis of the infection in their patients and facilitate timely treatment for them. Mr. Thackeray appealed to them to join hands with the State administration to curb the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-role-of-private-doctors-crucial-in-covid-19-battle/article34523878.ece
10 May 2021||Mumbai,||BMC denies suppressing COVID-19 deaths||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Sunday said it was recording the number of COVID-19 deaths as per the protocol laid down by the WHO and ICMR and denied allegations of fudging the data, a day after BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis accused it of under-reporting fatalities and "manipulating" the infection rate in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmc-denies-suppressing-covid-19-deaths/article34523879.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘COVID waves inevitable without proper protocol’||Recurring waves of coronavirus infections are inevitable if existing practices such as expanding India’s vaccination drive and following COVID protocol are not adhered to, say experts. Earlier last week, Principal Scientific Advisor K. VijayRaghavan said, “A phase three is inevitable, given the higher levels of circulating virus.” “There is, however, no clear time-line on when this third phase will occur. We should be prepared for new waves and COVID appropriate behaviour and vaccine upgrades are the way forward,” he added. On Friday, however, he qualified his statement saying that such a wave was not a foregone conclusion. “If we take strong measures, the third COVID wave may not happen in all the places or indeed anywhere,” Dr. Vijay Raghavan said. After cases peaked and registered a steady decline since September and well into early March, life in India had gone back to normal with the inevitable crowds. While multiple serology surveys by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had suggested that at most 21% of India had been exposed to the coronavirus, the subsequent decisions to have a staggered vaccine rollout that would cover only the most at-risk populations and to be entirely dependent on locally produced vaccines reflected the government's calculation that a devastating second wave was unlikely. ‘Unprepared’ “I am angry,” said Samiran Panda, who heads ICMR’s epidemiology division. “Not counting healthcare workers, effectively 75% of the country continued to be vulnerable in January. Social distancing, infrequent mask use and vaccine hesitancy have all played a role. I wouldn’t hesitate to say that a third and fourth wave is inevitable if these conditions continue.” Unlike in January and February when the limited vaccine rollout was yet to accelerate, there is currently a shortage in vaccine supply, with less than 2 million doses being administered a day, and supplies of both Covishield and Covaxin unlikely to significantly pick up before July. Dr. Panda adds that vaccines ought to be preventive and be administered before infections ravage a community and not after. “In future, we should consider a cut-off, say a 10% test positivity, and through a smart combination vaccinate people in districts with low infection spread as well as high spread. That is the essential lesson from our previous experience with HIV epidemic.” Test positivity refers to the number of samples that test positive for the coronavirus and a percentage above 15% indicates high prevalence of the infection in a community. Policy response The Lancet Commission Task Force, which has a range of public health and policy experts spanning the State universities and even those with the ICMR, has in two reports, in April and May, pointed out that there was no unique policy response to rein in the pandemic. The group presented a “checklist” that highlights a range of actions needed for different places with varying disease burden. These include “credible and regular projections” of the trajectory of the pandemic that would help policy makers to evaluate the relative success of different approaches, putting in place a system to share anonymised microdata with a larger pool of researchers to understand more nuanced trends of hospitalizations, disease severity, long COVID-19 characteristics. This would help to better prepare the health system and the administration with the consequences of the surge and, ramping up genome sequencing to 5% of all tests on a monthly basis and ensure that the data on variants of concern (VoCs) from genomic surveillance was shared across to the districts. Gautam Menon, modeller and Professor, Ashoka University said he believed a “third wave” was not inevitable. “Hopefully, the powerful lessons of what is happening now will not be forgotten in a hurry. Social factors, more than even the biology of the virus, govern how epidemics proceed. Provided we can reconfigure our lives so that physical distancing, mask wearing, working from home where possible, reducing crowding in public places and paying careful attention to ventilation becomes a part of our daily life, we can be spared another wave. To do this until a substantial proportion of our population can be vaccinated, that is what should be our priority,” he told The Hindu . In the long run, dominant strains of the coronavirus would tend to be more transmissible and less virulent but when that would happen couldn't be calculated at present. Shahid Jameel, virologist and advisor to the Indian Scientists SARS-COV2 Genome Consortium, however, said waves would keep happening until actions were taken. “We know some variants are more transmissible. We should be testing the India variants against vaccines, in labs and in real world settings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-waves-inevitable-without-proper-protocol/article34523349.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Green panel allows Great Nicobar plan to advance||The Environment Appraisal Committee (EAC) - Infrastructure I of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) has flagged serious concerns about NITI Aayog’s ambitious project for Great Nicobar Island (‘NITI Aayog vision for Great Nicobar ignores tribal, ecological concerns’, The Hindu , March 21, 2021). The committee has, however, removed the first hurdle faced by the project. It has “recommended” it “for grant of terms of reference (TOR)” for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) studies, which in the first instance will include baseline studies over three months. Documents uploaded recently on the MoEFCC’s Parivesh portal show that the 15-member committee headed by marine biologist and former director, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), Deepak Apte, made the decision following two meetings held on March 17 and 18 and April 5 and 6. The EAC was responding to the 126 page ‘pre-feasibility’ report, ‘Holistic Development of Great Nicobar Island at Andaman and Nicobar Islands’, prepared for the NITI Aayog by the Gurugram-based consulting agency Aecom India Private Limited. The proposal includes an international container transshipment terminal, a greenfield international airport, a power plant and a township complex spread over 166 sq. km. (mainly pristine coastal systems and tropical forests), and is estimated to cost Rs. 75,000 crore. Concerns on site The committee’s concerns were both procedural and substantive. A discussion on the proposal in the March meeting was deferred because of delayed and incomplete submission of documents. The missing information included the minutes of the meeting note, details of the township to be developed over 149 sq. km., a note on seismic and tsunami hazards, freshwater requirement details (6.5 lakh people are envisaged to finally inhabit the island when the present population is only 8,500; the current total population of the entire island chain is less than 4.5 lakh), and details of the impact on the Giant Leatherback turtle. The committee also noted that there were no details of the trees to be felled — a number that could run into millions since 130 sq. km. of the project area has some of the finest tropical forests in India. A point-wise response to concerns was submitted by the project proponent, the Andaman and Nicobar Island Integrated Development Corporation (ANIIDCO), on April 5, the very day the committee convened for its next meeting. Yet, the proposal was taken up for consideration and even recommended for grant of ToR to go ahead. This, despite the fact that the committee raised a number of additional issues, including about Galathea Bay, the site of the port and the centrepiece of the NITI Aayog proposal. Galathea Bay is an iconic nesting site in India of the enigmatic Giant Leatherback, the world’s largest marine turtle — borne out by surveys done over three decades by the island’s Forest Department and research agencies like the Andaman and Nicobar Environment Team, Dakshin Foundation and the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) (‘Leatherback nesting sites could be overrun by Andamans projects’, The Hindu , February 15, 2021). The committee noted that the site selection for the port had been done mainly on technical and financial criteria, ignoring the environmental aspects. It has now asked for “an independent study/ evaluation for the suitability of the proposed port site with specific focus on Leatherback Turtle, Nicobar Magapod (sic) and Dugong”. Action points This, in fact, is only one of over a 100 specific points of action listed out by the committee. They include, among others, the need for an independent assessment of terrestrial and marine biodiversity, a study on the impact of dredging, reclamation and port operations, including oil spills (to be carried out by nationally recognised institutions such as the Wildlife Institute of India, IISc or the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History), the need for studies of alternative sites for the port with a focus on environmental and ecological impact, especially on turtles, analysis of risk-handling capabilities, a seismic and tsunami hazard map, a disaster management plan, details of labour, labour camps and their requirements, an assessment of the cumulative impact, and a hydro-geological study to assess impact on round and surface water regimes. Corporate policy The committee has also asked for details of the corporate environment policy of the implementing agency — whether the company has an environment policy, a prescribed standard operating procedure to deal with environmental and forest violations, and a compliance management system. ANIIDCO, the Port Blair project proponent, is a government undertaking involved in activities such as tourism, trading (iron and steel, milk, petroleum products, and liquor) and infrastructure development for tourism and fisheries. Its annual turnover for 2018-19 was Rs. 379 crore, and handling a mega infrastructure project estimated to cost Rs. 75,000 crore appears way beyond its capacity. AECOM’s pre-feasibility report has proposed 2022-23 for the commencement of work on the site. “How is that possible,” asks an island expert, requesting anonymity. “One year is simply not enough if the government and project proponents follow the EAC’s recommendations in letter and spirit. And how can extensive baseline studies be carried out in just three months?” Ecological surveys in the last few years have reported a number of new species, many restricted to just the Galathea region. These include the critically endangered Nicobar shrew, the Great Nicobar crake, the Nicobar frog, the Nicobar cat snake, a new skink (Lipinia sp), a new lizard (Dibamus sp,) and a snake of the Lycodon sp that is yet to be described. “None of these are even mentioned in AECOM’s pre-feasibility report or the EAC’s observations,” he notes. “We don’t even fully know what exists here, leave alone understanding the many fragile inter-linkages of the Great Nicobar’s complex systems.” Pankaj Sekhsaria has been researching issues of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands for over two decades. He is also the author of five books on the islands||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/green-panel-allows-great-nicobar-plan-to-advance/article34523364.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Hakki-Pikki tribal wins a battle||Life has never been easy for Vatsala from the Hakki-Pikki community, a resident of Angadihalli in Hassan district of south Karnataka, but last month it became worse after she contracted COVID-19. Like many people of the tribal community, the 35-year-old mother of four earns a living by selling mani-sara (necklaces) and drishti bombe (dolls), travelling from one town to another. Along with her husband Somu, she had been to Mangaluru to sell the knick-knacks. After she returned, Ms. Vatsala felt tired and had high fever. She visited the primary health centre at Hagare, a neighbouring village, where she tested positive for COVID-19, and was later admitted to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. She was under treatment for about a week and was advised isolation later. But isolation is next to impossible for Ms. Vatsala, and many like her in the community who live in makeshift houses with corrugated sheets for walls, not having secured land for cultivation despite decades for struggle. Most members do not have pucca houses. So Ms. Vatsala’s husband, with the help of relatives, erected a tent near the house. “Of course, we don’t have rooms for isolation. The tent with a roof covered with plastic sheets was ready by the time she returned to the village,” said Kanchana, Ms. Vatsala’s relative. Ms. Vatsala stayed in the tent for about 15 days, avoiding contact with her family members, who brought her food regularly. She returned home last week. But now her husband and two children have developed symptoms and they have moved to the tent, while she stays in the house with the other children. “I am taking care of them [those ailing now] by supplying food and ensuring that they get medicine regularly. I have no doubt all will recover soon,” said a confident Ms. Vatsala. Livelihood woes But she worries about how the lockdown will impact her and many like her. With restrictions on movement, they have lost their source of income. “The government has not bothered to provide us land, despite our repeated demands. Whenever lockdown is imposed, we struggle hard to fulfil our basic needs,” said village elder Hooraja, who represented the community at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi in 2020.  I am taking care of them... I have no doubt all will recover soon Vatsala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hakki-pikki-tribal-wins-a-battle/article34523372.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sarma, the man who put out many fires for BJP in Assam||Himanta Biswa Sarma was elected the leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Legislature Party in Assam, making him the Chief Minister-designate of the State, six years after he quit the Congress and joined the BJP. For 52-year-old Mr. Sarma, it is the culmination of a career famous for pulling off victories with political deftness, and assuming the top position after being the go-to man that kept the governments of the late Tarun Gogoi and his immediate successor Sarbananda Sonowal going. The replacement of Mr. Sonowal with Mr. Sarma is the recognition of the fact that the latter has not only put out many fires for the BJP in Assam, like the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), but also his role as the Health and Finance Minister in Assam in managing the COVID-19 pandemic. A Ph.D. from Gauhati University, Mr. Sarma is a lawyer by training and was active in student politics as general secretary (for three terms) at Cotton College and with the All Assam Students’ Union. He joined the Congress in the 1990s and became an MLA from the Jalukbari constituency, defeating Asom Gana Parishad’s Bhrigu Phukan in 2001. Since then, he has represented Jalukbari on behalf of the Congress till 2016 and from 2016 to the present on BJP ticket. He became Minister in the Congress-led State governments and also rose to the position of the ‘action man’ of the Tarun Gogoi government. Much of the credit for the 2011 Congress victory in the State is laid at his door. Mr. Gogoi and Mr. Sarma came at odds with each other over the former’s plans to promote his son, Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi, in politics, while Mr. Sarma had earmarked the position of successor for himself. The differences became too big and the Congress high command was either unwilling or unable to sort it out. In either case, Mr. Sarma jumped ship and joined the BJP, despite the party’s own attack on Mr. Sarma a few months before this on the issue of a CBI inquiry against him in the Louis Berger case. Mr. Sarma, however, with his mastery over the Congress’ electoral machinery and his considerable political acumen, helped the BJP expand not just in Assam, but also in the rest of the northeast as the convener of NEDA. His timely action in ending the NDA alliance with the Bodoland People’s Front and allying instead with the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), another Bodo outfit, netted the alliance eight of the nine seats the party fought in the 126-seat Assembly, an important addition to the NDA kitty. His grouse at being number-two in the State remained through Mr. Sonowal’s tenure, and the BJP leadership was aware of the fact. Uncharacteristically for the BJP, the party refused to endorse the face of the sitting Chief Minister Mr. Sonowal, declaring instead that the polls would be fought on the question of collective leadership. Mr. Sarma, who enjoys the confidence of Home Minister Amit Shah, got the endorsement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi too, despite his fondness for Mr. Sonowal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sarma-the-man-who-put-out-many-fires-for-bjp-in-assam/article34523362.ece
10 May 2021||Kannar/Kottayam/Kochi,||A long struggle with unforgiving virus||Last year, during the COVID-19 outbreak in Kerala, 83-year-old P.O. Shamsudeen, resident of Pattayam panchayat in Kannur district, was quickly moved to hospital after he tested positive for the infection. The octogenarian contracted the virus from his grandchildren who had returned from Dubai. Besides his age, what bothered the family and the hospital authorities was that he had already undergone two open-heart surgeries and had been operated upon for prostate. There was total panic in the family, as not just him, but 10 others were also affected by the illness. Mr. Shamsudeen said the term ‘COVID-19’ was still new then. He recalled that he had to stay in the ICU for 47 days before being declared out of danger. “I could survive the virus due to the care and attention given by the State and the hospital authorities at the Kannur Medical College hospital,” he said. “The suffering and trauma that the disease brings can severely affect the patients and family members. Hence people should act responsibly and follow COVID-19 protocols strictly.” Today, Mr. Shamsudeen is busy creating awareness about the disease through social media and by talking to people, especially migrant workers. The infection, however, left Thankamma G., an 88-year-old woman from Vazhappally in Kottayam, physically and mentally drained. She suffered from fever, body pain, shortness of breath and loss of smell and taste. Safely back home after treatment at the General hospital in Changanassery, her health has still not returned to normal. ‘A nightmare’ “It was like a nightmare with your eyes wide open as I was unable to take food for nearly four days . I eventually fell unconscious and was given glucose infusion for the next three days,” she recalled. But even as she has come to terms with the enormity of the crisis she faced, Ms. Thankamma is now witnessing the suffering of her family members who are also on the road to recovery from the infection. T.S. Yohannan, a 72-year-old farmer from Kandanad, near Kochi, was already battling cancer, when COVID-19 struck him this year. He won the battle and regained his health, but his wife has now tested positive for the disease. “Both of us are now at home, my wife under quarantine. I feel the disease can be avoided if one adheres to the protocol, sticks to hygiene, eats good food and adopts a healthy lifestyle, while being confined home.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-long-struggle-with-unforgiving-virus/article34523374.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Coming back from the jaws of death||It was nothing short of a miracle for Krupa Swaroopa Rani, 57, District Welfare Officer, Women Development and Child Welfare Department, Telangana Government, to return from the jaws of death after fighting COVID-19 for almost a month in a corporate hospital in Secunderabad. It was battle for survival for this gutsy official, who triumphed at the end. A family gathering in January is said to be the source of her infection. For Ms. Swaroopa’s son Joseph Rohith Wood, 29, an analyst with an MNC in Hyderabad, it was a repeat of yet another episode of trauma, after his father passed away three years ago. With little improvement, Ms. Swaroopa was rushed to the hospital where an HRTCT Scan revealed severe lung infection. On the third day of admission, her condition worsened with a sharp decline in her saturation levels. “Her BP and sugar levels fell alarmingly, prompting the doctors to wheel her into the COVID-19 ICU to revive her,” Mr. Rohith said. “It all started off with a mild fever and cough. Suddenly, one night, her saturation levels fell below 90 and I used a nebuliser to bring back the saturation level to normal.” More trouble was in store for the son, who himself had mild COVID-19. Doctors asked to arrange for a plasma donor. “Finding a plasma donor for my mother’s blood group, Bombay Blood Group, a rare phenotype blood group found in four per million of the world population, was a Herculean task. After two days, we gave up the efforts ,” he said. With Ms. Swaroopa’s condition causing concern, she was put on a ventilator. “My heartbeat slipped for a second when the doctors told us to be prepared for any eventuality,” he said. “My sister Rachel Pranitha Wood, who works for a global pharma company in Ohio, U.S. rushed back to Hyderabad,” he said. For almost a month the brother-sister duo took turns to take care of their mother. “On February 9, my mother was discharged from the hospital after spending one month in hospital with 15 days alone in ICU. Today is May 9 and almost three months after the discharge, she is still struggling to be normal. The family ran a bill of Rs. 11.5 lakh for the treatment,” Ms. Rachel said. “A lesson that I learned is not to neglect any ailment. Early diagnosis and proper healthcare with willpower will ensure you can come out unscathed” Ms. Swaroopa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coming-back-from-the-jaws-of-death/article34523378.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Nirmala lists tax waiver on relief goods||She tweeted: “Also to Medical Oxygen, equipment used for the manufacture, storage and transportation of oxygen, equipment used for providing oxygen therapy to COVID patients such as Oxygen Concentrators, Ventilators, Non-invasive oxygen masks etc. “Also to Inflammatory diagnostic kits and reagents for COVID testing and COVID vaccines,” she added. Ms. Sitharaman tweeted, “This exemption applies to all above mentioned goods when imported free of cost for free distribution in the country by any entity, State government, relief agency or autonomous body on the basis of a certificate issued by a State government. In order to augment the availability of these items, Government has also provided full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess to their commercial imports.” Ms. Sitharaman tweeted “GST at rates varying from 5% (on vaccines), 12% (COVID drugs, oxygen concentrators) is applicable to domestic supplies and commercial import of these items. “If IGST Rs. 100 is collected on an item, Rs. 50 accrues to the Centre and the States each as CGST and SGST respectively. Further 41% of the CGST revenue is devolved to States. So out of a collection of Rs. 100, as much as Rs. 70.50 is the States’ share.” The Union Finance Minister further tweeted “If full exemption from GST were given, the domestic producers of these items would be unable to offset taxes paid on their inputs and input services and would pass these on to the end consumers by increasing their price. “COVID vaccines are being provided free of cost by the GoI to those who are 45 years of age & above and to all frontline workers. On Government supplies, GST is also paid by the Government.” Ms. Sitharaman responded: “From the GST collected on vaccine, half is earned by the Centre and the other half by the States. Further, 41% of Centre’s collections also get devolved to the States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nirmala-lists-tax-waiver-on-relief-goods/article34523604.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||Nirmala lists tax waiver on relief goods||In response to a letter written by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman listed out tax waiver for COVID-19 relief goods, via her Twitter handle, on Sunday. Ms. Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider exempting organisations, agencies and individuals supplying equipment and drugs related to the management of the COVID-19 pandemic from customs duty and other Central taxes. Ms. Sitharaman tweeted, “A list of items for COVID relief granted exemption from IGST for imports was issued on May 3, 2021. These were given exemption from Customs Duty/health cess even earlier. Hon. CM @MamataOfficial, may notice that items in your list are covered.” The Union Finance Minister said, “Full exemption from Customs duties, including IGST, is already available to ALL COVID relief material (not confined to a list) imported by @IndianRedCross for free distribution in the country.” Ms. Sitharaman further tweeted, “With effect from 3 May, 2021, full exemption from all duties has been provided to Remdesivir injections, Remdesivir API, and for a chemical for the manufacture of this drug.” She tweeted, “Also to Medical Oxygen, equipment used for the manufacture, storage and transportation of oxygen, equipment used for providing oxygen therapy to COVID patients such as Oxygen Concentrators, Ventilators, Non-invasive oxygen masks etc. “Also to inflammatory diagnostic kits and reagents for COVID testing and vaccines,” she added. Ms. Sitharaman tweeted, “This exemption applies to all above mentioned goods when imported free of cost for free distribution in the country by any entity, State government, relief agency or autonomous body on the basis of a certificate issued by a State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nirmala-lists-tax-waiver-on-relief-goods/article34523344.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||China Red Cross sends oxygen concentrators, ventilators||A first batch of oxygen concentrators and ventilators donated by the Red Cross Society of China arrived on Sunday on a cargo flight from China. The consignment marks among the biggest donations of medical supplies so far from China, from where India has been purchasing a huge amount of supplies, including oxygen concentrators. “The first batch of 100 oxygen concentrators, 40 ventilators and other anti-epidemic supplies donated by the Red Cross Society of China (RCSC) arrived in India today by Chinese cargo flight from Chengdu, China,” Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong said on Sunday. “[The] RCSC also decided to provide $1 million in cash assistance to the Indian Red Cross Society through International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies to help India fight against COVID19,” he said. India has said it is open to receiving assistance from civil society organisations and private companies in China, some of which is being sent to the Indian Red Cross Society. China’s government has also offered official assistance, conveyed on April 30 in a letter from President Xi Jinping to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and in a phone call between the two Foreign Ministers on the same day. Much of the critical imports of medical supplies have been coming in from China with a surge in orders from Indian companies. Since April, orders for at least 40,000 oxygen concentrators have been placed by Indian companies, of which 21,000 have so far been delivered, along with more than 5,000 ventilators, 21 million face masks and 3,800 tons of medicines, according to official Chinese customs figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-red-cross-sends-oxygen-concentrators-ventilators/article34523346.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘FCRA amendments crippling our work’||The amendments to the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) enacted last year that among others made it compulsory for NGOs to open a bank account in Delhi has crippled the work of many organisations who are unable to receive foreign funds. Registered NGOs can receive foreign contribution for five purposes — social, educational, religious, economic and cultural. An FCRA registration is mandatory for NGOs to receive foreign funds. There are 22,591 FCRA registered NGOs. An NGO has now moved the Delhi High Court seeking exemption from the Union Home Ministry’s March 31 deadline to open an FCRA account with the SBI branch at Parliament Street here. The petitioner argued that it applied to open the account before the March 31 deadline but the administrative delays on the part of the bank and the Ministry severely restricted its activities including providing COVID-19 relief and paying of urgent salaries of staff and also affected its charitable and educational activities. The court in a hearing on May 7 issued notice to the Ministry. Abishek Jebaraj, the NGO’s lawyer, said there were many NGOs who were affected by this order and the new regulations were hampering charitable work during the pandemic. “There is also severe inconvenience involved in submitting copies of all the necessary papers and personal documents, such as Aadhaar card copies and the KYCs of trustees and other members of the NGO. The trustees and members live in different parts of the country, and getting documents together poses immense challenges due to COVID-19 restriction,” Mr. Jebaraj said. The NGOs continue to face problems even as the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on May 6 wrote to all States to involve NGOs, faith-based organisations, religious and social trusts at local level to handle the “unprecedented COVID-19 crisis”. The NDMA held a virtual meeting with 1,000 NGOs on May 5. NDMA member secretary Sanjeeva Kumar said in a letter to States that an NGO coordination centre shall should be set up at the local level and office and other logistics be provided by the State. The letter said the NGOs could offer their services in containment zones and other areas where curfew is imposed and special passes could be given to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fcra-amendments-crippling-our-work/article34523357.ece
10 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||‘It was just another hurdle’||Ramani Rao, 74, is no stranger to adversity, and the Visakhapatnam native treated the virus as just another hurdle that can be overcome with will power. “The day I was diagnosed positive with coronavirus, I was sure that I would defeat it and live to see another day with my family and friends. And here I am hale and hearty, after being hospitalised for over a week in April,” Ms. Rao said. “I was married to an officer who served in the ASC (Army Service Corps), hence half my life I spent in forward areas and have seen at least two wars,” said the doughty septugenarian and former teacher. “The year I was married, the war between India and Pakistan broke out on the western front in 1965, and my husband Col. Kona Arjun Rao, was posted somewhere on the Kashmir border. Being a young woman fresh out of college and newly married, I did not then fear any eventualities, nor do I now. And my advice to all is to be brave and face the challenge with courage. Many are losing out on the race due to lack of it,” Ms. Rao said. Just a week before she was diagnosed with COVID-19, she had fractured her left humerus. “Though COVID has come and gone, I am yet to recover from the fracture. But both coming together was like a double whammy. Moreover, the concern was that I was in the high risk group having diabetes and hypertension,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-was-just-another-hurdle/article34523379.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Back from the brink after 58 days||When Nagarajan tested positive for COVID-19 on October 31 last year, he was not worried. On his wife’s advice, the 54-year-old Chitlapakkam resident got hospitalised at a facility at OMR in Chennai. However, four days after admission, his oxygen levels fell below 90. A CT scan revealed lung damage. A couple of days later when the second scan revealed severe damage he was shifted to a private hospital in Nungambakkam. Mr. Nagarajan said he has been mildly hypertensive and on pills to control BP for over a decade. Within four days over 75% of his lung was damaged as the infection spread. He needed oxygen support and soon he became unconscious. He was put on ventilator and transferred to the intensive care unit. As his condition deteriorated his family was told to be prepared for any eventuality. “The most critical day was November 30,” his wife Latha recalled. By the first week of December the doctors had also put him on nasal feeding and a tracheostomy had been done. “The doctors told me to bring the children and talk to him to give him confidence,” Ms. Latha said. The tide began turning around the first week of December after which he was shifted from critical care unit to a step-down ward. When he recovered consciousness he was put on physiotherapy. On January 4, 58 days after he had been hospitalised, Mr. Nagarajan was discharged. He was advised rest at home to recuperate. Around 45 days ago he returned to work. “I was optimistic and always felt he would come back. His sickness and the subsequent hospitalisation made me realise how important a life partner is to a person,” Ms. Latha said.  (Names have been changed on request)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/back-from-the-brink-after-58-days/article34523376.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,||India reports 3.55 lakh new cases, 3,461 deaths||India recorded 3,55,174 new COVID-19 cases until 9.30 p.m. on Sunday. As many as 3,461 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 2,26,51,267 cases and 2,45,860 deaths. Maharashtra reported 48,401 infections, followed by Karnataka (47,930) and Kerala (35,801). Maharashtra also recorded 572 casualties, followed by Karnataka (490) and Uttar Pradesh (296). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 18.65 lakh tests were conducted on Saturday (the results for which were made available on Sunday). Daily tests have remained around the 18-lakh mark between May 6-8. As many as 30.22 crore samples have been tested in the country since the beginning of the pandemic. On both May 7 and 8, India recorded more than 4,000 COVID-19-related deaths. Prior to May 7, the daily recorded deaths in the country never crossed the 4,000 mark. With 2,42,399 cumulative deaths recorded until May 8, India’s death toll is the third highest in the world after that of the U.S. and Brazil. However, among the five countries with the highest recorded death toll, daily fatalities are rising constantly only in India. Only 20.23 lakh daily vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Sunday, which is about 3.49 lakh doses lesser than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is around 1.97 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the same period, one week ago. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-reports-355-lakh-new-cases-3461-deaths/article34523355.ece
10 May 2021||Chennai,||SRMIST and The Hindu host webinars on higher education, careers||The SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu , hosted two webinars yesterday as part of the SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021. In the first webinar on ‘Higher education in India post COVID-19’, Jitin Chadha, founder and director of the Indian School of Business and Finance (ISBF), explained that there were several ways to combat COVID-19-related challenges in education. This included “creating a community of learners where students work in teams for capstone projects and take ownership of their learning”. Yet another method is “assessments through hackathons where students can innovate and ideate in teams to tackle real-world problems”. Problem-solving skills Manoj P., registrar, Azim Premji University, emphasised the necessity for students to be problem-solvers. He also said that no matter what a student studied, problems can be solved only by interdisciplinary studies. K. Ramaswamy, director of faculty and academics, SRMIST, shed light on the multiple career options available to students and about the importance of opting for integrated programmes. “It is imperative to start promoting research, which is why UG [undergraduate] and PG [postgraduate] are integrated with research,” he said. The second session on ‘New-age career options after school’ discussed the multiple options available and the kind of skilling and upskilling required to remain relevant. Vinesh Menon, CEO, education, skilling and consulting services, Ampersand Group, spoke about how “technology requires constant upskilling, reskilling and updates”. He also encouraged students to work on communication skills so that they could communicate the available information “succinctly and capture audience interest”. Another piece of advice he offered was to “hone listening skills”. “Develop empathy in a society with several divides. Be flexible and learn to adapt to any situation that arises,” he said. Public health T.V. Gopal, dean-CET, SRMIST, spoke about the importance of public health as a career option. The focus, he said, was not on treating people but on ensuring conditions for them to be healthy. He also listed several other lucrative careers, such as biomedical and automobile engineering, and explained that jobs of tomorrow required interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary knowledge, and that students ought to possess complex problem-solving abilities, the ability to accept failure, and develop people skills in order to succeed. Richa Dwivedi Saklani, founder-CEO Inomi Learning LLP, pointed out that “while AI and Robotics have replaced jobs, many others are being created”. Blockchain, law, finance, climate change are all impacting today’s world, and emerging career options in these fields are influencing students’ choices, she said. Both sessions concluded with a Q&A session, in which the speakers fielded questions from audience members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srmist-and-the-hindu-host-webinars-on-higher-education-careers/article34523359.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Himanta to take over as Assam’s 15th CM||Mr. Sonowal had on Friday said he has no immediate plans to move to the Centre and would be happy to serve his constituency Majuli as an MLA. Dr. Sarma said Mr. Sonowal’s “spotless tenure” was a factor in the first non-Congress government managing to retain power in Assam. He also credited the electoral victory to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for the northeast. “Mr. Sonowal was our leader and he will remain so. We will march ahead by following the road he showed us,” Dr. Sarma said. “I promise the value-based politics will remain in our endeavour to become one of the five best States in India,” he said. The oath-taking ceremony on Monday would be held at the Srimanta Sankaradeva Kalakshetra on the southern edge of Guwahati. “The ceremony will be organised with adherence to COVID-19 protocols,” Biswajit Pegu, the Deputy Commissioner of Kamrup (Metropolitan), said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himanta-to-take-over-as-assams-15th-cm/article34523350.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Excessive use of oxygen in U.P. hospitals’||Last month the government announced an audit of the sale, purchase and consumption of oxygen. This audit was to be conducted via premier institutes such as the IIT-BHU, IIT-Kanpur and IIM-Lucknow for proper monitoring of the medical oxygen. Curfew extended Meanwhile, the “partial corona curfew” was extended till May 17, the State government said. The partial curfew was yielding positive results and helping in breaking the chain of the infection, officials said. All government and private educational institutions and coaching institutes would be shut till May 20. The State recorded 23,333 new cases while 34,636 people were discharged as of Sunday. In all, 2.29 lakh samples were tested over the past 24 hours, including 1.11 lakh through RT-PCR, the government said. Uttar Pradesh has 2.34 lakh active cases, a drop of 77,000 from April 30. So far, 1.37 crore doses of vaccine had been administered across the State, In the 18-44 age group, 1.17 lakh doses had been administered in seven districts, the government said. From May 10, the drive for the 18-44 group will be expanded to 11 more districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/excessive-use-of-oxygen-in-up-hospitals/article34523352.ece
10 May 2021||CUDDALORE,||COVID-19 surge: NLCIL to set up nine oxygen plants||With a view to augment the supply of medical oxygen, Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL) is in the process of setting up nine Pressure Swing Adsorption Medical Oxygen Plants at its project sites, including Neyveli and Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu. Tenders have been floated for the plants and once the process is completed, they will be set up within a month. The move is in line with the direction of the Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi to PSUs to set up oxygen plants to meet the rise in demand for medical oxygen across the country. “Initially, NLCIL has planned to set up nine plants with capacity of 12 NM3/hour to 30 NM3/hour based on the requirement at different locations. Two plants of 12 NM3/hour capacity costing Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 lakhs will be installed at the NLCIL Hospital in Neyveli while three plants of 30 NM3/hour capacity costing Rs. 65 lakhs to Rs. 70 lakhs each will be installed in Chennai,” Rakesh Kumar, Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the NLCIL, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-surge-nlcil-to-set-up-nine-oxygen-plants/article34523353.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Grief, groceries, all shared in this fight||Even as Mr. Singh starts his day at 6.30 a.m. in West Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, in Gurugram dietician Honey Tandon packs breakfast for a few guards and people who live outside her condo gates. She quickly gives her father and son the same food and rushes out. Ms. Tandon began Helping Hands free of cost for those in her building who got COVID and a few workers who had planned to go back their villages. “Soon people in other parts of Gurgaon started asking for home-cooked meals, so I began charging Rs. 100 per meal, from those who can afford it,” she says. For those who can’t, it’s free. In the three weeks that Helping Hands has been operational, it has provided about 30 meals each for lunch and dinner, with fewer for breakfast. People have started reaching out with donations in kind — flour, pulses and fruit. “My husband buys the groceries, and my father begins cutting the vegetables in the morning,” Ms Tandon says, adding that she spends a lot of time in the kitchen. She confesses she hasn’t really cooked on a regular basis till the recent crisis. “My husband joked that people wouldn’t be able to eat the rotis, but they’re getting better,” she says, laughing. The Tandon couple deliver every meal in their car or on an electric scooter that EVeez has lent them. Now Ms. Tandon has started a fundraiser so she can feed more people. Doctor on call Serving Delhi from faraway Durg, in Chhattisgarh is Dr. Tapesh Nagaria, who works with the Human Solidarity Foundation helpline (9971736222). Having taken a gap year to study for his post graduate entrance exams, he thought it a good opportunity to both help people and gain some experience. “I was really nervous, because medical school doesn’t prepare you for the real world,” he says. The real world here was a host of different things — of a new disease that doctors themselves were grappling with, of the fact that even when he knew the patient needed to be in a hospital there were none to be had, and of people sharing medication lists with each other and self-medicating. “What do you do when a drug is not available? Or when an HRCT is needed but I will be putting another life in danger because the patient will not go alone to a hospital? Or when I need to prescribe blood thinners, but these are ideally given only when a doctor can monitor the patient?” He prefers to err on the side of least medication, and also makes sure his prescription is watermarked with the name of the patient, so it can’t be forwarded. “It’s been a very steep learning curve.” About 70% of callers to the network of about 30 doctors are from Delhi, though the helpline is open to people across India, free of cost. Youth brigade The phone is everyone’s lifeline, even as lockdowns put a pause on movement. An NGO, Caregiver Saathi, is using phones to verify information related to COVID-19, so caregivers have lists of ambulances, blood banks, and other resources that work. They put out a call for volunteers and 44 children — all under 18 — registered. Many had had their own experiences with COVID and wanted to help. In Bengaluru, Nimisha Maria Nishant, 15, who heads the teams for Haryana, says the first time someone died and she couldn’t source information in time, she broke down. “It was emotionally exhausting, but my team mates helped me.” Fellow volunteer, Gurgaon-based Mahira Vohra, 16, says, “When leadership fails to provide us with even basic healthcare, it’s upto us to make the community better; to step up and do something.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/grief-groceries-all-shared-in-this-fight/article34523356.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||Punjab govt. promoting ‘mafia raj’, says Sidhu||Former Punjab Minister and Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said on Twitter that the State government was promoting “mafia raj” and the administration was more responsive to the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal than Congress lawmakers and workers. Mr. Sidhu’s comments come just a day ahead of the Congress Working Committee’s meeting to analyse the party’s performance in the recently concluded Assembly elections.  “Consensus among MLAs, Badal Sarkar is ruling in lieu of Congress Govt ... Bureaucracy and Police act as per wishes of Badal Family, more often than listening to our MLAs and Party workers. Govt run not for welfare of the People, but for continuing control of Mafia Raj # 75-25,” Mr. Sidhu said. For several days now, Mr. Sidhu has been vocal against his own government over the delay in investigation into the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident following the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-govt-promoting-mafia-raj-says-sidhu/article34523365.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Two kinds of light||When Bhooma Devi told Brahma that She could not bear the burden of the Earth, Brahma, accompanied by Siva and celestials, asked Lord Narayana for help. They went to the Lord, who was reclining on the milky ocean. The Lord assured them of help and told them about the Krishna avatara which He was going to take. Parasara, Vyasa and Suka have all described this. The story then goes on that the Lord shed two hairs — one white, one black, and that Balarama came from the white hair and that Krishna came from dark hair. But is this correct interpretation of the sloka describing the incident? Quoting from Engalazhvan’s commentary, V.S. Karunakarachariar explained that one should not interpret the word ‘kesa’ to mean hair. What the sloka indicates is that two kinds of light emanated from Lord Narayana. One was a white light. The other was a blue light. The white light took the avatara of Balarama and the blue light took the avatara of Krishna. A similar interpretation of the word ‘kesa’ is offered by Sankara Bhagavadpada, in his interpretation of a Vedic mantra. He too gives the interpretation of radiance for the word ‘kesa,’ in that context. In Srimad Bhagavatham, the Lord, after indicating to those gathered around Him, that He was going to take the Krishna avatara, also gave them the option of being born on the Earth during His avatara. They could either be with Him in Gokula, during His growing up years. Or, if they wished, they could serve the grown up Krishna. Some devas chose the latter option, namely serving Him after His years in Gokuka, and they came as the five Pandava brothers. And so, we have Yama being born as Yudhishthira, Vayu being born as Bhima, Indra being born as Arjuna, and the Ashvin twins being born as Nakula and Sahadeva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-kinds-of-light/article34523370.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||16 AMU staff, ex-teachers die of COVID-19||After 16 of its faculty members, other employees and retired teachers living in the vicinity of the campus died of COVID-19, the Aligarh Muslim University wrote to the Indian Council of Medical Research asking for an analysis of the samples to find out what was behind the surge. In a statement on Sunday, AMU public relations officer Omar Peerzada said, “In order to analyse the severity of COVID-19 and its suspected new variant that wreaked havoc in Aligarh the samples collected have been sent for viral genome sequencing to the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, after suspicions of a new variant fuelling the surge of Coronavirus cases in Aligarh.” The statement said the samples had been sent along with a letter by AMU V-C Prof. Tariq Mansoor to ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava requesting him to order the analysis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/16-amu-staff-ex-teachers-die-of-covid-19/article34523347.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three booked for dealing in stolen coal||The CBI booked three residents of Uttar Pradesh for their alleged involvement in the illegal sale of stolen coal in different parts of the country. The accused were identified as Niyaj Ahmed, Murari Seth and Krishna Nand. In the FIR, the agency mentioned Jharkhand, West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh as the States where the three allegedly dealt in stolen coal. The CBI also added certain provisions under the Prevention of Corruption Act, indicating that the agency suspected the role of public servants. Incidentally, in November last year, the CBI had registered an FIR against alleged coal mafioso Anup Majhi and others for illegal mining and theft of coal from the Kunustoria and Majora collieries of the Eastern Coalfields Limited in West Bengal. Several officials of the ECL, the Central Industrial Security Force and the Railway were found to be involved in the case.The ED had earlier arrested one Vikas Mishra, brother of a Trinamool Congress leader, Vinay Mishra, in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-booked-for-dealing-in-stolen-coal/article34523358.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||AJP-RD may have caused Cong. losses||The regional front of Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and jailed activist Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal (RD) could have been a factor in the failure of the Congress-led Mahajot, or grand alliance, in dislodging the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies in Assam. The BJP-led Mitrajot (group of friends) won 75 of the 126 Assembly seats in the State, while the Mahajot had to settle with 50.  Data from the Election Commission of India reveal that the votes polled by AJP-RD exceeded the victory margin of the BJP and its allies in 14 constituencies. On April 1, BJP’s chief poll strategist Himanta Biswa Sarma told a local TV channel that his party had encouraged the formation of the AJP and the RD with the objective of splitting the anti-CAA votes. Alluding to this claim after the results were announced, Congress pointsman Jitendra Singh attributed the party’s loss in at least 10 seats to the AJP-RD factor. “The regional front was definitely one of the factors,” State Congress leader Apurba Bhattacharya said while analysing his party’s poll performance.   AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi said blaming his party for the loss of an alliance was ridiculous. “The votes we got reflect the scope for a regional party. This is just the beginning for us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ajp-rd-may-have-caused-cong-losses/article34523366.ece
10 May 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha native recollects dreadful days||Two weeks have passed, but Jitendra Joshi is yet to get over the dreadful days he faced last month. A 38-year-old Bhubaneswar-based marketing executive, Mr. Joshi was extremely confident of keeping COVID-19 at bay as he followed all precautions. So in the second week of April when his wife caught a fever, he shrugged it off and started medication as is done in case of a normal flu. On the sixth day, he too started experiencing fever. He did not take chances any longer and all the family members took COVID-19 tests. Barring his son, everyone tested positive.  “Initially, we decided to quarantine ourselves at our apartment, but the fever did not subside... We sought the help of the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation. As Odisha was not yet affected by the second wave around that time, hospital beds were easily available,” said Mr. Joshi.  During hospitalisation, Mr. Joshi was perturbed by negative thoughts after coming across news of people succumbing to the disease. He kept swinging between uncertainty and hope. “It would have been a Herculean task to get a bed, had I been infected now,” Mr. Joshi said, advising people to stay positive through one’s worst time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-native-recollects-dreadful-days/article34523369.ece
10 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. police to probe Thai woman’s death||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Sunday initiated a probe into the death of a Thai woman due to COVID-19 after several social media users, including the Opposition Samajwadi Party, linked a BJP Rajya Sabha MP’s son to her claiming that she was a sex worker allegedly brought by him to Lucknow from Thailand for a huge sum of money. MP Sanjay Seth, also a major real estate businessman, demanded a police investigation after the allegations and posts linking his son to the woman’s death surfaced. He termed the reports fake. Following Mr. Seth’s letter to the Lucknow Police Commissioner, the police said it has initiated a probe in the matter under a team led by DCP East Lucknow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-police-to-probe-thai-womans-death/article34523564.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID: Kharge asks Modi to hold all-party meeting||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to immediately convene an all-party meeting to “collectively forge a holistic blueprint to tackle the pandemic”. Accusing the Narendra Modi government of abdicating its responsibility towards the citizens, he said the situation requires “consensual and collective effort” and offered six specific suggestions. Mr. Kharge called for free immunisation for all citizens by utilising the Rs. 35,000-crore earmarked by Parliament for vaccination, expand the scope of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act to 200 days and expedite the distribution of relief material and pro-actively disclose where it is shipped. In a separate letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu, Mr. Kharge asked him to convene virtual meetings of the Parliamentary Standing Committees as Parliament cannot remain a “mute spectator”. “At this hour of collective crisis, Parliament cannot be and must not be a mute spectator. It must give a message of solidarity with the people, of serious business to alleviate their agony and of unity of purpose,” he wrote to Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-kharge-asks-modi-to-hold-all-party-meeting/article34523565.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination for 18+ age group in govt. hospitals and medical colleges from today||COVID-19 vaccination for those aged between 18 and 44 will finally be available at all major government hospitals and medical colleges from Monday. Health and Medical Education Minister, K. Sudhakar, who made the announcement on Sunday, said all vaccination centres will have an exclusive site earmarked for the age group and the vaccine will only be provided to those who have registered and scheduled an appointment on the CoWIN portal. According to a release, vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group will be available at K.C. General Hospital, Jayanagar General Hospital, Sir C.V. Raman General Hospital, government medical colleges, ESI Hospital, and NIMHANS in Bengaluru. In other districts, initially, vaccination will be provided at district hospitals, government medical colleges, and all taluk hospitals. The number of centres will be increased as and when more vaccines become available, the Minister said. On May 1 Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa “symbolically” flagged off the vaccination drive for the citizens in the 18 to 44 age group. It has been estimated that there are about 3.26 crore people in the State in this age group and 6.52 crore doses of the vaccine are required for complete innoculation. The State government has already placed an order for 2 crore doses of Covishield and for 1 crore of Covaxin, the release said. “We have received the first batch of 6.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines. The next batch of delivery is likely to happen in the third week of May. The government is leaving no stone unturned to vaccinate each and every citizen at the earliest and is making continuous efforts to secure supply of vaccines. I urge all citizens, especially my young friends, to wait for your turn and the government will ensure you surely get your jab,” Dr. Sudhakar said. Ways to register People in the eligible age group can register on the CoWIN or the Arogya Setu app. Scheduling of the appointments will be allowed for a maximum of seven days. The number of vaccination centres for the 18 to 44 age group will depend on the vaccine stock with the State, while the vaccination drive for those above 45 years continues as usual, the release added. However, private hospitals will have to wait a little longer for phase 3 of the vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-for-18-age-group-in-govt-hospitals-and-medical-colleges-from-today/article34523396.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure effective use of oxygen at hospitals’||The Tamil Nadu Cabinet, led by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, advised officials to ensure that medical oxygen was used effectively, without wastage, at government and private hospitals because the State was supplying it amid several constraints. At a meeting, Mr. Stalin advised the authorities to increase the awareness on the benefits of vaccination and fully utilise the vaccines available across the State. He directed the Ministers and the officials to ensure that the total lockdown from May 10 was implemented properly. “Only if the lockdown is implemented effectively can the spread of the virus be brought under control and the number of deaths reduced,” he noted. Mr. Stalin further advised the authorities to ensure that the COVID-19 patients coming to hospitals in all the districts were given immediate treatment. The Cabinet also asked the officials to monitor the sale of Remdesivir in Chennai, Salem, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Madurai and Tirunelveli, and at some private hospitals, and prevent sale of the drug in black market. The Chief Minister also held a meeting with industrialists and traders at the Secretariat and sought their cooperation during the complete lockdown between May 10 and 24. He assured them that before any such decision [on lockdown] is taken in future, he would hold a meeting, seek their suggestions and announce measures.  Only if lockdown is implemented effectively can the spread of the virus be brought under control||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-effective-use-of-oxygen-at-hospitals/article34523519.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||10,000 policemen deployed to enforce lockdown||More than 10,000 police personnel will be deployed in the city and over 200 check points set up to enforce the complete lockdown in the city. The State government on May 8 announced a complete lockdown in the State between 4 a.m. on May 10 and 4 a.m on May 24 to combat the spread of COVID-19. Protective gear A large posse of policemen has been deployed across the city. “We have instructed them to wear protective gear, including masks, face shields and use sanitisers,” said a senior police officer. The police will try to restrict people from travelling between different zones in the city. “People are requested to purchase vegetables and groceries to meet their requirements from shops in their locality itself and not to venture to other localities without any need,” said the officer. ‘Show documents’ People travelling for weddings of close relatives, funerals, job interviews and hospitals would be allowed on production of relevant documents. “We will be thoroughly checking the documents. People have to realise that we have to fight this virus together and stay indoors,” the officer said. Patrol vehicles will do the rounds to keep a check on those violating the lockdown norms, he added.  People have to realise that we have to fight this virus together and stay indoors Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10000-policemen-deployed-to-enforce-lockdown/article34523521.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK to elect its floor leader today||With just a day to go for their oath-taking and the election of the Speaker, AIADMK MLAs will meet on Monday morning at the party office to elect their floor leader, who will also be the Leader of the Opposition in the House. In view of the full lockdown from Monday and all meetings inside auditoriums and meeting halls being banned, N. Balaganga, former MP and a district secretary of the AIADMK, informed the police of the meeting at the party headquarters. “During the COVID-19 period, we have to inform the police about such meetings and we did that. It was not to seek permission,” he said. Party leaders said the meeting would be held following COVID-19 protocols and since it was a meeting of MLAs, the police had to be informed. Two senior leaders of the party told The Hindu that the issue of selecting the floor leader is expected to be resolved. “There should not be any problem and will be resolved smoothly. The leader will be decided by the MLAs and the Assembly Secretariat will be informed,” one of the leaders said. Arguments Asked about the heated arguments on Friday between supporters of former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and former Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, staking claim to the post of the Leader of the Opposition, a leader laughed off the question. “There will not be any issue,” he said. Friday’s meeting witnessed heated arguments and the party decided to put off the decision till Monday. The dispute spilled over to the Marina when the two leaders visited Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum late at night with supporters raising slogans in support of their leaders. He said the issue of having a single leader for the party, which was raised at Friday’s meeting, cannot be decided now and a meeting of the general council and executive committee has to be called to take a call on that. “Whether we continue with the dual leadership or select a single leader is a question for another day,” the leader said.  (With inputs from Vivek Narayanan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-to-elect-its-floor-leader-today/article34523527.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaws fitted with oxygen cylinders help COVID-19 patients||On Sunday morning, a 43-year-old man’s oxygen level dropped to below 82 and he called a mobile phone number that he had seen on social media. In a matter of 30 minutes, a modified autorickshaw fitted with an oxygen cylinder arrived at his doorstep and he was provided supply. In 45 minutes, his oxygen level increased to 95 and he was taken to the nearest government hospital. The autorickshaw oxygen ambulance is being run by Kadamai Education and Social Welfare Trust for the last 10 days now. The trust has been working in north Chennai for the last seven years in the fields of education, women empowerment and skill training. “This 43-year-old man had money, but could not get oxygen. We have come across cases where poor people suffer without oxygen and are unable to access any ambulance service. We take our autorickshaw there and give oxygen supply. After the levels increase, we admit them to the hospital,” said trust founder-secretary C. Vasantha Kumar. The trust runs two autorickshaws fitted with oxygen cylinders and many more normal autorickshaws offering ride to people going for COVID-19 tests and to the hospital. “We find it hard to get the oxygen supply. We have the cylinders and Mr. Kumaresan, who runs Mahalakshmi Agencies in Chintadripet, helps us get the supply/refill,” he said. The drivers wear a PPE kit and handle patients with care. “We get around 200 calls a day. We started it for residents in north Chennai, but we got calls from areas like Tambaram. We try our best to attend to every call, but it is hard,” Mr. Kumar said. Initially, he, along with trust’s treasurer N. Sathyaraj who runs a commercial vehicles firm, used to drive the autorickshaws and help the patients. “Now, we have three more drivers — Mohan, Kamal and Manikandan — who attend to the patients,” Mr. Sathyaraj said.  Mr. Sathyaraj said on seeing that enough supply of oxygen was available for the time being would make the patient calm down a bit. “Then they become more confident. This is what we have seen,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/autorickshaws-fitted-with-oxygen-cylinders-help-covid-19-patients/article34523525.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||28,897 more persons test positive||COVID-19 infections spiked in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, with 28,897 people testing positive, taking the tally of cases to 13,80,259. Among those who tested positive were 14 passengers from Andhra Pradesh; nine from West Bengal; three from Bihar; and one each from Jharkhand and Karnataka. In the last 24 hours, the State recorded the death of 236 persons — 47 who had no pre-existing conditions and 189 persons with co-morbidities — pushing the toll to 15,648. As many as 23,515 persons were discharged after treatment. With this, 12,20,064 persons have been discharged. The State has 1,44,547 persons under treatment either at hospitals or at home. In its daily bulletin, the Directorate of Public Health reported 7,130 fresh cases and the discharge of 6,884 persons in Chennai. The district also recorded 56 deaths. It has 32,863 active cases. So far, 3,90,589 persons have been infected and 3,52,517 have been discharged. The district has so far recorded 5,209 deaths. While 85 persons admitted to private hospitals had been declared to have died of the infection, the government hospitals reported 151 deaths. An 18-year-old youth from Thoothukudi, who was admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on April 29, tested positive on May 5. He died on May 7 owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 93-year-old diabetic man with coronary artery disease from Chengalpattu tested positive on May 2. He was admitted the same day to a private hospital in Chennai with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty for 10 days. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on May 6. Of the 6,669 beds earmarked for COVID-19 patients, 3,551 have been occupied and 3,118 are vacant, the bulletin said. Vaccination update A total of 25,448 persons were vaccinated during the 2,361 sessions held on Sunday. While 1,232 healthcare workers were inoculated, as many as 2,356 frontline workers, 12,190 persons in the 45-59 age group with co-morbidities and 9,670 senior citizens were among those vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28897-more-persons-test-positive/article34523504.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shunmugasundaram takes charge as Advocate-General||Senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram took charge as the Advocate-General of Tamil Nadu on Sunday. A Government Order issued on Saturday said the Governor had accepted the government’s proposal to appoint him as the Advocate-General. He is expected to represent the State government before the First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Monday at the hearing of a public interest litigation petition, taken up by the court suo motu , to monitor the measures being taken by the government to fight the second wave of COVID-19. Mr. Shunmugasundaram has an experience of 44 years in the Bar and has been a designated senior counsel for the past 20 years. He was a member of the Rajya Sabha from 2002 to 2008 and the State Public Prosecutor from 1996 to 2001. After completing his law degree and enrolling with the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in 1977, he joined the office of the famous criminal lawyer N. Natarajan and gained experience under him till 1980. He was appointed as an Additional Public Prosecutor in 1989 and conducted prosecutions on behalf of the State, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Railways at the Madras High Court. In 1992, he studied the developments in criminal law in Britain and attended court works at the Central Criminal Court of England and Wales (Old Bailey, Central London), Croydon Crown Court and the Royal Courts of Justice, London. He also gained work experience at the Crown Prosecution Department at Manchester, studied the investigation procedures adopted over there and observed the system of legal aid and probation procedures in Great Britain. He was appointed as counsel for the State of Tamil Nadu before the Justice M.C. Jain Commission of Inquiry into the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The Madras High Court appointed him as an amicus curiae in the London hotel case against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, considering the public importance and sensitive nature of the case. Then, he pursued the Letters Rogatory issued by a special court in Chennai and worked with the Serious Fraud Office in London and the Attorney-General’s Criminal Division at Canberra, Australia, for collecting evidence from the U.K., Malaysia and Australia. During his tenure as an MP, he was part of the Indian delegation to the United Nations and participated in its 59th General Assembly in October 2004.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shunmugasundaram-takes-charge-as-advocate-general/article34523513.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More women and youth among fatalities in second wave||Though Tamil Nadu is yet to see the peak of the second wave of COVID-19, a comparison of the cases and deaths reported so far with those in the first wave shows noticeable changes in the age and gender distribution of deaths. The proportion of women and people of younger age among the deceased have increased in the second wave. However, the comparison shows no significant differences in the age and gender distribution of cases. (Please read the note in the infographic for the number of deaths and cases taken for analysis.) While women accounted for 27% of all the deaths in the first wave, they have accounted for nearly 33.5% of all the deaths thus far in the second wave. But the gender distribution of cases remains the same, with women accounting for 40% and men 60%. Similarly, while those aged 21-60 accounted for 38.7% of the deaths in the first wave, they have accounted for 43.6% in the second wave. In comparison, the percentage of those aged 60 and above among the deceased has declined from 61% in the first wave to 56.3% in the second wave. However, there has been no shift in the reported cases. In fact, the percentage of the elderly among the cases has increased from 13.1% in the first wave to 14.4% in the second wave. The number of deaths reported daily during the second wave has been on a steep increase, with more than 1,200 deaths occurring in the past one week alone. In comparison, during the 12-week period from July to September, there were a total of nearly 7,900 deaths. However, the case fatality rate appears lower, at least for now, than in the first wave. While the case fatality rate was around 1.62% at the peak of the first wave from July to September, it is around 1.03% as of now. While the decline in the case fatality rate is seen among all age groups and gender, it is more pronounced among the elderly. They, however, remain the most vulnerable with a case fatality rate of 3.91%, compared with the the overall rate of 1.03%. V. Ramasubramanian, senior consultant, infectious diseases, Apollo Hospitals, pointed to the stark difference in the restrictions during the first wave and since this year. “People are not staying indoors, and therefore there is more exposure for people of all age groups, including children, leading to more infections,” he said. Asked why more people of younger age were among the deceased, he said a possible factor was the delay in getting medical attention, with the perception that the disease would not affect them severely. K. Kolandaisamy, former Director of Public Health, Tamil Nadu, said a clearer picture would emerge only after the second wave played out fully. Prithvi Mohandas, managing doctor, MIOT International Hospital, said the relaxed curbs and disregard for precautions led to more exposure for all age groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-women-and-youth-among-fatalities-in-second-wave/article34523509.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Be polite with public during lockdown: DGP||Ahead of the complete lockdown across the State from Monday, Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy has asked the policemen to be polite with the public and frontline workers. The police should register cases against vehicle owners who violate the lockdown norms but avoid seizing the vehicles. In a lengthy communication, Mr. Tripathy said the police should not show anger at the public or get into arguments with other government staff, including doctors and sanitation workers. “They should use a microphone to disperse crowds and avoid using force or lathis. They should instruct small traders and hawkers to shut shops in a polite manner,” he said. The DGP said the police should ensure unhindered movement of vehicles carrying essential commodities. Stating that awareness should be created about the lockdown among the public, he said policemen had been ordered to click pictures of vehicles flouting the lockdown norms while registering a case. The DGP stressed on the need to not deploy police personnel aged above 50, those with ailments and women personnel for vehicle checking and picketing. He said personnel should be deployed on a five-hour shift basis and only those fully vaccinated should be deployed at crowded areas. “Suspects should not be locked up in stations. If there is a need, permission should be taken from senior officers. Public should not be allowed to enter police stations,” the DGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-polite-with-public-during-lockdown-dgp/article34523522.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin vows to make T.N. the best place to live||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday that he had vowed to make Tamil Nadu the best place to live in the world. Writing in the DMK organ Murasoli , he said the experience he had gained during his tour of the State in the last 10 years and his meetings with people would come in handy for realising the dream he had for the State. “I do not treat myself as the Chief Minister, but as a frontline worker. I will gear up for development work, keeping in mind the fact that governance is not a bed of roses but full of thorns.” Mr. Stalin said the government’s aim was to encourage hard work, kindle Tamil culture, develop the economy and infrastructure, increase the per-capita income, uphold social development and women’s welfare, win the rights of the oppressed and improve social indices. “I know that there is a lot of expectations among the people who have faced disappointments in the last 10 years. There is no point in blaming the past. It is better to light a lamp than to blame the darkness,” he said. The Chief Minister said the DMK entered office when COVID-19 had shown its fearsome face and the situation posed a challenge. “It is not a time for celebrations, but a time to help those who are suffering. That was why we kept the swearing-in a low-key affair.” He said the pandemic could be overcome if everyone wore a mask, maintained social distancing and washed hands frequently. He said the DMK would provide a clean and transparent administration and work for the poor. “Though I am heading the government, it does not belong to the party alone. We will take everyone along without discrimination. It is a government of the Tamil people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-vows-to-make-tn-the-best-place-to-live/article34523514.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Darez Ahamed to head COVID-19 war room||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday announced the names of six nodal officers for the unified command centre (UCC), which will function as the COVID-19 war room. Darez Ahamed, executive director, Guidance, will head the UCC and be in charge of overall co-ordination at the command centre. K. Nanthakumar, secretary, TNPSC, will be the nodal officer for oxygen monitoring and emergency response. Mr. Nanthakumar will co-ordinate with the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation on all issues related to liquid medical oxygen and liaise with private hospitals for their oxygen requirements. S. Uma, Additional Collector (development), will be the nodal officer for bed management in both government and private hospitals. S. Vineet, joint managing director, Tangedco, will be the nodal officer for field inspection of empanelled and non-empanelled private medical college hospitals in and around Chennai. He will be assisted by R. Ishwarya, Assistant Collector, Vellore, and Anamika Ramesh, Collector, Tiruvallur. The field inspection team will also coordinate with public health officers who have been placed in the field support team at the Greater Chennai Corporation. K.P. Karthikeyan, executive director, TIDCO, will be the nodal officer for major government medical colleges (dedicated COVID-19 hospitals) and other dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in and around Chennai. R. Alagumeena, general manager, Tanfinet, will be the nodal officer for maintaining quality and responsiveness of the war room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/darez-ahamed-to-head-covid-19-war-room/article34523517.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More testing centres for Chennai, says Minister||The Medical Department on Sunday reopened a siddha clinic to treat COVID-19 patients at the Dr. Ambedkar Arts and Science College in Vyasarpadi. The centre has 240 beds, of which 195 are occupied. Patients with mild infection are being treated here. Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian, who commissioned the clinic, said centres to provide care through alternative systems of medicine would be opened in Dharmapur, Theni, Namakkal. Karur, Tiruvannamalai, Ariyalur, Tenkasi, Madurai, Dindigul, Ranipet, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam. People with mild infection will be treated at the centres. During the pandemic’s first wave, 2,290 people with mild infection were treated at these centres, he said. A 70-bed centre offering treatment through alternate systems of medicine has also been opened at A.M. Jain College. As many as 1,410 persons are currently employed to provide treatment through the alternate systems. Containing spread As part of containment efforts, 11,800 employees from the Greater Chennai Corporation are conducting door-to-door surveillance, he said, adding that he had been personally inspecting their work. It has also been proposed to increase the number of testing centres from 21 to 30, the Minister said. Senior officials accompanied the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-testing-centres-for-chennai-says-minister/article34523526.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP names T.N. legislature party leader||The BJP on Sunday named Nainar Nagendran as the legislature party leader in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. The party has four MLAs in the House. Mr. Nagendran won from the Tirunelveli constituency by a margin of over 23,000 votes. He switched to the BJP from the AIADMK after the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Making the announcement at the party office, Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan, flanked by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy, said the party’s four MLAs would point out the mistakes of the government in Tamil Nadu. “There was rhetoric that the BJP will never grow in Tamil Nadu. With these four wins, we have blackened the faces of such people,” he said. “Our four MLAs will be the four pillars of the Tamil Nadu Assembly. They will raise their voice for Tamil Nadu’s growth, culture, language and identity. Our work will continue both inside and outside the Assembly,” Mr. Murugan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-names-tn-legislature-party-leader/article34523510.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ministers to aid virus fight||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday announced nodal Ministers for districts where the number of COVID-19 cases are high. The Ministers, a press release said, would ensure that lockdown guidelines are strictly implemented and coordinated efforts for preventive measures against COVID-19 are carried out effectively. Ministers Ma. Subramaniam and P.K. Sekar Babu will be in charge of Chennai; T.M. Anbarasan of Chengalpettu; R. Sakkarapani and K. Ramachandran of Coimbatore; S.M. Nasar of Tiruvallur; P. Moorthy and Palanivel Thiagarajan of Madurai; Geetha Jeevan and Anitha R. Radhakrishnan of Thoothukudi; V. Senthil Balaji of Salem, and K.N. Nehru and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi of Tiruchi, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-to-aid-virus-fight/article34523511.ece
10 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Brisk business for Tasmac||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) sold liquor worth Rs. 426.24 crore following Saturday’s announcement on the total lockdown by the DMK government. Data provided by sources in Tasmac showed that the Chennai region saw sales worth Rs. 100.43 crore, followed by Madurai, which clocked sales worth Rs. 87.28 crore. While the Tiruchi zone witnessed sales worth Rs. 82.59 crore, the Salem and Coimbatore regions sold liquor worth Rs. 79.82 crore and Rs. 76.12 crore, respectively. “With Tasmac operating today (Sunday) we are expecting similar volume of sales,” said a source, who is in charge of an outlet in Chennai. He added that hundreds of people had been walking in since morning to stock up on liquor. Tasmac has 5,338 shops across the State, and on an average sells liquor worth Rs. 130 crore-Rs. 140 crore a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brisk-business-for-tasmac/article34523515.ece
10 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||A ‘robot’ to help COVID-19 patients in home isolation||Members of a private robotics institute from Karamadai, including three school students, have claimed to have developed a robot to assist those in COVID-19 self-isolation. It transports food, medicine and smartphone to the affected. S.D.R. Niranjan, founder of Mukkudal Robotics, who mentored the project, demonstrated the machine here on Saturday. H e said that K. Viswath, a Class 11 student, and K. Nithin and S. Athul Krishna, Class 10 students, came up with the idea in April and the machine was developed in a month. The robot contained eight sensors, including ultraviolet, touch, gyro and colour sensors, he said. With an ability to carry up to 10 kg, the machine could help give food, clothes, and medicine to COVID-19 patients in self-isolation without any human interference and also had a provision to place a smartphone for tele consultation with doctors, Mr. Niranjan said. It could also carry hand sanitisers to the patients and could clean a room by itself, he claimed. While it could be controlled using remote control, the robot could also be calibrated in advance to carry out specific tasks. “We are planning to use in two residences in Karamadai to help patients in home isolation,” Mr. Niranjan said. The machine would be upgraded in future to transport oxygen cylinders to hospitals, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-robot-to-help-covid-19-patients-in-home-isolation/article34523539.ece
10 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries gear up for lockdown||With the State to go under complete lockdown from Monday, industries in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts that are in essential sectors or exports will continue to run. Meanwhile, several industries in the two districts also plan to shutdown on a voluntary basis. A district administration official said that industries permitted in the government order will continue to function. Workers at these units will be allowed to travel to the industries. In Tiruppur, Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters Association, said the district administration had informed them that workers will not be permitted to come to work places on two-wheelers. Companies can organise transport facilities. “This has been conveyed to the exporting units,” he said. “It is a Catch 22 situation. We need to save the industry and lives,” he said. European countries are coming out of COVID-19 and life is returning to normal. If the exporting units close down now, suppliers here will lose orders. The units are taking steps to ensure that all standard operating procedures are in place. “We need to run with precautions and should have all SOPs in place,” he said. ‘Stay indoors’ The workers have been asked to stay indoors at their places of residence after work. The supply chain shops will open and deliver goods only when there are orders, he said. In Coimbatore district, those catering to essential sectors and their vendors can operate. “We need clarity. There are many messages on social media. I think it will take a day or two for things to settle down,” said A. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur Districts Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association. The association has asked the units that are not catering to the essential sectors to shut down on a voluntary basis. Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises president J. James said those supplying to automobile components, Defence, and exports will operate. With this, 65 % of micro units will operate. “We will give letters for workers to come and go. We will wait and see for two days,” he said. Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association president K.V. Karthik said the government order is clear that units that produce for agricultural sector can operate. Some units have decided to shutdown for 15 days. However, at several units, workers who had come from other districts within the State are returning to their home towns. The bigger companies have the workers staying on the premises. P. Nallathambi, president of Kurichi SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association, said that among the MSMEs, even those units that continue to operate may find it difficult after a week as they will need to purchase raw materials and tools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-gear-up-for-lockdown/article34523536.ece
10 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CM meets industry representatives from Coimbatore, Chennai and Madurai||The State government on Sunday sought the support of industries for the State-wide lockdown that will come into effect from Monday, May 10. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin held a meeting with industry representatives on Sunday and asked for their feed back on challenges the units faced because of COVID-19 and lockdown. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president M.V. Ramesh Babu, who took part in the meeting, said the State government has urged the industries to ensure complete support for the lockdown so that spread of COVID-19 can be controlled. Stop production Industries other than those catering to the essential sectors can stop production for two weeks and all the units that are operating can make common transport arrangements for the workers and staff. These were two suggestions that were presented to the industries. “We were also ensured that there will be no harassment from the police,” he said. The industries gave their suggestions and demands. Incentives  “I suggested that the government can extend incentives to hospitals to set up oxygen plants. We asked for reduction of MOD charges and financial support through the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation to the MSMEs. We also appealed to the State government to urge the Central government for a stimulus package,” he said. Industry association heads, who took part in the meeting, were from Coimbatore, Madurai and Chennai, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-meets-industry-representatives-from-coimbatore-chennai-and-madurai/article34523549.ece
10 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Transport Dept. seizes 10 omni buses for flouting norms||The Transport Department has seized 10 omni buses in Coimbatore district in the last few days after their operators flouted COVID-19 safety norms and motor vehicle rules while transporting guest workers. According to officials, the action was taken for transporting passengers more than the permitted limit, charging excessive fare and also for violating provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act. J.K. Baskaran, Regional Transport Officer, Coimbatore central, said that the majority of the buses seized were found transporting more than 100 passengers whereas a maximum of 40 persons were allowed to travel per bus. “We also found that they charged Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000 from a passenger for trips to States like Bihar and Odisha. Earlier, the fare used to be Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000,” he said. On Saturday night, officials from the Regional Transport Office, Coimbatore central, seized an omni bus near the Government Polytechnic College for Women after it was found transporting 160 guest workers. The bus was about to leave the city for Bihar. “Several passengers were lying down on the aisle. Others were found lying down on the berths. Two persons were found lying in a berth meant for one person. Other buses were arranged for them later,” Mr. Baskaran said. On Sunday, Transport Department officials inspected buses at the Omni bus stand on Sathyamangalam Road and prevented operators from transporting more than the seating capacity. The bus stand was swelled by more than 500 guest workers. After bus operators refused to admit passengers as instructed by the officials, many guest workers staged a road blockade demanding arrangements for travelling to their States ahead of the two-week lockdown. Transport officials said that no relaxation will be given with regard to the number of passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transport-dept-seizes-10-omni-buses-for-flouting-norms/article34523542.ece
10 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Award presented||P. Praveen Raj, Head of the Department of Bariatric Surgery at GEM Hospital, was recently conferred the ‘Best Researcher’ award by the Indian Association of Gastrointestinal Endosurgeons. A release said that he was among the four surgeons in the country to receive this award, which included a plaque and a cash award of Rs. 1 lakh.    Coimbatore Acme Round Table No. 133 recently conducted a cricket tournament at Kumaraguru College of Technology to raise funds for improving the infrastructure of government schools. Named ‘Gully Kings’, the tournament saw the participation of 16 teams this year. The team from NMS Global was the winners and the team from Sabol was the runners-up in the final match held recently, the release said.    Coimbatore-based NGO N.G. Chandran Charities announced that its suicide prevention helpline service ‘Prana’ would offer free telephonic counselling every day from 9.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. A release said anyone experiencing suicidal thoughts shall contact the toll-free helpline 1800-121-203040 for guidance and support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-presented/article34523535.ece
10 May 2021||COIMBATORE/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||People find Remdesivir special counters closed||M. Pandian’s wife is undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital at Perundurai in Erode district. He wanted to buy Remdesivir for her and visited Salem on Saturday to buy the medicine at the newly-opened sales counter. However, he did not bring the required documents. He returned on Sunday only to find the counter closed. “I was not aware that the counter would not be open on Sunday,” he said.  500 vials of drug A day after the special sales counters were opened in Salem and Coimbatore for Remdesivir, many like Mr. Pandian thronged the counters for the medicine though it was a Sunday only to find the counters closed. The sales counters in Coimbatore and Salem received 500 vials of the drug each on Saturday. The authorities concerned in Coimbatore had informed on Saturday that the counter would remain closed on Sunday. The staff of the counter in Coimbatore had to issue tokens to those who had come on Sunday and asked them to return on Monday. Those who had visited the counter in Salem said they were not aware that it would not be open. Appeals to govt. V. Ramesh, caregiver of an elderly patient at a private hospital in Salem, appealed to the government to consider operating the counter on Sundays too as the medicine was essential to treat those with COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-find-remdesivir-special-counters-closed/article34523548.ece
10 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Expedite UGD works on Erode-Chennimalai Road’||Motorists and road users have requested early completion of the Underground Sewerage Scheme (UGSS) on Erode – Chennimalai Road, outside the Erode Railway Junction. The stretch from Kalaimadu Silai to Chennimalai Road – EVN Road Junction, also called as E.M. Muthukumarasamy Road is one of the busiest stretches due to the presence of railway junction. The civic body had begun the underground drainage work 40 days ago and is yet to complete. The road was dug in the middle and is yet to be closed causing hardship to the road users. Vehicles have to move in the available space as dust from the road also affects the motorists. Since vehicle movement to the junction was less, frequent traffic congestion in the stretch did not take place in the past two months. “But dust from the road is a major worry,” said V. Santhadevi, a road user. She said that instead of placing barricades placed on the roads, re-laying works could have been carried out. Many motorists said that if the road could not be re-laid on time, the State Highways Department should have atleast dumped gravel on the trench so that the stretch is motorable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-ugd-works-on-erode-chennimalai-road/article34523534.ece
10 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘All efforts to implement total lockdown’||All efforts have been made to implement total lockdown from 4 a.m. on Monday till May 24 with limited-time exemption to individual shops selling vegetables, groceries and meat and hotels. Though no bus services will be available, a limited number of train services will continue to run during the 14-day lockdown period. “The objective of lockdown is only to keep the people indoors to contain spread of COVID and not to harass them. We have ensured that the people do not suffer because lack of food items for which shops for selling vegetables and groceries are allowed up to 12 noon,” Collector T.Anbalagan said. The Collector appealed to people to maintain social distancing and wear mask for their own safety while coming out to buy essential goods. Meanwhile, a shopkeepers complained that blanket ban on wholesale markets will eventually hit the supply chain for vegetables. An official suggested that wholesale markets for vegetables and fruits should be allowed to function between midnight and early mornings so that they are closed before people are allowed to come out. “This way, vegetables will be continuously allowed,” he said. Meanwhile, Madurai fruits merchants wanted the fruit market to function from 3 p.m. to midnight so that farmers can bring the perishable goods to the market and they could be sent to different districts. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said that match industries had been exempted from the lockdown as it is an essential commodity. He added that efforts were being taken to provide food for the stranded people. A police officer said that enforcement will be strict only to prevent crowding and unnecessary movement of people. No person wanting to go out for medical or other emergencies will be disturbed provided they have the required proof like medical prescription. Similarly, people going to buy food from hotels allowed to sell takeaways at prescribed time of 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., 12 noon to 3 p.m .and 6 p.m. to 9 p.m, will be allowed. Special buses will be operated to facilitate State Government employees to attend offices. In Southern Railway, except for essential staff required for regular operation of trains, most of the employees will work from home. Officials and employees of Government offices and industrial units exempted from lockdown are required to carry their identity cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-efforts-to-implement-total-lockdown/article34523648.ece
10 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Southern districts geared to face lockdown challenges||Southern districts in the State on Sunday geared up to face the challenges that might arise due to imposition of complete lockdown from Monday. District Collectors conducted review meetings with officials in which the broad guidelines of the government were discussed threadbare. Tenkasi Collector G.S. Sameeran said more attention would be given to manning check posts. The surveillance on travelling public from other States and overseas would be tightened round the clock. Officials, who attended the meeting, said Courtallam and other tourist spots would continue to be out of bounds for the people. In Ramanathapuram, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said makeshift vegetable markets had been identified in two locations. The supply-chain would not be hit for end consumers. The district had formed a special committee headed by Joint Director (Agriculture), who would coordinate the movement of essential commodities. Dindigul Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said people from other districts should avoid visiting hill stations including Kodaikanal and Sirumalai. Corporation officials had been told to ensure that containment zones were clearly marked in the city limits. Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi of Theni district said special check posts had been installed to screen movement of essential commodities from Tamil Nadu to Kerala and vice-versa. As per the government’s guidelines, the personnel were conducting tests, wherever it was required, before allowing them entry. Flash floods Theni Collector H. Krishnanunni said that in view of widespread rain, there was flash floods in the falls. Hence, tourism and forest officials had been instructed to ensure that the ban was in force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-districts-geared-to-face-lockdown-challenges/article34523870.ece
10 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant Medical Officer of PHC dies of COVID-19||Colleagues, patients and the locals mourned the loss of P. Shanmugapriya, Medical Officer of Anuppanadi Primary Healtlh Centre, who died of COVID-19-related complications on Saturday evening. She was eight months pregnant, and her foetus could also not be saved. Shanmugapriya was a frontline COVID-19 warrior, and gave samples after she developed some symptoms. Initially the test result returned negative. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said she applied for maternity leave in the end of April. However, later she was admitted to a private hospital as she tested positive. As her condition became critical, she was referred to Government Rajaji Hospital. However, she died due to COVID-19-related complications on Saturday evening. A doctor at the GRH said she was not administered COVID-19 vaccine as she was pregnant. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin issued a statement late on Saturday condoling her demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pregnant-medical-officer-of-phc-dies-of-covid-19/article34523649.ece
10 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant medical officer of PHC dies of COVID-19||Colleagues, patients and locals mourned the loss of the Medical Officer of Anuppanadi Primary Health Centre, P. Shanmugapriya, who died on Saturday evening of COVID-19 complications. She was eight months pregnant, and the foetus could not be saved. She was a frontline COVID-19 warrior, and gave samples after she developed some symptoms. Initially, the tests declared her COVID negative. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said she applied for maternity leave in the end of April. Following that she was admitted to a private hospital as this time, her samples tested positive. As her condition became critical, she was referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital. However, she died on Saturday evening. A doctor from the hospital said that she was not administered COVID-19 vaccine as she was pregnant. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin condoled her death in a statement on Saturday night. Two nurses die Two nurses on COVID-19 duty lost their lives to the infection on Sunday. A 52-year-old nurse working in Adukamparai Vellore Government Hospital was admitted to the same hospital on April 26 after testing positive. She had served in the hospital for 25 years. She died on Sunday morning. She is survived by two children. A 41-year-old nurse in the cardiology department of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died of the infection. “She had recovered and was supposed to be discharged on Monday,” a colleague said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pregnant-medical-officer-of-phc-dies-of-covid-19/article34523532.ece
10 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to simplify GST||Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry has congratulated DMK leader M.K. Stalin for taking charge as Chief Minister. In a press release, its president S. Rethinavelu has thanked the Chief Minister for appointing two Ministers from Madurai - P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan and P. Moorthy. He said the appointment of K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran as Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management, Thangam Thennarasu as Minister for Industries, and R. Sakkarapani as Minister of Food and Civil Supplies has given a hope for development in south Tamil Nadu. “The Finance Minister must focus his attention on the complicated way in which GST is being implemented. It has compelled many industries, especially in the micro and small scale sectors, to wind up their business activities because of the fear of penalty and imprisonment due to poor understanding of GST rules.” Industries involved in agrofood sector are facing several difficulties. Agrofood products are essential commodities that are entitled to tax exemption. Under the GST regime, essential food products like rice and pulses are exempted, but if they bear a brand name, it would attract tax. Unable to face competition from unbranded goods, branded goods manufacturers face difficulties, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-simplify-gst/article34523658.ece
10 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Unseasonal rains damage paddy crop||The unseasonal rains witnessed in the district in the recent days have damaged the paddy crop cultivated in three villages in Madurai North block, resulting in severe financial crisis for the farmers. Farmers from Kalimangalam, Kunnathur and Ovaloor villages of the block said that paddy crop cultivated on around 1,000 acres across these three villages was damaged in the recent rains. Water from Kunnathur tank is used to irrigate the paddy crop. Water from the Vaigai and rainfall are the main sources of water to fill the tank. The rains have caused lodging of crops in many places across the district. "It is very unusual to receive so much rainfall during the summer season," said Baba Bakrudeen, a farmer. With the availability of good quantum of water in the tank, the farmers had cultivated paddy from January-end. "We never thought that the unexpected rain would damage the crop," he said. The damage caused to the crop has financially affected the farmers, said V. Kannan, a farmer from Kalimangalam village. "Many farmers had procured loans and are now struggling to repay them as they have only suffered losses in raising the paddy crop," he said. The government must provide compensation to all the farmers who had availed the crop insurance scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unseasonal-rains-damage-paddy-crop-in-three-villages/article34523651.ece
10 May 2021||MADURAI/DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Crowded markets, deserted hill station||Chaotic scenes prevailed at markets and shops across Madurai district on Sunday as people thronged them to stock up on essential commodities ahead of the two-week complete lockdown from Monday. All shops were opened on Saturday and Sunday, resulting in crowding of the four Masi Streets and traffic congestion near Vilakkuthoon during the day. Nitesh Kothari, a trader near Thirumalai Nayak Palace, said many residents made last-minute purchases ahead of Ramzan. Police personnel inspected shops at frequent intervals to ensure that there was no crowding. In many parts of Madurai, anxious residents could be seen standing in long queues or milling around in stores to buy groceries and vegetables. East Masi Street saw a large number of residents indulging in panic-buying. S.P. Jeyaparkasam, president of Food Grains Merchants Association, said people were stocking up on provisions due to unwarranted fear. “All essential commodities will be easily available to the public during the lockdown. Without understanding this, they are crowding all shops, which will only increase the spread of COVID-19 infection.” People also crowded vegetable, fish and meat markets across the city. While the imposition of complete lockdown from Monday would help to contain the spread of COVID-19, closure of shops would severely affect the livelihoods of traders, said Ashraf Tayub, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association. ‘Non-cooperation’ In Dindigul, too, similar scenes were witnessed during the day. Neglecting repeated calls to stay indoors and maintain physical distancing norms, shoppers in large numbers thronged markets. People rushed to buy vegetables, milk and meat from Saturday, said activist Rajapandian of R.M. Colony. Civic authorities, implementing staunch measures to contain the pandemic through action against defaulting vendors and shopkeepers, pointed to lack of cooperation from the public. As a result, they were helpless, said a health official, who monitored garbage clearance from 10 wards in and around Kamarajar bus stand area. Meat and fish stalls, vegetable markets on Palani Road were filled with local residents from 7 a.m. on Sunday. “Out of every 10 persons, only four were seen wearing masks,” a traffic police personnel said. Children were also seen in large numbers, he added. The situation was just the opposite at a popular summer resort — Kodaikanal. With the holiday season at its peak, the hill station, which usually attracted tourists from far and near from April, wore a deserted look. Municipal officials said only people who had houses in the hill station were being allowed inside. For this purpose, a check post had been installed at the foothills. Only after due verification, they were allowed up the hill. At Silver Cascade, a health department team took swab tests of those reaching the hill station. However, some of the residents claimed that the officials were present only till noon or up to 3 p.m. Due to severe cold conditions, they were not seen later. As a result, they proceeded without screening. Hotel and tourist cab operators association president Abdul Gani said the authorities had instructed not to entertain any guests. Hence, there was no reservation. The lake, which would be filled with activity during this time, remained calm. A few restaurants on Seven Road were open for short duration for food takeaways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crowded-markets-deserted-hill-station/article34523869.ece
10 May 2021||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Palani GH video footage a wake-up call||After a video-clipping, which claimed that a couple of COVID-19 patients admitted in Palani Government Hospital, died due to lack of oxygen, went viral on social media, hospital administration on Sunday rushed to clarify that the content of the footage was “false”. The three-minute clipping, which showed patients speaking about the poor conditions and absence of doctors at the hospital, appeared to show some patients gasping for breath and others complaining about lack of attention. A man speaking on the video claimed to be an attendant. “Since the nurses here have not given food and water to my ailing father, I took a risk and came here.” He did not have a face mask. Physical distancing norms also seemd to be neglected as patients spoke on the video one after the other standing close by. An aged man said, “I got admitted here on Saturday noon. Till now, no doctor has come here.. I may have stayed at home itself. Having been admitted in the isolation ward among other COVID-19 patients, I now feel more depressed. I have lost confidence in getting cured after seeing a patient die here. Unable to continue...” he said crying on the video. The hospital had sufficient oxygen, said chief medical officer Udaykumar. Doctors, nurses and conservancy workers designated for the special isolation ward attended on a three-hift basis. “Since they wear PPE kits, a patient may not be able to identify doctors and nurses. The teams were attending patients requiring oxygen and they were given accordingly,” he said. When there was a requirement for oxygen, as per protocol, intent was sent to higher authorities for allocation, he said and denied the conversations in the video as ‘false’. “At a time, when doctors and nurses were working at high levels of risk, such criticism will not only divert attention, but also bring down the morale.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palani-gh-video-footage-a-wake-up-call/article34523867.ece
10 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. deaths hit new high||Puducherry recorded its highest single-day tally of COVID-19 deaths on Sunday with 26 fatalities, even as the Union Territory saw 1,633 new cases. In a revision to the lockdown orders effective till the midnight of May 24, the authorities said exempted outlets like those selling provisions and vegetables, and meat outlets, would be open only till noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-deaths-hit-new-high/article34523505.ece
10 May 2021||pUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. CM tests positive||Puducherry Chief Minister N. Rangasamy was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on Sunday night after testing positive for COVID-19. According to sources, Mr. Rangasamy, who had tested negative a couple of days ago for the swearing-in ceremony, was tested again after showing symptoms, and was diagnosed with COVID-19 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-cm-tests-positive/article34523506.ece
10 May 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||ADGP reviews protective measures||Additional Director General of Police (Technical Services) Amaresh Pujari who has been nominated as a special officer for Tiruchi Range encompassing five districts for COVID-19 prevention measures visited Pudukottai on Saturday and reviewed the protective measures being taken to check the spread of the viral infection. Mr. Amaresh Pujari held a meeting with Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan, Additional Superintendents of Police and Deputy Superintendents of Police regarding the measures and guidelines to be followed during the period of the complete lockdown that is to come into force from May 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adgp-reviews-protective-measures/article34523907.ece
10 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps will be taken to allay fears of nurses requesting quarantine facilities’||District Monitoring Officer for COVID-19 Mohamed Nasimuddin reviewed the arrangements carried out by the district administration and the Health Department here on Sunday. He visited the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH) and took stock of the facilities available. Mr. Nasimuddin interacted with doctors and patients in the COVID-19 block through video call and enquired about the treatment and food. Mr. Nasimuddin told presspersons that step would be taken to allay fears of nurses who are requesting quarantine facilities after COVID-19 duty. He said there was sufficient supply of oxygen and Remdesivir to the district. The Officer also visited the Attur Government Hospital and a COVID-19 care centre near Periyakrishnapuram. Exempted The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital has exempted pregnant and lactating healthcare workers from COVID-19 duty, as they have not received vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-will-be-taken-to-allay-fears-of-nurses-requesting-quarantine-facilities/article34523551.ece
10 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Public resort to panic buying in Salem||People rushed to vegetable markets and supermarkets here to stock up on essentials ahead of the two-week complete lockdown from Monday. With the State government permitting operations of all businesses during the weekend, public indulged in panic buying and stocking of essentials fearing extension of the lockdown. Significant crowd was witnessed at Uzhavar Santhais and meat markets during the early hours of the day. Physical distancing went for a toss at many places. Fish market in Sooramangalam and the meat market near Old bus stand were also crowded on Sunday. Long queues were noticed outside supermarkets and at the Shevapet market. Jewellery and textile showrooms operated during the weekend with limited staff. Hotels, eateries restricted operations to takeaways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-resort-to-panic-buying-in-salem/article34523554.ece
10 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corporation shifts markets to open spaces||The Salem Corporation has ordered shifting of vegetable markets to open spaces to ensure adherence to COVID-19 protocols. A press release from Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that the civic body has ordered to shift Uzhavar Santhais and weekly markets to open spaces to prevent crowding and to ensure physical distancing. The Sooramangalam uzhavar santhai would be shifted to Jawahar Mill grounds, Pal Market, New bus stand, Kurungachavadi weekly market would be shifted to Perumalmalai main road, Sooramangalam weekly market to the main road nearby. The vegetable market near Anandha Bridge would be shifted to CSI School grounds on Shevapet Main Road. The markets would start functioning at alternative places from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corporation-shifts-markets-to-open-spaces/article34523552.ece
10 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||No water supply in Salem Corpn. limits tomorrow||Water supply will be disrupted in the Salem Corporation limits on May 11 due to maintenance works. A release from the Corporation said drinking water supply through the dedicated scheme would be affected on the day to carry out maintenance works and repair works. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran advised the public to use water cautiously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-water-supply-in-salem-corpn-limits-tomorrow/article34523537.ece
10 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Permit us to open shop with safety measures, say hairdressers||Hairdressers here have urged the State Government to permit them to operate with safety measures, in the midst of the current Covid lockdown restrictions, considering their financial distress While, hairdressers in urban areas have been financially affected since last month, due to the additional regulations that took effect on May 6 those in rural pockets have also fallen into a precarious situation, M. Rajeshkumar, Thanjavur unit president of the Tamilnadu Barber Workers Association, said “Local officials and elected representatives in rural pockets did not allow hairdressers to operate citing the new regulations. Also, hairdressers engaged in tonsuring of devotees in temples or attending to surgery patients at private hospitals have been blocked, ” he pointed out. Welcoming the one-time financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 to be extended through the public distribution system outlets in two instalments, he said that it would not be sufficient for them to make ends meet. “Most of whatever we had earned during the last few months owing to easing of restrictions had to be utilised for clearing our debts. We could only repay a part of the loans we had sourced to run our families during the first wave of novel coronavirus pandemic, when there was a total lockdown,” Mr. Rajeshkumar said. Mr. Rajeshkumar pleaded that hairdressers must either be allowed to operate their salons, with safety measures in place, or a sum of Rs. 10,000 per month be granted to families of hairdressers registered with the welfare board run by the government. “Allowing us to operate from 6 a.m. to noon like other shops/business establishments with necessary standard operating procedures in place will help us to tide over the crisis”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permit-us-to-open-shop-with-safety-measures-say-hairdressers/article34523898.ece
10 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Free travel welcomed||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Retired Employees and Legal Hirers Welfare Association, affiliated to the AITUC, has welcomed the implementation of free travel for women in town services operation by the State Transport Corporations from May 8 but also issued a note of caution to the government by drawing its attention towards the precarious financial situation of the Corporations. In a statement issued here on May 8, the association’s Kumbakonam unit has pointed out that for the past 10 years the transport corporations were facing severe financial constraints as the gap between income and expenditure widened day by day. This had led to an unsavoury situation of the employees and retired employees unable to realize their rightful financial benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-travel-welcomed/article34523890.ece
10 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of relief for folk artistes||The Ramakrishna Math, Thanjavur, has started distributing corona relief assistance to families of folk artistes in five districts in Thanjavur region. Launching the distribution by handing over the relief assistance to a few artists at the Ramakrishna Math premises at Sivaji Nagar here on May 8, the Collector, M.Govinda Rao called upon the public to cooperate with the government in controlling the second wave of novel coronavirus. Stating that the government had sanctioned disbursement of Rs. 2000 per family card this month, the Collector lauded the Ramakrishna Math and other organisations for coming forward to share the burden of the government in ensuring normal life of the people who are in need of such assistance to tide over the financial crisis triggered by the pandemic situation. A total of 1820 folk artiste families residing in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai and Ariyalur would be receiving relief assistance package consisting of 30 grocery and other items worth Rs. 1000 under this programme. The Thanjavur Math head, Swami Vimurthananda and others participated in the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-relief-for-folk-artistes/article34523901.ece
10 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Seven persons smuggling ganja let off by Lankan navy||Seven persons from Keezha Vaippar near here who had attempted to smuggle 235 kg of ganja in 80 bags were let off by Sri Lankan Navy personnel after a warning on Saturday. According to information from Q Branch sources, the seven men ventured into the sea in a country boat two days ago. When they allegedly crossed the International Maritime Boundary Line, Sri Lankan authorities secured them. After interrogation, the authorities seized the contraband from the seven persons. However, the authorities let them go without arresting them due to the prevalence of COVID-19 pandemic, it is said. With a warning, they were let off near the Indian territory after which they reached Thoothukudi. In April, 17 men from here were detained on two successive days and let off by the Sri Lankan authorities. The men smuggled beedi leaves and turmeric. After seizing the smuggled goods from them, the authorities let them go without any legal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-persons-smuggling-ganja-let-off-by-lankan-navy/article34523654.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Omni bus operators jack up fares ahead of lockdown||Much to the chagrin of passengers, omni bus operators in the State had jacked up fares for long-distance travel on the days preceding the two-week complete lockdown announced by the government to prevent the spread of COVID. While passengers complained that they had to spend through their nose, the refrain of the operators was that they, too, will be out of business for the duration of complete lockdown. Though the State Transport department operated more than 4,800 buses to various parts of the State for two days from May 8 to 9 to ensure people return home safe, a large number of commuters who were unable to get tickets were forced to opt for costlier, private omni buses. T. Balasubramanian, a native of Madurai, complained that normally the bus fare from Chennai would be around Rs. 900 but the announcement of the lockdown at short notice resulted in the escalation of fares to the extent of Rs. 1,700 Passengers complained the exorbitant ticket fares were mostly charged only by those who do not operate regularly on these routes. Transport Minister R. S. Raja Kannappan who had inspected the Dr. MGR bus terminus at Koyambedu on Saturday had warned that severe action would be taken against those omni bus operators who charge exorbitant fares from the commuters. The Transport Department seized 10 omni buses in Coimbatore district in the last few days after their operators flouted COVID-19 safety norms and motor vehicle rules while transporting guest workers. J. K. Baskaran, Regional Transport Officer, Coimbatore Central, said that the majority of the buses seized were found transporting more than 100 passengers whereas a maximum of 40 persons was allowed to travel per bus. “We also found that the bus operators charged Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000 from a passenger for trips to States like Bihar and Odisha. The fare used to be Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 before,” he said. Despite the permission to operate omni buses, only 20% of the total omni buses were operated from Madurai on Sunday. Many passengers travelled from Madurai to the southern districts. Similarly, many passengers travelled from Chennai to Madurai in the past two days. “The ticket fare for travelling in buses from Chennai to Madurai nearly doubled. But, only normal ticket fare was collected for travelling in omni buses from Madurai to Chennai,” said Surendar, a bus operator. In Tiruchi, a group of travellers was forced to stay the night at a hotel as they were unable to get a bus to Bengaluru on Saturday night. They were travelling from Tiruvarur to Bengaluru to report for a job interview, they said. “We stayed the night hoping there would be a bus. Even at noon, there was none,” they lamented. Speaking to The Hindu , a functionary of Tiruchi Omni Bus Operators Association said that their business has taken a severe beating over the last year. They had made some earnings between December to February, but that too was short-lived. The bus operators have been demanding waivers in road tax and loan repayments. “Despite not being able to ply, we continue to pay off the loans and have run into huge debt; nobody pays heed to our demands,” an operator complained.  (With inputs from P. A. Narayani from Madurai, Wilson Thomas from Coimbatore, R. Srikanth from Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omni-bus-operators-jack-up-fares-ahead-of-lockdown/article34523655.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals can now utilise hotel rooms to treat COVID patients||To tide over the shortage of beds for COVID patients, the district administration has given its nod to private hospitals to have tie-up with hotels for utilisation of the rooms. The move has assumed significance in the backdrop of government and private hospitals in Tiruchi and its surrounding stretching their capacities beyond the maximum to accommodate patients testing positive for COVID-19 infections. As per the move, the private hospitals can identify hotels, which have good infrastructure to accommodate the patients, and approach the health officials for permission. The officials will in turn visit the hotels to check the facilities so as to accord permission. “We do not have any issues with the private hospitals extending treatment to patients in hotels. Considering the medical emergency, we will accord hassle-free clearance as early as possible,” says S. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi. He said that the State government had given permission to open hotels and lodges for medical purposes. Several hotels had good infrastructure to provide medical care. Hence, there would be no hesitation in permitting private hospitals to use the facilities for medical emergencies. A leading private hospital had been given permission to use a hotel at Chathiram Bus Stand to accommodate patients. Dr. Ganesh said that a few more hospitals in the city had also expressed their wiliness to rope in the services of hotels. “The idea is to make available beds to shift patients, who show good improvement. It will also enable the hospitals to use their beds for accommodating fresh cases,” he said. The Deputy Director said that all hospitals in the district had been asked to earmark 50% of beds for treating COVID-19 patients. Twenty two hospitals in the district had so far been given permission to treat COVID-19 patients. It has also been decided to bring all hospitals, except maternity and child welfare, under the ambit of treating COVID patients. However, they should have all infrastructure for treating these patients, he added.  The idea is to make available beds to shift patients, who show good improvement S. Ram Ganesh Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-can-now-utilise-hotel-rooms-to-treat-covid-patients/article34523902.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cases shoot past 3,000-mark in central districts||The central region reported 3,003 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, the highest since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. The spike from 2,500 to 3,000 was witnessed within a gap of two days. The region also reported 26 deaths, a sharp increase over the last few days. Tiruchi reported the highest number of deaths in the region with 10 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Thanjavur reported seven, Nagapattinam five, Tiruvarur three and Ariyalur district reported one death. Thanjavur district reported a marked increase in the number of patients who tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 897 patients reported positive on Sunday. In Tiruchi, 813 fresh cases were reported. Of the patients who tested positive, nearly 80% of them hailed from within Tiruchi city. As many as 25 new containment zones were added, increasing the total existing containment zones to at least 50, senior officials in the district said. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur reported 302 fresh cases. Karur reported an increase with 291 fresh cases, and a similar spike was reported in Pudukottai with 236 persons testing positive. In Nagapattinam, 211 patients reported Covid positive. Perambalur and Ariyalur district too, continued to report an increase in cases with 141 and 112 cases respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-shoot-past-3000-mark-in-central-districts/article34523904.ece
10 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Private operators hike bus fares on the eve of lockdown||Omni bus operators in the State increased the fares for long-distance travel on the days preceding the two-week complete lockdown from May 10 announced by the government to prevent the spread of COVID. While the passengers complained that they had to shell out extra amount, the operators said they would be out of business for the duration of complete lockdown. Although the Transport department operated more than 4,800 buses to various parts of the State for two days on May 8 and 9, a large number of commuters could not get ticket and had to opt for private buses. T. Balasubramanian, a native of Madurai, complained that as against Rs. 900 charged on normal days, the operators had increased the fare to Rs. 1,700 on Chennai-Madurai route. Passengers said those who do not operate regularly on these routes charged exorbitant fares. Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan, during his visit to the Dr. MGR bus terminus at Koyambedu on Saturday, had warned that severe action would be taken against omni bus operators who charge exorbitant fares. 10 buses seized The department seized 10 omni buses in Coimbatore district in the last few days after their operators flouted COVID-19 safety norms and motor vehicle rules while transporting guest workers. J. K. Baskaran, Regional Transport Officer, Coimbatore Central, said a majority of the buses seized were found transporting more than 100 passengers whereas only 40 passengers were allowed in a bus. Despite the permission to operate omni buses, only 20% of the omni buses were operated from Madurai on Sunday. Many passengers travelled from Madurai to the southern districts. In Tiruchi, a group of travellers, unable to get a bus to Bengaluru, was forced to stay the night at a hotel on Saturday night. They were travelling from Tiruvarur to Bengaluru to report for a job interview, they said.      (With inputs from P. A. Narayani in Madurai , Wilson Thomas in Coimbatore and R. Srikanth in Chennai )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-operators-hike-bus-fares-on-the-eve-of-lockdown/article34523529.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Kaveri joins the detective dog squad||Two-month-old Kaveri is the latest addition in the City Police Detective Dog Squad. The female puppy belonging to the Doberman breed would soon be trained in detection of narcotic substances. Kaveri replaces Tiger that died last month post retirement after serving in the Detective Dog Squad carrying out several missions to detect narcotic substances. Police sources said basic training for Kaveri had just begun at the Detective Dog Squad premises in K.K. Nagar here. The basic training for a period for three months would essentially focus on obedience and to enable her to get to know the handlers. After completion of basic training, Kaveri would be sent to the training centre of the State Police at Coimbatore to train her on the specified tasks. The detailed training at Coimbatore would be for a period of six months after which Kaveri would be back to Tiruchi for deployment in narcotics detection missions thereafter. Kaveri was being taken good care by two handlers, said the sources, adding that there were in all eight handlers attached at present to the City Police Detective Dog Squad to take care of all detective dogs. The City Police Detective Dog Squad presently has Ruby and Daisy trained to detect explosive substances. Two-year-old Ponni also belonging to the Doberman breed, had joined duty in the dog squad for crime detection after completion of six months training at Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kaveri-joins-the-detective-dog-squad/article34523900.ece
10 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BIM team secures third global ranking in CAPSIM Spring 2021 challenge||A student team of Bharathidasan Institute of Management (BIM), Tiruchi, has secured third rank in CAPSIM Spring 2021 challenge that witnessed participation of of numberous B-Schools at the world-level. The bi-annual competition witnessed BIM entering the final round along with five other B-Schools: Bar Ilan University of Israel; Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech); Thammasat University, Thailand; University of Georgia (UGA); and Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore. The BIM team: Harina Thamman, Moanish CS ,Nithin Rajan , and Siva Subramanyam, final year MBA students, who represented the only institution from India in the first three, finds a place in the CAPSIM Hall of fame, BIM Director Asit K Barma, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bim-team-secures-third-global-ranking-in-capsim-spring-2021-challenge/article34523889.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Allot oxygen for partial functioning of units’||Espousing the cause of MSME units in and around Tiruchi, BHEL Small Industries Association has urged the district administration to allot a portion of oxygen to ensure at least partial functioning of the units. There were about 450 MSME units in the region providing direct employment to 40,000 workers for manufacture of boiler components, sugar plant equipment and for export projects. The manufacturing units were also undertaking maintenance works of oxygen plants, oxygen cylinders and LPG cylinders. For these industries, oxygen is the main basic requirement without which they cannot start work. “To save the livelihood of employees working with us, we have to necessarily operate the industries at least to 25 to 35% of the capacity which will help us to pay a minimum portion of the salary,” BHELSIA president Rajappa Rajkumar said in an appeal to the district administration. In a letter to District Collector S. Divyadarshini, the BHELSIA president said that though the importance of oxygen to save patients was understandable, diversion of the entire stock for medical purpose will derail the functioning of industries. Further, in the context of the two-week lockdown, BHELSIA units were in need of clarification if they were categorised under the Essential Services sector, for continuing with manufacturing operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allot-oxygen-for-partial-functioning-of-units/article34523896.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop to be closed for two weeks||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop here will remain closed from May 10 to May 23 in view of the complete lockdown across the State announced by the government. The lockdown (with few relaxations) will be in force from 4 a.m. on May 10 to 4 a.m. on May 24 to curb the spread of COVID-19. The approval for the closure of the railway workshop for a period of two weeks was given by the Chief Workshop Manager. A copy of the communication issued in this regard has been forwarded to the Southern Railway headquarters. Although the workshop would remain closed from May 10 to 23, emergency / essential works relating to general safety, electrical maintenance, water supply and sanitation, fire safety, security and salary and settlement would be undertaken. The communication said bare minimum staff may be deployed for the emergency / essential activities on rotation basis adding that staff to be engaged for such works should carry their identity cards while proceeding to and from the workshop and undertake all COVID-19 preventive measures. The remaining staff / supervisors have been directed to work from home. The employees, supervisors and officers have also been directed not to leave the headquarters under any circumstances without prior approval of the Controlling Officer. The communication further said the staff should be prepared to attend duty as and when called by the workshop administration in the event of exigency and advised to follow COVID-19 protocols at all times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-workshop-to-be-closed-for-two-weeks/article34523906.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Employee reported missing with valuables||The Woraiyur police are on the lookout for an employee of a jewellery shop here who allegedly went missing along with gold ornaments weighing nearly 1.6 kilograms while returning from Chennai on Saturday. The employee bv name Martin Jayaraj who works in the jewellery shop functioning along the Karur By Pass road went to Sowcarpet in Chennai to receive gold ornaments on the instruction of the shop owner who had already made payment for the valuables, said police sources. Martin Jayaraj who was returning back in a taxi went missing along with the valuables thereafter, said the sources. Attempts made by the jewellery shop owner to reach Martin through phone calls proved futile as the cell phone was switched off. Acting on a complaint, the Woraiyur Crime Police booked a case under IPC sections 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/employee-reported-missing-with-valuables/article34523894.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Advocate murdered||An advocate was murdered by an armed group of unidentified persons here on Sunday. Police identified the victim as A. Gopi Kannan - a resident of Palakkarai. The group had hacked him to death with sharp weapons at Heber Road, said the police. The Sessions Court Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocate-murdered/article34523895.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||MGR statue partially damaged||A portion of a statue of AIADMK founder and late chief minister M. G. Ramachandran installed in 1995 at Marakkadai area in the city was found damaged on Sunday morning, causing consternation among party cadre. Partymen petitioned the police demanding arrest of those responsible for the damage. Police sources said the right wrist portion of MGR's statue made of cement had fallen. Led by former Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan, the AIADMK cadre demanded scrutiny of video footage from the surveillance cameras installed in the vicinity, and appropriate action. Police personnel from the Gandhi Market station arrived at the spot and assured follow-up action. Later, a formal complaint was lodged by the AIADMK members regarding the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgr-statue-partially-damaged/article34523905.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.96 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,125 cusecs and the discharge was 801 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34523908.ece
10 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Special buses for govt. employees: Collector||Exclusive buses have been arranged to transport government employees to their work place from Monday, said Collector V. Vishnu here on Sunday. At a meeting attended by senior revenue, TNSTC and other department officials, it was decided to organise buses from different destinations in and around the district and from Thoothukudi and Nagercoil to Tirunelveli. The buses would leave from these destinations to Tirunelveli at 8 a.m. and, in the return direction, theywould leave at 6 p.m. With the lockdown coming into force on Monday, there would not be any movement of private taxis and auto rickshaws. Hence, for the benefit of government employees, TNSTC buses would be plied from Tenkasi, Koilpatti, Papanasam, Sankarankovil, Thoothukudi, Tiruchendur, Nagercoil, Thisayanvilai and Radhapuram. Since it was exclusive for government employees and those in government hospitals, the Collector suggested that they wear face masks and also display their photo identity cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses-for-govt-employees-collector/article34523871.ece
10 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||250 more oxygen beds to be readied in Tiruppur district||A total of 250 beds with oxygen support will be readied in Tiruppur district soon in addition to 782 oxygen beds that are currently available for COVID-19 treatment, according to K. Gopal, Principal Secretary to Government, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries Department. Mr. Gopal, COVID-19 monitoring officer for Tiruppur district, said that 169 ICU beds and 109 beds with ventilator support were also ready in the district. So far, 1.5 lakh people have been vaccinated in the district. He chaired a meeting of officials from various government departments on Sunday and reviewed the preparedness of Tiruppur district in combating COVID-19 spread ahead of the complete lockdown which starts from Monday. The official reviewed the bed strength in hospitals and COVID-19 care centres, functioning testing centres, availability of essential drugs and medical oxygen in Tiruppur district. After the meeting, Mr. Gopal told reporters that officials attached to the Tiruppur Corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats were given specific instructions for COVID-19 management in view of the lockdown. The Health Department was monitoring the availability of essential drugs and medical oxygen and updating the information to the District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, he said. He also urged the public to extend complete cooperation to officials who are in the forefront of COVID-19 management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/250-more-oxygen-beds-to-be-readied-in-tiruppur-district/article34523543.ece
10 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Residents with medical conditions to be allowed to travel to Kerala, Karnataka||With new restrictions coming into force across the State, the Nilgiris district administration has announced that people from Gudalur and Pandalur taluks requiring urgent medical treatment will be allowed to travel to neighbouring Kerala and Karnataka in case of emergencies. The district administration, in a press release, said that patients will be allowed to cross the State borders provided they get permits from the government zonal medical officer. Patients from the two taluks travel to Sultan Bathery in Kerala or to Chamrajanagar in Karnataka for treatment as the two taluks are closer to Gudalur and Pandalur than neighbouring Coimbatore. Patients who are undergoing continuous treatment such as dialysis can continue to travel to the neighbouring States provided they have the relevant permits. The district administration has also announced that markets in the four major towns in the Nilgiris — Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur — will be shifted to temporary open-air locations where the risk of transmission of COVID-19 is lesser. In Udhagamandalam, the market will be shifted to the school grounds in the ATC Junction, the Ooty bus stand and to the NCMS parking lot in Udhagamandalam. The Coonoor Market will be shifted to the Coonoor bus stand, the market in Kotagiri to the Gandhi Maidan, the Gudalur Market to the Saint Joseph School grounds and the Gudalur farmers’ market to the Gandhi Thidal. Tea estates and factories will also be allowed to function, with the management asked to provide transport to workers with the permission of local Tahsildars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-with-medical-conditions-to-be-allowed-to-travel-to-kerala-karnataka/article34523540.ece
10 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||80 more beds set up||Even as beds are fast filling up in COVID wards, Virudhunagar district administration has increased 80 beds in a newly-constructed building in Virudhunagar Government Medical College hospital. “We have got ready 80 beds with oxygen support and we are planning to increase it further to 250 beds,” Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. He added that all efforts were being made to keep oxygen supply available at all times. Meanwhile, police protection has been provided to the COVID ward to prevent entry of unauthorised persons. Earlier, members of Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association complained that several attenders were seen inside the COVID ward on Saturday. One of them complained that there was delay in removing the body of a COVID patient from the ward even a couple of hours after the death. They also said that the hospital workers who removed the body did not wear personal protective equipment. “They had come with just a pair of gloves and mask,” one of them said. Meanwhile, Personal Assistant (Rural Development) to Virudhunagar Collector, Poongulali, succumbed to COVID at the medical college hospital on Saturday. Earlier, a health inspector, Alagumuthu, of M. Pudupatti died on Friday. A woman Sub-Inspector of Police, Lakshmi, died at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Saturday night. A police source said that she was a 1997-batch police constable attached to the VI Battalion of Tamil Nadu Special Police here. She was admitted to the GRH on May 5 after she tested positive and had severe lung involvement. Two more deaths  Two more deaths on Sunday took the COVID death toll in the district to 260. Two men — one aged 38 and the other 65 — succumbed to the infection at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-more-beds-set-up/article34523656.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports nine more deaths, 2,509 new cases||A total of 2,509 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The Health Department said that the district had 11,731 active cases of the disease and 1,705 persons recovered from the disease on Sunday. The district’s death toll increased to 759 after the department on Sunday notified nine more deaths. As per the media bulletin, eight persons died of COVID-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on May 6, 7 and 8 while one person succumbed to the disease at a private hospital on May 8. According to the department, the district had 701 non-oxygen beds, 42 oxygen beds and 12 ICU beds reserved for COVID-19 patients remaining vacant as of Sunday evening. A total of 438 beds remained vacant in COVID Care Centres. The district on Sunday received 11,200 doses of Covishield which were distributed to government-run medical colleges, GHs and primary health centres. Tiruppur district had 3,218 active cases, which included 641 new cases reported on Sunday. A total of 461 persons recovered from the disease. The district’s death toll increased to 253 after a 74-year-old woman died at CMCH on May 5. Tiruppur district had 123 non-oxygen beds, 99 oxygen beds, nine ICU beds and 326 beds in CCCs for COVID-19 patients remaining vacant as of Sunday evening. Erode district reported 691 new cases, taking the tally to 26,701. While 557 persons were discharged, 3,966 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the death toll to 173. In the Nilgiris, 151 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 10,933. The number of deaths in the district increased from 51 to 53 on Sunday. As many as 639 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 344 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 216 cases were reported. As per bulletin, seven persons died at private and government facilities in Salem. A 53-year-old man died at Namakkal. In Krishnagiri, 485 indigenous cases were reported. In Dharmapuri, 353 indigenous cases were reported. In Krishnagiri, three persons died at private and government facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-nine-more-deaths-2509-new-cases/article34523545.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Greetings to mom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/greetings-to-mom/article34523531.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bedi to head Chennai Corporation||Former U.S. President Bill Clinton spent a day with him in Cuddalore, overseeing the tsunami relief work, and lauded the initiatives while writing in The Washington Post in December 2006. As a secretary to the government, Mr. Bedi has overseen policy-making in agriculture, animal husbandry, dairying, fisheries and rural development for the past 10 years. He has handled the 2005 and 2015 floods and the subsequent floods and cyclones in Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Kanniyakumari. Mr. Prakash headed the Corporation for more than two years, having taken charge on February 21, 2019. During his tenure, projects such as the Rs. 150-crore command and control centre, installation of smart poles with facial recognition cameras and privatisation of solid waste management in many zones were implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bedi-to-head-chennai-corporation/article34523507.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The damaged stretch of road to Maruthai hamlet on Pachamalai hills warrants prompt attention of the district authorities. The stretch to an extent of over two kilometres has been in a poor condition for long. The road being narrow, motorists fear being knocked down when heavy vehicles pass by. Farmers who struggle every day to transport their produce expect the authorities to respond without delay in consideration of their plight. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti    Many Islamic scholars have ruled that being vaccinated for COVID-19 will not invalidate the fast in the month of Ramzan, reasoning out that it is administered as an injection and not orally or nasally. Prominent international Islamic academies have also declared that the COVID-19 vaccines in use do not contain prohibited animals or human derivatives and are permissible in Islam. This implies COVID-19 vaccines are halal. Vaccination should be encouraged during Ramzan. M.A. Aleem Tiruchi    In the era of globalisation, most of the people live in apartments. But, the residents are not doing enough to comply with the Standard Operating Procedures to prevent spread of COVID. In many apartments, sanitisers are not kept at the gate, and wearing of masks is not insisted upon for people delivering newspapers, milk, postal materials and gas cylinders. M. Raja Tiruchi    Though COVID-19 is a dreadful virus, prevention of the infection is affordable. Technology and money matter little for preventing the pandemic; a strong resolve to follow the safety protocol is what matters. People ought to realise that their carelessness affects unsuspecting people around. One should follow the safety norms on own volition and not wait for forcible enforcement. S. Raghavan Cantonment    Despite strong measures being taken by the Centre and States to overcome the crisis caused by the second wave of COVID-19, patients are apparently disheartened mostly due to baseless rumours. Efficiency of vaccines in use have been proved. The immediate need is counselling of COVID patients to instil confidence and courage. R. Pichumani Thippirajapuram    As in passport offices where trained ex-servicemen help applicants to fill in forms for a nominal fee, the government must make similar arrangement for the convenience of the public in the offices of Regional Transport Offices. Only then can the role of middlemen be eliminated. This kind of transparency is bound to boost public confidence in the Government administration. P. Kaliannan Tiruchi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34523892.ece
10 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Shettar says oxygen supply will be streamlined in three days||Oxygen supply system in the State will be streamlined in three-four days as the Union government has agreed to increase allotment, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Sunday. He was speaking to officers in Belagavi. According him, the Centre will increase oxygen allotment to the State in line with the Supreme Court judgment. Apart from this, the oxygen produced in Ballari that was allotted to Maharashtra has been re-allotted to Karnataka. To a query, he said that he would talk to Ministers in Maharashtra about curbs on oxygen transportation from Kolhapur to Belagavi. This will address the scarcity to a great extent, he said. He asked officers to allot enough ventilators to hospitals and see that they were staffed with skilled persons to operate them. However, it is the duty of government officers, doctors and others to see that only optimum oxygen is used in hospitals and it is not wasted. He said that the State government had allowed BIMS to appoint additional staff and asked officers to complete recruitment immediately. “We can have 822 additional beds in BIMS if oxygen supply is increased,” he said. Officers told him that the rate of infection in Belagavi district was around 28%. The district now has 6,380 active cases. Deputy Commissioner K. Harish Kumar said that district in-charge Minister Govind Karjol had informed him that Belagavi district was getting four more oxygen plants. They were expected to start functioning in a few months, he said. Mr. Karjol had also informed that Union Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda had promised to increase Remdesivir injection allotment to Karnataka. MLA Anil Benake asked officers to clarify their stand about supply of oxygen cylinders to NGOs and those in home isolation. Member of Parliament Mangala Angadi, officers and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shettar-says-oxygen-supply-will-be-streamlined-in-three-days/article34523575.ece
10 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NGOs oppose move to stop oxygen cylinder allotment||A group of NGOs has urged the State government to reconsider its order of stopping cylinder allotment to NGOs that were providing them to COVID-19 patients in home isolation or those in COVID care centres. NGO members Shubham Shelke, Surendra Angolkar, Santosh Dharekar, Shahnawaz Ali, Syed Amzad and others told journalists that the government’s move was anti-people and had to be reversed. “We have strong objections to the State government’s decision to withdraw oxygen cylinder allotment to NGOs. The government has withdrawn hundreds of cylinders given to NGOs who are fighting to save lives. On Saturday, hundreds of cylinders that were sent for refilling were returned empty,” Mr. Shelke said. He estimated that the NGOs were circulating over 500 cylinders and had saved several more lives. “No NGO is collecting any money from the beneficiaries. They are raising funds from the public to help the sick,’’ he said. “The government is not admitting enough patients in government hospitals and the NGOs are sharing the burden. If the government were to admit all the COVID-19 patients in the district government facilities or even COVID care centres, we will stop helping patients at home or those in the care centres,’’ Mr. Shelke said. He said that despite repeated requests, the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences was not admitting additional patients. The State government has insulted NGOs and cast aspersions on their motives. “These are unfounded. No NGO is here for publicity or for political reasons. We are here to help. The government should let us join the fight against the epidemic,” he said. He warned that such unscientific moves could lead to even more deaths in the coming days. He suspected that this move was a ploy by government doctors to shift patients to private hospitals. The State government should see through such conspiracies, he said . He said that Saif Memon, a doctor based in London who is providing tele-medicine services to COVID-19 patients free, has written to the government asking it to reverse this move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ngos-oppose-move-to-stop-oxygen-cylinder-allotment/article34523574.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Muslim youths targeted by BJP legislators to be reinstated||The 17 Muslim youths who were asked to stay away from work after they had been targeted by BJP MP Tejasvi Surya in the alleged bed-blocking scam will be reposted for duty in the coming week, multiple sources said. Tulasi Madineni, Special Commissioner, BBMP, South Zone, said they would get their jobs back, but it was left to the agency they work for to decide where they would be reposted for duty. However, when contacted, the agency, Crystal Infosystems and Services, which is contracted by the BBMP to provide personnel, refused to comment on the issue. Ayesha, one of the staffers in the South Zone war room, said while they had been assured of getting their jobs back, there was no clarity on where they would be posted. “Preferably, we want to be posted back to the SouthZone war room, as that is where we were unfairly targeted for no fault of ours and removed from work,” she said. Mr. Surya and three BJP MLAs had stormed the war room last week and live-streamed an “expose” of an alleged bed-blocking scam. Mr. Surya read out the names of 16 Muslim youths and questioned their role in the scam. The personnel, along with another staff member who was from the same minority community but had not been named publicly, were asked not to report to work. The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police who are investigating the case let them go as they did not find any evidence of their involvement. However, the firm insisted that they would be reinstated only after the police gave them a clean chit. This decision was criticised as the same treatment was not meted outto the remaining staffers in the war room, many of whom had been questioned by the police. “We were falsely accused solely based on our religion. In a way, we were asked to prove ourselves innocent,” said one of the 17 personnel who had been targeted.  We were falsely accused solely based on our religion. In a way, we were asked to prove ourselves innocent. One of the 17 personnel who had been targeted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muslim-youths-targeted-by-bjp-legislators-to-be-reinstated/article34523474.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many industries confused about curbs||In the midst of the raging pandemic, several industries have declared holiday in Bengaluru and elsewhere. For instance, Hoskote Industrial Welfare Forum has said it is enforcing “a complete lockdown” till May 24, even though some industries are eligible to operate as per a Government Order. According to the order, manufacturing units of essential commodities, production units that require continuous process, and industrial units operating with in situ staff are allowed to operate. However, several other industries are confused about the lockdown restrictions and are approaching the government seeking clarification, while in some industries workers have been left to fend for themselves. “There is confusion about the lockdown. Even many of the non-essential industries have been allowed to work under pressure. On the other hand, the workforce is anxious about the pandemic,” said D.A. Vijaybhaskar, State general secretary, All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Karnataka. Mr. Vijayabhaskar said that while the workers and supervisors were being forced to work, the executives had the option of working from home. He also said there was no public transport to take the workers to the factories. Getting to work Another leader said they had workers calling over transport facility, as the movement of private vehicles has been banned. This is more so because the police have said that there would be strict action against those taking private vehicles this time. “Some workers have approached the police, who have clarified that private vehicles will not be allowed. So how will workers reach factories? There is one factory in Bommasandra that has asked workers to walk to its premises.” During the last announcement of lockdown too, there was confusion. Garment industries, which were initially not allowed to function, were finally allowed to function at 50% capacity. Sources said that ensuring that the gallop of the pandemic is stopped while there were concerns about the economy and the livelihood of workers was tricky. Meanwhile, labour unions, in a memorandum to the Chief Minister, have demanded several welfare measures for industrial workers, including free vaccination, establishment of SOP, public transport facilities, foodgrains of at least 10 kg per month, among others things, to those hit by the lockdown. “Not only is this a humanitarian crisis of unprecedented nature which requires your urgent attention and action, but it is also sound economics to ensure the economic well-being of the working class at this juncture,” said the AITUC memorandum.  Some workers have approached the police, who have clarified that private vehicles will not be allowed. There is one factory in Bommasandra that has asked workers to walk to its premises a labour leader   Not only is this a humanitarian crisis of unprecedented nature which requires your urgent attention and action, but it is also sound economics to ensure the economic well-being of the working class at this juncture AITUC,in memorandum to CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-industries-confused-about-curbs/article34523492.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Increments remain elusive for workers in State||While the pandemic has meant job loss for lakhs of workers, even those who have managed to retain their jobs in the organised sector have seen their annual increments being negotiated harder or getting protracted/stuck. “Most industries have been asking for special consideration, and the general tendency has been to seek a waiver on annual increments,” All India Trade Union Congress general secretary M.D. Harigovind told The Hindu . “Workers have lost wages and healthcare cost has gone up. The labour share in the employee cost has not gone up significantly,” he added. Mr. Harigovind said several industries in the automotive, engineering, and tool sectors have, in fact, benefited from the lockdown in Europe. “These sectors do not qualify for wage cuts. We are also aware that industries in some other sectors have been affected badly.” Acknowledging the delay in wage negotiations, Bengaluru Employers’ Association president B.C. Prabhakar said negotiations were being completed wherever possible. “Negotiations are happening based on the macro-economic parameters. In some cases, physical meeting is not possible and in some cases, industries are waiting and watching,” he said. “In certain industries, the managements are looking at surviving first.” Both industrial bodies and the trade unions acknowledge that the wages in some industries have, on an average, seen an increase of between Rs. 9,000 and Rs. 18,000 over a period of three years in large and medium industries. The hike is besides the Dearness Allowance increase. These were numbers arrived at after protracted negotiations. Mr. Prabhakar said the increase in DA was not being held back. Centre of Indian Trade Unions general secretary Meenakshi Sundaram said that several industries have informed workers that increments cannot be paid. “Even the lockdown wages are not being given. Industries are using this opportunity to reduce the labour cost, which is unfair,” he said. He added that workers too have made compromises in order to survive on a long term, given the current scenario. Mr. Sundaram said the cost per employee calculation is skewed as the ratio between permanent employee and contract employee has changed. “If you have 40% permanent employees, the rest are contract employees and their salaries differ greatly,” hepointed out.  Even the lockdown wages are not being given. Industries are using this chance to reduce the labour cost, which is unfair Meenakshi Sundaram, CITU general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increments-remain-elusive-for-workers-in-state/article34523493.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stricter lockdown from today||In the wake of a vicious second wave of COVID-19, the State enters a stricter two-week lockdown from Monday, which will be in force till May 24. However, the Bengaluru city police began implementing the rules on Sunday itself, and seized as many as 2,227 vehicles, including 1984 two-wheelers. The police also booked 23 cases against shops and commercial establishments for violating the lockdown norms. The entire city police force was deployed on the roads to ensure that people remained indoors. Many motorists who were caught driving without valid reasons were caned. “This was a milder version of the lockdown; from Monday there will be zero tolerance for violators,” said a police officer. The State is set to roll out vaccination for people in the 18 to 44 age group at select sites. To avoid confusion, the Health Department said that vaccination for this age group would be done for online registered beneficiaries only. The police will allow only those who have received a confirmation SMS to travel. However, people who were travelling to get vaccinated said they were stopped and questioned multiple times. A senior citizen who wanted to get his second shot before the lockdown said he found a vaccination site in a different locality from his area of residence. “I had no option but to drive there and the police kept insisting that I should get my shot in my ward. But the PHCs there had no stock. What am I supposed to do?” he said. He added that he was pulled up three times. “I have co-morbidities, and each time I rolled down my window to explain to the police, I kept wondering if I was increasing my risk of contracting the virus. I understand that the police are doing their job, but there has to be a better way.” A scooterist and a pillion rider were caned by the police after they stopped them near Fraser Town. The police later realised that the pillion rider was suffering from COVID-19 and was heading to a private diagnostic centre for tests. The window for essential services has been reduced to four hours from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., while milk booths, HOPCOMS and sale of vegetables on pushcarts will be allowed from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. The police have warned that even during this window, people have to buy essentials only in neighbourhood shops and not move out of the area on vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stricter-lockdown-from-today/article34523476.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Portal to provide info on beds in private hospitals launched||The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) on Sunday launched a portal — Search My Bed — which will provide real-time information on the availability of beds in private hospitals for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. This has been a long-standing demand from citizens who were otherwise forced to call up private hospitals or knock on their doors to see if there were any beds available for patients. Secretary of the PHANA Rajashekar Y.L. said that 95 private hospitals had already started providing real-time information on bed availability. “In the coming days, more and more hospitals will be enrolled and hospitals will be encouraged to display the data in real time,” he said. With this, citizens will have access to data on available beds with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) via the Central Hospital Bed Management System and the private sector (https://searchmybed.com). On Sunday, the portal showed that 1,699 beds were available; however, all occupied. “The portal will display the number of vacant beds available from registered private hospitals. Hospital phone numbers and the location map are also given,” he added. Hospitals have to update their data periodically as and when a patient is discharged or a bed opens up. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar, who inaugurated the portal virtually, said that once the new system was stabilised, it would be extended to other districts in the State. Need for transparency Citing discrepancies in the number of beds available now and data provided by the hospitals, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta called upon private hospitals to maintain transparency so that those in need could get timely help. Measures have been taken to increase oxygenated beds in the city by 2,000, of which 620 have been made available, he said, and added that remaining beds would be made available in two or three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portal-to-provide-info-on-beds-in-private-hospitals-launched/article34523475.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||War room staffer not involved in mismanagement: Police||The police who had booked a data entry operator at a war room in Anekal taluk, at the behest of the nodal officer in charge, for allegedly mismanaging bed allocation and causing the death of a patient have concluded that he was not involved.  During the course of their investigation, the police realised that the staffer,Babu Sadiq, had been trying to help a family in distress after the condition of their relative suffering from COVID-19 took a turn for the worse. The patient later died, following which the nodal officer of the Anekal taluk war room, Mahesh Kumar S.S., registered a police complaint.  Complaint A day after 17 Mulsim personnel from the BBMP South Zone war room were targeted in the alleged bed-allotment scam, Dr. Mahesh Kumar on May 5 filed a complaint with the HSR Layout police against Mr. Sadiq, accusing him of negligence of duty which led to the death of a COVID-19 patient. The police registered an FIR against the data operator under the Disaster Management Act and other Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In his complaint, Dr. Mahesh Kumar accused Mr. Sadiq of allotting two regular beds and an HDU bed to a COVID-19 patient in need of an ICU bed at three hospitals. The patient succumbed due to lack of treatment. “However, while investigating the case we found that Mr. Sadiq had done it at the insistence of the family members. There were no ICU beds available, and when he conveyed it to the distraught relatives they insisted he allocate the patient a normal bed. They said they would convince the hospital to provide an ICU bed,” said a police officer. He allotted them a bed as per their request, but the family failed to convince the hospital to get them an ICU bed as there were none available. They reportedly called Mr. Sadiq again and requested him to try with another hospital. He complied but in vain. The third time, he was able to find an HDU bed which the family agreed to, but they still could not get an ICU bed and the patient later succumbed. “He did not receive any money but was following the family’s requests. We summoned and questioned the family members to ascertain the facts, and cross-checked with another staffer before concluding that he was not guilty,” said a senior police officer. He added that they discussed the investigation with Dr. Mahesh Kumar and would file a report to the court concerned seeking further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/war-room-staffer-not-involved-in-mismanagement-police/article34523478.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committees set up in wards to tackle COVID-19 at local level||A day after the government’s announcement of the initiative, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has formed Ward Decentralised Triage and Emergency Response (DETER) Committees with the aim of managing the pandemic at the local level. Each of the 198 wards in the city will have a control room and triaging centre to address the needs of residents. Officials in each ward will work with residents’ welfare association, organisations, students, and volunteers to set up a ward control room, triage centre, and a micro COVID Care Centre. The Department of Health and Medical Education will appoint the staff needed for the triaging centre, which will be operational 24/7. N. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary (Revenue Department), said in a press release that lists of small hospitals, dental colleges and students should be prepared and teams must be formed to assign responsibilities of COVID-19 management. “The issues of bed allotment and late test results must be solved locally,” he added. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said decentralisation of zonal war rooms could help address the needs of COVID-19 patients. These details were hammered out at a virtual meeting chaired by Minister for Environment and Forest Arvind Limbavali who is in charge of the BBMP war room. Measures are being taken to curb the virus in line with Mumbai and Chennai, said Mr. Limbavali in the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committees-set-up-in-wards-to-tackle-covid-19-at-local-level/article34523473.ece
10 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Admit COVID-19 patients even without BU number: Ashok||Revenue Minister R. Ashok has warned of shutting down OPDs in private hospitals if they refuse treatment to COVID-19 patients without their BU number. Speaking to the media after paying a surprise visit to the R.R. Nagar war room in Bengaluru on Sunday, he said, “We will take tough action against private hospitals if they refuse treatment for want of BU number. I have directed all hospitals not to insist on BU number to provide admission.” He also said that 2,000 oxygen concentrators would be imported to the State, while a 100-bed COVID Care Centre will be set up in each Assembly segment. “A 100-bed makeshift hospital will be set up at Doddaballapur on a priority basis. A sum of Rs. 14 crore has been released under the State Disaster Response Fund for Bengaluru Rural district,” Mr. Ashok said, while directing officials to identify government land for setting up temporary crematoria at four places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/admit-covid-19-patients-even-without-bu-number-ashok/article34523489.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||47,930 new cases, 490 deaths||As the State prepared to go into a more stringent lockdown, it continued to report huge numbers in the concluding days of the partial lockdown too. On Sunday, as many as 47,930 new cases were reported (for Saturday, May 8), as the total number in the State inched towards the 20 lakh mark, standing at 19.34 lakh. The overall number of active cases is now 5.64 lakh. A total of 490 new deaths were reported, taking the toll to 18,776. The case fatality rate for the day was 1.02%. Bengaluru Urban, which reported 20,897 new cases, also saw 281 new deaths, taking the total number of fatalities in the city to 8,057. The positivity rate too maintained its upward trend at 32.71%. The number of tests was 1.46 lakh. Among those who have tested positive so far, 86 have been for the U.K. strain, six for the South Africa strain, and 62 for the double mutant variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/47930-new-cases-490-deaths/article34523479.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MP launches ‘Oxy Bank’||Tejasvi Surya, Bengaluru South MP, has launched a bank of oxygen concentrators to aid in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The bank, MP Oxy Bank, has 250 oxygen concentrator units. “We have seen that the condition of patients suffering from mild symptoms suddenly deteriorates when they are not provided oxygen in time. In this situation, it is important that we begin the treatment for them at home with the help of oxygen concentrators,” he said. A citizen suffering from COVID-19 can avail of an oxygen concentrator at home by dialling the COVID Raksha helpline on 080-61914960. The patient has to pay a refundable deposit of Rs. 3,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-launches-oxy-bank/article34523477.ece
10 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,KARNATAKA||COVID hospitals told to preserve Remdesivir vials||In an effort to curb illegal sale of Remdesivir injections used for treatment of critically-ill COVID patients, the district administration has instructed all hospitals, notified as COVID care centres, to properly preserve the vials of the anti-viral injections used in COVID-19 treatment for medical audit. Directions have also been issued to maintain record of administration of Remdesivir, the injectable drug, along with details of the hospitalised patients,sources said. The authorities have issued a set of instructions to COVID care centres, including six government and 20 private hospitals, in the district to put on display the details of the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of Remdesivir injections on notice boards. The move follows the recent incident of ‘diversion’ of Remdesivir injections from the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam allegedly by three employees of the major public healthcare facility to a private hospital. Complaints Complaints, if any, regarding excess charges in private hospitals can be lodged with the DMHO (9948530088), DCHS (9700931010), Drug Inspector (9849634754). People can contact the COVID control room at the DMHO’s office in Kothagudem on numbers 08744-241950 or 08744-246655.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-hospitals-told-to-preserve-remdesivir-vials/article34523486.ece
10 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Six COVID-19 deaths||Hassan reported 2,373 fresh COVID-19 cases and six more deaths on Sunday. With that, the total number of cases rose to 54,244 and the toll to 681. Of the dead, two were from Channarayapatna, one each from Arkalgud, Hassan and Sakleshpur. Of the fresh cases, Hassan taluk reported the highest of 1,010, Arsikere reported 308, Arkalgud 234, Holenarasipur 232, Sakleshpur 217, Belur 126, Channaryapatna 125 and Alur reported 108. So far, 38,093 have recovered and 15,470 are in treatment in the district.    Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar will visit Hassan to review the steps taken to tackle COVID-19 on Monday. He will visit the COVID-19 hospital and hold a review meeting with the officers of the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-covid-19-deaths/article34523581.ece
10 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Private vehicles not allowed to operate||Shivamogga Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad has said that the police will implement the lockdown strictly from Monday and nobody will be allowed to travel by private vehicles. The police will seize private vehicles and they will be released only after the end of lockdown. In a press conference in Shivamogga on Sunday, the officer said that if people wanted to purchase any essential items, they have to go by foot. “We will honour pass issued by the district administration only,” he said. The district police have set up 76 check-posts in the district. The staff at these check-posts will check all vehicles,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-vehicles-not-allowed-to-operate/article34523582.ece
10 May 2021||Hyderabad,KARNATAKA||NRI doctors pitch in to join the fight against COVID-19||As the country struggles to find even proper medical advice with an unprecedented rise in COVID-19 cases, five Telugu doctors and IT professionals in the United States decided to do what they have been trained for — serve the needy with their expert advice. The tele-health initiative is free of cost and is available from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. India time and Indian doctors from the USA and UK, who have enrolled for the service voluntarily will speak to the Indian callers and guide them with their medical advice in these distressing times. “Since we are working abroad and can’t write prescriptions for Indian patients, we are assessing the symptoms and reviewing their treatments,” says the Atlanta-based cardiologist Srini R. Gangasani, who started the eGlobalDoctors, a tele-health practice, along with four of his classmates from 1982 batch of the A.P. Residential School (Now TS Residential School) in Sarvail, Yadadri district. Dr. Gangasani says India is facing acute shortage of medical advice as doctors are over-stressed and patients are increasingly getting panicky. “Our volunteers get connected with those seeking medical help and extend their advice free of cost.” His four friends who came up with this initiative are — Dr. Amarendar Reddy (USA), Dr. Srinivas Gadikoppula (UK), Dr. Madhusudhan Reddy (USA) and Dr. K. Sambasivaiah (India). While the first three are from the TSRS Sarvail, Dr. Samba is from the APRS Kodigenahalli in Anantapur district. The response has been amazing ever since the service was started on May 3. About 120 volunteers from various time zones in the USA and UK are offering services in various Indian languages apart from English. As many doctors are not specialised in COVID-19 treatment all the participants went through a training session on the virus understanding and the needs of Indian patients, according to Dr. Gangasani, who also works actively with the Association of American Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI). How does it work? People in need of medical advice should log into ‘eglobaldoctors.com’ and fill up a registration form. Those who can’t register can seek help from volunteers sending their name, age and phone number to ‘coviddoctorhelp@gmail.com’ and one of the volunteers will help them to register once they join the Zoom link. Later, when they log into the website those who have registered will be automatically allotted a doctor and they can have a tele-consulting through the Zoom link. However, the service will be available from 6 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. Indian time. Dr. Gangasani says the AAPI is helping out in this initiative apart from Sewa, who have raised funds over US$ 2 million to provide oxygen concentrators and cylinders and ship them to India.  Since we are working abroad and can’t write prescriptions for Indian patients, we are assessing the symptoms and reviewing their treatments. Srini R. Gangasani, Atlanta-based cardiologist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nri-doctors-pitch-in-to-join-the-fight-against-covid-19/article34523381.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||Boy suffers burns during steam inhalation||A nine-year-old boy suffered 25% burns when he accidentally spilled hot water on him while trying to take steam. Doctors at Continental Hospitals, Gachibowli, said that the boy’s family members had a misconception that inhaling steam would kill coronavirus. He tested positive when tests were conducted during treatment. His mother too, tested positive. In fact, there have been three more cases of children who suffered burns in the past five months while inhaling steam. Though the burns were not severe, senior paediatrician and paediatric intensivist at the hospital Dr. Anjul Dayal said that parental education is important to preventing the injuries. The nine-year-old boy was rushed to the corporate hospital on April 16. After clinical examination, doctors found that around 25% of the body had severe burns in the lower limb region including his genitals. The boy was immediately admitted in the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) where there was a dedicated room for children diagnosed with COVID-19 requiring intensive care. Dr. Anjul said that a detailed treatment procedure was mapped out for the boy along with a multi-disciplinary team of specialists. The boy was treated for COVID through IV medications. Two weeks into the treatment, the boy and his mother are not displaying any symptoms of coronavirus and were discharged. “Taking steam inhalation is usually a home remedy for common cold and cough and upper respiratory tract infections. There is no sound scientific evidence to prove that taking steam prevents corona virus. However, if the steam is given to a child, it should be done under the supervision of elders and with all the precautions to prevent spillage of hot water which can cause devastating burns. Never leave children who cannot manage on their own in such circumstances,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-suffers-burns-during-steam-inhalation/article34523482.ece
10 May 2021||K.C. Deepika,KARNATAKA||Complaints of overcharging by some hospitals emerge||Karnataka was among the first States to announce free vaccination for citizens in the age group of 18 to 44 at government centres. But with its start getting delayed, some private hospitals went ahead and started inoculating those in this age group. However, a few days down the line, allegations are emerging of some of them charging above the price fixed by the government. Sources in the office of Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar confirmed that the price fixed for private hospitals was Rs. 600 plus service charge of Rs. 100 for Covishield, and Rs. 1,200 plus service charge of Rs. 100 for Covaxin. However, when contacted, the administration of one of the hospitals said they were charging Rs. 1,350 for Covaxin. The official did not comment further. Those who got the jab or are planning to were irked by the prices being quoted. Giridhur Sriraman, 26, who got vaccinated a few days ago, said, “I paid Rs. 1,350 for Covaxin. I think it is steep. I was lucky to be able to afford it,” he said. Aditya Ram, 29, is still searching for slots. “I was shocked to see the prices at private hospitals. A few hospitals are charging Rs. 850 for Covishield, others Rs. 1,350 and Rs. 1,500 for Covaxin. For two doses, people are going to end up paying too much. Initially, I paid Rs. 250 each for my parents to get vaccinated at a private hospital. For the second dose, I booked a slot at ESI hospital as the cost of the vaccines were Rs. 850,” he said, adding that he would prefer going to a government hospital now, though finding appointments may be difficult. Those who were trying to register after the State government’s announcement of vaccination for the age group at select government hospitals beginning on Monday, were left disappointed. “I live in Nagarabhavi and there are no government hospitals close by. No slots were showing in K.C. General, which is the next best option. When I checked private hospitals that are providing vaccination for my age group, there were no uniform rates even among the same hospital chain. For instance, one hospital was charging Rs. 1,350 for Covaxin. In another branch of the same chain, it was Rs. 1,000,” said Ganesh, 38. Small hospitals Smaller hospitals also expressed difficulty in being able to afford procurement of the doses. A doctor, on condition of anonymity, said, “We are not even getting enough doses for the second dose of the 45 plus age group. One of the companies manufacturing the vaccine told us we need to buy minimum 5,000 doses at Rs. 1,200 per dose. How many small hospitals can afford this? Only the big hospitals will be able to.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaints-of-overcharging-by-some-hospitals-emerge/article34523481.ece
10 May 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||K.B. Shanappa succumbs to COVID-19||Former Minister and Rajya Sabha member K.B. Shanappa, 83, passed away at Kalaburagi on Sunday. He had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted at the district general hospital after he developed complications a few days ago. He is survived by his wife, three daughters, and two sons. Born to a Dalit family at Ravoor village in Chittapur taluk, Mr. Shanappa grew as a Communist leader and was associated with the Communist Party of India (CPI). He led many workers’ struggles, especially at ACC Cement Factory and Shahabad Cement Factory in Kalaburagi district. He contested in the 1985 Assembly elections from Shahabad (reserved for SC candidate) as a CPI candidate and won. Mr. Shanappa later joined the Janata Dal and took on Congress heavyweight M. Mallikarjun Kharge in Gurmitkal (reserved for SC) constituency in the 1994 Assembly elections, but lost. He was inducted into the J.H. Patel Cabinet as Excise Minister, but lost the post within six months as he could not become an MLC within the stipulated time period. In 2004, he joined the BJP. He was elected to the Rajya Sabha in 2006, and was later nominated to the Karnataka Legislative Council in 2012 and remained a member till 2018. He quit the saffron party and joined the Congress in 2019 ahead of Lok Sabha elections and campaigned extensively in Kalaburagi for Mr. Kharge. A voracious reader, he was considered to be a rare intellectual in political circles of Kalyana Karnataka He has written a novel, titled Anantha , focusing on the struggles of a poor labourer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kb-shanappa-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34523497.ece
10 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Untreated sewage threatens a perennial Pachchanadi Thodu||While citizens have little choice but to live amid sewage carrying Raja Kaluves that were once live streams, Mangaluru City Corporation’s deliberate act of letting untreated sewage into a perennial stream on the outskirts of the city has not only been killing the stream but it is also feeding the masses sewage-mixed drinking water. The stream, flowing in the valley between Airport Road and the Moodbidri highway, perhaps, originating near Kudupu hills, passes through Bondel, Pachchanadi, Manjalpade and Padushedde before joining the Phalguni (Gurupura) in the upstream of Malavoor vented dam. The dam is the source of water for the multi-village drinking water scheme catering to Bajpe, Moodushedde and other villages. Till about six years ago, crystal clear water flowed in the stream, called Pachchanadi Thodu, throughout the year except during the monsoon, recalled Raviraj, a resident of Bondel. As waste at the Pachchanadi dumping yard kept on piling up, massive leachete from the dump began to join the stream following the natural gradient, Mr. Raviraj noted. If this was not enough, rapid urbanisation in the region also contributed to the stream’s pollution with households letting out domestic discharge in open drains that joined the stream. The worst part, Mr. Raviraj said, is that the corporation also is letting out untreated sewage from parts of the city through the Pachchanadi wet well directly into the stream. The malfunctioning Pachchanadi Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) from where the Dr. K. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama too gets treated water could not receive raw sewage which was being let out into the stream, he said. District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari had in June last announced that he would get Rs. 5 crore from the government to improve the working of the sewage treatment plant. However, it is yet to be done. The Minister quoting local residents as saying had said that raw sewage was joining the Phalguni too thereby making life miserable. Mayor Premananda Shetty said that he is also doubtful whether the STP has been made functional. “I have directed the Deputy Commissioner (Development) to look into the issue and take appropriate action,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Shetty added that existing streams should not be allowed to become sewage canals and the city corporation would make serious efforts to stop pollution of the Pachchanadi stream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/untreated-sewage-threatens-a-perennial-pachchanadi-thodu/article34523572.ece
10 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC exam: Teachers are now just a call away for assistance||To help Class 10 students for the SSLC examination when there is restriction on movement of people, the Department of Public Instruction in Udupi district has provided the mobile phone numbers of 72 teachers to answer queries. “On an average, there are about 10 calls to each teacher in a day since the beginning of the service on May 4,” said Deputy Director of Public Instruction N.H. Nagur, who initiated the facility, which will be available till June 20 when the SSLC examination is scheduled to begin. Mr. Nagur said though students have been asked to call between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m., calls are coming throughout the day. The questions relate to aspects such as theorems and equations in science and mathematics. There are questions regarding the pattern of question paper. There are also calls by students expressing their anxiety about the examination, he said. While 15 teachers each are for mathematics and science, there are 12 each for social science, English and Kannada. There are six teachers to answer queries related to Hindi. This new facility is in addition to monitoring of students by the teachers. All the 13,338 students writing the examination have received model question paper sets. The slow learners were being asked to focus on aspects that help in getting passing marks. Teachers have visited houses of students and solar lights have been given to homes that do not have electricity connection, Mr. Nagur said. WhatsApp video Meanwhile, to motivate students in their preparation, Block Education Officer of Puttur from Dakshina Kannada district, C. Lokesh, has sent a video to students on WhatsApp. Apart from explaining the importance of the SSLC examination, Mr. Lokesh has given tips that will help in getting better prepared for the examination. This video is in addition to motivational letters he has sent to the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-exam-teachers-are-now-just-a-call-away-for-assistance/article34523586.ece
10 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Police adopting humane approach in enforcement of lockdown guidelines’||While refusing to go into stray incidents of police using lathis to send away people assembled outside HOPCOMS stores to buy fruits and vegetables here on Sunday, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that the police are adopting a humane approach in enforcing the guidelines. During his one-hour-long interaction with people through the Mangaluru City Police Facebook page and N. Shashi Kumar CP Twitter account, Mr. Kumar said that there were clear instructions from the top brass of the department not to use force. “I cannot go into specific instances of use of force to clear the crowd gathered at public place. Please do not create circumstances that force us to make use of lathis,” he said. When a citizen told him that people may have to make use of vehicle to reach grocery and vegetable shops, Mr. Kumar said that the police have been sensitised on such aspects. While strictly enforcing the guidelines, local police have been given freedom to allow movement of people in two-wheelers when the nearest medical shop or grocery shop is about 5 km away. The police are allowing online food delivery boys to operate beyond the permitted time of 10 p.m. during the weekend curfew when there is a genuine reason. While asking people to come forward to help those in the neighbourhood in need of food and medical treatment and tests, Mr. Kumar said that the police will not allow anybody to roam around in the city citing this reason. The police have not issued any pass for political and other organisations and action will be taken to seize vehicles of all such persons who are roaming around without a valid reason. Courts have been asked not to release these vehicles till the end of lockdown. Mr. Kumar said that instances of bed blocking, medicine hoarding and other irregularities can be reported on Ph: 112 Emergency Response Support System.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-adopting-humane-approach-in-enforcement-of-lockdown-guidelines/article34523580.ece
10 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Allow dairy farmers, milk dealers to use vehicles’||The Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Union (DKMUL) has urged the State government to allow milk society members to use vehicles to supply milk to their societies. In a statement here, DKMUL president K. Raviraj Hegde said that members supply milk in quantities ranging from 5 litres to 150 litres twice a day in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. Restriction on the use of vehicles would seriously jeopardise the supply chain and hence, they should be allowed to drop milk using vehicles twice daily, he said. Similarly, KMF dealers, numbering 1,750 in the twin districts, have to visit their outlets in the night to receive supply for the next morning. As such, they too should be allowed to use vehicles. In the alternative, the respective district administrations may make arrangements for dairy farmers and dealers, Mr. Hegde suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/allow-dairy-farmers-milk-dealers-to-use-vehicles/article34523577.ece
10 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tender coconut abhishekam at Subrahmanya temple||Udupi District BJP workers arranged for abhishekam of 1,008 tender coconuts at the Muchlukodu Sri Subrahmanya Temple in Udupi on Sunday. The abhishekam was organised to ward off the ill-effects of COVID-19 infection and give strength to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for taking the country through this difficult period, said a statement from Udupi District BJP unit. The abhishekam was performed in the presence of Sri Sugunendra Tirtha Swamiji of Puthige Mutt, Sri Vishwaprasanna Tirtha Swamiji of Pejawar Mutt and Sri Vidyadheesha Tirtha Swamiji of Palimar Mutt. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat, Udupi District BJP president K. Suresh Nayak and Chairman of Coastal Development Authority Mattar Rathnakar Hegde took part in the event to which the general public were barred entry. A statement from Pejawar Mutt said that people from across the country made donations for conducting the abhishekam. An amount of Rs. 12,000 from the donation will be given to Neelavara Goshala to take care of one cattle for a year. A sum of Rs. 10,000 each from the donation amount will also be used to give scholarship to two poor students. An amount of Rs. 5,000 each from the donation amount will be given to two ambulance drivers providing free ambulance services in Udupi, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tender-coconut-abhishekam-at-subrahmanya-temple/article34523579.ece
10 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||People may use vehicles to buy essentials||Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Sunday said that people may use vehicles to buy essentials during the 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. window and return home by 10 a.m. during the fortnight-long lockdown that becomes effective on Monday. However, as far as possible, people are advised to visit nearby shops by foot and avoid using vehicles, Mr. Kumar said in a statement here. Even though the district administration has asked industrial establishments in the region to make transport arrangements for their employees, staff of those establishments which could not make such arrangements may travel in their own vehicles after showing their identity cards. Some establishments have arranged for vehicles to transport their employees, the Commissioner said. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra issued an order on Sunday in view of Friday’s order from the State Disaster Management Authority and said essentials could be purchased only between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-may-use-vehicles-to-buy-essentials/article34523578.ece
10 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||World Red Cross Day celebrated||The 100th World Red Cross Day was celebrated by the Youth Red Cross of University College Mangaluru virtually on Saturday. Mangalore University Youth Red Cross Nodal Officer Ganapathi Gowda, Chief Guest, delivered the keynote address describing the origin and mission of the Red Cross. He defined Red Cross as the reflection of humanity and World Red Cross day is celebrated on the occasion of the birth anniversary of International Committee of the Red Cross founder Henry Dunant. Presiding over the programme, Principal Anasuya Rai, said that Youth Red Cross units have been set up in colleges to promote service-oriented mindset among the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/world-red-cross-day-celebrated/article34523587.ece
10 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man booked under POCSO||A resident of Kukke Subrahmanya was booked for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old Dalit girl. The police have taken him into custody. The Subrahmanya police said Arun, a resident of Yenekallu, was accused of sexually assaulting the girl in a room of a lodge in Kadaba taluk. The incident came to light when the girl went to a hospital and the doctors said she was pregnant. On the girl’s complaint, Arun was booked under provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-booked-under-pocso/article34523585.ece
10 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||ZAK seeks government assistance, public help||The Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) has approached the State government for financial assistance to help meet the dietary requirements of the animals. This is owing to the financial crunch faced by the zoos in the wake of the extended lockdown. B.P. Ravi, Member Secretary, ZAK, said the monthly expenditure for maintaining zoos at Mysuru, Bannerghatta, Shivamogga, Belagavi, Hampi, Gadag, Kalaburagi, Chitradurga and Davanagere is nearly Rs. 5.5 crore, covering the dietary requirements of the animals and the staff salary. Though Mysuru zoo used to be self-sufficient because of the high visitor footfall and the resulting gate collection apart from revenue generated through animal adoption programmes, the same was not true with regard to other zoos. Ajith Kulkarni, Executive Director, Mysuru zoo, said it used to be funded by the government till 2002 after which it embarked on a path of self-financing schemes including the animal adoption programme. Last year, when the zoo was closed during the first wave of the pandemic and tourism came to standstill, Rs. 4.5 crore was realised by way of animal adoption. The drive was launched by the district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar and it helped the zoo tide over the crunch situation. Mr. Kulkarni said Mysuru zoo has 1,450 animals and birds drawn from almost 160 species.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zak-seeks-govt-aid-public-help/article34523467.ece
10 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Patient found dead in Mysuru care centre||A COVID-19 patient, who was undergoing treatment at the Trauma Care Centre on KRS Road in Mysuru, ended his life on Sunday. Nanjanraj, Dean of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, who is the nodal officer for the centre, said the patient was admitted about three days ago. He was on oxygen support, but was found to have committed suicide in the toilet on Sunday. Doctors described the patient, Devaraju, a resident of Azeez Sait Nagar here, as “disturbed”. Meanwhile, Mysuru registered 1,854 COVID-19 cases on Sunday.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patient-found-dead-in-mysuru-care-centre/article34523471.ece
10 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,KARNATAKA||District schools turn COVID care centres||K. Anjaiah (name changed) is in his 40s and lives in Sangareddy town. Recently, he was diagnosed with COVID. But, living in a single room house with his family, he was at a loss on how to isolate himself from others. He is one among the 11 COVID patients in isolation at a school being run by Seva Bharathi at Saraswati Sishumandir in the outskirts of the district headquarters town. The centre was started in the school closed for last few months. Eight attendants of the patients are also staying in the school, and they are being given breakfast, lunch, dinner and a glass of milk everyday, free of cost. There are about 16 wash rooms, out of which half are allotted only to the patients. “There are several patients from middle class and below middle class families who do not have proper isolation facilities at home. We are offering this to serve the needy,” said A. Ambareesh, coordinator of the service. Earlier, the District Education Officer issued orders that schools in villages could be transformed into isolation centres. In the neighbouring Siddipet, a night shelter at the district headquarters was transformed into a COVID care centre by the district authorities, as directed by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao. Here, about 60 persons can be accommodated and already 40 have been taking shelter. Similarly, Babu Jagjivan Ram Bhavan is being used as a shelter for COVID patients. Together, these can accommodate about 170 people. Also, in Kondapaka, the BC Residential School provides isolation to COVID patients. The village has about 100 infected patients. Now, the panchayat is planning to supply food to the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/district-schools-turn-covid-care-centres/article34523483.ece
10 May 2021||SIDDIPET,KARNATAKA||Vemulaghat slipping into history||Slowly and surely, Vemulaghat village is succumbing to the change that is coming along the time line. This village is located in Toguta mandal of Siddipet district with a population of about 2,000. Soon after formation of Telangana, the government under the leadership of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao decided to redesign the proposed irrigation projects under Pranahita Chevella. As a result, the storage capacity of reservoirs has increased and for increasing the reservoirs’ storage capacity, the government went for land acquisition and most of the land were under G.O. 123. Feeling that they were taken for a ride, the villagers, inspired by the ongoing agitation in those days at the neighbouring Etigaddakishtapur, Vemulaghat villagers commenced their agitation and they were united for a long time. The village hit the headlines by holding relay fast from June 5, 2017, to July 24, 2019. This village is going to be submerged under Mallannasgar that is coming up in Toguta and Kondapaka mandals with 50 tmcft. A division took place among the agitators after former minister late Ch. Muthyam Reddy intervened and promised to them a compensation of Rs. 11.5 lakh per acre. This made the relay fast come to an end. It was alleged that part of that amount was not paid by the government. Still, there are 15 families which are yet to surrender their land to the government. About 80 families are fighting court cases regarding compensation and 53 aged women are yet to get compensation. For about 90 families belonging to the SC community, the government had paid compensation for houses. Their houses were being dismantled for the past few days and it was reportedly completed on Saturday. “The last family from our community is vacating the village on Saturday. With this, the relationship with the village will snap for ever,” Y. Narasimhulu, one the villagers, told The Hindu . “This is pressure tactics by the government to make all others in the village vacate,” said Y Srinivas Reddy of the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vemulaghat-slipping-into-history/article34523485.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Returning home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/returning-home/article34523470.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safety-first/article34523584.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||The grand epic Mahabharatha does not stop providing ready references to the present political churning, and BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath(in picture), at an interaction with the press in Mysuru, likened Health Minister K. Sudhakar to Draupadi. This was in the context of Dr. Sudhakar being divested of many COVID-19 responsibilities last week and them being fragmented and reallocated to other members of the Cabinet. “Just as Draupadi was disrobed in full assembly, Dr. Sudhakar too has been divested of his responsibilities,” he said. In the same media interaction, Mr. Vishwanath went hammer and tongs at the State government for its response to the pandemic, describing the Chief Minister as being “blind and deaf” to the developments in the State. Perhaps Mr. Yediyurappa was being equated with Dhratharasthra, the blind king whose love for his sons led them to the path of destruction. While many political leaders might fit the bill for different characters in the epic, and some cast Mr. Vishwanath himself as Shakuni, the scheming uncle of Duryodhana, there was one role that has eluded them — Yudhishtra, who epitomised truth and righteousness.   While the rest of Karnataka had, till now, a window of six hours to buy essentials, Dakshina Kannada shrunk the window last Thursday to just three hours, to between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. Added to this, the administration announced a complete lockdown for weekends. Only milk and healthcare facilities were made available during the weekend curfew. This move was taken in view of the increasing number in COVID-19 cases in the district. While even “enhanced restrictions” across the State will allow essential purchases till 10 a.m., the deadline will end at 9 a.m. in Dakshina Kannada, reiterated Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner. Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, chairman of the State authority, did not respond when asked to comment.   Who is responsible for the crumbling health infrastructure of Bengaluru, which has been contributing to more than 60% of the revenue of the State? The city has emerged as the epicentre of the pandemic, largely owing to half-hearted measures of the government. Lack of coordination and clash of egos among Ministers such as R. Ashok, C.N. Ashwath Narayan, K. Sudhakar and others seem to be adding to the problem. Irked by the “poor” management of the crisis by senior Ministers, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has allocated different tasks to senior Ministers and appointed Mr. Ashwath Narayan as head of the State task force on COVID-19. In the midst of all this, the High Court has stepped in and directed the Centre to augment oxygen supply to the State, but when this will lessen the misery of common man remains to be seen. Meanwhile, the “brand” of the IT hub seems to have taken a beating.  R. Krishna Kumar   Anil Kumar Sastry   Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article34523488.ece
10 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Harvested paddy to be procured||A virtual meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander on Sunday decided to hasten the procurement of harvested paddy in the district. The meeting was convened following a delay in the procurement process. Officials said that the entire harvested paddy kept in paddy polders would be procured in four days. Assistant directors of agriculture have been directed to initiate necessary steps to ensure rice mills procure paddy without delay. Farmers earlier alleged that mills were demanding more wastage citing high moisture content in the harvested paddy. This has resulted in friction between farmers and mills. The meeting entrusted assistant directors to hold discussions with those padashekara samithis who are at loggerheads with mills. Paddy farming has been undertaken in around 28,913.655 hectares in Alappuzha district in the 'puncha' crop season (first crop), a major portion of which is in Kuttanad. The Supplyco has so far procured 1.30 lakh tonnes of paddy in Alappuzha in the 'puncha' season. A total of 4,000 tonnes of harvested paddy are stored in various paddy polders awaiting procurement. Another 900 tonnes are expected to be harvested in the coming days. Rice mill Kuttanad MLA-designate Thomas K. Thomas said farmers were forced to keep the harvested paddy in polders due to a lack of proper storage facilities. He suggested setting up a rice mill in Kuttanad. Ambalappuzha MLA-designate H. Salam recommended the deployment of more agricultural officers for hassle-free procurement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/harvested-paddy-to-be-procured/article34523884.ece
10 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Plaint against commentator for ‘obscene remarks’||Rekha P. Mol, a Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activist who helped shift a seriously ill COVID-19 patient to hospital on a motorcycle at Punnapra last week, has lodged a complaint with the Punnapra police against Sreejith Panicker, a political commentator. In the complaint, the volunteer alleged that Panicker had published a Facebook post, referring to the incident, with obscene comments. The Punnapra police said that they had not yet registered a case based on the complaint. Saved life She along with Ashwin Kunjumon was lauded for saving the life of a 37-year-old COVID-19 patient from Ambalappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plaint-against-commentator-for-obscene-remarks/article34523686.ece
10 May 2021||Chennai,KERALA||Onus on Ministers to ensure lockdown: Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday tasked the Ministers with ensuring total implementation of the two-week lockdown from May 10. They should make sure that oxygen is used in a proper manner and its wastage avoided in hospitals. Chairing the first Cabinet meeting, Mr. Stalin asked his colleagues to keep tabs on the COVID-19 scenario and besides other things, monitor the sale of anti-viral Remdesivir and see to it that the medicine is not sold in the black market, a release here said. Remdesivir is being sold by the government in Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchirappalli, Madurai and Tirunelveli. Mr. Stalin said Ministers should ensure effective execution of lockdown in the districts assigned to them as compliance alone could contain the virus spread and bring down deaths. Also, patients should be given proper treatment and amenities, including food for doctors, nurses and patients, should be improved. In spite of several challenges, oxygen was being supplied to government and private hospitals and hence Ministers should ensure its optimum utilisation. To increase coverage of vaccination in all districts, awareness should be increased among the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onus-on-ministers-to-ensure-lockdown-stalin/article34523680.ece
10 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Strawberry farmers facing COVID-19 slump||The farmers of strawberry in Kanthallur and Vattavada have lost their entire crops of two consecutive seasons in the wake of the SARS-CoV-2 wave. Promoted by VFCPK (Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council, Kerala), many farmers turned to strawberry cultivation after a steady growth was seen in agri-based tourism in the two cool-season vegetable cultivating villages close to Munnar. Unlike other fruits, the shelf life of strawberry is one or two days. The farmers used to sell the fruits to the tourists reaching the farms and they got good prices for it. When the first wave of COVID-19 hit the State in March last year, the farm tourism was in doldrums. In the second wave, farm tourism was badly hit in the two villages. One of the attractions of the farmers to cultivate strawberry was that it was found congenial to the climate and soil condition in the region. The harvesting season of strawberry is from March to May. The cultivation of the fruit was first introduced in Munnar by the KDHP (Kannan Devan Hills Plantation ) Ltd over a decade ago with the aim to provide additional income to the plantation workers. The company produced value-added products and it was a success. The strawberry cultivation got a shot in the arm when Munnar grama panchayat promoted it among the farmers with a promise to procure the fruits. However, it did not materialise, as no follow-up action was done to procure from farmers or make value-added products. Many farmers in the two villages had also turned to strawberry cultivation after high-yielding varieties were introduced, expecting better prospects when tourism sector opened after the first wave. Now, the second wave had dashed their hopes. Shelju Subramanyan, a strawberry farmer in Kanthalur, said they used to sell a kilogram of strawberry at a price of Rs. 500 per kg. The tourists were happy that they got farm-fresh strawberries. “Now, there are no takers and we cannot sell it to the local vendors too,” he said. If the promoters of strawberry had made arrangements to make value-added products like jam or squash, the produce should not have been lost, he added. Also, no agencies had approached them, Chandrasekhar, another farmer, said. Horticorp, with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), opened a strawberry park at Munnar with the aim to promote farm tourism. An official of Horticorp said in the wake of SARS-CoV-2, the entry into the park was restricted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strawberry-farmers-facing-covid-19-slump/article34523630.ece
10 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Ventilators remain unused at hospitals in Kannur, Kasaragod||At a time when hospitals are facing a crisis owing to insufficient number of ventilators to treat COVID-19 patients, several ventilators supplied to government hospitals under the PM Cares Fund remain idle thanks to technical issues and non-availability of ventilator connectors and tubings in Kannur and Kasaragod districts. According to sources in the Health Department, non-availability of ventilator connectors and tubings manufactured by a company has resulted in the problem. The central oxygen supply has to be connected to the ventilator connector, which comes in cylindrical and hexagon shapes. Earlier, ventilators used to have universal connectors. However, the new connectors are not suitable for ventilators, and the company is yet to supply connectors, said a health official at the Kannur District Hospital. At the same time, non-availability of the required number of tubings has kept eight ventilators idle. As many as 36 ventilators are operational for COVID-19 patients at the Kannur Medical College Hospital. The eight ventilators supplied to the Thalassery Government Hospital under the PM Cares Fund have remained non-functional in the absence of suitable connectors. Similarly, seven ventilators were provided to the Kannur District Hospital, and three of them are not functional. In Kasaragod, as many as 30 ventilators were supplied, and they are not operational either due to improper connectors or delay in replacing tubings. Under the PM Cares Fund, 480 ventilators were supplied to the State in 2020. They include 320 invasive ventilators supplied by Bharat Electronics Limited and 160 by AgVa Healthcare. Kannur District Medical Officer K. Narayanan Nayak said the issue had been taken up with the company several times, but it had failed to provide the equipment. Dr. S.R. Dileep Kumar, general manager, Kerala Medical Services Corporation, said except for a few, all ventilators had been installed at hospitals. He added that there were some issues like absence of flow sensors. However, they were addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ventilators-remain-unused-at-hospitals-in-kannur-kasaragod/article34523660.ece
10 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Centralised control room abuzz with activity||A centralised control room and volunteer-driven software that began to take shape early in the trajectory of the pandemic in Ernakulam district, is now helping the district administration handle the surge in COVID-19 cases and allocate beds. The control room with large data-filled screens and monitors was buzzing with activity on a Sunday when the State is under lockdown and streets are empty. While the control room has only recently catapulted into the limelight, it has been functioning out of the Integrated Command, Control and Communication Centre at the JLN Stadium metro station for nearly a year now. The new addition is the oxygen war room that monitors the availability of oxygen at various hospitals. It runs on an open source software, Coronasafe Network, that began to be built by a team of volunteers in March last year, around the time that other countries were watching healthcare systems teeter beneath the weight of rising COVID cases. The software was introduced back then anticipating the sort of surge that the district is now witnessing. Hospitals in the district, including private ones, were introduced to the software, and data began to be collected on beds, ICUs, and ventilators available. A set of 30 to 40 people handle one part of the control room that verifies data from over 70 private hospitals and around 12 government ones. Updated data While hospitals directly enter data on bed availability onto the Coronasafe system, the staff at the control room monitor the data to ensure that it is regularly updated and correct. Another part of the control room comprises the ‘shifting team’ that negotiates with hospitals and attempts to make beds available for patients who need them. The third part of the control room is the oxygen war room that includes officials from the Motor Vehicles Department and Revenue Department, and will ensure that oxygen is mobilised for any hospital in need. Hospitals have been provided with a helpline to contact the war room in case of shortage, and staff at the war room will negotiate with suppliers. “The system is crucial for ‘load balancing’. If not for it, a district like Ernakulam, which has a small medical college hospital as a tertiary care facility, would have struggled to handle the situation a long time ago,” said Dr. Athul Joseph Manuel, secretary, IMA Cochin Chapter, who has been coordinating work at the control room. He points out that the system is useful if it is set in motion before the surge. Since the software was developed by volunteers who are still part of the team, it can be changed or updated based on need, which is how the oxygen supply module was recently introduced to address the possibility of oxygen shortage, Dr. Athul added. Patient card The system has a patient card with details of everybody who has tested positive. If the patient is to be transferred to a facility, the patient card, with all clinically relevant details, is sent to the receiving hospital in advance. If the patient is to be shifted, the patient card is marked for shifting. The centralised control room is bolstered by seven taluk-level control rooms and call centres in each panchayat. Once positive, a patient would call the panchayat-level call centre or field staff, and is triaged and categorised as ‘non-breathless’ or ‘breathless’, while ‘breathless’ is further sub-divided into ‘severely breathless’ or a ‘non-emergency’. Shifting to first-line treatment centres or domiciliary care centres is managed by the taluk-level control room, while shifting to tertiary care facilities is handled by the centralised one. The system is in place to ensure that patients do not have to run around to hospitals themselves for beds, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. “Both COVID and non-COVID bed occupancy status is collected from all hospitals. Oxygen production, transport, consumption, and balance available are monitored through dashboards to intervene in time. There might be delays, but the patient is transferred to the ‘correct’ bed using this system. Despite the massive caseload, we are still able to monitor the situation only because we have this war room,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centralised-control-room-abuzz-with-activity/article34523672.ece
10 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Police step up vigil at entry points into Kochi||The Kochi city police have set up pickets at all entry points into the city and at around 100 junctions within to inspect vehicles that pass through these points. A dedicated lane has been kept ready to enable unhindered movement of emergency vehicles. The number of jeep and bike patrols has been increased. Personnel on Janamaitri beat have been deployed to distribute essential supplies to needy people in containment zones. A few pharma firms are providing food and water to police personnel at picket points. The police have sanctioned travel passes to 300 of the 5,000 people who had applied online. A total of 82 cases were registered for violating COVID norms, while petty cases were charged against 139 people for not wearing mask and against 119 for not adhering to physical-distancing norm. Fifty vehicles too were seized. Vehicle inspection In Ernakulam Rural, vehicle inspections are being done at almost all junctions. The Aluva market will remain open till only 11 a.m. for wholesalers. Raids are on to curb illicit sale of liquor. A total of 234 cases were registered and 55 arrested for COVID curb violations and 160 were vehicles seized. Fines were imposed on 1,444 for not wearing mask and against 1,660 for violating physical-distancing norm. IMFL seized The Rural police intercepted a goods vehicle that was illegally ferrying 30 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), buried beneath plantain seedlings that were being brought from Tamil Nadu, following a tip-off. Vipin of Nedungapra and Suneesh of Aruvapara were arrested in this connection and the vehicle was seized. They had gone to Tamil Nadu with a load of pineapple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-step-up-vigil-at-entry-points-into-kochi/article34523675.ece
10 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bulk of CSML projects to get over by Dec.||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has set December as the revised deadline to complete its pending projects in the city and West Kochi, except the Rs. 100-crore project to reconstruct the Ernakulam Market. Of them, resurfacing of roads and corridors that are being upgraded as smart roads will be completed by May-end, before the monsoon begins, the agency’s Chief Executive Officer Jafar Malik said. The upgradation of roads constitute Rs. 300 crore, the biggest component from the total Rs. 1,000 crore allotted to the agency. Smart roads in the city hub and West Kochi are being upgraded using milling method, wherein the tarred layer is scooped out and relaid, to ensure durability and lessen quarrying to source aggregate. Approximately 70% of work undertaken by CSML to upgrade roads, drains, footpaths, and allied infrastructure is already over. Efforts will be made to speed up tarring work, taking advantage of the low traffic volume due to the lockdown. Smart road work in West Kochi suffered considerable delay owing to the inordinate delay on the part of the contracting firm in commencing work. While resurfacing and readying of drainage of all five smart roads are over, allied works are pending. A new firm will be awarded the contract to ensure that pending works are completed by October, Mr. Malik said. According to schedule, CSML’s mandate in Kochi will end in March 2022, unless the Centre extends it. Around 60% of works that the agency undertook have been completed so far, it is learnt. Ernakulam market The relocation of merchants to temporary stalls before work to reconstruct the Ernakulam Market begins is expected to be over by May-end. The new market is expected to be commissioned in the first half of 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bulk-of-csml-projects-to-get-over-by-dec/article34523668.ece
10 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||4,767 positive cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam district saw 4,767 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, and 10 health workers were among those who were infected. The test positivity rate (TPR) of the district is 28.51% when 16,723 samples were sent for testing on the day. A total of 67,210 people are recovering from the infection in the district. Thrikkakara recorded 185 new cases, Thripunithura 128, Kadungalloor 103, Alangad 100, Pallipuram 84, Payipra 82, Udayamperoor 81, and Elamkunnapuzha 79. One police officer and two CISF personnel have tested positive. The number of recoveries on the day stood at 3,393. A total of 414 patients are admitted in ICUs. Every local body must set up either a domiciliary care centre or first line treatment centre within three days, District Collector S. Suhas said at a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority. While 500 beds are being set up at the Refineries School, another 500 are set to come up at Adlux convention centre. In addition to the facility at the Refineries School, another 1,000 beds with oxygen supply will come up on the BPCL campus, according to a release from the district administration. The process to appoint doctors and nurses for these facilities will begin on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4767-positive-cases-in-ernakulam/article34523670.ece
10 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSEB bid to avoid confusion over bills||Apprehending a possible confusion over power bills of consumers in containment zones and areas where meter reading cannot be taken, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has asked consumers to seek the support of board officials to get an idea of their power bills. The board and the State government had found itself in a spot during the last lockdown period with hundreds of complaints of excessive power bills coming up. The field staff will take meter readings wherever its possible. In other places, the consumers can take the readings on their own with the help of the officials and pay the bills, said N.S. Pillai, Chairman, KSEB. Even if there are COVID-19 patients in a house, the field staff may take the reading as the power metres are installed outside the house. If consumers are apprehensive about letting the staff enter their premises, they can take a photograph of the meter reading and send it to the meter reader or the KSEB superintendent, who will let the consumer know about the power bill, he said. Average consumption If meter readings cannot be taken as scheduled, the average consumption for the previous billing cycle would be considered to generate the bill. The actual bill would be made available once the consumption is ascertained. The power consumption this lockdown would be lower than that in the previous one, which happened during peak summer, Mr. Pillai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-bid-to-avoid-confusion-over-bills/article34523682.ece
10 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Low interest gold loan to COVID-hit||The Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE), which has a gold loan business of around Rs. 3,000 crore annually, has announced gold loan at concessional rate and with minimum formalities for those infected with COVID-19 and their immediate family members. Chairman of the public sector finance company Peelipose Thomas told The Hindu on Sunday that the step was being taken to prevent COVID-19 patients and their families from being driven to informal moneylenders.  The Hindu report He said that the KSFE authorities had taken note of a report in The Hindu on how, in some States, an exorbitant rate of interest was being charged from those desperately seeking money for COVID-19 treatment. The KSFE would offer gold loan to the category at 5.5% a year, 2% less than the lowest rate of normal gold loan, he added. The upper limit for the loan would be Rs. 1.5 lakh. The scheme will open on Monday and the business hours is up to 1 p.m. “We have set aside auction of the normal chitties to ensure that gold loan applications in the category are attended to,” said Mr. Thomas. The loan was expected to be cleared in about 15 minutes. He said there would be minimum formalities for clearing the loan. The applicant should provide an identity proof as well as proof stating that he/she was an immediate family member of the COVID-19-affected person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-interest-gold-loan-to-covid-hit/article34523688.ece
10 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Corporation distributes food to street-dwellers||In the wake of the State-wide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Kochi Corporation has started distributing food to street-dwellers. The counter providing food to the homeless was opened at TDM Hall on Sunday. Food was already being packaged at TDM Hall for distribution to homes where people are in quarantine. On Sunday, the corporation distributed two meals to 200 street-dwellers and 2,200 COVID positive persons recovering at home. The corporation’s food distribution service has been functioning for around 18 days now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-distributes-food-to-street-dwellers/article34523669.ece
10 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Tourist buses from Kochi stranded in Bengal||Around 400 tourist buses that operated trips from Perumbavoor and other parts of Kerala to ferry migrant workers back to their home States are reportedly stranded in West Bengal, Assam and other places, following the lull in demand to return to Kerala. Workers cite the non-availability of jobs due to the prevailing lockdown in the State and the Ramzan season as reasons to postpone their return trips to Kerala. “Travel agents/bus operators used to charge a return fare of around Rs. 2.50 lakh per bus during the 2020 lockdown, when there was heavy and steady outflow of workers from Kerala. Buses could thus operate return trip to Kerala, even sans passengers, without suffering monetary loss. This is not the situation now, since the exodus out of Kerala is relatively lower. Most operators charged only around Rs. 1.25 lakh, the fare for single trip, on the hope that they would get passengers for the return trip. Sadly, this was not the case and vast number of buses and their crew are stuck there,” said Tensen P I, a travel agent. “The demand for return trip will gather momentum only after Ramzan and the lockdown in Kerala is lifted. Thus, around 15 of the 30 buses that we sent from Kochi are stranded in West Bengal. So we have temporarily halted trips to these States,” he added. The demand from workers was a blessing in disguise for tourist bus operators since many of them had opted out of service in 2020, due to cancellation of tour packages. Most buses have the AC option, but operate non-AC trips for around Rs. 3,500 per passenger (fare for Kochi-Bengal trip), in adherence to COVID norms. Passengers have to wear mask throughout the journey. Most workers opt for buses when they fail to get rail tickets which are priced Rs. 950 for sleeper class and Rs. 2,200 for AC sleeper up to Odisha, said Charu Gangai, a native of Odisha who is based in Kochi. The delay and other constraints in rail and road travel have prompted many workers to opt for flights to reach their home States, said Titus Etturuthil, owner of a travel agency. “They shell out a little more than the bus or AC train fare and take a flight to Chennai or Bengaluru, from where they take connecting flights to reach their destination, in around eight-hours time, unlike three or four days by bus or train, in which case they need to spend additionally on food.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourist-buses-from-kochi-stranded-in-bengal/article34523673.ece
10 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||10% quota to stay in Devaswom boards||The 10% economic reservation introduced in the employment in Devaswom boards of Kerala will continue uninterrupted, though confusion prevails in the State over the legal validity of the economic quota. The recent verdict of the Supreme Court in the Maratha case, which fixed an upper limit of 50% for reservation, had triggered confusion. The 10% economic quota was prescribed over and above the statutory 50% caste-based quota, thus taking the total reservation to 60% in the State. However, the order will have no bearing in the Devaswom boards as the 10% reservation provided for the Economically Weaker Sections is well within the 50% limit. The board had earlier allowed 32% caste-based quota and left 68% appointment in open merit. Along with the introduction of economic quota, the board reduced the quota in the open category to 50% and increased the total quota to 50%, said M. Rajagopalan Nair, chairman, Kerala Devaswom Recruitment Board. Additional quota The revised reservation scheme enabled an additional 3% reservation for Ezhavas taking the total allocation for the community to 17%. The quota for SC/ST was increased to 12%. The reservation pie of Other Backward Hindu Communities was increased to 6% while maintaining the quota of Viswakarma (3%), Dheevara and Hindu Nadar communities (1% each), he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-quota-to-stay-in-devaswom-boards/article34523678.ece
10 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Journalist succumbs to COVID-19||Chief Reporter of Matrubhumi News Vipin Chand, 41, a native of North Paravur, died at a private hospital here on Sunday. The death of the journalist occurred due to cardiac arrest, while he was undergoing treatment for COVID-19. He had earlier worked with Indiavision channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/journalist-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34523633.ece
10 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||2,390 positive cases in Kollam||The district reported 2,390 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 2,687 recoveries on Sunday. The new patients include 2,377 contact cases, four health workers, three NRIs, and six others who had travelled from different States. The number of persons who tested positive in Kollam Corporation is 549. The district currently has 37,827 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 11,70,197. While 1,968 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 2,18,269 primary and 16,374 secondary contacts of the patients. Kollam currently has two COVID second-line treatment centres (SLTCs) and eight COVID first-line treatment centres functioning in the district. Kottayam The district continued to report a sharp rise in fresh COVID-19 cases with 2,324 people testing positive for the disease on Sunday. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day was 28.7%. Of the fresh cases, 2,311 people contracted the disease through local transmission’. The new cases also included 265 children and 399 people aged above 60. With 357 cases, Kottayam continued to witness a sharp rise in cases, followed by Kanjirappally, which reported 125 cases. As many as 1,447 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total number of active cases to 16,922 while 58,113 others are under surveillance. Alappuzha The district reported 2,088 COVID-19 cases and 2,147 recoveries on Sunday. It also recorded two COVID-19 deaths. The fresh cases include 2,085 people who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of three others remains unknown. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 28.72%. Of the 2,088 cases, 253 were logged from Alappuzha and 114 from Thekkekara. Nooranad (88 cases), Kayamkulam (86), Aryad (85), Chennam Pallipuram (76), Mavelikara (69), Ambalappuzha (64), Mannancherry (55), Karuvatta (53) and Thazhakara (52) also reported a high number of cases. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 25,850. On Sunday, the police registered 42 cases and arrested 23 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 762 people for not wearing face masks, 633 people for violating physical distancing norms, and 10 people for violating quarantine norms. Pathanamthitta Meanwhile in Pathanamthitta, 939 people tested positive for the disease on Sunday. Of this, 928 people contracted the disease through local transmission. With 65 cases, Pathanamthitta reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 45 cases. Two persons, identified as a 59-year-old Ezhamkulam native and a 67-year-old Adoor native died due to COVID-19 related complications. With 448 recoveries during the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 13,318 active cases while 28,674 people are under observation. The overall TPR in the district stood at 9.54%. ( With contributions from bureaus in Kottayam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2390-positive-cases-in-kollam/article34523886.ece
10 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||NSS volunteers to join in COVID containment efforts||NSS volunteers of various higher secondary schools in the district will join COVID-19 containment efforts as part of Shalabhangal, a joint initiative of Health and Education Departments. Their service will be used for monitoring asymptomatic patients as 80-83% patients in the district belong to that category and are currently in home care. Apart from follow-ups, the students will also spread awareness so that the patients can recognise symptoms that can have dangerous consequences. They will help the patients monitor their oxygen saturation level, pulse rate and respiration rate to find any fluctuations. “They will be mainly looking for the red flags that include extreme fatigue, disorientation, respiratory distress and haemoptysis (coughing up of blood). People often ignore fatigue connecting it to food intake, but that along with low urine output are serious symptoms and the students will identify such patients who will be shifted to hospitals,” said an official. While the team of students will keep the patients updated about revised protocols , they will also provide support to those who are struggling with stress and depression by guiding them to professionals. “They will also advise the patients how to do proning exercises to improve oxygen levels,” the official said. The first batch of over 2,000 students were given an online training during the weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-volunteers-to-join-in-covid-containment-efforts/article34523885.ece
10 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||COVID treatment facilities to be augmented||As the rise in COVID-19 cases continue unabated in Kottayam, the authorities have begun augmenting the treatment facilities across the district. According to officials, as many as 100 beds and 20 oxygenated beds will be added to the second-line treatment centre in Pala, which currently has the capacity to accommodate 105 patients. The number of beds in the Government Medical College (GMC) too will be raised. Besides augmenting the existing facilities, new treatment centres will be opened in Vaikom, Ramapuram, Kanjirappally and Thottakkad. Steps are also in place to open oxygen parlours in all first-line treatment centres. As per estimates, the two COVID -19 special hospitals in district are fast running out of capacity with almost 75% of the total beds available being occupied currently. The situation is far worse in the GMC where only 5% of the total beds are available. The second-line treatment centres in Kottayam , which has a total of 494 oxygenated beds, are also experiencing a surge in admissions. To tackle a prospective crisis in oxygen supply, the authorities have collected about 252 oxygen cylinders from the industrial units and of this, about 169 have been converted for medical usage. Efforts were on to collect more oxygen cylinders from the private parties, said M. Anjana, District Collector, Kottayam. Meanwhile, the oxygen plant established at the GMC has commenced trail operations and is slated for inauguration in a few days. The plant, which operates on PSA (pressure swing absorption) technology, will run round-the-clock and can generate 2,000 litres of oxygen per minute. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, the authorities have commenced efforts to augment the production capacity of the oxygen plant at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital. The plant, which currently has 12 manifolds on the control panel, will now operate with eight more manifolds and two more in the reserve. The district panchayat has embarked on a plan to establish an additional oxygen plant at the hospital, which is slated to be operational in six weeks. Meanwhile, the General Hospitals in Pathanamthitta and Kozhencherrry have been experiencing an unprecedented rise in patient admissions with just 15% of the ICU beds currently lying vacant. “The General Hospitals in Adoor and Thiruvalla have been put on a standby mode but the situation may go out of control if the number of active cases, which currently hovers around 12,000 cases, cross the 15000 mark,” said A.L. Sheeja, District Medical Officer. Taking note of the situation, the health authorities have approached the private hospitals to allot more ICU beds for COVID-19 treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-treatment-facilities-to-be-augmented/article34523882.ece
10 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No let-up in daily TPR in Kozhikode||Daily test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 remained high in Kozhikode district on Sunday though recoveries from the infection exceeded that of new cases for the second day in a row. The TPR rose above 30% in a large number of grama panchayats and municipalities in the past one week alone. The District Medical Officer said in a release that 3,805 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday, 4,341 others recovered, and the daily TPR was 29.65%. A total of 13,413 samples were tested. There were 3,741 cases of local transmission of the infection, of which 1,120 were in Kozhikode Corporation. Velam reported 176 locally acquired infections, Nanmanda 125, Olavanna 122, Vadakara 119, and Koyilandy 102. The daily TPR was above 50% in five grama panchayats. It was 69% in Thalakkulathur, 62% in Kayanna, 60% in Olavanna, 58% in Narippatta and 52% in Azhiyur. In other local bodies, it was between 11% and 45%. Only in Thikkodi and Koorachundu, it was low, at 7% and 5%, respectively. Data provided by the department show that over 30 grama panchayats and three municipalities had a TPR of over 30% between May 3 and May 9. They are Koyilandy, Ramanattukara, and Vadakara municipalities, and Chengottukavu, Cheruvannur, Chorodu, Eramala, Feroke, Kakkur, Kayakkodi, Kayanna, Keezhariyur, Arikkulam, Azhiyur, Chekkiad, Koothali, Kottur, Maniyur, Moodadi, Nanmanda, Nochad, Olavanna, Omassery, Panangad, Perumanna, Peruvayal, Thalakkulathur, Thamarassery, Thiruvallur, Thuneri, Thuraryur, Ulliyeri, Unnikulam, Vanimel and Velam grama panchayats. Meanwhile, the district administration set up a 13 kilo litre-capacity oxygen tank at the Government Medical College Hospital to meet the possible demand from COVID-19 patients. It was handed over temporarily by PK Steels and installed for free by the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society. Sources said that the tank was installed at the new building of the hospital constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana. A total of 6,92,828 people took vaccination in the district. As many as 5,39, 789 people took the first dose and 1,53,039 took both the doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-daily-tpr-in-kozhikode/article34523665.ece
10 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ration dealers seek benefits||The ration dealers in Kerala have requested the Union government to consider them on a par with COVID warriors, in view of the work undertaken by them in the pandemic situation. They have sought insurance protection being granted to COVID warriors and other benefits with retrospective effect. The request, in the form of a letter to the Prime Minister, comes in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19, and the risk the ration-dealers are facing while distributing essential groceries to the pandemic-hit population. The number of ration dealers and their helpers who are hit by COVID is increasing by the day. So far 16 ration dealers/helpers have succumbed to the disease in Kerala. “We are engaged in a very important duty of ensuring availability of food to all. Without this network, the COVID toll in the State would be much higher. We are taking a great risk, just like the health workers. We contract the disease on the line of duty,” said T. Muhammedali, general secretary of the All Kerala Retail Ration Dealers’ Association. ‘Many are asthmatic’ Around 80% of the ration dealers/helpers in the State are asthmatic, an occupational hazard, and hence, the effect of COVID on them could be drastic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ration-dealers-seek-benefits/article34523681.ece
10 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beypore, Vellayil harbours to remain closed till May 16||Considering harbour areas as high-risk zones, the operations of two more major harbours — Beypore and Vellayil — will be stopped in the district from Monday. The restrictions will be in place till May 16 with police surveillance. The decision was taken in consultation with local harbour development committees, boat owners and fishermen associations after noticing an uncontrolled rush and business activities in the harbours. Moreover, the existing critical containment zone regulations along the coastal area also prompted the authorities to adopt stringent regulatory measures. The Chombal harbour had been recently closed by the authorities following safety concerns raised by local body administrators. According to officials, there were many incidents of COVID-19 protocol violations. The closure was made subsequent to an inspection carried out by senior Revenue Department officers and the designated Incident Commander. Though there were recommendations to shut the Beypore harbour as well last week after some of the fishers tested positive for the virus, local harbour management committee members were not in favour of the move. Instead of a sudden closure, they had called for a regulated operation by permitting the entry of only those who carry a COVID-19 negative certificate. However, it failed to work out with the unexpected turnout of fishers and allied workers. Laders of Kerala Fishing Boat Owners and various fishermen associations said the operation of Puthiyappa and Koyilandy harbours would also be stopped as part of the already made agreements with the Fisheries Department. As it was for the safety of fishermen and other coastal families, there were no major oppositions to the proposal, they said. “Though Puthiyappa and Koyilandy harbours are functional now, heightened regulations have almost crippled the usual business activities. We believe that a temporary closure will come to the help of the Health Department to manage the critical situation,” said Karichal Preman, vice president of All Kerala Fishing Boat Owners Association. He said Fisheries Department officials had already explained the risk factors to all stakeholders in the sector and there would not be any opposition to proceed with the total closure during the lockdown period.  We believe that a temporary closure will help the Health Dept. manage the critical situation Karichal Preman All Kerala Fishing Boat Owners Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beypore-vellayil-harbours-to-remain-closed-till-may-16/article34523663.ece
10 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Excise Department launches help desks||Joining hands with other uniformed forces across the State to fight the pandemic, the Excise Department has started district-level special help desks which will deal with all emergency service requests from citizens. Those who are in need of transportation arrangement for vaccination or any other emergency needs can contact the department’s State-level help desk (04712-322825/9447178000) or district-level help desks. Separate help desks (9188458494/9495002270) have been constituted under the Vimukti de-addiction scheme for offering online counselling. Kozhikode Deputy Excise Commissioner Muhammed Newman says there has been very good response from the public after the launch of the district-level help desk (04952376762/2372927). “We are even getting calls from COVID-19 patients for hospitalisation and other medical support,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-department-launches-help-desks/article34523662.ece
10 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hike in fertiliser prices puts farmers in a spot||Farmers across the State who are grappling with the dwindling crop yield and price fall of agriculture produce have called upon Union and State governments to do something immediately to arrest the increasing market prices of fertilisers and chemicals. Leaders of major farmers’ organisations say the increasing farm input cost subsequent to the fertiliser price hike would take the ailing agriculture sector to a serious crisis. “NPK, one of the essential nutrient mixes, costs Rs. 35,500 a tonne. It was just Rs. 24,000 till very recently,” said Johnson Kulathingal, general secretary of Kerala Karshaka Union. The biggest crisis faced by small and medium farmers is the absence of beneficial subsidy schemes for them to beat the price fluctuations. Leaders of Indian Farmers Movement and Malayora Karshaka Samiti said the price hike of fertilisers could be controlled only by restricting the supremacy of private fertiliser giants in price fixing mechanism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hike-in-fertiliser-prices-puts-farmers-in-a-spot/article34523666.ece
10 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Migrant workers in need of help||Even as the Labour Department boasts of special consideration for migrant labourers, many of those who now stay back in various rural labour camps in Kozhikode district are yet to get medical attention or social support to overcome the pandemic scare. Though there is an increase in the number of daily COVID-19 tests, quarantine rules are hardly followed by workers owing to the absence of facilities in their camps. A district-level control room opened by the Labour Department to answer migrant workers’ grievances is also proving to be ineffective with less number of daily calls. Workers are even clueless about the launch of such a service. Language barriers have also hit many as they struggle to understand local arrangements and restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-workers-in-need-of-help/article34523677.ece
10 May 2021||Mangaluru,KERALA||Ash gourd farmer gets help from Australia||While the State government has said that agricultural activities would be unhindered during the lockdown, farmers have been talking of several logistical issues they have been facing in transporting and finding buyers. Sunil Shetty from Balkunje village in Dakshina Kannada is among the few farmers who has got help from afar to ensure that his entire lot of ash gourd crop did not go a waste. A Good Samaritan from Australia saved him from financial distress. Hotelier Sudhir Shetty, a native of Dakshina Kannada now doing business in Australia, has bought about 20 tonnes of Mr. Sunil Shetty’s produce through a friend, the Surathkal-based power system entrepreneur Kiran J. Bhandary. He asked Mr. Bhandary to distribute the ash gourd free of cost to those in need in the region. However, since offering ash gourd for free is regarded a taboo, Mr. Bhandary sold it at Rs. 1 a kg till Saturday. Mr. Bhandary told The Hindu that he shared a video of Mr. Sunil Shetty explaining his plight of spending over Rs. 50,000 to raise ash gourd crop on his one-acre plot and getting nothing in return. Mr. Sunil Shetty had lost his crop in January too because of heavy rains and sought assistance. His friend Mr. Sudhir Shetty saw the post and decided to step in. Ever since the restrictions kicked in, farmers have been posting distress messages on social media. A farmer from a village near Tumakuru posted on a Facebook group of agriculturists that he was prepared to sell ripe mangoes, which would cost Rs. 200 a kg in the market, at Rs. 60 a kg if someone was willing to buy them in bulk. He said it was difficult to get buyers as the window for commercial activities related to agriculture was too short to complete the entire process, from loading produce on vehicles to delivering it to wholesale traders and then to retail ones, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ash-gourd-farmer-gets-help-from-australia/article34523385.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital has 4,240 new cases||As many as 4,240 people on Sunday tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 from among 15,118 people who were subjected to COVID-19 testing during the last 24 hours, thereby registering a test positivity rate of 28% in the district. With 2,632 people recovering from the illness, the number of active cases stood at 38,079. Among the fresh cases, the source of infection was unknown in 454 of them. Five healthcare workers were among those who were diagnosed with the infection. Ten more people succumbed to the disease in the district, taking the death toll to 1,108 in the district. The deaths, which took place from May 4 to 7, were of five men aged 60, 50, 50, 44 and 41, and five women aged 75, 65, 65, 62 and 50. A total of 6,280 more people were placed in quarantine. The district administration has taken over the Chala Central School to rehabilitate vagabonds. The school building has been handed over to the secretary of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation to maintain the facility. Violations The City police initiated legal action against 744 people for COVID-19 violations detected until 4 p.m. These included 160 people booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. Another 546 people were caught for not wearing masks, while two were booked for flouting physical distancing norms. They were fined Rs. 2,74,000. Thirty six persons were booked for unnecessary travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-has-4240-new-cases/article34523638.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police for crowd control at vaccination centres||Police officials have been entrusted with a greater role in the functioning of vaccination centres in the district. The district administration’s move comes amid reports of large numbers of people turning up for the COVID-19 vaccine in various parts of the district. District Collector Navjot Khosa said that District Medical Officer had been directed to circulate the list of vaccination centres among the police officers concerned in advance. Adequate deployment The station house officer in each police station limit would be required to arrange adequate deployment for crowd control and compliance with the COVID-19 norms at the vaccination centres. These officers had been permitted to rope in the services of uniformed officers including police, Excise and fire force personnel as well as Samoohika Sannadha Sena volunteers wherever necessary. The health institutions that are scheduled to supply the vaccine would have to publish the number of doses that were meant to be administered on the particular day. Token system While a token system must also be put in place for the purpose, queues would not be permitted under any circumstances, the Collector said. Seating arrangements must be made available at the vaccination centres for those who had received tokens. The ward member or councillor concerned must provide necessary assistance in this regard. Support could also be sought from the ward-level committees or ward-level war rooms if necessary. The District Medical Officer had been directed to ensure adequate number of volunteers at such war rooms. COVID-19 vaccination would be conducted in 31 public health institutions in the district on Monday. While Covishield will be provided at most of these institutions, Covaxin would be administered at Fort Taluk Hospital, Coastal Speciality Hospital Valiyathura, and Amachal primary health centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-for-crowd-control-at-vaccination-centres/article34523639.ece
10 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A struggle to feed dogs during lockdown||Last year, during the lockdown when roads became deserted and markets and hotels closed, a few people were concerned that stray animals and birds, who depended on these for scraps, would starve. Then, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan acknowledged the gravity of the situation and called for the animals to be fed. Turning the tide His statement turned the tide, so to speak, as feeding animals became something that was no longer frowned upon. In fact, it generated quite a buzz. A year later, animal lovers are again hoping that the Chief Minister will speak up for the animals and their plight, for the situation seems to be much grimmer this time. People for Animals (PFA) secretary Latha Indira says they are not getting enough food this time around. “Yesterday, I got fish waste, sorted it, and gave it to the stray dogs. But I don’t know what I will do today.” Not easy It was not easy finding slaughter or chicken waste last year, but the PFA animal feeders managed somehow. The waste was then cooked along with rice in a kitchen set up in Sasthamangalam, and delivered in the city and even places as far away as Kachani and Aruvikkara. On a day, the PFA and its feeders were dropping off food for 750 to 1,000 dogs. Now, as fewer customers flock to slaughterhouses, they have scaled down operations, even putting up the shutters for a day or two in a week. PFA supplies This has affected the PFA supplies. A bigger worry though is finances. The feeders pay out of pocket for the meat waste and the rice fed to the dogs. And the PFA has been feeding dogs continuously for the past one year, says Ms. Latha. “We have not stopped since the first lockdown began, though it has been scaled down to 250-odd dogs. But we do not have the funds to buy meat waste and rice, employ a cook to prepare it, pay for fuel for the deliveries, and the driver. Neither do we get grants or many donations.” Much as they want, it is difficult to feed the dogs on the scale PFA desires. Unlike the city, there are many places such as Vizhinjam and Poovar where they do not have feeders and nor are they able to reach there. Yet, they have not given up. They are still delivering food to a handful of feeders so that the animals can be provided food. A simple solution to the problem is for people in a locality to feed hungry dogs like they would people, says Ms. Latha. Residents’ associations can do a lot in this regard. All it requires is kindness. It is also good from the public health viewpoint as once the dogs are fed and become friendly, they can be vaccinated and sterilised. Friendly dogs are not aggressive either, and help keep strangers away at night, she points out. Welcoming SPC’s orders She welcomes the State Police Chief’s (SPC) orders to police personnel not to block people feeding dogs. A word from the Chief Minister, she says, will be a shot in the arm for animal lovers as it will further increase acceptance of feeding stray animals. For now, it is a day-to-day struggle to fill their bellies.  On a day, the PFA and its feeder groups were dropping off food for 750 to 1,000 dogs in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-struggle-to-feed-dogs-during-lockdown/article34523644.ece
10 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||35,801 cases, TPR at 28.88%||Kerala reported 35,801 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, when 1,23,980 samples were tested in 24 hours. The average test positivity rate (TPR) in the State has been remaining steady around 28% for the past few days and registered 28.88% on Sunday. The active case pool of the State, which has crossed 4 lakh, now has 4,23,514 patients. While the State government continues to hold the narrative that the State has the lowest case fatality rate and that the rise in deaths is in proportion to the increase in case numbers, the fact remains that the absolute number of deaths have been rising steeply. From the daily average of 25-30 deaths, the number has risen to 60 in the State for the past one week. The last two days also saw huge admissions in ICUs and ventilators and these will reflect as a steep increase in mortality figures in another two weeks. The State added 68 deaths which had occurred over the past few days to the State’s official COVID-19 toll on Sunday, taking the cumulative toll of COVID-19 fatalities in the State to 5,814 deaths. This included 16 deaths from Thrissur, 14 from Kozhikode, 10 each from Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram, eight from Kannur, three each from Kollam and Wayanad, two each from Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha, while one death was reported from Malappuram. The number of COVID-19 patients currently being treated in hospitals in the State has risen to 31,430. ICU admissions ICU admissions had shown an alarming rise in the State for the past two days and a total of 2,528 persons are occupying ICUs across the State now, threatening to breach the health system’s capacity. A total of 1,249 COVID-19 patients are on ventilator support in the State now. At present, 10,62,625 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Sunday, 29,318 patients were declared to have recovered from COVID-19 and were let off from hospitals/institutions. District-wise Ernakulam continues to have the highest number of active cases with 67,200 patients, followed by Kozhikode (52,116), Thrissur (50,548), Malappuram (46,435) and Thiruvananthapuram (38,079). Three districts in the State have over 50,000 active cases while another five have over 20,000 active cases. Ernakulam also has the highest number of patients in hospitals at 4,593, while Thiruvananthapuram, with a much less active caseload than Ernakulam, still has 4,472 patients in hospital. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 4,767, Thiruvananthapuram 4,240, Malappuram 3,850, Kozhikode 3,805, Thrissur 3,753, Palakkad 2,881, Kollam 2,390, Kottayam 2,324, Kannur 2,297, Alappuzha 2,088, Idukki 1,046, Pathanamthitta 939, Kasaragod 766 and Wayanad 655 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/35801-cases-tpr-at-2888/article34523687.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||VSSC develops three ventilator models||Three mechanical ventilator models and a portable Medical Oxygen Concentrator (MOC), developed by the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) in Thumba as part of the battle against COVID-19, are expected to be ready for technology transfer by the month-end. Multi-disciplinary teams of space scientists at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) facility had begun working on the ventilator designs — named PRANA, SVASTA and VaU (read as Vayu) — following the outbreak last year. They should be ready for technology transfer by May-end, VSSC director S. Somanath told The Hindu . “Tests have been completed on the ventilator models, although the documentation is pending. The MOC is ready for technology transfer,” he said. Space Ventilator Aided System for Trauma Assistance (SVASTA) is designed to work without electric power. The system operates on compressed air and achieves different modes of ventilation through mechanical settings alone. The design of PRANA, an acronym for Programmable Respiratory Assistance for the Needy Aid, is based on an Ambu bag (a commercial manual respirator bag). PRANA delivers oxygen-rich air to the patient by automated compression of the Ambu bag using an actuator. VaU, a pneumatic circuit-based system expanded as Ventilation assist Unit, is a more ambitious project that eyes a low-cost, state-of-the art ventilator that can match the high-end, expensive ones in the market. VaU is a dual-mode ventilator that can work with either medical oxygen from or with ambient air. It can be used either as an ICU ventilator or as a portable or home ventilation unit. VSSC is collaborating with other ISRO centres on VaU. VSSC, the lead ISRO centre for launch vehicles, had taken on the ‘ventilator challenge’ in April 2021 following a surge in demand for the life-saving device during the first wave. The pandemic had forced ISRO to put off several space missions last year, which allowed the scientists to work on the ventilators. “A lot of the work was carried out on a ‘work-from-home’ mode during last year’s lockdown,” Mr. Somanath noted. Developed by VSSC, ‘Shwaas’ is a portable Medical Oxygen Concentrator (MOC) capable of continuously delivering enriched levels of oxygen that is present in the air to patients with respiratory problems or those requiring oxygen therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vssc-develops-three-ventilator-models/article34523392.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,500 prisoners to get 90-day parole||All eligible prisoners in the State will get parole for 90 days. Remand prisoners involved in just one case, who do not have any criminal background, and face charges that attract sentences below seven years will be let off on interim bail on furnishing personal bond. The decision was taken by a high-power committee on the basis of a May 7 directive of the Supreme Court to reduce the number of prisoners in crowded jails to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The committee, appointed by the Supreme Court, comprised Justice C.T. Ravi Kumar of the Kerala High Court, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, T.K. Jose, and Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services Rishiraj Singh. As per the decision, those granted special leave in 2020, those not convicted for anti-national activities and drug smuggling, male prisoners above 60 years, and women prisoners above 50 years will be granted parole. Mr. Singh said those granted two-week parole as per a State government order on May 5 would also be eligible for the parole as per the Supreme Court order. Mr. Singh said around 1,500 prisoners, including the 568 prisoners already released as per the May 5 order, will benefit, apart from 350 remand prisoners. The DGP has asked the prison heads to implement the order immediately. Orders have been issued to ensure that those being released confine to their homes following the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1500-prisoners-to-get-90-day-parole/article34523634.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Show-cause notice to private hospital for withholding body||District Collector Navjot Khosa on Sunday issued show-cause notice to a private hospital in Kattakada for withholding a dead body over the non-payment of COVID-19 treatment dues. According to an official release, the hospital, Neyyar Medicity, had refused to release the body of a 46-year-old man who died of COVID-19 allegedly due to the inability of his family to pay the bill amount of Rs. 4,44,808. Despite the intervention of the officials concerned, the hospital stood their ground. The relatives of the deceased also raised allegations that they were not provided clarity regarding the expenses as well as the patient’s condition during treatment. The show-cause notice required the hospital to furnish satisfactory explanation, the failure of which will lead to action being adopted under provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Dr. Khosa warned stringent action against private hospitals that refuse to hand over bodies for failure or delay in settling bills. The district administration issued an order invoking Sections 26, 30 and 34 of the Disaster Management Act to prohibit such practices. The order was issued close on the heels of District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu submitting a report regarding the issue that unfolded in Neyyar Medicity. “Such actions are inhumane. Very often, the families of patients find it difficult to settle exorbitant bill amounts charged by private hospitals. The onus is on the hospitals to ensure relatives are provided adequate understanding of the patient’s condition as well as the expenses at each stage of treatment,” the Collector said.  Relatives of the deceased allege they were not provided clarity regarding expenses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/show-cause-notice-to-private-hospital-for-withholding-body/article34523635.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for loan for SilverLine from external agencies||The National Institution for Transforming India (NITI Aayog), Department of Expenditure under the Union Finance Ministry, and the Ministry of Railways have accorded Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd. (K-rail) the nod for mobilising funds from multilateral and bilateral agencies for the 529.45-km semi-high speed rail ‘SilverLine’ from Kochuveli to Kasaragod. With this, K-rail, the joint venture between the State and Railways for cost-sharing rail projects, can ‘pose’ the loan request for availing itself of Rs. 33,700 crore as per guidelines of Asian Development Bank (ADB), Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), German Development Bank (KfW) and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Official sources told The Hindu that all funding agencies, except KfW, had informally confirmed their willingness to provide loan for the SilverLine. Funds The ADB has offered to make available loan in two tranches of US $ 4,500 million and US $ 499.50 million (Rs. 7,533 crore), AIIB US $ 500 million and JICA US $ 2.5 billion (Rs. 18,892 crore). KfW is expected to make available loan of US $ 460 million (Rs. 3,476 crore) for the ambitious project estimated to cost Rs. 63,941 crore as per current estimates. K-rail is hoping that it can secure US $ 4.46 billion (Rs. 33,700 crore) from these four lending agencies for the project. HUDCO loan Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO), a Union government enterprise, has sanctioned a loan of Rs. 3,000 crore. The Railway Board has said that the project is under its appraisal and that any loan agreement with JICA, ADB, AIIB and KfW should be entered into by K-rail only after approval by the Centre. However, it has been made clear by the board that the project has been accorded the in-principle approval by competent authority in the Ministry of Railways for taking up pre-investment activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-loan-for-silverline-from-external-agencies/article34523679.ece
10 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Changes in the offing in Cong.||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has formed a three-member panel to select the next head of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) in Kerala. The person selected thus will be the next Leader of the Opposition. Mallikarjun Kharge, leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha, will head the panel. AICC general secretaries M.A. Vaidyalingam and Tariq Anwar will assist him. The AICC team will arrive in the State post lockdown. The panel will meet elected legislators individually and seek their opinion. The AICC observers will send their recommendation to Congress president Sonia Gandhi who will take the final call. The ‘I’ group headed by Ramesh Chennithala dominates the CLP. Mr. Chennithala could continue in the post if he chose so. Precedence However, he might face the pressure of precedence. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy had quit as CLP leader after the UDF lost in the 2016 elections. There is a chance Mr. Chennithala might opt-out and take up an AICC-level responsibility. In that case, the ‘I’ group might plump for V.D. Satheeshan. The four-time legislator from Paravur had emerged as a strong counter to the LDF in the previous Assembly. The ‘A’ group, which is arguably in the minority in the CLP, might project Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan for the Opposition leadership. However, the faction has reportedly not staked any claim overtly. The AICC wanted a generational shift in KPCC leadership. It could also contemplate replacing Mullappally Ramachandran as KPCC president. If so, the processes would be separate to prevent a trade-off between the groups. The imperative to accommodate all social groups would also have a bearing on the decision. By some accounts, K. Sudhakaran and K. Muraleedharan were front runners for the KPCC chief’s post. However, the AICC always could impose a dark horse from New Delhi, a party person said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/changes-afoot-in-kerala-cong-legislature-party/article34523390.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ward panels to be strengthened||The Director of Panchayats has issued directions to strengthen ward-level committees to boost the government’s COVID-19 management efforts. The guidelines were framed on the basis of a meeting convened by the Additional Chief Secretary of the Local Self-Government Department. The Deputy Director of Panchayats have been tasked with ensuring such committees have been constituted in each grama panchayat. Teams comprising Performance Audit Supervisors will be formed in districts that have recorded high test positivity rates to inspect and assess arrangements in panchayats. Containment measures These panels have been directed to furnish reports regarding the functioning of ward-level committees, count of COVID-19 cases in each panchayat and details of steps adopted to expedite containment efforts by 12 p.m. on Monday. The Local Self-Government Department will also issue orders to ramp up testing and to make arrangements to transport people to testing centres in places that have been witnessing an alarming spread of the infection. Lists of people belonging to priority groups will be drawn up to ensure all assistance. While senior officials have been directed to provide details of panchayat secretaries who fail to undertake their responsibilities, those of nodal officers who have failed to assume postings in various local bodies will also be prepared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ward-panels-to-be-strengthened/article34523685.ece
10 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Beware of fire accidents’||The Health Department has issued a hazard warning to all hospitals, to take extra precautions to prevent fire accidents, as all hospitals are now handling huge volumes of medical oxygen. All government and private hospitals have been asked to prevent or minimise oxygen leaks through pipes, valves, and nozzles to reduce oxygen levels in the hospital environment. Faulty electrical systems should be repaired and operation of certain equipment should be avoided in the oxygen-enriched environment inside hospital wards. All hospitals should conduct safety audits at specified intervals. Most importantly, all hospital staff should be given proper training on maintaining safety protocols, the department has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beware-of-fire-accidents/article34523689.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Court order could have fallout, says KUTA||The Kerala University Teachers’ Association (KUTA) has come out in opposition towards the Kerala High Court order to quash the appointments made by Kerala University to 58 teaching posts. In a statement, KUTA general secretary A.K. Ampotti and president P.M. Radhamany said the judgment, which was bound to have consequences in the higher education sector, contravened a law passed by the Kerala Assembly in 2014 and regulations laid down by the University Grants Commission. The university had undertaken the appointment process in full compliance with the prescribed norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-order-could-have-fallout-says-kuta/article34523888.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New office-bearers for Malankara Catholic forum||P. Paul Raj (Marthandam) and V.C. Georgekutty (Muvattupuzha) have been elected the president and general secretary of Malankara Catholic Association, the laity organisation of Syro Malankara Catholic Church, respectively. The new office-bearers were elected at its annual conference. Inauguration The conference was formally inaugurated by church head and Major Archbishop of Thiruvananthapuram Cardinal Mar Baselios Cleemis Catholicos on Saturday, association office-bearers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-office-bearers-for-malankara-catholic-forum/article34523887.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Excise Department launches help desk||The Excise Department has launched a round-the-clock help desk at its Thiruvananthapuram excise division office to assist the district administration in COVID-19 management. The Excise authorities in association with the Health department will also provide counselling for those addicted to drugs and liquor. The help desk can be contacted on 0471-2473149.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-department-launches-help-desk/article34523631.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth killed in broad daylight||A youth was hacked to death by several men in broad daylight near Kadakkavoor on Sunday allegedly over a dispute relating to drug trade in the region. The deceased, Joshy, 37, of Manamboor, was murdered by a gang of at least 10 people in Kavalayoor around 9.30 a.m. While he made an attempt to flee to safety, he was chased and brutally wounded by the perpetrators. He was later declared dead at the Chirayinkeezhu taluk hospital. According to the Kadakkavoor police, the deceased was a history-sheeter who was involved in several criminal cases including murder, theft, burglary, and drug peddling. The police launched a man-hunt for his assailants on the basis of a statement provided by Joshy’s friend Thaha who was apparently witness to the incident. A long-running feud among drug lobbies was believed to have paved way for the murder, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-killed-in-broad-daylight/article34523640.ece
10 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for job fraud||The Kazhakuttom police arrested a Tamil Nadu native for allegedly defrauding another person after providing false promise of employment in the Railways. The accused, identified as Anu, 32, of Mangode in Kanyakumari, allegedly collected a sum of Rs. 6.21 lakh from the complainant, Ramjith of Kattakada, in multiple instalments after promising him a posting as junior engineer in the Railways. The accused person has been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-job-fraud/article34523641.ece
10 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||3,753 new cases in Thrissur||Thrissur district recorded a high test positivity rate of 31.34% for SARS- CoV-2 infection on Sunday. As many as 3,753 cases were reported while 1,929 patients recovered from the disease. All divisions of Guruvayur municipality and Kaipamangalam panchayat have been declared containment zones. Ten local bodies in the district have TPR higher than 50%. Athirappilly has the highest test positivity rate of 83.33%. According to official data, 3,730 people, including 12 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3753-new-cases-in-thrissur/article34523661.ece
10 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Control room set up at Penukonda||Considering the increase in the number of COVID cases in Penukonda Revenue Division of the district, Sub-Collector T. Nishanthi has set up a control room at Penukonda to receive complaints from the public. Helpline In a statement on Sunday, Ms. Nishanthi said people could dial: 8374057927 and get a response immediately. Availability of oxygen-supported beds was being keenly monitored, she said. She added that surveillance and control measures against the disease were strengthened to contain the spread and awareness programmes were being conducted in all gram panchayats with the Tahsildars and other office staff taking the lead. The second dose of the vaccine will be given in the district from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. everyday from May 11 till 31. None will be given the first dose, Joint Collector A. Siri said at a press conference in Anantapur on Sunday. People wanting to get the first dose must register on CoWin App and book a slot from June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/control-room-set-up-at-penukonda/article34523430.ece
10 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Supplied oxygen on humanitarian grounds’||Linde India has clarified that it does not have any commercial contractual obligation to supply Liquid Medical Oxygen(LMO) to Kumar Oxygen and Parvathi Agencies, the refilling units at Anantapur. It has debunked Kumar Oxygen’s claim that it had a 20-KL LMO supply contract. In a statement here on Sunday, it said: “In view of the urgency of the situation, we have been supplying them LMO over and above our government-mandated delivery on humanitarian grounds. From April 28 till date we have supplied approximately 78 tonnes. Even on May 7 and 8, we supplied 10.3 tonnes and 12 tonnes of LMO to Kumar Oxygen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/supplied-oxygen-on-humanitarian-grounds/article34523431.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka’s test positivity remains high||Karnataka prepared to go into a stricter lockdown, with another 47,930 COVID-19 cases reported on Sunday. There were 490 new deaths and active cases touched 5.64 lakh in the State.  Bengaluru Urban, which reported 20,897 cases, also saw 281 deaths. The test positivity rate (TPR) maintained its upward trend at 32.71%. The number of tests stood at 1.46 lakh. The State reported 86 cases of the U.K. strain, six South African and 62 double mutant variant cases. Kerala reported 35,801 new cases on Sunday from 1,23,980 samples. The average TPR, steady at around 28% for the past few days, registered 28.88% on Sunday. The active cases stood at 4,23,514. While the State government said Kerala had the lowest case fatality rate, and the rise in deaths was in proportion to increased case numbers, the absolute number of deaths was rising. From the daily average of 25-30 deaths, it was now 60. On Sunday, the State added 68 deaths: 16 from Thrissur, 14 from Kozhikode, 10 each from Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram, eight from Kannur, three each from Kollam and Wayanad, two each from Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha, and one from Malappuram. Andhra Pradesh reported 92 deaths and 22,164 new infections on Sunday, with a TPR of 21.01% from 1,05,494 samples. East Godavari reported the highest single-day addition of 2,844 infections. Telangana’s cases were less than 5,000 on Sunday, at 4,976 as testing dropped. The TPR was 8.99% from 55,358 samples. There were 35 more deaths reported. Greater Hyderabad added 851 cases, followed by 417 by Rangareddy. COVID-19 cases spiked in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, with 28,897 people testing positive, taking the total tally to 13,80,259. In the last 24 hours, the State recorded the death of 236 persons.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnatakas-test-positivity-remains-high/article34523387.ece
10 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow lockdown norms: Bengaluru police chief||Ahead of the fortnight-long lockdown-like restrictions starting from Monday in Karnataka, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Sunday urged people to strictly abide by the guidelines and warned of stringent action against violators. “I urge my fellow Bengalureans to follow the lockdown guidelines from Monday more strictly. We can only be successful in our fight against #COVID19 if we work together, Stay Home, Stay Safe!” Mr. Pant tweeted. The government announced lockdown-like restrictions from May 10 to 24 to contain the spread of COVID-19, as infections and related fatalities have shown a rapid rise. While the daily case load is about 50,000, the active cases are inching closer to the six lakh mark, reportedly the highest in the country. The cumulative fatalities have also crossed 18,000. With most hospitals in the State, especially Bengaluru, running short of beds, the government has announced that private hospitals should reserve 80% of beds for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-lockdown-norms-bengaluru-police-chief/article34523395.ece
10 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panic grips farmers after elephants kill watchman||In yet another incident of the elephants of the Bachelors’ Group attacking humans, a 75-year-old watchman at a mango orchard was killed when he reportedly tried to drive two elephants away from the field at Nettam village in Puttur mandal on Sunday. This is the third incident and first casualty in the eastern mandals in the last four months after a three-member Bachelors’ Group of elephants had crossed into Chittoor district from Vellore in Tamil Nadu in the first week of January. The trio has since been occasionally raiding the crops in the plain areas of Nagari, Puttur, Narayanavanam and Karveti Nagaram mandals and has taken shelter behind hillocks and sparse jungles. At present, one of the three elephants has got separated from the group, and is currently on the prowl at Kailasanatha Kona tourist spot at the foot of Nagari hills. The other two elephants are on the move criss-crossing the Karveti Nagaram and Puttur forest ranges. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor wildlife East) G.G. Narentheran told The Hindu that the elderly man, identified as Tupakula Chinnabba of Kalyanapuram locality in Puttur municipality, was on the night vigil when he heard the barking of dogs. Following the sound, he reached the spot to find two elephants. When Chinnabba reportedly tried to scare them away, without raising an alarm , he was pushed to the ground by one of the elephants, leading to his death. Action plan A few weeks ago, forest officials launched an operation with two kumkis (trained elephants) intending to drive the trio into the forests. An action plan was chalked out with an outlay of Rs. 10 lakh to tackle the issue. However, as the movement of elephants in Palamaner and Kuppam ranges grew, the kumkis were temporarily withdrawn .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panic-grips-farmers-after-elephants-kill-watchman/article34523383.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR orders appointment of 50k doctors||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has sanctioned appointment of about 50,000 MBBS degree holders for COVID duties on ad hoc basis to bring down pressure on health staff in the midst of a raging second wave of the pandemic. Doctors with MBBS degree, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists and other para medical staff must be appointed immediately for two to three months, he told an official meeting that was held to review the pandemic situation on Sunday. A release said Mr. Rao ordered respectable pay to all those who are to be appointed as they would be rendering valuable service to the State. They should be given weightage during appointment in regular government jobs in future. Those interested in joining the service could apply online by logging in to ‘https://odls.telangana.gov.in/medical recruitment/Home.aspx’. Mr. Rao also urged qualified nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians and para medics to come forth to render service. The release added that Mr. Rao decided to start super specialty hospitals in Warangal and Adilabad immediately, and appoint medical and health staff there. A 250-bed super speciality hospital of MGM Hospital at Warangal could start from the nearby Kakatiya Medical College campus and another such hospital of similar bed strength could commence at RIMS, Adilabad, immediately. ‘Release funds’ He instructed Principal Secretary of Finance, K. Ramakrishna Rao, to immediately release Rs. 36 crore for the facility in Warangal and Rs. 20 crore for the one in Adilabad. He asked officials to take steps to appoint 363 staff at the hospital in Warangal and another 366 personnel in Adilabad. Immediate action should be initiated for the recruitment of those 729 staff. During the review, Mr. Rao enquired about the availability of oxygen, beds, Remdesivir injections and other facilities at hospitals. He was told by officials that there was no shortage of oxygen supply. There were 7,393 beds available in government hospitals, along with another 2,470 beds fitted with oxygen lines and 600 beds with ventilators. Mr. Rao spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to brief him about the steps taken by the State government to contain COVID-19. He suggested that the rapid spreaders of virus should be identified and administered vaccine first. He wanted guidelines to be relaxed to include in a special category for vaccination cab drivers, auto drivers, bus conductors, cooking gas cylinder suppliers and workers who have to cover many places throughout the day for their daily work. The Union Minister promised to discuss the suggestion with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-orders-appointment-of-50k-doctors-for-pandemic-duty/article34523836.ece
10 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rs. 1,600 cr. earmarked for inoculation drive’||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Sunday said that the State government was ready to spend Rs. 1600 crore, the estimated amount required to purchase COVID-19 vaccines to complete the inoculation drive across the State. In a media conference held at his residence on Sunday, Mr. Kannababu dared TDP nartional president N. Chandrababu Naidu to take the initiation to lobby with the Bharat Biotech group to supply the required vaccines to the State government, instead of campaigning against the drive. “The State government has sought 4 lakh doses of vaccines from the Centre and earmarked Rs. 1,600 crore for the inoculation drive. However, the pharma companies are citing their inability to cater to the demand on time,” said Mr. Kannababu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-1600-cr-earmarked-for-inoculation-drive/article34523915.ece
10 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 private hospitals denotified||The State government on Sunday denotified 30 private hospitals as COVID-19 facilities after an audit on their performance and treatment facilities at the respective premises. “The hospitals have been denotified as they are unable to guarantee the prescribed treatment due to lack of infrastructure,” East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said. “As many as 52 designated hospitals, including government hospitals, will treat the patients from Monday,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-private-hospitals-denotified/article34523914.ece
10 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPDO suspended for violating jab guidelines||Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) K. Venkateswara Rao has been suspended for giving a priority to the people seeking the first dose of COVID vaccine over the beneficiaries whose second dose was due, in P. Gannavaram mandal of East Godavari district.  In an official release, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has said that Mr. Venkateswara Rao had distributed tokens for the first dose instead of second dose to the beneficiaries. The MPDO on Sunday allowed vaccination of the first dose of Covaxin, leaving the beneficiaries seeking the second dose to wait till the next drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mpdo-suspended/article34523432.ece
10 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curbs in village after it reports eight deaths||The East Godavari district authorities erected barricades at all the entry points to Gollavilli village in the Konaseema region, in which at least eight persons succumbed to COVID-19 within two weeks. By Sunday, the entry of outsiders has been banned into the village as per the COVID containment strategy. The district authorities have swung into action following an appeal by the residents to initiate measures to prevent COVID deaths in their village. Uppalaguptam Tahsildar G. Jhansi said that a temporary medical camp has been set up there to conduct COVID-19 tests based on the data of a door-to-door survey. The district authorities have attached the Uppalaguptam Primary Health staff to the village to provide medical aid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curbs-in-village-after-it-reports-eight-deaths/article34523926.ece
10 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dilemma over serving notice to TDP chief||The Kurnool I Town circle inspector who had gone to Hyderabad to serve a notice to TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday morning returned to the city on the instructions of the department higher-ups and the dilemma is continuing whether to serve the notice or not. Meanwhile, TDP leaders P. Ravi Kumar and D. James filed two separate complaints in I Town and III Town police stations alleging that Animal Husbandry Minister Sidiri Appalaraju had spoken in a similar way in a TV debate prior to Mr. Naidu about the N440K strain of COVID and that it was 10 to 15 times more virulent than other variants. The official is believed to have been asked not to serve the notice to Mr. Naidu, as a similar action would be required against the Minister. Also, the maintainability of the case in the courts was being checked and it is learnt the police were asked to wait till further orders. While the police were yet to file cases against the Minister , the TDP was getting ready to file one police complaint each in all the 14 Assembly constituencies of the district against Mr. Appalaraju on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dilemma-over-serving-notice-to-tdp-chief/article34523916.ece
10 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool to distribute 47,000 quintals of groundnut seeds||Kurnool district, which had witnessed a sharp rise in the area of groundnut sowing in 2020 kharif compared to 2019, proposes to distribute 47,000 quintals of K6 variety of seeds on 40% subsidy from May 17 at 491 RBKs in 31 mandals. Joint Director of Agriculture U. Umamaheswaramma told The Hindu that in 2020 the government had distributed 41,810 quintals of groundnut seeds to 48,223 farmers and the sown area was 94,498 hectares. “We propose to open registrations for subsidised seeds from May 10 (Monday) in 198 RBKs of the 31 mandals. Registration will open in 171 RBKs on May 17 and on May 25 in 122 RBKs,” she said. The process would be taken up in three phases and no thumb impression would be taken this time. Once a farmer gives his Aadhaar number and gets his requirement registered at the RBK based on his eligibility, they will get an SMS with an OTP and the amount to be paid for seeds to their number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-to-distribute-47000-quintals-of-groundnut-seeds/article34523433.ece
10 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. reports 2,500-plus infections||Coronavirus continued to rage across South Coastal Andhra Pradesh leaving 13 more patients dead and more than 2,500 persons infected in a span of 24 hours. The number of active cases crossed the 30,000-mark in the region as 1,574 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 980 in Prakasam tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. As a result, the overall tally crossed the 1.75 lakh-mark in the region, where the toll rose to 1,331 after seven patients in SPSR Nellore district and six in Prakasam succumbed to the virus during the period. Of this, Prakasam accounted for 675 deaths so far while Nellore district for 656 deaths. The persistent efforts of the health professionals in providing medical treatment to critical patients paid dividends as 1,620 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 395 patients in Prakasam recovered during the period. Recovery rate However, the number of fresh cases was higher by 500 when compared to those recovering from the illness. The overall recovery rate stood at 82.06%. Tokens to be issued Alarmed over a large number of people thronging the session sites to take the jab throwing to winds safety norms, health officials in Prakasam district decided to streamline the vaccination drive by issuing tokens to vaccine seekers. “All those who have taken the first dose of vaccine will be provided the second one on a saturation basis in May,” Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli. So far, 5.08 lakh doses of vaccine had been administered to people in the district. Meanwhile, a group of philanthropists from Singarayakonda led by YSRCP Kondepi Assembly constituency in-charge M. Venkaiah handed over a sum of Rs. 25 lakh to Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar to step up COVID control measures. In a nice gesture, a retired school teacher, P. Janardhan Reddy, from Kovur mandal gave Rs. 30,116 to SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu. “My small contribution will not go vain in the fight against pandemic,” he expressed confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-reports-2500-plus-infections/article34523435.ece
10 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Self health groups’ formed to help police personnel protect themselves from virus||In an attempt to prevent the police personnel who are coming in close contact with the public from contracting coronavirus infection, the Prakasam Police have launched several measures including a dedicated WhatsApp group to monitor the health status of the department staff and their family members. A sizeable number of the police personnel are contracting the infection in the line of duty disease including enforcing the curfew in force to check the spread of the virus. Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal said elaborate guidelines for police stations, staff and their family members had been issued. Among the preventive measures is ‘Police Family Self Health Groups’ (PFSHGs) with the concept of ‘all for one, all for all’. As part of the initiative, WhatsApp groups have been created with the personnel and family members through which their health status is being monitored by roping in medical officers and promoting COVID-safe behaviour. Random call “The COVID Family Welfare Desk randomly calls 50 personnel daily and monitor their health status. The latest updates related to the infection and various posts relating to information, education, communication activities are being shared among the WhatsApp group members,” said Mr. Kaushal. Apart from dos and don’ts, videos, infographics, vaccination sites, COVID designated hospitals and details of available hospital beds are also being shared. The group members are being sensitised on healthy diet, nutritional supplements, life saving drugs and etc. The success stories are also being shared among the SHFG members to help them cope with the pandemic crisis.  COVID-safe behaviour The SP also call the personnel and speak to their family members. Playing the role of level-1 mentor, the SP underscored the need for following the ‘Dasha Sutras’ and 'Pancha Sutras', a series of guidelines pertaining to COVID-safe behaviour that need to be followed by the personnel at their both at work and home. More than 150 family members of police personnel have been infected by the virus and nine of them are in a critical condition, sources said. Daily status report Taking a cue from the SP, 16 level-1 mentors including Additional SPs interact with the police personnel and their family members within 66 police station limits across the district. Fourteen Deputy SPs have been appointed as nodal officers to monitor the health status of 3,600 police personnel in the district on a daily basis and prepare daily status report. During his whirlwind visit of the busy junctions in Ongole on Sunday, Mr. Kaushal said the curfew was yielding a good result in the form of reduced number of new infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/self-health-groups-formed-to-help-police-personnel-protect-themselves-from-virus/article34523918.ece
10 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala police crack down on inessential travel||The State police actively dissuaded inessential travel on the second day of the COVID-19 lockdown on Sunday. Officers flagged down vehicles and challenged passengers to state their reason for travel. The clampdown will continue till May 16. The police allowed people with appointments at hospitals and COVID-19 vaccination centres. Citizens travelling to attend weddings and funerals of close kin were also permitted. The police fined and turned back persons they deemed had ventured out for frivolous reasons. Many bridled at such restrictions, resulting in heated arguments. The police had prepared a template for enforcing the lockdown. Officers followed the format. They had also devised a standard operating procedure to effect arrests and searches and questioned suspects during the pandemic. The government has opened exclusive dormitories to quarantine COVID-19-positive officers. It had vaccinated the entire force and deployed over 25,000 officers for lockdown duty. The police would operate in shifts. Members of the neighbourhood watch and civil defence aided the force. Officers also joined elected local body office-bearers and health workers to check on COVID-19 patients, patrol markets and ensure hotels and shops selling essentials followed the pandemic protocol. An official said an estimated 90,000 people had applied online for travel passes. Most requested permission for inter-district travel. Some wanted to return to their workplace in cities after the weekend. In contrast, others cited weddings and house warming as reasons for the trip. He said the law enforcement granted passes only to a fraction of the applicants. They allowed domestic workers and manual labourers to pass unchallenged. Officers set up checkpoints at inter-district borders. The police checked the number of persons at marriages held in auditoriums, hotels and homes. They required hosts to note down the particulars of attendees, including their address and mobile phone number. At State borders With Karnataka and Tamil Nadu heading to a lockdown, the State police held border enforcement meetings with their counterparts in the neighbouring States. They agreed to hasten the movement of freight, ambulances and vehicles carrying patients. The police insisted that travellers entering Kerala via road furnish a COVID-19-negative certificate. Forest, Excise and police stepped up border patrolling and inspections for movement of contraband, chiefly alcohol and marijuana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-police-crack-down-on-inessential-travel/article34523389.ece
10 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amara Raja resumes ops at Chittoor, Tirupati plants||Having secured the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s interim suspension of the orders passed by Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB), the Amara Raja Batteries Limited (ARBL) has resumed operations at its plants at Nunegundlapalli (near Chittoor) and Karakambadi (near Tirupati). Back in the saddle, the company has exuded confidence of meeting all its supply commitments. It has also assured its stakeholders that the temporary disruption caused during the last few days will not have any material impact on its operations or order book. “We have taken proactive measures to ensure that all our obligations to supply products and services to our customers are met in a timely manner without causing any inconvenience whatsoever. We are assessing the impact of the short-term disruption, and are gearing up to sufficiently cater to the demands of all customers and business partners,” a company spokesperson said. ARBL also announced to “continue to engage closely with the APPCB” to resolve any potential issues, referring to the board’s complaint on violation of environmental norms. The company reiterated its commitment to comply with all the regulatory requirements by placing highest priority on environment, the health and safety of its workforce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amara-raja-resumes-ops-at-chittoor-tirupati-plants/article34523919.ece
10 May 2021||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||As virus spreads to rural areas, focus turns to care centres||As COVID-19 continues to spread from urban to rural areas, the demand for oxygen-supported beds and COVID Care Centres has seen a surge, even as officials suggest home isolation to the mildly positive patients. Joint Collector (Health) S. Veerabrahmam directed the officials to ensure optimal utilisation of oxygen and prevent pilferage in private hospitals. Review meeting At a review meeting held along with Joint Collector (Welfare) Rajasekhar and Revenue Divisional Officer Kanaka Narasa Reddy here on Sunday, he pointed to the plan of action formulated by public hospitals like SVIMS and Ruia to avoid wastage and asked the private hospitals to take a cue. “Monitor patients once in two hours and shift those not requiring oxygen to general wards, so as to accommodate the other needy,” the Joint Collector said. On the other hand, political parties have once again raised a hue and cry over shortage of oxygen cylinders, ventilators and beds in the city. Former MLA and TDP leader M. Sugunamma said that the State government failed in ensuring oxygen as well as securing vaccines. The leader wanted testing and contact tracing to be improved to prevent the spread of virus. INTUC district leader P. Naveen Kumar Reddy demanded that the government establish five more quarantine centres in Tirupati on the lines of Padmavathi Nilayam in Tiruchanur, in view of the rush of COVID-19 patients from across the four districts of Rayalaseema. He urged the TTD to step in to convert its educational institutions, now lying vacant, into COVID Care centres. Help for sportspersons Meanwhile, the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports has come up with a humanitarian proposal to extend a helping hand to former international athletes and coaches in their fight against COVID-19. Touted as a joint initiative of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) and the Indian Olympic Association, the Centre has formed a national-level team to coordinate with the likely beneficiaries in every State. Any players infected with coronavirus can register their names at https://www.research.net/r/SAI-IOA-Covid-19. The Union Ministry will reach out to them,” said S. Subhan Basha, the secretary of the Kadapa Hockey Association and one of the two representatives from Andhra Pradesh in the national panel. ‘Convert stadiums into isolation centres’ As indoor stadiums and sports academies have remain closed without proper maintenance ever since the beginning of the pandemic last year, Mr. Basha requested the State government to convert them into isolation centres to meet the local needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/as-virus-spreads-to-rural-areas-focus-turns-to-care-centres/article34523436.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Priority to people due for second dose of vaccine, says Health Secy.||Health, Medical and Family Welfare Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal has said that the government will reach out to all those who are due for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine. “The District Collectors have been instructed to schedule vaccination drives at particular centres as per the due date and reach out to the beneficiaries through a door-to-door visit by the ward and village volunteers, SMSes and public announcement,” he told the media on Sunday. Mr. Singhal said that the authorities concerned had been told to make it clear that only those who were informed should visit the vaccine centre on the scheduled date to avoid the rush. “The Centre has permitted the State to utilise the doses purchased by it to vaccinate the people aged above 45 years and modifications to the CoWin app to facilitate the same will be done in two days. The State has purchased 3.5 lakh doses of Covishield and 1.42 lakh doses of Covaxin and those will be used to inoculate the 45+ group, once the CoWin app is modified,” said Mr. Singhal. Weightage for contract staff The contract staff who work at the COVID facilities will be given an advantage of 5% marks in government exams for every six months of service and the government has issued orders in this regard, he said. The State has 6,870 ICU beds and 23,259 beds with oxygen facility . More beds will be added as the process of registering the notified COVID hospitals under Aarogyasri has begun, said Mr. Singhal. The State got 561 tonnes in the past day, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priority-to-people-due-for-second-dose-of-vaccine-says-health-secy/article34523911.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex gratia announced for victims of quarry explosion||The State government on Sunday ordered a high-level inquiry into the explosion at a limestone quarry at Mamillapalle village in Kadapa district on Saturday, in which 10 workers were killed. The government also announced an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs. 5 lakh to each of the injured. In a statement, Mines Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said that the committee, comprising officials of five departments, was asked to submit its report in five days. Officials under the supervision of the Director of Mines and Geology inspected the blast site, he said, and added that negligence of the quarry organisers led to the explosion. “They did not follow the procedures while unloading the explosives. Action will be taken against the leaseholder as per the provision of the MMD&R Act of 1957 and the A.P. Small Minerals Guidelines of 1966,” the Minister said. Amid the suspicion over the likely presence of the remnants of the explosives, or gelatin sticks and detonators, a bomb squad reached the spot to sterilised the entire area around the blast site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-gratia-announced-for-victims-of-quarry-explosion/article34523921.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government targeting BCs for supporting TDP, says Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has alleged that the State government is working with an “ulterior motive of eliminating the TDP activists for questioning the rampant corruption in the State.” In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Naidu alleged that Srinivasulu, a party activist at Nidjuru in Kurnool district, was murdered for not supporting the YSRCP in the recent local body elections. “How can he be killed for not extending support in the elections?” he asked. “Members of the Backward Classes are being targeted for continuing to extend their support to the TDP,” Mr. Naidu alleged. “False cases are being filed against TDP leaders for questioning the illegal activities and corruption of the ruling party leaders. The police are making false arrests of the party activists,” he alleged. “While people are suffering of the spurt in COVID-19 cases, the Chief Minister is instigating his party leaders to resort to vendetta politics,” Mr. Naidu alleged. The TDP would stand by the family members of Srinivasulu in this hour of loss and pain, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-targeting-bcs-for-supporting-tdp-says-naidu/article34523922.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allocate Rs. 2,000 cr. to purchase vaccines, oppn. leaders tell govt.||Leaders of the opposition parties including the Congress, the TDP and the Left Parties on Sunday demanded that the Centre supply adequate stocks of vaccines to people of all age groups free of cost. At a virtual meeting coordinated by APCC president S. Sailajanath, the leaders said if the Centre failed to do so, the State government should allocate Rs. 2,000 crore for purchase of the vaccines and if the need arose, it should not hesitate to import the stocks from foreign countries. Alleging that shortage of medical oxygen was resulting in deaths of COVID-19 patients in the State, they demanded that the government hold talks with the representatives of the companies concerned on ramping up oxygen production. They said the oxygen produced in the State should first be utilised for the medical needs of the local population, before sending it to other parts of the country. Financial grant sought In view of the financial crisis triggered by the pandemic, the government should sanction a monthly grant of Rs. 7,500 to Rs. 10,000 to the COVID victims at least for six months. Their other demands included grant of Rs. 10 lakh to the kin of people who died of virus, Rs. 50 lakh to the families of the frontline warriors who did in the line of duty and inclusion of journalists in the list of frontline workers. The opposition leaders also wanted the government to take steps to ensure decent final rites of those succumbed to the virus, free distribution of essential commodities and financial aid to workers, farm coolies and small time private employees. It is time the government increased the capacity of beds to treat COVID patients by transforming college hostels into quarantine centres and PHCs into Covid Care Centres. They also demanded that the ceiling of the financial help under the Aarogyasri scheme be increased. All-party meeting The Opposition leaders urged the Centre to consider implementation of complete lockdown in the wake of an unprecedented surge in infection. Mr. Sailajanath said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should call an all-party meeting to discuss the pandemic situation and the road ahead, adding that the party would release a joint action plan on the pandemic soon. CPI(M) leader P. Madhu, CPI leader K. Ramakrishna, , TDP State president K. Atchannaidu, MLA N. Ramanaidu, party’s spokesperson K. Pattabhiram, Congress working presidents N. Thulasi Reddy, Mastan Vali participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allocate-rs-2000-cr-to-purchase-vaccines-oppn-leaders-tell-govt/article34523924.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘NHAI helping build 42 oxygen plants’||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is helping the State build 42 oxygen generation plants at hospitals across the State to address the shortage of medical oxygen for COVID-19 patients. In a release issued here on Sunday, Health and Family Welfare Commissioner K. Bhaskar said that the NHAI was at present executing work at four sites in Amalapuram, Madanapalli, Tadepalligudem and Hindupur. Mr. Bhaskar said that vendors were finalised for the remaining 38 sites, and works would begin following directions from the NHAI headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nhai-helping-build-42-oxygen-plants/article34523912.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||30-bed triage centre coming up at SMC||Krishna Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said a 30-bed triage centre for COVID-19 patients will be set up on the premises of Siddharta Medical College (SMC) in a couple of days. The existing triage centre at the dental college will be shifted to SMC and more facilities will be added. He said as most of the infected persons were seeking admission to COVID hospitals, the doctors at the triage centre would completely assess the patient's condition and refer them to a COVID Care Centre (CCC), COVID hospital or home isolation. He said CCCs were being supervised by doctors and other medical staff and all facilities had been provided. There are 3,036 beds at the CCCs in the district. 100 oxygen beds In addition to the beds in GGH, 100 oxygen beds are being arranged at Venue function call close to it soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-bed-triage-centre-coming-up-at-smc/article34523429.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case filed with ulterior motive, says Yanamala||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has asked the State government to desist from targeting the leaders of opposition parties, and instead focus on public health. In a statement on Sunday, he slammed the government for filing “false cases” against TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu. The cases were filed with an ulterior motive of diverting public attention from the government’s failure to control the second wave of COVID-19, he alleged. “Mr. Naidu has alerted the government on Kurnool district being the origin of the ‘N440K’ strain of the virus. Instead of taking measures, the YSRCP has resorted to politics of vengeance,” he alleged. “The YSRCP government should explain whether it is ready to file cases against the national media organisations and scientists for sounding an alert on N440K strain of the virus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/case-filed-with-ulterior-motive-says-yanamala/article34523923.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to rein in pvt. schools on fee collection||Members of the A.P. Private School Children Parents’ Association have complained that the managements of private and corporate schools and colleges have been fleecing them, in violation of the Supreme Court order that reduced fees should be charged for online classes. Association leader S. Hemanth Kumar said the managements had been insisting on collection of full fees and threatened that otherwise, they would not allow students to attend online classes. He appealed to the AP State School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Chairman Justice Kanta Rao to initiate suitable action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-rein-in-pvt-schools-on-fee-collection/article34523437.ece
10 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre released Rs. 387 cr. aid for A.P. villages’||The Union Ministry of Finance (MoF) released Rs. 387.80 crore to Andhra Pradesh towards the first instalment of untied grants to Rural Local Bodies (RLBs) for financial year 2021-22, according to a tweet by BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Sunday. Mr. Veerraju further said that the MoF had released a total grant of Rs. 8,923.80 crore to RLBs in 25 States, including the assistance to Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-released-rs-387-cr-aid-for-ap-villages/article34523925.ece
10 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district records 2,206 new COVID cases, 10 deaths||The total number of the COVID-19 cases in the Visakhapatnam district is racing towards the one lakh mark, with the district recording 2,206 new cases in the last 24 hours taking the total tally to 98,331. With the new cases, the active cases as on Sunday stood at 19,134. Before the second wave hit the district, the active cases as on March 1 were just 24. In the last 60 odd days, the district recorded close to 38,000 cases, with about 10,000 cases coming up in the last five days. The district also recorded 10 deaths in the last 24 hours, as on Sunday morning, taking the total death count to 698. In the last four days, the district recorded over 40 deaths. Meanwhile, the number of discharges on Sunday morning was 919, taking the total discharges to 78,499. ‘Vaccine shortage’ The district has been seeing a spike in cases in the last one week, averaging around 2,000 cases per day and recording about 60 deaths. Senior officials from the Health Department say that the spike might continue till the last week of May and may see a flattening thereafter. But they say that the flattening of the curve depends on the vaccination drive, which they say has to improve. There is a shortage of vaccines both for the first and the second jabs and there is a need for increasing the allocation, said a senior doctor, engaged in COVID care. Another senior doctor from the KGH pointed out that the Union government should have accorded permission to Pfizer when the company had approached to market its product. “The ideal scenario would be to open up the vaccines for all, make vaccines available freely and complete the inoculation, at least the first dose, as fast as possible. Only then we can break the chain of spread,” he said. Two centres opened Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that two COVID Care Centres have been opened at Bakkannapalem and Pineapple Colony. There are 600 vacant beds at the centre at Pineapple Colony and 800 beds at Bakkannapalem Hudhud housing colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-records-2206-new-covid-cases-10-deaths/article34523934.ece
10 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT announces merit scholarships||Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) has announced GV Merit Scholarship and Rajeswari Ammal Merit Scholarship for undergraduate and postgraduate non-engineering programmes in the university. VIT Chancellor G. Viswanathan announced that the scholarships are aimed at supporting candidates enrolling for programmes such as BBA, B. Com, Law, B.Sc., B.A. and PG programmes from the academic year 2021-22.  VIT-AP Registrar C.L.V. Sivakumar said that the last date to apply for admission is May 31, 2021. Interested persons can visit the websitewww.vitap.ac.inor e-mail toadmission@vitap.ac.inor call on the mobile no. 7901091283 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-announces-merit-scholarships/article34523930.ece
10 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Provide treatment to VSP contract workers’||The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has sought treatment of contract workers affected by the COVID-19 at the Visakha Steel General Hospital (VSGH). In a letter to the Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma recalled that there were around 16,000 contract workers, employed in various departments of the steel plant. They were working on par with the regular employees and contributing to the growth of the plant, he said. It is not an exaggeration to conclude that, without their hard work, the plant could not have reached many milestones, be it production, productivity or turnover, Mr. Aja Sarma added.Mr. Aja Sarma noted that the prestige of the VSP will be in jeopardy when the plant could not give proper treatment to its own workers. He appealed to the CMD to immediately consider giving treatment to contract workers at the VSGH along with the other staff as a primary responsibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-treatment-to-vsp-contract-workers/article34523929.ece
10 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special train to continue||The Railways have decided to continue the operation of 06598/06597 Howrah–Yesvantpur – Howrah special, considering the requirements of passengers. Due to the complete lockdown announced by the Odisha government on May 10 and 11, the Visakhapatnam-Raipur-Visakhapatnam special will be cancelled. Train no. 08528 Visakhapatnam-Raipur special trains, leaving Visakhapatnam on May 10 and 11 are cancelled. Similarly, 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam special trains, leaving Raipur on May 10 and 11 are cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-train-to-continue/article34523931.ece
10 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP: relay hunger strike continues for 87th day||The relay hunger strike, being undertaken by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, continued for the 87th day at the Steel Plant arch at Kurmannapale here on Sunday. Addressing the gathering, Steel Plant CITU leader D. Pandey expressed anguish that the number of steel workers, succumbing to COVID-19, was increasing by the day. He demanded that the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) management take preventive measures to check the spread of the virus. He said that the VSP, which was meeting the liquid medical oxygen needs of Andhra Pradesh and other States, should hold discussions with the State government and increase availability of vaccine for the steel plant workers. Porata Committee chairman Adinarayana, leaders Neelakanta, M.R.K. Prasad, M.N. Reddy, Ramu, Srinu, Satyanarayana, K. Sudhkar, Narsinga Rao, Bujji Babu and Govindu were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-relay-hunger-strike-continues-for-87th-day/article34523932.ece
10 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor fire breaks out at bank branch||A minor fire broke out at a public sector bank branch near Poorna Market in the One Town area here on Sunday, but it was extinguished within a short period by the Fire Department personnel. According to the District Fire Officer Ram Prakash, the fire reportedly broke out due to a short-circuit and there was no major loss of property. One fire engine was rushed from the Suryabagh fire station and the fire was extinguished within an hour. The loss will be ascertained by the bank officials on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-fire-breaks-out-at-bank-branch/article34523935.ece
10 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM:,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People seeking first dose of vaccine have to wait till June’||Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Sunday made it clear that the people who want the first dose of vaccine for coronavirus would have to wait till June first week as the existing stock would be used for the people who had booked slots for the second dose. In a release, he said that people who had booked slots for the first dose of vaccination would be cancelled automatically. “Facilities are being created at vaccination centres. The district administration will inform the people through phone calls or text messages for the second dose of vaccination that will be administered from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. at the designated places,” said Mr. Hari Jawaharlal. In an attempt to ensure social distancing, the district administration has decided to use schools and playgounds as the venue for vaccination drive, the Collector said. Meanwhile, the number of active cases in the district has gone up to 8,195. The district reported 11 more deaths on Sunday, taking the total count to 337. The government is collecting data of the people those died while undergoing treatment in various COVID-19 facilities. Control room helpline The officials have appealed to people to dial either 108 or 14410 to get quick healthcare services for COVID patients. A control room with the phone number 08922236947 has also been set up to answer the queries of patients and their relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-seeking-first-dose-of-vaccine-have-to-wait-till-june/article34523928.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For smooth flow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-smooth-flow/article34523938.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fever health survey not up to the mark||A door-to-door survey by health workers to unearth fever cases, which concluded for the initial phase on Saturday, met with a stock reply from many respondents that everything was fine with them. They were hiding health status of their family members who had taken ill for obvious reasons because they did not want to be ostracised in peer circles or their habitations in the midst of the pandemic. What was launched as an ambitious programme ran contrary to expectations not only due to lukewarm response from public but official apathy. For instance, the survey lacked coordination between health department and field staff. The programme was aimed to assess the number of people who were suffering with fevers, whether they had symptoms of COVID and, if so, whether they were in home isolation. However, reports generated at the end of the day only spoke about how many houses were surveyed and how many people were checked for temperature. Independent inquiry by the health department in the absence of proper responses in survey showed that many people who tested positive for COVID were not in home isolation. The field staff blamed the Telangana government for inadequate preparations for the survey as they were not provided with masks, gloves or sanitisers. They were given oximeters to check the oxygen levels and pulse rate of public but the devices were hardly used as they had to be applied on multiple respondents that put themselves at the risk of contracting COVID. The surveyors also did not heed to the instructions to collect blood samples. An ASHA worker who did not want to be identified said the senior staff were nowhere near the houses surveyed for precautionary reasons. The job was left to ASHA, Anganwadi and auxilliary nursing midwives (ANMs) who are not regular government staff. She confessed that the reports were doctored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fever-health-survey-not-up-to-the-mark/article34523847.ece
10 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Messaging platform turns helpline||“I am looking for the magic wand to wave and make this all disappear,” says Farida Thampi, Director WWF-India wistfully, echoing everyone across the country. Farida is part of a WhatsApp group that’s doing its bit to help connect people looking for help in this pandemic. On May 1, a few Hyderabadis from various sections of society found themselves being added to a WhatsApp group called ‘Hyd-T Covid Support Group’ and the intent was made clear almost immediately with the information getting shared, requests being accepted, contact numbers getting verified and latest info being updated. The group taps expertise and assistance from the participants who are from the medical fraternity, media, public service and NGOs and a host of volunteers from different professions. Says Rubina Philip, a Development Professional and one of the admins of the group, “It all started with a friend’s husband needing an oxygen concentrator about four weeks back and what helped is amplifying these requirements through our network. A lot of people came forward with information and support.” Adds Vishy Teki Director Communication Resource Center (CRC), “We’ve decided to use our network to provide vital information — availability of beds, ambulances, medicines. As of now, people are responding to it as most of the queries are last-mile efforts.” Emphasising how dealing with the pandemic hasn't been easy on people, Dr. Purnima Nagaraja, psychiatrist and psychotherapist says that many are succumbing to the stress, the lack of immediate facilities and other social stress like financial, jobs, relationship and others. Purnima who’s active in the group that now has nearly 200 participants, believes the presence of people from all walks of life can help people in distress. “In the wake of the level of panic, hopelessness and helplessness that is rampant today, we wish to try and make a difference to at least a few people,” she says and adds, “The network we have formed is to try our best to deliver not just reliable, verified quality help to people who need COVID-related services but to also help safeguard their emotional and mental health faculties.’ Farida calls for deeper introspection. “It's amazing how everyone is coming forward to chip in with their time. This is the synergy that we need for any issue that will visit India. Let that spirit be there for non-humans too and our Nature.” Despite a challenging IT job, Ekta Upadhyay spends all her spare time supporting the group. “This appears to be a drop in the ocean considering the enormity of the situation globally, however, for that one individual receiving this support, it means the world to him/her and we are striving to make that difference collectively.” One finds teenager Manvi Teki promptly responding to queries on the group with her verified information. On being asked what motivates her she says, “I am doing this because I feel so helpless being at home watching so many people suffering and dying every day in the country. There are college assignments too but when you want to save lives one needs to prioritise their time for more important things.” The group aims to connect more service providers and volunteers as, Vishy points out, there might be a large jump in fatalities. “We might also face a challenge like Delhi where crematoriums are under pressure. We need volunteers especially young people who can help others in accessing services. At this juncture, our motivation is to help as many as we can and we see positive responses from those who could benefit from being part of this group. We want them to join as volunteers and take it forward.” (Those who wish to be part of the group can contact 99596-06667/ 81068-44545)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/messaging-platform-turns-helpline/article34523841.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central grant for RLBs released||The Central government has released Rs. 273 crore to rural local bodies (RLBs) in the State for taking up various prevention and mitigation measures needed to combat coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The amount formed part of Rs. 8,923.8 crore released by the Department of Expenditure of the Union Finance Ministry for providing grants to rural local bodies. Uttar Pradesh (Rs. 1,441.6 crore), Maharashtra (Rs. 861.4 crore) and Bihar (Rs. 741.8 crore) secured the lion’s share of the release while the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh got Rs. 387.8 crore. The grant is meant for utilisation by all three tiers of the panchayat raj institutions at village, mandal and district levels in the State. The grant, released on the recommendation of the Panchayat Raj Ministry, constituted the first instalment of the united grants for the current financial year. Though the 1st instalment of the grant was supposed to be released next month, according to the 15th Finance Commission recommendations, the grant had been released in advance of the normal schedule in view of the ongoing pandemic situation. The release of the grant would augment resources of the panchayats in fighting the contagion. The Ministry said it had also relaxed certain conditions in the release of the grant amount keeping in view the prevailing situation. These conditions included online availability of the accounts of a certain percentage of rural local bodies in public domain. Taking into consideration the prevailing circumstances, the condition had been waived for release of the first instalment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-grant-for-rlbs-released/article34523856.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Special measures for polls, but why not for vaccination?’||Swelling crowds at COVID-19 vaccination centres are making many anxious, forcing them to put off their second vaccine dose despite having had to wait for long to book a slot. Imagine the state of those with disabilities who have to compete with others to make their way through the rush for the jab. Organisations working for the rights of persons with disabilities said that accessibility measures are lacking at some government vaccination centres which increases their hurdles to access healthcare. “During elections, vehicles are sent to the homes of voters who have disabilities. Volunteers who handle wheelchairs are stationed at polling booths. When special measures are taken during elections, why aren’t the same extended during vaccination,” questioned M. Srinivasulu, president of the Network of Persons with Disabilities Organisations. The Right to Persons with Disabilities Act 2016, states that the appropriate government and the local authorities shall take necessary measures for persons with disabilities to provide barrier-free access in all parts of government and private hospitals and other healthcare institutions and centres. Mr. Srinivasulu said resources of access differ with the form of disability, and provision of only ramps and wheelchairs would not ensure accessibility. Citing the example of people with muscular dystrophy, he said that they are permanently dependent. “The process would become easy if there is someone to receive them at vaccination centres. Or, a separate queue should be made for persons with disabilities,” he said. Aditya Mehta, founder of the Aditya Mehta Foundation, a non-profit organisation which promotes para sports activities, has requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to give priority to persons with disabilities for COVID vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-measures-for-polls-but-why-not-for-vaccination/article34523842.ece
10 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rare sculptural portraits of Rani Rudrama Devi unearthed||Two rare sculptural portraits of Kakatiya queen Rudrama Devi were unearthed and identified by an archaeologist on the premises of Sangameswara Swamy Temple at Teerthala village in Khammam district recently. Speaking to The Hindu about his recent explorations, D Kanna Babu, former Superintending Archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India, Chennai, said that the celebrated Sangameswara temple is panchakuta – a five-unit marvellous shrine monument consisting of wonderful architectural features and requisite components for the comfortable worship of divinities. The shrine stands on a well built jagati platform now being covered under flooring and the most baffling aspect of the shrine is its complex enriched with two most marvellous sculptural representations. “Although both the sculptured slabs are abraded due to ravages of nature over the passage of time, the portraits have safely retained queen Rudrama Devi`s (A.D 1262 – 89) imperial personality and her characteristic gesticulation as an ardent devotee of Lord Siva - otherwise it could be a great loss to the history of Kakatiyas,” he said. Narrating the uniqueness of these sculptures Mr. Babu said the first sculptured panel is in an oval frame and depicts the majestic personality of Rudrama Devi. “She is seated on her forefeet while her hands are in Anjali mudra (a gesture of worship). The face is oval, eyes are closed in deep meditation, and dress and ornaments of the queen are quite stunning,” he noticed. She wears elaborate earrings, beaded necklaces, armlets, wristlets and anklets. Her typical royal upper robe is very handsome and the lower garment covers up to ankles and tied with a waistband. The most interesting aspect is that the queen bears a very striking royal crown on her head and some circular plaques are hanging from the lower edge of it, and cover part of the forehead of the queen. The sculpture indicates that Rudrama Devi visited the Sangamesvara temple at the time of its sanctification. While the second sculptural panel is in a rectangular frame representing arrival or the Rudrama Devi on a royal elephant to this temple site, and probably a provincial chief under her control is welcoming her by stopping the running elephant with his hands. “As per the Ganapati Deva`s Malkapuram inscription, Chaitra Bahula Ashtami is her birthday. This year it has fallen on May 4. It is appropriate to remember the brave general, administrator, strategist, trendsetter and philanthropist Rani Rudramadevi - the mighty Kakatiya sovereign on this occasion,” Mr Babu added. Teerthala is a non-descriptive village popular for the historical temple dedicated to Sangameshwara- Shiva, the temple which was constructed during the reign of Rani Rudrama Devi on the banks of Akeru river. The place is venerated as ‘Triveni sangama sthali’ confluence of three rivers – Akeru, Munneru and Buggeru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rare-sculptural-portraits-of-rani-rudrama-devi-unearthed/article34523860.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PM gives assurance to KCR||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao after the review meeting to acknowledge the suggestions made by the latter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan earlier. While thanking Mr. Rao for the suggestions, Mr. Modi assured him that the Centre will implement those, a press release informed. Mr. Rao requested Mr. Modi to step up the supply of oxygen and Remdesivir injections to the State. The Prime Minister responded positively and assured him of immediate action, the release added. The review meeting was attended by Ministers T. Harish Rao and E. Dayakar Rao, Principal Health Secretary Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi, Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pm-gives-assurance-to-kcr/article34523837.ece
10 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Daily wager killed techie’||With the arrest of a 38-year-old daily wager, Asif Nagar police on Sunday revealed the mystery behind the suspicious death of a techie, who succumbed to internal injuries on May 2. The accused, Shaik Ahmed from Tolichowki, who belongs to Nanded in Maharashtra, followed the victim, Tadicherla Dhana Ramesh Kumar (40), on April 21, from an ATM centre in the area. After reaching a place, the accused pushed Ramesh inside the cellar of a residential complex and robbed him of his finger rings, mobile phone and Rs. 1,200 cash. While Ramesh was under the influence of alcohol, Ahmed is addicted to whitener and other drugs, Asifnagar ACP R. G. Siva Maruthi said. According to him, the victim after gaining consciousness went home and realised that he was robbed. Later, he was feeling unwell and died. Police with the help of a pan shop owner identified Ahmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-wager-killed-techie/article34523851.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to save oxygen||In the wake of the incidence of COVID, oxygen has become a crucial medical resource. And to put a check on its wastage, DME Dr. K Ramesh Reddy has issued orders to all government hospitals to prevent leakages, to close regulators and knobs on time, not to allow patients’ attendants to handle oxygen flow meters. The DME has suggested to switch off or reduce the oxygen flow when threshold levels of oxygen saturation level is achieved, to make one patient care staff available exclusively in charge to continuously monitor any open valves and close them. “Change the saline in the flow meter so that chances of fungal infections can be minimised,” he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-to-save-oxygen/article34523843.ece
10 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3rd Oxygen Express leaves for Odisha||A third ‘Oxygen Express’ of the South Central Railway (SCR) with five empty tankers left the Sanathnagar New Goods Complex for Angul in Odisha on Sunday. Immediately after receiving a request from the Telangana State government, the originating station as well the ‘green corridor’ to move the Oxygen Express were mapped till the destination station to ensure faster movement of these tankers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3rd-oxygen-express-leaves-for-odisha/article34523844.ece
10 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Don’t insult the poor with Ramzan gift’||Hyderabad City Congress Committee (HCCC) Minorities Department chairman Sameer Waliullah has demanded that the government distribute Rs. 10,000 to each poor Muslim family instead of giving Ramzan gift, which contains a few pairs of clothes worth a few hundred rupees. “Coronavirus pandemic, lockdown, night curfew and other restrictions have shattered the economy badly affecting the daily wage earners and salaried class. Therefore, the State government should avoid any symbolic gestures of giving Ramzan gift packs and help the affected people by either giving them cash or depositing the amount in their accounts,” he said in a statement here. He said that almost 80% of funds allocated in the budget for 2020-21 had remained unutilised due to the COVID situation. Therefore, instead of letting those funds lapse, the State government should use the money to help affected people, the HCCC chairman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-insult-the-poor-with-ramzan-gift/article34523858.ece
10 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed in road accident||A daily wager died after being hit by a luxury car at Madhapur on Saturday night. The victim, Ramchandar (38), was from Uttar Pradesh. As per Madhapur police, Rahul, Pramod and Bharat were in the car that hit Ramchandar while he was crossing the road. He suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. Police said that the victim was in an inebriated condition and could have come in the path of the vehicle. However, a case was registered and police have started analysing the video footage of the area to know the exact reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-in-road-accident/article34523850.ece
10 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Voluntary lockdown in one more village||In a bid to rein in the increasing number of coronavirus cases in their village, the Pindiprolu gram panchayat in Tirumalayapalem mandal declared a self-lockdown to tackle COVID-19. The elected representatives of the gram panchayat led by Pindiprolu Sarpanch R Nageswara Rao on Sunday passed a resolution to implement self-lockdown from noon to 8 am daily in view of the rising COVID-19 cases. The gram panchayat also resolved to impose fine on the violators of the self-imposed lockdown to protect public health. Pindiprolu is one among gram panchayats in the district to declare self-lockdown to stem COVID-19 spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/voluntary-lockdown-in-one-more-village/article34523861.ece
10 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Collector inspects COVID field survey||Collector R.V. Karnan on Sunday conducted a field level inspection of the ongoing door-to-door health survey as part of COVID control and preventive measures at Duddepudi in Wyra municipal town limits. The survey is being conducted by the field functionaries of the health department to identify people suffering from COVID-19 symptoms and also asymptomatic patients, sources said. Mr. Karnan interacted with residents of Duddepudi and apprised them of the COVID testing, vaccination and treatment services. He said people can dial 1077 call centre round-the-clock to get information on the availability of beds in government/private hospitals, oxygen, Remdesivir injections and ambulances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collector-inspects-covid-field-survey/article34523849.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Jumping on ‘self-esteem’ bandwagon||Self-esteem is one expression that is overused by leaders of every hue and cry in Telangana although it’s used often by the ruling and opposition parties alike. The recent developments in Telangana Rasthra Samithi (TRS), particularly revolving around former minister Eatala Rajender, have brought it on to the political canvass one more time including the debate on the ‘presence’ of self-esteem within the K. Chandrasekhar Rao Cabinet. The adversaries of the ruling party have jumped onto the bandwagon one more time questioning how the ‘self-esteem’ is given the go-by by the powers that be. They say only seven of the 16 members of the Cabinet have participated in the movement for statehood to Telangana, including two family members of KCR, and the rest have either switched loyalties for their political survival or were made to do so by the ruling party to weaken the opposition. On their part, the ruling party leaders recite the party supremo’s reasoning that it’s inevitable as part of realignment of forces for reconstruction of Telangana. The antagonists of the the ruling party too are hoping for such realignment now!   Telangana is really isolated. Not in the real sense of the term, but the State is the only one without an official lockdown in force. Most neighbouring States, including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, have announced lockdown, either full or partial, in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases. Telangana is now the only State in the south with night curfew and without an official lockdown. With border States imposing sanctions on movement of vehicles, people in the State will not be in a position to move around thereby isolating the State from the rest. Certain villages have of course imposed voluntary lockdown.   The vaccination blues are haunting people, particularly those who are due for second dose. Though slot booking for vaccination on CoWIN has been suspended till May 14, those who took first dose and are due for second dose, have to go from centre to centre. The problem is not so much with Covishield as Covaxin whose supply is disproportionate to the population. The staff at the vaccination centres are clueless when the supplies will be stepped up.  (B. Chandrashekhar, M.Rajeev and N. Rahul)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jumping-on-self-esteem-bandwagon/article34523857.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||No COVID fears?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-covid-fears/article34523854.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Serene setting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/serene-setting/article34523863.ece
10 May 2021||GURUGRAM/ New Delhi,||Care facilities up, but face hurdles galore||Several Residents’ Welfare Associations in the Millennium City have managed to come up with makeshift COVID care facilities after permission from the district administration a week ago. But arranging liquid oxygen and medical and paramedical staffers remain major challenges for them. “I would not call it a COVID care facility, but just an emergency facility to take care of patients till the time they get a hospital bed. We are not treating patients. We have set up three beds in our club. It is a complete setup with oxygen cylinders, concentrators, and a round the clock nurse. We have tied up with a nursing home treating COVID patients for a doctor’s visit in case of an emergency,” said Mamta Yadav, RWA president of The Seven Lamps in Sector 82. Four to five critical patients have been given medical aid at the facility in a week’s time. The RWA has procured its own stock of medicines, PPE kits and oxygen cylinders so that the residents need not run around in case of an emergency. “But the only challenge that remains is getting the oxygen cylinder filled. There is a huge crowd at the filling stations. It is not too safe for people to stand in queues at these stations as they might get infected,” said Ms. Yadav. Funded by residents The gated community has around 550units with 45 active cases. “We have invested so much, all from residents’ funding. But three beds may not be sufficient. We have space for 2-3 more beds, but we need support from the administration. I spoke to the Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) and he has promised to arrange two concentrators based on the number of residential units. We need support to fill oxygen cylinders too. The COVID care facilities inside societies should be given priority for cylinder refill,” said Ms. Yadav. She added the RWA was also getting consent forms filled from the patients so that they do not turn around to blame them if things go wrong at any stage. Another group housing society in its neighbourhood — Vipul Lavanya Apartments — has also set up a small emergency facility. “We have hired an ambulance belonging to one of our residents, who is a doctor. We have used the swimming pool lounger chairs and two oxygen cylinders to set up the facility. Also, we collected residual tablets from patients who have recovered, bought PPE kits, face masks and medicines. But we don’t take permanent admissions. As per the guidelines, our facility has separate entry and exit,” said Sanjay Raj Singhvi, RWA secretary of Vipul Lavanya Apartments in Sector 81. “Two people from the Deputy Commissioner’s office came to us seeking to know how many cylinders we have. We gave them a demand letter saying we need four cylinders and refilling them is a major problem. We also got a call from the ADC office on Friday,” said Mr. Singhvi. The society has 28 active cases and five people have died so far. Ramprastha City’s Atrium Condominium Welfare Association president PradipRahi said they too wanted to set up their our own COVID care facility and the developer was ready to help them, but they could not find the space that meets the guidelines. Difficult guidelines “It is difficult to meet all the guidelines issued by the district administration. We could not find a space with separate entry and exit. It is also very difficult to find medical and paramedical staffers. So we collected fund to procure half-a-dozen oxygen cylinders and medicines for any emergency,” he said. Hence, some of the residents have set up their own home Intensive Care Units with the help of a private company, he said. “It costs around Rs. 25,000 per day. But they need to arrange their own oxygen cylinders. We helped one such elderly couple to get oxygen. We had to go to far off places as Alwar and Kanpur to get the cylinders refilled,” said Mr. Rahi. In Delhi too, the RWAs are reluctant to set up their own COVID care facilities despite an offer of help from the police. A senior police officer said that only RWA in Civil Lines has come forward to set up facility for treatment of COVID-19 patients. The RWA has arranged 20 beds with the help of North District police. “All district DCPs have been instructed to hold meetings with RWAs and encourage them to set up COVID care facilities in their residential societies. We are hopeful to get more such centres in the city,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/care-facilities-up-but-face-hurdles-galore/article34523810.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crime Branch conducts multiple raids to nab Navneet Kalra||The Crime Branch of Delhi Police on Sunday conducted multiple raids in Delhi-NCR for the owner of the restaurants from where more than 500 oxygen concentrators were recovered, said a senior police officer. The officer said that Navneet Kalra, the owner of all three restaurants from where police had recovered oxygen concentrators, is missing. On Saturday, a raid was conducted at his farmhouse in Chhatarpur but he was not found. He was allegedly involved in hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators. The role of other people in the case is under investigation. “After the raid at his restaurant, he stopped responding to calls and his last location was found at Chhatarpur. Thereafter, he switched off his phone. His house help informed police that Mr. Kalra left the house with his family in two cars without drivers. All staff members are unaware of his location. The phone of other family members were found switched off,” said the officer. On Saturday, police had transferred the case from local police to Crime Branch for a detailed investigation. On Thursday, Lodhi Colony police had recovered 524 oxygen concentrators from Khan Chacha, Nege Ju and Town Hall restaurants after they received information of alleged hoarding of the device. Imported by pvt. firm Police said that these oxygen concentrators were imported by a private company and later Mr. Kalra was selling it at an exorbitant rate. He has approached buyers on WhatsApp. Buyers used to stand in a queue outside Khan Chacha restaurant to purchase oxygen concentrators for Rs. 60,000-80,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/crime-branch-conducts-multiple-raids-to-nab-navneet-kalra/article34523819.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Activist Natasha’s father succumbs to COVID-19||Activist Natasha Narwal’s father Mahavir Narwal died due to COVID-19 related complications on Sunday. Ms.Natasha has been lodged in Tihar Jail after being arrested in May last year for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the north-east Delhi riots in February that year. Breaking the news, Pinjra Tod, the organisation Natasha has been a part of said her bail petition to visit her father in the hospital was to be heard on May 10. “Mahavir Narwal campaigned hard to prove the innocence of Natasha, who was incarcerated for her peaceful participation in the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. He himself had been imprisoned for his participation in protests during the Emergency period,” Pinjra Tod said in a statement. Mr. Narwal was associated with the People’s Science Movement and the Gyan-Vigyan Andolan since its inception in Haryana. Condolences pour in Several left-wing politicians and activists condoled his death. CPI(M) politburo member Brinda Karat tweeted: “Extend my deep condolences to Natasha and her brother Aakash. The terrible injustice of the system in which a daughter wrongly locked up for a year unable to see her father even for a final farewell.” CPIML politburo member Kavita Krishnan tweeted: “This is so bloody cruel & sadistic: it’s a form of torture to keep political prisoners jailed during a pandemic, forced to suffer not only prison, but the pain of being away from loved ones who are dying. Natasha's brother also has Covid-19 [sic],” she said. Earlier, Pinjra Tod had organised a twitter storm to campaign for Ms. Natasha’s release so that she could be with her father and support her family as they were battling COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/activist-natashas-father-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34523814.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Statements of Chhatrasal Stadium brawl victims recorded: police||Police have recorded the statement of the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl victims, which had ended in the death of a wrestler. A senior police officer said that the victims recorded their statement where they said the incident took place over a dispute of vacating a flat in Model Town. The victims also alleged that Olympian Sushil Kumar was present when the incident took place, they said. On the hunt Mr. Kumar is absconding and efforts are being made to nab him. Raids are being conducted in Delhi-NCR and neighbouring States, the officer said. A 23-year-old wrestler Sagar died and his two friends — Amit Kumar and Sonu — got injured after they were allegedly brutally assaulted by other wrestlers in the parking of Chhatrasal Stadium on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday Police had said that information regarding firing inside the Chhatrasal Stadium was received, following which they reached the spot and found five cars parked in the parking area of the stadium. During the inquiry, it was found that a quarrel had taken place allegedly between Kumar, Ajay, Prince, Sonu, Sagar, Amit, and others in the parking area. Thereafter, police registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act at Model Town police station. The injured were shifted to BJRM Hospital for treatment. The crime scene as well as all the five vehicles was inspected. During the inspection, one double barrel loaded gun with five live cartridges was found in a car and two wooden sticks were also recovered from the spot. All five vehicles and weapons of offence were seized. The crime scene was further inspected by forensic experts of FSL, Rohini. During the investigation, information regarding the death of Sagar, son of a head constable, and injury to Sonu was received from Trauma Centre, Civil Lines, following which Sections 302, 365, 120B of the IPC were registered, police had said. One apprehended Police had apprehended one Prince Dalal (24), a resident of Jhajjar in Haryana, along with one double barrel gun. Police recovered two double barrel guns, seven live cartridges, two wooden sticks, and five cars. “It was not a case of trespassing. The accused took the victims inside the stadium where they assaulted them in the parking area. Mr. Kumar was present at the spot when the incident happened. However, police are investigating his role in the assault,” an official source had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/statements-of-chhatrasal-stadium-brawl-victims-recorded-police/article34523820.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||Court orders DSLSA to compensate kin of man who died in custody||The Delhi High Court has ordered the Delhi State Legal Service Authority (DSLSA) to give compensation to the widow and two minor daughters of a thief who died while under judicial custody. Justice Prathiba M. Singh ordered that DSLSA should process the application for compensation under the Delhi Victims Compensation Scheme, 2018. The High Court’s order came on a plea by the wife of the deceased Salman alias Mesar, who was arrested on November 11, 2020. The allegation against Salman was that he was involved in the theft of a vehicle. He was then produced before the Metropolitan Magistrate, where it was recorded by the Magistrate that his physical condition was not good and that he was not even able to stand. Salman was, however, remanded to judicial custody and on the next day itself, he passed away in custody. He left behind his wife and two minor daughters — one who is six years old and other who is five months of age. His wife, in her plea before the High Court, has claimed that he was subjected to torture by the police, but it was recorded in the remand order that the deceased was beaten up by the public. She sought a compensation of Rs. 1 crore. On the previous hearing, the court had noted that the police in its status report “merely” records the dates on which he was admitted to jail and his medical examination was conducted and the date when he was admitted to hospital at the time of his death. DSLSA stated that the Delhi Victim Compensation Scheme permits the grant of compensation in case of such deaths. In its status report, it stated that Salman appears to have succumbed to injury inflicted to him during the course or after his apprehension in the theft case. While the theft case was itself subject matter of an FIR, in respect of his death another FIR has been lodged. DSLSA submitted that if there is a loss of life in judicial custody, the legal heirs or dependents of the deceased would be entitled to compensation, which would to a minimum of Rs. 3 lakh and maximum of Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-orders-dslsa-to-compensate-kin-of-man-who-died-in-custody/article34523817.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||YouTuber Rahul Vohra dies of virus complications||Actor-cum-YouTuber Rahul Vohra died on Sunday at a hospital in East Delhi due to COVID-19 complications, theatre director-playwright Arvind Gaur confirmed. Vohra, 35, had shared his COVID-19 diagnosis earlier this week in a Facebook post. He was admitted at the Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur and was shifted to Ayushman Hospital in Dwarka on Saturday evening. Mr. Gaur confirmed the news of Vohra’s demise on Facebook. “Rahul Vohra is gone, my talented actor is no more. It was only yesterday [Saturday] that he told me his life could have been saved if he got better treatment. He was shifted to Ayushman, Dwarka last evening but we could not save him. Please forgive us, we are all your culprits. My last respects [sic],” he wrote. On Saturday, Vohra in a Facebook post had tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and asked for better treatment. “If I would have got better treatment maybe I could be saved. [ Mujhe bhi accha treatment mil jaata to mai bhi bach jaata tumhara ],” Vohra had written.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/youtuber-rahul-vohra-dies-of-virus-complications/article34523821.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Extension of lockdown shows AAP’s failure: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Sunday said that the Delhi government’s decision to extend the lockdown in the Capital by another week proves that the Arvind Kejriwal government has failed to control the virus and death rates as people scramble for treatment and are forced to deal with black-marketeers and unscrupulous elements cashing in on people’s misery. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee President Ch. Anil Kumar said that Mr. Kejriwal wasted one year playing petty politics instead of ramping up hospital infrastructure. “Mr. Kejriwal wasted time in playing blame game with the Modi government, instead of taking urgent remedial measures himself to ensure COVID-19 cases did not soar beyond control. Thousands of seriously-ill are under home isolation, unable to get a bed in government hospitals and COVID Care Centres, as they are unable to bear the highly inflated cost of treatment in private hospitals,” Mr. Kumar said. He also demanded that the Delhi govt. facilitate travel arrangements for the migrant labourers wanting to return to their villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/extension-of-lockdown-shows-aaps-failure-cong/article34523815.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep- BJP||The Delhi BJP on Sunday demanded that a case of criminal negligence be filed against the Delhi government for its management of the COVID-19 crisis. Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta alleged that the Kejriwal government’s callousness is responsible for Delhi witnessing the worst COVID-19 as the Centre warned Delhi of a major wave as early as in October 2020. He said the Kejriwal government wasted six months in politics of confrontation with the Centre and added not a single bed or any facility like oxygen plant in any hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jaideep-bjp/article34523813.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Rags, riches||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rags-riches/article34523812.ece
10 May 2021||Colombo,||Key suspect in Nasheed attack arrested||Maldives police said on Sunday they arrested a person believed to be the prime suspect in an explosion that critically wounded the country’s former President and which was blamed on Islamic extremists. Police said they now have three of four suspects in custody. Thursday’s blast targeted Mohamed Nasheed, currently the Speaker of Parliament, who is recovering in a hospital after multiple surgeries. Police did not give details on the latest suspect, but in a text message confirmed that they believe he is the person whose pictures were released on Saturday as authorities sought public assistance in identifying him. The fourth suspect remains at large. Officials blamed Islamic extremists for the attack, although investigators still don’t know which group was responsible. Two of Mr. Nasheed’s bodyguards and two apparent bystanders, including a British citizen, were also wounded. Mr. Nasheed has been an outspoken critic of religious extremism in the predominantly Sunni Muslim nation, where preaching and practicing other faiths are banned by law. He has been criticised by religious hard-liners for his closeness to the West and liberal policies. Narrow escape Hospital officials said Mr. Nasheed, 53, remains in an intensive care unit after initial life-saving surgeries to his head, chest, abdomen and limbs. A relative tweeted early on Sunday that Mr. Nasheed had been able to have long conversations with some family members. Shrapnel from the blast damaged Mr. Nasheed’s intestines and liver, and a piece of shrapnel broke his rib and had been less than a cm away from his heart, hospital officials said. Officers from the Australian Federal Police were assisting with the investigation, following a request from the Maldives. A British investigator was also set to arrive on Sunday. Mr. Nasheed was the first democratically elected President of the Maldives, serving from 2008 to 2012, when he resigned amid protests. He was defeated in the subsequent presidential election, and was ineligible for the 2018 race due to a prison sentence, but has remained an influential political figure. He has championed global efforts to fight climate change, particularly warning that rising seas caused by global warming threaten the archipelago nation’s islands. The Maldives is known for its luxury resorts but has experienced occasional violent attacks. In 2007, a blast in a park in the capital wounded 12 foreign tourists, and was also blamed on religious extremists. The Maldives has one of the highest per capita numbers of militants who fought in Syria and Iraq alongside the Islamic State group. Authorities announced in January that eight people arrested in November were found to have been planning to attack a school and were in the process of building bombs in a boat at sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/key-suspect-in-nasheed-attack-arrested/article34523335.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||China rocket debris falls in Indian Ocean near Maldives||Debris from the last stage of China’s Long March rocket that had last month carried a key component of its under-construction space station fell into the waters of the Indian Ocean west of the Maldives on Sunday. The re-entry of the rocket, described by astrophysicists as the fourth-largest uncontrolled reentry in history, had evoked concerns in recent days about possible damage should it have fallen on land, and had been criticised by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) in the U.S. for “failing to meet responsible standards”. China had rejected those concerns, saying most of the debris had been burned during reentry and that a fall into international waters was most likely. The China Manned Space Agency (CSMA) said on Sunday “the vast majority of the device burned up during the reentry, and the rest of the debris fell into a sea area with the centre at 2.65 degrees north latitude and 72.47 degrees east longitude,” placing it west of the Maldives in the Indian Ocean. The Maldives National Defence Force said on Sunday its Coastguard Squadron “is active after receiving reports of rocket debris fallen in Maldivian waters”. NASA Administrator Bill Nelson in a statement called on “spacefaring nations” to “minimise the risks to people and property on Earth of re-entries of space objects and maximise transparency regarding those operations.” “It is clear that China is failing to meet responsible standards regarding their space debris,” he said. Chinese experts rejected the criticism over the uncontrolled entry, saying authorities had been tracking the course, although they did not have any control over where the debris would fall. ‘Double standards’ “It only refers to the loss of propulsion, but in no way means that China has lost track of its flying trajectory and real-time location,” Song Zhongping, an aerospace commentator and former instructor at a PLA Rocket Force affiliated university, told the Global Times , saying that debris from the U.S. SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket that fell on a farm in Washington State did not attract similar criticism and showed Western “double standards”. Jonathan McDowell, an astrophysicist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, said the uncontrolled reentry of the Chinese rocket was “the equal fourth-biggest” among uncontrolled reentries, on a par with the first Long March rocket that last year fell in the Ivory Coast where there were reports of debris damaging homes in villages. “An ocean reentry was always statistically the most likely,” he said on Twitter. “It appears China won its gamble (unless we get news of debris in the Maldives). But it was still reckless.” The Long March-5B Y2 rocket was carrying the Tianhe, or Heavenly Harmony, module, which is the first of three key components for the construction of China’s space station, which will be completed by the end of next year. Tianhe will act “the management and control hub of the space station” which is called Tiangong, or Heavenly Palace, Chinese authorities said after the April 29 launch of the rocket from the Wenchang Spacecraft Launch Site on the island province of Hainan. The space station, which will be only the second after the International Space Station (ISS), has been designed with a lifespan of 10 years but could last 15 years, or until 2037. The life of the ISS, experts say, could be extended until 2030, by when one of its members, Russia, has said it would launch its own space station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-rocket-debris-falls-in-indian-ocean-near-maldives/article34523333.ece
10 May 2021||Jerusalem,||Amid weekend clashes, Israel vows to keep Jerusalem order||Israel vowed on Sunday to restore order in Jerusalem after hundreds of Palestinian protesters were wounded in a weekend of clashes with Israeli security forces, while the Justice Ministry put off a key court ruling on a flashpoint property dispute. Consecutive nights of violence around the revered Al-Aqsa mosque compound in the Old City has been the worst since 2017, fuelled by a years-long bid by Jewish settlers to take over nearby Palestinian homes in Israeli-annexed east Jerusalem. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned that Israel “would decisively and responsibly impose law and order in Jerusalem”. Tunisia said it has called for a meeting on Monday of the UN Security Council to discuss the situation. Some 121 Palestinians were wounded in Saturday’s overnight clashes, the Palestinian Red Crescent said. Israeli police said 17 of its officers were wounded. The previous night more than 220 people, again mostly Palestinians, were hurt as police stormed Al-Aqsa, saying Palestinians had thrown rocks and fireworks at officers. Four Arab countries that normalised ties with Israel over the past year — the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco and Sudan — all condemned Israel’s actions and voiced support for the Palestinians. On Saturday, thousands of Palestinians packed mosque compound for prayers. But police set up roadblocks to limit access to the Old City and avoid “violent riots” — effectively preventing hundreds from praying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-weekend-clashes-israel-vows-to-keep-jerusalem-order/article34523337.ece
10 May 2021||Juba,||South Sudan President dissolves Parliament as part of peace accord||South Sudan’s President Salva Kiir has dissolved Parliament, opening the way for lawmakers from opposing sides of the country’s civil war to be appointed under a 2018 peace accord. Mr. Kiir’s decision was announced on public television on Saturday evening but no date was given as to when the new Parliament will begin working. The setting up of a new legislative body was part of an accord signed in September 2018 between Mr. Kiir and Vice-President Riek Machar, for years on opposition sides during the five-year civil war that left 3,80,000 people dead and four million displaced. Civil society groups welcomed the dissolution of Parliament, saying it was long overdue but also expressing distrust. “It is a welcome development and we hope that the dissolution (will not) also open the way to a lengthy process towards reconstituting the parliament,” Jame David Kolock, chairman of the South Sudan Civil Society Forum. “The civil society is getting frustrated and no longer believes that even if the Parliament is reconstituted it will be a very viable parliament.” In accordance with the 2018 accord, the new assembly will number 550 lawmakers, the majority — 332 — from Mr. Kiir’s governing SPLM party. The parliamentarians will be nominated by the different parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/south-sudan-president-dissolves-parliament-as-part-of-peace-accord/article34523341.ece
10 May 2021||Dubai,||U.S. Navy seizes weapons cache||The U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet said on Sunday it had seized a huge cache of illicit Russian and Chinese weapons from a stateless dhow in the North Arabian Sea. The Fifth Fleet, which is based in Bahrain, said USS Monterey intercepted the vessel and discovered the cargo on May 6-7. “’The cache included dozens of advanced Russian-made anti-tank guided missiles, thousands of Chinese Type 56 assault rifles, and hundreds of PKM machine guns, sniper rifles and rocket-propelled grenades launchers,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-navy-seizes-weapons-cache/article34523342.ece
10 May 2021||London,||Johnson calls for U.K. talks after Scottish Nationalists win||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday invited the leaders of the U.K.’s devolved nations for crisis talks on the union after Scotland’s pro-independence party won its fourth straight parliamentary election. Nicola Sturgeon, leader of the Scottish National Party (SNP), said the poll results proved that a second independence vote for Scotland was “the will of the country” and that any London politician who stood in the way would be “picking a fight with the democratic wishes of the Scottish people.” The United Kingdom is made up of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, with devolved governments in the latter three. Mr. Johnson congratulated Ms. Sturgeon on her re-election, but told the leaders of the devolved governments in a letter that the U.K. was “best served when we work together.” The letter invited the leaders to a summit to discuss plans to recover from the coronavirus pandemic and work out how the four nations can work together to overcome “shared challenges.” Final results of Thursday’s local elections showed that the SNP won 64 of the 129 seats in the Scottish Parliament. Although it fell one seat short of securing an overall majority, the Parliament still had a pro-independence majority with the help of eight members of the Scottish Greens. Ms. Sturgeon said an independence referendum was “now a matter of fundamental democratic principle,” and did not rule out legislation paving the way for a vote at the start of next year. Mr. Johnson has the ultimate authority whether or not to permit another referendum on Scotland gaining independence. He wrote in Saturday’s Daily Telegraph that another referendum on Scotland would be “irresponsible and reckless” as Britain emerges from the pandemic. He has consistently argued that the issue was settled in a 2014 referendum where 55% of Scottish voters favoured remaining part of the U.K. But proponents of another vote say the situation has changed fundamentally because of the U.K.’s Brexit divorce from the European Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-calls-for-uk-talks-after-scottish-nationalists-win/article34523338.ece
10 May 2021||London,||Labour's Sadiq Khan re-elected as London mayor||Labour politician Sadiq Khan was reelected as London Mayor on Saturday in a narrow victory over Conservative rival Shaun Bailey. Mr. khan’s victory was one of the bright spots for Labour party after a largely desultory showing in local elections on Thursday. Mr. Khan became the first Muslim Mayor of a Western capital when first elected in 2016.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/labours-sadiq-khan-re-elected-as-london-mayor/article34523340.ece
10 May 2021||Bangkok,||Vietnamese woman is Laos’ first Covid-19 fatality||Laos recorded its first death from COVID-19 on Sunday, losing its place among the few countries yet to suffer a fatality, state media said. The victim was a 53-year-old Vietnamese woman, who had underlying medical problems, including diabetes. Laos has still identified only 1,302 infections since the pandemic began.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/vietnamese-woman-is-laos-first-covid-19-fatality/article34523343.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Continuity of Dravidianist electoral dominance||The Dravidian parties maintained their electoral dominance in the first Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly elections since the passing of their earlier dominant leaders, Jayalalithaa and M. Karunanidhi. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam gained 67.1% of the vote and, along with the smaller Dravidian parties, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazagam and the Marumalarchchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, polled 70.4%. This was the second highest vote share the Dravidian parties have ever drawn, only 3.5 percentage points lower than their highest share of 73.9% in 2016. The maintenance of Dravidianist electoral dominance is more striking than the DMK’s anticipated return to power. Expectations, outcomes The AIADMK’s support seemed likelier to erode than the DMK’s because it depended far more on the charisma of its two successive leaders (MGR and Jayalalithaa), Jayalalithaa had not developed a successor unlike Karunanidhi, and its party institutions were weaker. Moreover, since Jayalalithaa’s passing, its leaders were inadequately independent of the central government, insufficiently defended the State’s moderately welfarist orientations, and supported or barely resisted the Centre’s authoritarian, Hindu majoritarian, and wholeheartedly neoliberal policies. These policies included the adoption of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the demotion of Jammu and Kashmir to Union Territories, the adoption of centralised examinations at different stages of school education, the reduction of agrarian subsidies, and the accelerated corporatisation of agriculture.  The DMK outperformed the AIADMK but not overwhelmingly. It did so by only 3.1 percentage points, polling 35.1% to the latter’s 32.0%, gaining 3.2 percentage points since the 2016 elections while the AIADMK lost 9.1 percentage points. The 12.3% vote shift between the major parties was nevertheless significant. The two major alliances’ vote shares differed by 5.7 percentage points — the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance gained 45.4% to the AIADMK-led National Democratic Alliance’s 39.7%. Their high combined vote share of 85.1% underlined the continuity of Dravidianist electoral dominance. The DMK’s performance remained strongest in the northern plains and Cauvery delta, while the AIADMK remained stronger in the western plains though no longer in the south. Conversely, the political forces that had hoped to benefit from the uncertain leadership transition did not grow much. The older national parties stagnated. The Congress Party’s vote share declined from 6.5% to 4.3%, partly due to contesting fewer seats (25 rather than 41), continuing an unsteady downward trend since 1989 when it got 20.2%. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s diminished from 2.9% to 2.6% perhaps because it contested only 20 seats while it had vied for all the seats in 2016, compared to a high of 3.2% in 2001. Of the parties formed since party competition changed in 1989, catchall parties that address all major demographics polled 13.0% compared to just 4.4% in 2016 and a high of 14.4% in 2006, and niche parties that primarily engage specific castes, religious groups or regions polled 6.7% compared to a high of 8.1% in 2011. The largest new catchall party is the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) which polled 6.6%, followed by the AMMK and Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam that got 2.3% each. These parties overtook the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam that polled merely 0.4%, in contrast with having drawn 2.4% (to the NTK’s 1.1%) in 2016 and 8.4% in 2006. The Vanniyar-based Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) remained the largest niche party and the largest of the caste parties that together drew 6.0% compared to 7.7% in 2016 and a high of 8.1% in 2011. But it only gained 3.8% compared to its best performance of 5.9% in 1991. The BJP with 2.6% remained the largest of the religious parties which together gained 3.6%. The Dravidian parties thus remain electorally dominant although their social presence has gradually declined since the 1990s. What shaped these electoral trends? What do they portend? How do they compare with experiences elsewhere in India? What might these patterns suggest about the scope to change the Indian polity? Bases of sustained success The Dravidian parties grew from the 1950s to the 1970s by mobilising the middling and lower castes and classes that other parties and governments had only marginally engaged, using populist discourses distinguishing the popular community from elites based on caste, language, dialect, and occupation. They remained dominant subsequently because they formed strong party institutions and cohesive subcultures sustained through moderately egalitarian development policies, which they retained even while adopting much of the Centre’s neoliberal orientation from the 1990s. Most notable among such policies were the high educational and job reservations (69%), the midday meal scheme that especially improved nutrition, health, and education among the poorest, high investments in education and primary health, and a rural employment programme that was among the best implemented until 2016. The Dravidian parties drew closer to upwardly mobile and privileged groups from the 1970s. Their reservation policies benefited the middle castes much more than Dalits and Adivasis. They doubled the Other Backward Classes quota to 50% but also entitled a further 27% of the population to it, including many prosperous castes such as the Kongu Vellala Gounder that became the preponderant beneficiaries. By contrast, they increased the Scheduled Caste-Scheduled Tribe quota by under a fifth, from 16% to 19%, below these groups’ undercounted population share of 21%. This was partly balanced by introducing a 1% ST tier and a 20% tier for the Most Backward Classes and denotified communities in 1989, and a 3% Arunthathiyar tier in 2009 — Vanniyars were granted a 10.5% tier within the MBC quota last February to placate the PMK and boost the AIADMK’s electoral prospects, with uncertain distributive effect for this reduced the DNC quota to 7% and that of all other MBCs to 2.5%. Other Dravidianist policies provided assets mainly to the upwardly mobile. Land ownership and tenurial reforms primarily helped middling tenant farmers, largely from the middle castes, but only a small section of Dalits. These groups bought land that landlords sold due to declining irrigation and soil fertility, and benefited from generously subsidised agrarian inputs and credit, and loan waivers. Such policies helped lower-middle and intermediate strata move up, maintained Dravidianist electoral prominence, and contained challenges to caste and class inequality. Alternatives, their prospects These experiences enabled Dravidian party dominance thus far; but are unlikely to indefinitely sustain it as these parties withdrew from mobilisation from the 1990s. Other outlooks thereafter inspired civil society, especially caste associations, opponents of corporatisation, and religious nationalists. Their effects on the party system have so far been minor — enabling the limited growth of the PMK and other middle caste parties from 1989, that of the BJP, the DMDK, and the Dalit parties in the 2000s, and the NTK’s since 2016. These forces either demanded greater resources and rights for specific caste clusters as the PMK and Dalit parties did or sought like the DMDK and the NTK to revitalise plebeian ethno-linguistic politics, thus building on aspects of Dravidianist ethno-populism. Widely popular public figures not closely associated with popular sectors or with language- and caste-focused outlooks such as Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth have impacted party competition less. This suggests that the prospects are brightest for political forces that seek to redistribute power and resources more equitably than the Dravidian parties did if they build on some aspects of Tamil Nadu’s existing political culture. Portents for democracy Some who seek to limit the erosion of democracy and the rights of religious minorities and disadvantaged groups around India under BJP rule draw hope from the Assembly election results. The All-India Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, the Left Democratic Front in Kerala, and the DMK in Tamil Nadu have in different ways resisted the Centre’s Hindu majoritarianism, centralisation of power, and violations of democratic norms. Their victories show that prior political alignments limit Hindutva growth in some regions, though less in West Bengal where the BJP’s vote share increased by 28 percentage points since 2016, and it overtook the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Congress to become the primary Opposition party. The victories of the incumbents in Kerala and West Bengal, unlike in Tamil Nadu, and the increase in their victory margins by 1.4 and 4.1 percentage points, respectively, were also minor positive verdicts on their governance. Two considerations should temper inferences about constraints to BJP growth and the Centre’s authoritarian tendencies. First, Tamil Nadu and Kerala are exceptions to the nearly national pattern of rising BJP fortunes. Second, the design of India’s asymmetric federalism grants the Centre considerable leeway to determine resource distribution and authority over concurrent subjects, which it has used crucially according to whether a single party predominates parliamentary representation. The centralisation of authority by BJP governments with Lok Sabha majorities since 2014 followed devolution by coalition governments from 1989 to 2014 and earlier centralisation by Congress-led governments. It will limit the ability of the recently elected Opposition State governments to resist the Centre’s promotion of authoritarianism, Hindu hegemony, and corporate-led growth. to offer more democratic and equitable governance, and to significantly constrain further BJP growth. Narendra Subramanian is Professor of Political Science, McGill University, Canada, and the author of ‘Ethnicity and Populist Mobilization: Political Parties, Citizens, and Democracy in South India’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/continuity-of-dravidianist-electoral-dominance/article34523320.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The changing nature of the Left in Kerala||The Left Front has retained power in Kerala by winning more than two-thirds of the seats to the Legislative Assembly. This is unheard of in a State that was used to alternating between the Left and the Congress for more than four decades. The change in this familiar pattern was possible only because there was a fundamental change in the nature and practice of politics in the State after years. Conception of the modern state As a political organisation, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has a different conception of state and governance. This is broadly viewed as the Leninist model and is fundamentally different from the structure of most political organisations in the country. During the early days of its inception and into the 21st century, the Left conceived the modern state system as being bourgeoisie. This modern state, it felt, needed to be transformed from within. Thus, the Left governments implemented or were expected to implement the agenda of the party in order to achieve their ultimate goal of revolution. The party was always considered more powerful than the government. This has changed fundamentally in the last few years in Kerala. The end of the Left Front government in West Bengal and the Left’s subsequent loss of power in Tripura reduced the Polit Bureau, the highest decision-making body of the CPI(M), to a mere shadow of its former self, thereby weakening the hold of the party over the government in Kerala. In 2016, when the Left contested the Kerala Assembly elections, the general perception was that V.S. Achuthanandan would be made the Chief Minister as the Left rode to power on his popularity. However, the party decided to pick its powerful State Secretary for the top post. This marked a new era in the nature of Left politics in the State. This meant that, unlike in the past, the government of Pinarayi Vijayan was considerably relieved of both the constraints of building the organisation of the party and its ideological tasks. Confrontation to consensus The new government ended the politics of confrontation between the landowners and the peasants, and between the industrial workers and the industrialists, which was central to the politics of Kerala for long. Such a change in the nature of the Left Front government was also structured by the changing socio-cultural demography of the State. A large middle class population emerged with changing economic activity in the State — agricultural land reduced and migrant labourers from north and northeast India entered Kerala. All this compelled the Left to change its political slogans of worker/agricultural labour emancipation to slogans that resonated with middle class aspirations. In the process, it made peace with the Christian church and other powerful social, religious and economic sections of the state, with which it had been in confrontation for more than half a century. The Left’s conception of the modern state as a bourgeoise one began to peel away. Rather, it used the state and its mechanisms to protect the interests of the emerging middle class of Kerala. By moving away from being supporters of only economically backward castes, classes, communities and groups to one that became more acceptable to a wider multi-class population, largely devoid of any caste/class/community divide, the Left Front government was entering the terrain which was considered the domain of the Congress and its allies. The two massive floods and the pandemic that ravaged the State came more as an opportunity rather than as a challenge for the Left. Through a slew of welfare measures including the setting up of free feeding centres, providing ration kits for all and providing pensions for the old, the Left Front government transformed itself as a caring protector that was not against any particular class. It benefited the middle class in particular. Unlike the early masculine image of the party, of protest and confrontation, the new Left was one of consensus. The sudden rise of Health Minister K.K. Shailaja as an important figure in the fight against the pandemic led to the creation of a new conception of the state as a representation of the ideal caring middle class family. The policy of giving free rations meant that the government as a ‘super family’ is there to feed and care. Losing ground While the Left Front government was using the optimal potential of the modern state system and pursuing a policy of consensus even with the Opposition, the Congress was increasingly losing its political space. By moving away from its earlier version of a party-centric state deemed to protect sections of the population to one that aimed to cater to all, the Left was venturing into a space that was held by the Congress for long. For the last couple of years, the Congress has been in a dilemma of whether it should support or oppose the government. With no ideology and a weak party mechanism, the Congress has survived as a response to the politics of the Left, which was seen as confrontational and therefore unacceptable to large sections of the State. Without any proper organisational mechanism and ideology, the Congress has won elections on an anti-leftist plank. However, it failed to see the political discourse changing. A large section of the minorities became apprehensive of rising Hindutva politics and considered the Left as a viable option in the fight against the Right. When the Supreme Court delivered its verdict on Sabarimala, the Congress decided to oppose the verdict and argued that tradition should be defended. One could argue that this was the only option it was left with in the political discourse of the State. But the Congress made the mistake of raking up this issue even in these elections in the hope of getting upper caste conservative Hindu votes. However, the issue of Sabarimala had become a dead horse and the Congress’s attempts failed to evoke any response. The Congress failed to build any convincing narrative against the Left. By deviating from the ideological context of the conventional Left to domains that were hitherto considered as the space of the Congress, the Left has won Kerala again. To what extent the Left can retain this space without being in confrontation with its core values and to what extent the Congress can reclaim lost ground remains to be seen. Burton Cleetus is Assistant Professor, Centre for Historical Studies, JNU, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-changing-nature-of-the-left-in-kerala/article34523329.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A TRIPS waiver is useful but not a magic pill||The United States has finally relented and declared its support for a temporary waiver of the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement for COVID-19 vaccines at the World Trade Organisation (WTO). In October 2020, India and South Africa, at the WTO, proposed (https://bit.ly/3vTJ9SK) waiving Sections 1, 4, 5, and 7 of Part II of the TRIPS agreement (covering copyrights, industrial designs, patents, and undisclosed trade information) related to the prevention, containment, or treatment of COVID-19. The U.S.’s support of the TRIPS waiver is a significant step forward in the global fight against the pandemic. Hopefully, the U.S.’s decision would cause other holdouts like Canada and the European Union to give up their opposition. Legally, the waiver is surely possible since Article IX of the WTO Agreement allows for waiving obligations in ‘exceptional circumstances’ (https://bit.ly/3uCTMJy), which the COVID-19 pandemic undoubtedly is. The stumbling block is the political will of the richer countries that house the giant pharmaceutical corporations producing COVID-19 vaccines and medicines. Devil in the details While the U.S.’s decision is to be welcomed, the devil would be in the details. The countries would now negotiate on the text of the waiver at the WTO. If the experience of negotiating such waivers, especially on TRIPS, were anything to go by, it would be too early to celebrate. In the aftermath of the HIV/AIDS crisis in Africa in the 1990s, the WTO adopted a decision in 2003 waiving certain TRIPS obligations to increase the accessibility of medicines in countries that lacked manufacturing capability. Specifically, the obligation contained in Article 31(f) of TRIPS (https://bit.ly/3vMmfwC) that medicines produced under a compulsory licence are predominantly for the domestic market of that country was waived, paving the way for the export of such medicines to a country that lacked manufacturing capability. However, this waiver (later incorporated as Article 31 bis in the TRIPS agreement; https://bit.ly/3tBzRsZ) was subject to several stringent requirements such as the drugs so manufactured are to be exported to that nation only; the medicines should be easily identifiable through different colour, or shape; only the amount necessary to meet the requirements of the importing country are to be manufactured; the importing country has to notify to the WTO’s TRIPS Council, etc,. Given these cumbersome requirements, hardly any country, in the last 17 years, made effective use of this waiver. Developing world must watch The statement issued by Katherine Tai, the U.S. Trade Representative (https://bit.ly/3hbtpXl), states that the negotiations on the text of the waiver will ‘take time’ given the WTO’s consensus-based decision-making process and the complexity of the issues involved. This signals that the negotiations on the waiver are going to be difficult. While the U.S. would not like to be seen as blocking the TRIPS waiver and attracting the ire of the global community, make no mistake that it would resolutely defend the interests of its pharmaceutical corporations. The developing world should be conscious to ensure that a repeat of 2003 does not happen. Ms. Tai’s statement also reveals that the U.S. supports waiving intellectual property (IP) protections on COVID-19 vaccines. However, India and South Africa proposed a waiver not just on vaccines but also on medicines and other therapeutics and technologies related to the treatment of COVID-19. So, the U.S. has already narrowed down the scope of the waiver considerably by restricting it to vaccines. Medicines useful in treating COVID-19 and other therapeutics must be also included in the waiver. Overcoming key obstacles While the TRIPS waiver would lift the legal restrictions on manufacturing COVID-19 vaccines, it would not solve the problem of the lack of access to technological ‘know-how’ related to manufacturing COVID-19 vaccines. Waiving IP protection does not impose a legal requirement on pharmaceutical companies to transfer or share technology. While individual countries may adopt coercive legal measures for a forced transfer of technology, it would be too draconian and counterproductive. Therefore, governments would have to be proactive in negotiating and cajoling pharmaceutical companies to transfer technology using various legal and policy tools including financial incentives. Finally, while a TRIPS waiver would enable countries to escape WTO obligations, it will not change the nature of domestic IP regulations. Therefore, countries should start working towards making suitable changes in their domestic legal framework to operationalise and enforce the TRIPS waiver. In this regard, the Indian government should immediately put in place a team of best IP lawyers who could study the various TRIPS waiver scenarios and accordingly recommend the changes to be made in the Indian legal framework. Notwithstanding the usefulness of the TRIPS waiver, it is not a magic pill. It would work well only if countries simultaneously address the non-IP bottlenecks such as technology transfer, production constraints, and other logistical challenges such as inadequacy of supply chains and unavailability of raw materials to manufacture vaccines and medicines. Prabhash Ranjan is a senior assistant professor at South Asian University’s faculty of legal studies. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-trips-waiver-is-useful-but-not-a-magic-pill/article34523322.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Parody in the time of tragedy||In the time of COVID-19, I often think of Thirukkural 621 “ Idukkan varungaal nakuka ” which asks us to laugh at our difficulties as there is nothing more human to drive away sorrow. I always look for G. Sampath’s parody column ‘Allegedly’, which mitigates the weight of loss and the emotional toll of the pandemic. His humour belongs to the school of social criticism of Charlie Chaplin, where comedy is used as a device to turn the spotlight on many pressing social and political issues. An underlying element of pathos makes one laugh, then smile, then pause, and finally reflect about our state of being. Writing tongue in cheek Unlike reportage, where bearing witness and providing credible information are key components, the fundamental requirement of a parody column is to call out the absurdity of the rulers. Mr. Sampath’s column titled ‘Oxygen’s in the air: Great expectations of good governance’ (May 9) is a fine dystopian reading of the mess created by the Union government in augmenting medical oxygen during this crisis. In his earlier column, ‘Beating the coronavirus’ (April 23), Mr. Sampath argued tongue in cheek, “...if you move faster than a coronavirus, it can never catch you” and came up with a number of absurd moves that we as citizens have to take in order to preserve the ‘positive narrative’ about the government. However, this is also the time to record certain facts that neither fall in the category of parody or comedy. It is becoming really difficult to believe that some of the averments by those in power or by those who represent this government are real and not parody. Almost every assertion of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, from his submission to the Supreme Court on the plight of migrant workers who walked to their homes last year following the nationwide lockdown to his arguments about oxygen supply, would have made sense only if they were meant to rival Mr. Sampath’s column. Citizens are used to a divergence between the views of those in power and the views of a critical media. What we are witnessing today is not a divergence of views. The view from the government has no semblance to what journalists are witnessing. The cruel second wave of the pandemic has finally started ripping off the Teflon coat of hyper-nationalism that glossed over inefficiency and inhumanity. Reporting the reality Nieman Lab, which is part of Harvard University’s Nieman Foundation, and which tracks the state of journalism across the world, in its report on May 3 pointed out the difficulties faced by journalists in India during this pandemic. The report read: “It’s hard to overstate the enormity of the public health calamity unfolding in India as the nation of 1.4 billion people fights what seems like a losing battle against the virus. But did it have to be this way? Answering that question is the responsibility of the free press of the world’s largest democracy. They have the unenviable task of writing the first draft of this wretched chapter in the nation’s history. They shoulder the burden of speaking truth to power — recording the tales of colossal missteps like not preparing for a second wave, calling out the political hubris in allowing massive campaign rallies, and criminal negligence that led to severe shortages of essential hospital supplies like oxygen.” The report has a very disturbing, but accurate conclusion: “In India, the media’s ability to pursue truth and tell it without fear is a matter of life and death.” It is important for the government to listen to critical voices from the media to understand the gravity of the situation. The official spokespersons of the government are not in competition with the parody column, ‘Allegedly’. They are expected to come up with decisive administrative moves that address the needs of the patients who are flocking to overburdened hospitals across the country. Instead of arresting journalists like Siddique Kappan for trying to report on the Hathras gang-rape case and filing cases against those who either seek or amplify the need for oxygen, the government needs to address the impending problem highlighted by the respected scientific journal, The Lancet . Citing the study of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, the journal fears that the deaths due to COVID-19 in India may cross a million by August 1. We are at a stage where neither Thiruvalluvar nor Mr. Sampath can provide mitigation. It has to come from the government. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/parody-in-the-time-of-tragedy/article34523326.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Back in the shortage economy||We have been witnessing shortages of almost everything needed to treat COVID-19 patients: hospital beds, drugs, ventilators and, above all, oxygen. The world has taken note, and offers of help have come in from the U.S., the U.K., the European Union, and even China. India is once again the focus of global attention, as it was in the mid-1960s when two consecutive years of drought resulted in a severe shortage of food. Then, India had to turn to the U.S. for assistance. This did arrive, but grudgingly, for India had not supported the West during the Cold War. The lore is that President Lyndon Johnson had directed: “Send food to India by the shipload, so that she is kept on a short lease”. Though that moment in our history is not a happy memory, that of the response of the country’s then leadership is inspiring. Prime Ministers Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indira Gandhi and their cabinet colleagues had stirred the scientific and bureaucratic communities to bring about a quantum leap in food production. This was achieved within a few years. No one imagined that India, a byword for a basket case, would be able to feed itself. The Green Revolution stands out in Indian history as a display of extraordinary accountability by the political leadership, combining resolve, humility and intelligence. We crucially miss this today. Lessons from the sixties Unlike the two years of drought that tipped the country into food shortages in the mid-sixties, the need for ramping up the health infrastructure could have been anticipated in March 2020 when a lockdown was announced at very short notice. In fact, the medical case for a lockdown was that it would slow the spread of the disease thus avoiding overwhelming the health system and giving time to strengthen the capacity of the health system. The lesson from the Green Revolution is that India has recovered from extremely trying crises, under the most adverse of circumstances, in the past. It is entirely possible to replicate this now, but we need sincere and competent leadership. In many ways the task is far easier today. Now India has something that it lacked in the mid-sixties, namely, industrial muscle. It should not be too difficult to ramp up hospital beds, ventilators and oxygen supply within a reasonable time. That certain parts of the country actually have a surplus of oxygen should give confidence on this score. An additional feature today, again in contrast to the mid-sixties, is the considerable foreign exchange reserve. Therefore, some crucial medical inputs can be imported, especially vaccines. But it is important to recognise that these measures are absolutely necessary. We should not adopt an ostrich-like posture denying shortage, which the Central government is displaying on the issue of vaccines in particular. Health spending The inter-State variation in the death rate in India is directly related to the extent of health spending in relation to the state domestic product. It is also related to health infrastructure, but less strongly. This is also true for COVID-19-related deaths across South Asia. So, to avert a health crisis in the future, the States would have to raise the level of spending on health very substantially. On average, States spend only around 5% of their total expenditure on health. Should we be surprised at the shortages we are facing now? Finally, even as we struggle against the health emergency, a shortage that we should do everything to avoid is with respect to food. Food prices shot up from April 2020 suggesting that there may have been a disruption of supply due to the lockdown. It would be advisable to anticipate a similar disruption following State-level lockdowns now, and take all possible measures to assure the supply chain. The kharif operations are set to commence. As agricultural activity takes place at the level of the States, Prime Minister Narendra Modi needs to interact closely with their leaders and the farming community. This is the abiding lesson from the mid-sixties when we as a nation were in a similar place. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University, Sonipat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/back-in-the-shortage-economy/article34523330.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Lockdown gains||Several States have done the inevitable, going into a strict lockdown for a fortnight to arrest India’s calamitous descent into COVID-19 hell since mid-March. The horror of sweeping infections, severe disease and staggering death rates has made a lockdown a popular measure, unlike last year’s imposition on an ill-prepared nation. Public acceptance of restrictions comes with the realisation that the threat to life from a mutating virus has aggravated manifold, although the spread of the scourge, from about 9,000 new daily cases in early February this year to over 4,00,000 in May, was brought about mainly by wrong messaging, massive political rallies and large religious events. After having been failed, what people now look forward to are measures that draw insights not from crude policing, but public health research. Unlike in 2020, the evidence is also stronger: WHO explains that SARS-CoV-2 spreads primarily through respiratory droplets and aerosols produced when people cough, sneeze, speak, sing or breathe, are within one metre of each other and also in crowded, poorly ventilated settings. Contact with contaminated surfaces poses another risk. Insistence on wearing good masks, distancing and a prohibition on risky gatherings, such as in restaurants, malls, religious sites, auditoria and on public transport are, therefore, essential. It is welcome that lessons have been learnt, and people were given time to prepare this time. Moreover, rather than shut out employment and services completely, home delivery services and some vending have been permitted. Tamil Nadu, which has commendably announced a relief of Rs. 4,000 for COVID-19, part of it to be disbursed during the lockdown, should avoid big gatherings at ration shops, opting instead for e-payments or doorstep disbursement. States should prevent crowding at shops open for limited hours by allowing door deliveries of all consumer goods and not just food, using online services. Travel for emergencies must be facilitated without harassment. For an exhausted medical community, staggering under the weight of over 37 lakh active COVID-19 cases and a severe shortage of medical oxygen and drugs, the pause in activity comes as a life saver. The lockdown window can help it manage existing patients while governments augment critical supplies; a slowing infection curve will give everyone breathing space in coming weeks, although the heart-rending death rate may take time to decline due to the lag effect. A drop in the vaccination rate poses a serious challenge, and it is incumbent on the Centre to arrange for vaccine imports or augment domestic production to scale it up. Testing access must also be dramatically increased by May-end to assess the true scale of the pandemic. Without such progress, the lockdowns may yield only small gains, since the opportunity to build the systems to handle another surge would have been frittered away, again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lockdown-gains/article34523314.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Outreach and overreach||Judicial intervention in response to the Union government’s flailing response to the health crisis has reached its apotheosis with the Supreme Court order forming a 12-member national task force for the effective and transparent allocation of medical oxygen to the States and Union Territories “on a scientific, rational and equitable basis”. Making recommendations on augmenting the supply based on present and projected demands and facilitating audits by sub-groups within each State and UT is also part of its remit. The Court has also mandated it to review and suggest measures for ensuring the availability of essential drugs and remedial measures to meet future emergencies during the pandemic. In other words, the national task force has become a judicially empowered group that may significantly guide the handling of the health crisis set off by the second pandemic wave. Faced with proceedings in High Courts relating to the allocation and availability of oxygen, the Centre submitted that an expert committee may be constituted, consisting of persons drawn from public and private health-care institutions, to facilitate a fresh assessment of the basis for the allocation. When the Karnataka High Court ordered last week that the Centre should supply 1,200 tonnes of medical oxygen daily to the State, the Centre rushed with a challenge to the apex court. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta argued that if every High Court started entertaining petitions on equitable allocation of oxygen, pandemic management would become unworkable. The Supreme Court declined to stay the order, describing it as a careful and calibrated one. Several High Courts and the Supreme Court are examining different aspects of the pandemic response, including availability of beds and oxygen. The trend did raise concerns about the judiciary encroaching on the executive domain. There is some merit in the argument that allocation of resources based on a formula related to the present and projected requirements of each State is indeed an executive function. However, as the daily infection numbers and death toll have acquired frightening levels, the constitutional courts felt obliged to take it upon themselves to protect the right to life and good health of the population. It cannot be forgotten that the judiciary drew much flak last year for its initial failure to mitigate the crisis set off by the lack of succour to millions of migrant workers. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who heads the Bench hearing the suo motu proceedings, has clarified that the Court was not usurping the executive’s role, but only wanted to facilitate a dialogue among stakeholders. As long as this position is clear, the present intervention need not be seen as a dangerous overreach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/outreach-and-overreach/article34523315.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||UPSC told to review exam||New Delhi, May 9: The Government of India has asked the Union Public Service Commission to reconsider its decision on the question of the medium of examination for the All-India and higher Central services, it is learnt. At present, candidates for the IAS and other Central services are permitted to exercise their option to write their answers in two of the three compulsory general papers namely, essay and general knowledge, in any of the languages mentioned in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution besides English. Earlier, the UPSC had while agreeing to the candidates being given the option to write their answers in the two papers in the Indian languages besides English, made it clear to Government that it would not be possible for it in the foreseeable future to make arrangements for setting and printing the question papers in the Indian languages besides English, without serious risk of compromising the accuracy and secrecy of the question papers. The Commission, therefore, expressed the view that even though the candidates may write the answers in the two papers in any of the Indian languages, the question paper would necessarily continue to be set and printed in the English language only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/upsc-told-to-review-exam/article34523324.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The other side||The panic among a certain section of the people at Allahabad, which Pandit Motilal Nehru has found it necessary to allay by a reassuring letter to the Press, shows at once the extent of the hold that the Non-Co-operation movement, the misleadingLeadernot withstanding, has over the public, and the erroneous ideas about Non-Co-operation which have been sedulously propagated by hostile critics. It is the aim of this vile propaganda to discredit the movement by exaggerating the sporadic outbreaks which are due less to Non-Co-operation propaganda perhaps than to the accumulation of unaddressed wrongs dating for years. Even if the Malegaon outbreak, for instance, be due to Non-Co-operation, it is only an exception which proves the rule that the movement is one which essentially makes for peace and non-violence. That it inculcates ideas of ordered and disciplined non-violent conduct in the face of grave and humiliating provocations must now be admitted by all impartial critics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-other-side/article34523323.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Get ‘coached’ on investments||With the increase in emotional and physical stress that individuals are suffering from, guidance that extends beyond traditional advisery services certainly helps. In this article, we shall discuss the relevance of a behavioural coach in improving your financial well-being. Adviser Alpha An investment adviser typically helps in creating portfolios. This includes suggesting an appropriate proportion of equity and bonds (asset allocation) and how to tax-efficiently make such investments (called asset location). In a world where choosing investment products can be confusing, an adviser aims to provide allocation alpha and tax alpha. That is, they strive to improve your portfolio returns by tax-efficiently investing an optimal proportion in equity and bonds and by selecting appropriate products within equity and bonds to suit your risk attitude. Now, consider a parallel world where you keep your investments simple. That is, you choose one equity fund and one recurring bank deposit for each goal you pursue. You choose an index fund; for all index funds benchmarked to say, the NSE 50 Index, will generate similar returns. This reduces the regret of choosing a fund that could underperform peer funds. As for your recurring deposit, you choose a maturity that matches with the time horizon for your life goal. What about your tax-efficient investments? Your Section 80C benefits are exhausted by investing in provident fund and public provident fund. We previously discussed in this column some simple asset allocation strategies that you can adopt to self-manage your investments. In this parallel world, therefore, you may not require an adviser to choose investment products and help with your asset allocation. Yet, a behavioural coach can improve your portfolio returns. Consider this scenario. It is four years since you started a portfolio to fund your child’s college education. You have 11 years before your child enters college. Based on your savings, this portfolio requires a minimum return of 8.5% over 16 years. This year, the market is currently down 10%. Regretting your decision to invest in equity, you want to move a significant proportion to bonds (read fixed deposits), as it feels safer given the market volatility. But if you move to bonds, you reduce your portfolio’s expected post-tax returns. What should do you? A behavioural coach should be able to help you understand that the market being down 10% does not mean your portfolio is also down a similar percentage. Your coach can also determine how you can adjust your savings going forward to achieve your goal despite such downturns. Of course, you can do the math yourself. But having a coach tell you this can be reassuring. At other times, you may be suffering from overconfidence, especially when your investments generates handsome returns. Your coach can help moderate your investment biases. A behavioural coach, therefore, plays an important role in personal finance because successful investing is as much about emotional discipline as it is about technical knowledge. You should have a behavioural coach whether you self-manage your investments or not. Such a coach will help you apply deliberative thinking to manage your investments. Otherwise, your emotional mind can hijack your thought process, driving you to take decisions that could hurt your financial well-being.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals for managing their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/get-coached-on-investments/article34523308.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Gold, silver sign off April on positive note||After three consecutive months of losing streak, the precious metals closed on a positive note for April 2021. The weakening of the U.S. dollar and the drop in the U.S. Treasury yields played a key role in pushing the precious metals to higher levels in April. As a result, Comex gold gained 3% in April to close at $1,767.7 an ounce. The rise in Comex silver was much sharper, with the white metal gaining 5.5% to settle at $25.88 an ounce at the end of April. Mirroring the global trend, MCX gold futures gained 4% to close at Rs. 46,737 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures gained 5.7% to settle at Rs. 68,366 per kg at the end of April. The Comex gold price achieved the target of $1,785-1,800 mentioned last month. The short-term outlook for Comex gold remains positive. A close above $1,800 level would strengthen this view. Above $1,800, Comex gold could head to the next target in the $1,845-1,855 zone. The short-term positive outlook for gold would be under threat if the price closes below the immediate support at $1,710-1,720 zone. Until this support zone is breached, there would be a case for a rise to $1,855 or higher. The short-term outlook for Comex silver too is positive and the price could head to the immediate target at $27.7-28.5. The outlook would be under threat if the price drops below the support of $24-$24.5. Until the support at $24 is not breached, there would be a strong case for a rise to $28.5 and beyond. In tandem, MCX gold too closed on a strong note in April and the price achieved the target zone of Rs. 46,750-47,000 mentioned in the previous post. The short-term outlook for MCX gold is positive and the price is likely to move towards the next target zone at Rs. 48,500-49,500. This view would be invalidated if the price falls below the support level in the Rs. 45,000-45,200 zone. The near-term outlook for MCX silver too is positive. MCX silver could rise to the immediate target at Rs. 71,500-72,000. This view would be invalidated if silver price moves below Rs. 63,500-64,000. A close above Rs. 69,900 would strengthen the positive case scenario. To summarise, the outlook for precious metals is positive. But it remains to be seen if the recovery marks the reversal of prior downtrend or is just a short-term bounce.  (The author is a Chennai-based analyst/trader. Views and opinions are not meant to be trading or investment advice)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-silver-sign-off-april-on-positive-note/article34523305.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article34523307.ece
10 May 2021||Kolkata/Bengaluru,||AFC Cup thrown into turmoil||The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) has postponed the Group D and Playoff stage matches of the AFC Cup, scheduled to be held in Male (Maldives), involving ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) and Bengaluru FC (BFC). ATK Mohun Bagan was scheduled to leave for Male on Monday to play its Group D matches. The BFC squad, on the other hand, had landed in Male on Friday ahead of its playoff match against Club Eagles on Tuesday. “The AFC Cup (South) Group and Playoff Stage matches are now postponed until further notice with more information to be announced in due course. “ Participating clubs who have travelled to Maldives for both the Group and Playoff Stages will be required to arrange for their return home while adhering to the COVID-19 health and travel protocols put in place by the country,” an AFC statement read. While the AFC did not mention a reason for the postponement, the announcement came after reports emerged of a breach of COVID-19 protocol by BFC squad members in Male. Violation Local media outlets in Maldives reported that a few BFC players and staff were spotted on the Male streets — a violation of the protocol set by the Health Protection Agency. The protocol states that the BFC contingent is allowed to leave the team hotel only to train and play the match. A photo in a Channel News Maldives report shows BFC midfielder Erik Paartalu and two other BFC members outdoors. A request made to BFC to confirm the identity of the two members — with their backs to the camera, unlike a clearly identifiable Paartalu — was not entertained. The infraction prompted Ahmed Mahloof, Maldives Minister of Youth, Sports & Community Empowerment, to ask BFC to leave the country. “Unacceptable behavior from @bengalurufc (BFC) breaching the strict guidelines from HPA & @theafcdotcom (AFC). The club should leave Maldives immediately as we can’t entertain this act. We honoured the commitment we gave a few months back even with the surge in cases & pressure from the public,” Mahloof tweeted. BFC’s apology BFC owner Parth Jindal apologised for the “inexcusable behaviour of three of our foreign players/staff while in Male” on Twitter, and promised to take “strictest action” against the offenders. The club released an apology note as well, stating that it will deal with the matter internally. “The club is making arrangements to get all its players and staff home at the earliest. Bengaluru FC would also like to place on record an unconditional apology for a health and safety breach, involving one member of staff and two players, in the Maldives, on Sunday,” a BFC statement read. Relief for ATKMB The tournament’s postponement brought a sense of relief in the ATK Mohun Bagan camp, which saw two of its Indian players Prabir Das and Sheikh Sahil testing positive for COVID-19. “We have confirmation from AFC that the matches are being postponed. This is a relief for the team as we had to leave behind two of our regular players who have tested positive for COVID-19 during the screening process ahead of our departure for Maldives,” said a Mohun Bagan official on Sunday. The team was likely to miss a few of its foreign players, who could not leave the country owing to restrictions imposed in their respective countries.  Ahmed Mahloof, Maldives Minister of Youth, Sports & Community Empowerment, asks BFC to leave the country BFC owner Parth Jindal apologises for the ‘inexcusable behaviour’, promises to take ‘strictest action’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afc-cup-thrown-into-turmoil/article34523451.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Too early to say how we can find a slot to complete IPL: Ganguly||Sourav Ganguly, as the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, must steer the ship in the most distressing times mankind has known. The former India skipper is mindful of the sacrifices that players make in today’s times and he backs them in their pursuit to play cricket. In this chat with Sportstar , Ganguly shares his thoughts on the challenges faced over the past 14 months, the forthcoming series in England, which he reckons, will be tougher than the one against Australia. The COVID-19 situation is unlikely to improve anytime soon. So, what is the BCCI’s biggest immediate challenge? The challenge has been there for a year now. COVID has hit us badly and we have all been struggling. Barring December 2020 to March 2021, it has been a battle. Battle to stay relevant. Battle to keep the people together. It has been extremely tough for all of us, and the cricketers were no exceptions. How did you manage to host the India-England series without any glitches and also the domestic tournaments? Because the numbers were down, and we had just two teams. The bio-bubbles were there. We had 760 players in the bio-bubble (during the domestic games), but the key was that the COVID numbers were down across the country — 7000 a day. Now we have more than 4 lakh daily cases. Do you think you erred in continuing with the 2021 IPL? Could it have been called off earlier? You can say that now in hindsight that the IPL should have been called off earlier. Mumbai and Chennai (leg) did not have cases. Only when the IPL reached Delhi and Ahmedabad did the cases rise. People will say lot of things in any case. The English Premier League had so many people affected. But they could reschedule the matches. But you can’t do that with IPL. You stop it for seven days and it is done. Players go back home and then the process of quarantine starts from scratch. The IPL and BCCI have drawn criticism from many quarters for continuing with the tournament. Do you think the criticism coming IPL’s way was justified? There are different scenarios, and it is not always helpful to be wise after the event. We don’t have the advantage. As I said we would have continued if there were no cases. We would have completed the IPL. The players were in the bubble and there were no crowds at the venues. Players were not getting infected. Once the players got affected, we called it off. Is there a possibility to hold the remainder of the tournament in England after the WTC final and before the England series? WTC final gets over on June 22 and the first Test starts on August 4. Or, after the England series? No. India is supposed to go to Sri Lanka for three ODIs and five T20Is. There are lots of organisational hazards like 14-day quarantine. It can’t happen in India. This quarantine is tough to handle. Too early to say how we can find a slot to complete the IPL. ( To read the full interview, go to https://sportstar.thehindu.com )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/too-early-to-say-how-we-can-find-a-slot-to-complete-ipl-ganguly/article34523399.ece
10 May 2021||Barcelona,||Make that 98 and counting for Hamilton!||Seven-times World champion Lewis Hamilton hunted down “sitting duck” Max Verstappen to win the Spanish Grand Prix for a record-equalling fifth year in a row on Sunday and go 14 points clear at the top. Hamilton’s 98th victory, from his 100th pole, was his third in four races as he and Mercedes played the strategy to perfection after Red Bull’s Verstappen had muscled into the lead at the first corner. The Briton pitted for fresh tyres and was set the task of closing a 22 second gap to Verstappen in 23 laps at the Circuit de Catalunya. He did it in style, sweeping past to take back the lead with six laps to spare in a re-run of his epic chase of his Dutch rival at the 2019 Hungarian GP. “I was just hunting,” said Hamilton, the first to win from pole this season and now a six-times winner here. “It was a long way to come back from 20 odd seconds back but it was a good gamble, a really great strategy from the team... just a remarkable job by everyone in this team. What a day.” Verstappen, who secured a bonus point for the fastest lap, said he could see it coming. “There was not much we could have done. They went for another stop and then I knew it was over because I was already struggling with the tyres and you could see every lap he was getting closer and closer.”   The results: 1. Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) 1hr 33min 07.680sec, 2. Max Verstappen (Red Bull)+ 15.841sec, 3. Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes) 26.610, 4. Charles Leclerc (Ferrari) 54.616, 5. Sergio Perez (Red Bull) 1:03.671, 6. Daniel Ricciardo (McLaren) 1:13.768, 7. Carlos Sainz Jr (Ferrari) 1:14.670; 1 lap: 8. Lando Norris (McLaren), 9. Esteban Ocon (Alpine), 10. Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri), 11. Lance Stroll (Aston Martin), 12. Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo), 13. Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin), 14. George Russell (Williams), 15. Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), 16. Nicholas Latifi (Williams), 17. Fernando Alonso (Alpine); 2 laps: 18. Mick Schumacher (Haas), 19. Nikita Mazepin (Haas). DNF: Yuki Tsunoda (AlphaTauri).   Standings (top-5): Drivers: 1. Hamilton 94 pts, 2. Verstappen 80, 3. Bottas 47, 4. Norris 41, 5. Leclerc 40. Constructors: 1. Mercedes 141 pts, 2. Red Bull-Honda 112, 3. McLaren-Mercedes 65, 4. Ferrari 60, 5. Alpine-Renault 15 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/make-that-98-and-counting-for-hamilton/article34523403.ece
10 May 2021||London,||United makes City wait a tad longer||Manchester City’s Premier League title celebrations were put on hold again as Manchester United fought back to win 3-1 at Aston Villa on Sunday. City could have started the party if second-placed United lost at Villa Park, but its arch-rival kept the leader’s champagne on ice with a second-half escape act. Trailing to Bertrand Traore’s first half rocket, United equalised through Bruno Fernandes’ penalty before Mason Greenwood and Edinson Cavani netted to leave City frustrated. City, with three matches to play, is now 10 points clear of United, which has four games left. With thousands of fans celebrating outside the San Siro stadium and a guard of honour onto the pitch, Inter Milan celebrated its first Serie A title in over a decade with a 5-1 victory over Sampdoria giving Antonio Conte’s side a record 14th successive home win. “The satisfaction is immense,” said Conte. “It’s natural that we and our fans are now so desperate to celebrate something that we’d been waiting for so long to do. We’re happy to bring this joy to them.”  The results: Premier League: Wolves 2 (Traore 76, Gibbs-White 90) bt Brighton 1 (Dunk 13); Aston Villa 1 (Traore) lost to Manchester United 3 (Fernandes 52-pen, Greenwood 56, Cavani 87).   LaLiga: Getafe 0 lost to Eibar 1 (Recio 89-pen).   Bundesliga: Cologne 1 (Andersson 49) lost to Freiburg 4 (Petersen 18, Demirovic 20, Grifo 90+3, 90+6).   Saturday: Premier League: Liverpool 2 (Mane 31, Thiago 90) bt Southampton 0; Manchester City 1 (Sterling 44) lost to Chelsea 2 (Ziyech 63, Alonso 90+3); Sheffield United 0 lost to Crystal Palace 2 (Benteke 2, Eze 88).   LaLiga: Cadiz 2 (Mauro 43, Silva 45+2-og) bt Huesca 1 (Mir 45+1); Athletic Bilbao 2 (Morcillo 1, Sancet 62) drew with Osasuna 2 (Brasanac 12, Budimir 89).   Serie A: Udinese 1 (De Paul 23) drew with Bologna 1 (Soriano 82-pen); Inter Milan 5 (Gagliardini 4, Sanchez 26, 36, Pinamonti 61, Martinez 70-pen) bt Sampdoria 1 (Balde 35); Fiorentina 2 (Vlahovic 32, 89) bt Lazio 0.   Bundesliga: Werder Bremen 0 drew with Bayer Leverkusen 0; Hoffenheim 4 (Kramaric 47, Akpoguma 52, Baumgartner 60, Bebou 64) bt Schalke 04 2 (Uth 12, Mustafi 42); Bayern Munich 6 (Lewandowski 2, 34, 66-pen, Mueller 34, Coman 44, Sane 86) bt Borussia M’Gladbach 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-makes-city-wait-a-tad-longer/article34523411.ece
10 May 2021||MADRID,||Sabalenka claims biggest title of her career||Belarus’ Aryna Sabalenka stunned World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty to win the Madrid Open for the first time on Saturday. Sabalenka was beaten by Barty in the final in Stuttgart last month but exacted revenge at the Caja Magica, a storming 6-0, 3-6, 6-4 victory clinching the biggest title of her career. The 23-year-old has never gone past the fourth round at a Grand Slam but on this evidence she will be among the contenders at the French Open, which starts in Paris later this month. This was Sabalenka’s 10th career title but her first on clay and it will see her rise to number four in the world rankings on Monday. Barty was the heavy favourite the final, especially after beating Sabalenka in Stuttgart last month, also on clay. Bouncing back, but... The Australian appeared to have recovered from a chastening opening set, after levelling up in the second and then leading 4-3, 30-15 on Sabalenka’s serve in the decider. But her opponent never gave in and produced a brilliant finish by winning the last 11 consecutive points to hand Barty her first defeat on red clay since 2019 in Rome. “To be honest after the final in Stuttgart, I was injured, I couldn’t move and wanted to withdraw,” Sabalenka said on court afterwards. “But the recovery was good, in four days I feel better and now I’m the champion. It’s been an amazing week.” Berrettini in final In the men’s section, Matteo Berrettini set up a summit clash with Alexander Zverev. The Italian defeated Ruud 6-4, 6-4 to reach his first ATP Masters 1000 final. Berrettini, who claimed the Serbia Open title in Belgrade last month, has won 16 of his 19 matches this year.  The results:   Women: Final: Aryna Sabalenka bt Ashleigh Barty 6-0, 3-6, 6-4;   Men: Semifinal: Matteo Berrettini bt Casper Ruud 6-4, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sabalenka-claims-biggest-title-of-her-career/article34523413.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anjum Moudgil ready to give it her all in Tokyo||World Championship silver medallist and current World No. 3 Anjum Moudgil may not have been selected to compete in air rifle at the Tokyo Olympics, but that does not stop her from giving her best in two other events — rifle 3-position and mixed air rifle.  The 27-year-old Anjum said that she respected the selection policy and decision.  “I’m ok with it. I respect the decision. I will give my 100%. Nothing is lost, I still have two events. I’m ready for it,” she said in a media interaction organised by the Sports Authority of India (SAI).  Anjum was the only Indian woman to make the final of air rifle in the World Cup in Delhi. “I knew I was not performing well. I took time to figure out the reason with coach Deepali. I didn’t want sudden results. I worked on it for a year and a half.  “In the World Cup, I was extremely happy with my performance in all three events. I wanted to perform best in the World Cup, and I did,” recalled Anjum, about the process of self evaluation and tuning.  Anjum maintained that shooting one event less did not diminish or enhance her chances of winning a medal in Tokyo, and said that she would have given her 100% even if shooting all three events.  Despite being highly competitive, Anjum puts team ahead of self.  “We are individual when we stand in our lane. But, it is just a sport. We represent India and win for India,” she said.  Anjum was all praise for the arrangements to train and compete in Europe. She was categorical that it was much better and safer in Europe than travelling in India in the current situation.  “This much is required, if everyone wants medals from us. We have to work. We can’t sit and wait,” said Anjum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anjum-moudgil-ready-to-give-it-her-all-in-tokyo/article34523442.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||Jangra wins maiden pro bout in US||Commonwealth Games silver medal-winning boxer Mandeep Jangra made a positive start in the professional circuit, beating Argentina’s Luciano Ramos in his debut bout in Florida, USA. Jangra travelled to USA two months back for training. The boxer won his first professional bout against Ramos in a four-round unanimous decision in the super welterweight category on Saturday. Jangra has signed up with Florida-based Pro Box Promotions. The 27-year-old, who is also a silver medallist from the 2013 Asian Championships, was supposed to fight on March 19 but that bout was put off. “I’m so excited for a great run in the pro ranks and hopefully win a world championship with my team,” said the boxer, who is training with American coaches Asa Beard and Marc Farrait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jangra-wins-maiden-pro-bout-in-us/article34523445.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Khangura and nine others in lead||Gurjoat Singh Khangura shot two perfect rounds of 25 to lead with nine others on 50 in men’s skeet on the first day of the shotgun World Cup in Lonato, Italy, on Sunday. Asian champion and world record holder Angad Vir Singh Bajwa had rounds of 24 and 23 to be in 62nd spot. Three more rounds will be shot in qualification and the top six will compete in the final. Olympian Mairaj Ahmad Khan was also scheduled to compete in the World Cup, but could not train or travel owing to a bereavement in the family. Mairaj said that he would reach Italy soon and start his Olympic preparation with coach Ennio Falco. Despite missing the third World Cup for the shotgun shooters after the ones in Egypt and Delhi, Mairaj said that the decision to shoot the last World Cup in Croatia, before the Olympics, would be made by the coach. Mairaj had shot 121 out of 125 in the last Olympics in Rio, and missed out on a final berth following a tie-shoot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/khangura-and-nine-others-in-lead/article34523452.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||Dravid backs India to shade England||Batting great Rahul Dravid reckons India will prevail over England 3-2 in this summer’s away Test series and calls it the visitors’ “best chance” to win in the UK since 2007. Dravid was the last Indian captain to win a Test series in England. “I really do think India have a very good chance this time,” Dravid said during a webinar, according to ESPNcricinfo . Interesting sub-plot Dravid, who is now the head of the National Cricket Academy (NCA) in Bengaluru, said R. Ashwin versus Ben Stokes could form an “interesting subplot” to what is expected to be an intriguing series. “There’s no question about their (England’s) bowling. Whatever bowling attack England put on the park, especially their seam-bowling attack, is going to be fantastic. They have a lot of players to pick and choose from and that’s going to be terrific. “But if you look at their top six or top seven, you really think of one great batsman, a world-class batsman who is Joe Root. “Obviously, Ben Stokes is another one, who is a good all-rounder, but for some reason Ashwin seems to do well against him. And that should be an interesting contest. I know he’s done well against him (Stokes) in India, but it’ll still be an interesting subplot to the series. “... But I just think India will be well-prepared, have the confidence from Australia, there’s lot of belief in the squad. There’s a lot of experience in the batting order this time around, so this is probably our best chance, maybe say 3-2 to India,” Dravid said. Lot of time The former captain said India, to its advantage, will get a lot of time to prepare there for the rubber. “I think India will play really well in England this time,” Dravid said. “It’s a great opportunity we’ve got. After the WTC final, they’re going to be in England for a whole month before the Test series starts. I don’t think any team has had that kind of time to prepare for a Test series as India will have this time, so that surely should be a great advantage. “In England, if there’s one thing you’ve always got to respect, it’s the conditions. “To some extent you sort of get the feeling (as batsmen) that you’re never set. Even if you’re set and you get a good start, batting on 30, 40, 50, things can change very quickly, the weather can change, the ball can swing even after it’s 40-50 overs old,” Dravid observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-backs-india-to-shade-england/article34523409.ece
10 May 2021||TOKYO,||Gatlin eyes regaining 100m gold at Tokyo||Veteran US sprinter Justin Gatlin set his sights on winning another Olympic gold at the Tokyo Games on Sunday — then refused to rule out continuing his career into his 40s. The 39-year-old will become the oldest man ever to win an Olympic track medal if he makes the podium at this summer’s coronavirus-delayed Tokyo Games. With Usain Bolt retired and reigning World 100m world champion Christian Coleman banned, Gatlin believes he has a realistic chance. “I hope so — That’s why I’m still here,” he said after competing at a test event held behind closed doors at Tokyo’s Olympic Stadium — he won the 100m in 10.24sec, and said he was satisfied with his form as he looks ahead to next month’s US trials. “I love making Olympic teams, but I’m not in it for the free trip. I want to be able to work hard and get on top of that podium again at some point, and I hope this year is that year for me.” Gatlin won 100m gold in Athens in 2004 but was forced to miss the 2008 Games because of a suspension for drug offences. He said on Sunday that Tokyo would be his “fourth and last Olympics” if he makes the US team. But he quickly changed tack when asked if he would definitely hang up his spikes this summer. “I’m saying it right now, but obviously the way my career’s going, I don’t know,” he said. “I’m happy with where I’m at. I’m still hungry for competition, so I won’t say never.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gatlin-eyes-regaining-100m-gold-at-tokyo/article34523443.ece
10 May 2021||INDIANAPOLIS,||Incredible Westbrook drives Wizards||Another historic night from Russell Westbrook helped Washington Wizards to a 133-132 overtime victory over the host Indiana Pacers on Saturday. Westbrook notched the 181st triple-double of his career (33 points, 19 rebounds and 15 assist) on Saturday, tying Oscar Robertson for the most in NBA history. Roberston established his record during an NBA career from 1960-74. “Man, it’s unbelievable,” Westbrook said of matching Robertson. “I take a lot of pride in doing everything that impacts winning, as much as I can leave it on the floor. To be in a conversation with Oscar, one I just want to thank him, because he set the stage.” Golden State Warriors notched a 136-97 rout of Oklahoma City thanks to Stephen Curry’s 49 points.  The results: Denver 119 lost to Brooklyn 125; Utah 124 bt Houston 116; Toronto 99 lost to Memphis 109; Golden State 136 bt Oklahoma City 97; Portland 124 bt San Antonio 102; Indiana 132 lost to Washington 133 (OT); Philadelphia 118 bt Detroit 104 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/incredible-westbrook-drives-wizards/article34523459.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Adhiban, Arjun qualify for Champions Chess Tour||B. Adhiban and Arjun Erigaisi took contrasting ways to earn the two qualifying spots for the cash-rich Champions Chess Tour after reaching the final of the online Indian Qualifier on Sunday. Much-needed win Adhiban, the top seed, pulled off a much-needed victory in the fourth game to end Aravindh Chithambaram’s resistance for a 2.5-1.5 victory after the first three games ended as draws. Arjun, facing another talented rival in D. Gukesh, bounced back after losing the first game to win the next three for a 3-1 verdict. The next leg of the Champions Tour will be held from May 23 to 31 and offers $220,000 as prize-money.  The results:   Semifinals: B. Adhiban bt Aravindh Chithambaram 2.5-1.5; Arjun Erigaisi bt D. Gukesh 3-1 .   The next leg of the Champions Tour will be held from May 23 to 31||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adhiban-arjun-qualify-for-champions-chess-tour/article34523397.ece
10 May 2021||HARARE,||Pakistan on cusp of series sweep||Left-arm spinner Nauman Ali took five for 86 as Pakistan closed in on an innings victory having reduced host Zimbabwe to 220 for nine at the close on the third day of the second and final Test at the Harare SC on Sunday. Zimbabwe, which still trails by 158 runs, lost 15 wickets on the day having been dismissed earlier for 132 in the first innings. It is replying to Pakistan’s massive510 for eight declared. Regis Chakabva struck an impressive 80 (13x4, 2x6) and Brendan Taylor smashed 49 as they tried to put the pressure back on the tourists. But Zimbabwe could not stem the tide as Nauman and seamer Shaheen Afridi (4/45) picked up all the wickets to fall. Earlier in the day, seamer Hasan Ali had wreaked havoc with five for 27.   The scores: Pakistan 510/8 decl. in 147.1 overs vs. Zimbabwe 132 in 60.4 overs (Chakabva 33, Hasan Ali 5/27) & 220/9 in 63 overs (Chakabva 80, B. Taylor 49, Jongwe 31 batting, Nauman 5/86, Afridi 4/45) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-on-cusp-of-series-sweep/article34523401.ece
10 May 2021||ROME,||Osaka conflicted over holding the Olympics||Naomi Osaka is conflicted over whether the Tokyo Olympics should be held amid the coronavirus pandemic. “Of course I would say I want the Olympics to happen, because I’m an athlete and that’s sort of what I’ve been waiting for my entire life,” said the Japanese World No. 2. “But I think that there’s so much important stuff going on, and especially the past year,” Osaka added. “I think a lot of unexpected things have happened and if it’s putting people at risk, and if it’s making people very uncomfortable, then it definitely should be a discussion, which I think it is as of right now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osaka-conflicted-over-holding-the-olympics/article34523440.ece
10 May 2021||TOKYO,||Games can be a beacon of hope: Coe||World Athletics chief Sebastian Coe said on Sunday he believes the Tokyo Olympics can be “a beacon of hope and optimism”, despite infections surging around the world. Coe, speaking at an athletics test event held behind closed doors at Tokyo’s Olympic Stadium, said he believes the Games can “have a profound impact” on the world. “I think that it will also act as a beacon of hope and optimism in a world that I hope is soon moving back to some type of normalcy,” he told reporters. “I think that these Games will leave a strong lasting legacy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/games-can-be-a-beacon-of-hope-coe/article34523457.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||Bumrah can take 400 Test scalps: Ambrose||West Indies fast bowling great Curtly Ambrose says Indian pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah is “so different” from all other bowlers he has seen and has the potential to reach the 400-wicket milestone in Tests if he stays fit.  “India’s got a few good fast bowlers. I’m a big fan of Jasprit Bumrah. He’s so different than any bowler I have seen. He’s so effective and I’m looking forward to him doing really well,” Ambrose said on the YouTube show ‘The Curtly & Karishma Show’.  Asked if the the 27-year old can scalp 400 wickets in the longest format of the game, Ambrose said, “He can as long as he remains healthy, fit and play long enough. He can seam the ball, swing the ball and bowl great yorkers. He’s got a lot in his arsenal. So as long as he can remain on the park for a long period of time, I’m sure he can get up there,” Ambrose said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-can-take-400-test-scalps-ambrose/article34523405.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘MI’s foreign recruits reached destinations’||Five-time champions Mumbai Indians on Sunday said that all its foreign players and support staff have reached their respective destinations safely after the IPL 2021 was indefinitely suspended midway into the season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A total of 14 foreign players and support of MI have left India after the cash-rich tournament had come to a halt on May 4. According to MI, Kieron Pollard reached Trinidad safely, South African wicketkeeper-batsman Quinton de Kock and Marco Jansen had landed in Johannesburg. MI’s Australian players Chris Lynn, Nathan Coulter-Nile and support staff members, including chief coach Mahela Jayawardene have reached Maldives, and they will serve a 14-day quarantine there. New Zealand players, including Adam Milne, Jimmy Neesham and Trent Boult and support staff, have reached Auckland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mis-foreign-recruits-reached-destinations/article34523406.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 07:42 IST,||Sudoku - May 10, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-10-2021/article34523968.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The anxiety pandemic||Trigger warning: this article contains material related to suicide and mental illness. Discretion is advised.  If 2020 was a year of uncertainty and had us taking up safety behaviours to try and ward off COVID-19, 2021 is proving to be far more stressful with the second wave of the pandemic. Age of Anxiety , the third book in the Mindscape series published by Simon and Schuster India, comes at a time when emotional wellness is increasingly being discussed. After Young Mental Health and Real Stories of Fighting Depression , this third book is co-authored by Amrita Tripathi and clinical psychologist Kamna Chhibber. Amrita is the founder-editor of The Health Collective India (healthcollective.in). The book discusses the basics of anxiety, the terminology used, while debunking myths and providing self-care tips. A section of the book, titled ‘COVID-19 and the age of anxiety’, addresses the challenges for those with pre-existing conditions and those who may be experiencing it for the first time. Edited excerpts from an interview with Amrita: Your book comes at a time when anxiety is being discussed more than ever before. How do you suggest a reader approach the book? Start with the foreword by Dr Achal Bhagat and then take a beat, read the introduction, which will give a good sense of what to expect from the book, and then maybe a chapter at a time.Take your time, there’s no rush to read it cover to cover! We have been able to share information on anxiety through different narrative forms — whether it’s from Kamna Chhibber’s perspective as a psychologist, or several contributors’ first person accounts of lived experience, creative writing by Ilina Acharya and Jessica Xalxo, and via interviews. We’ve collected myths and facts, colloquial terms for anxiety and tried to distil a lot of the information in a conversational, accessible way. At the time of working on this book, what were your thoughts on the mental health issues associated with the pandemic? Can you discuss the difference between the problems last year and this year?  There are so many layers to this question, and so many different experiences to unpack. First off, to acknowledge that we are in a very different position today in 2021 than last year. In March 2020, for example, I felt I was going through an emotional rollercoaster, and couldn’t put my finger on what the experience was all about. One thing that helped me was doing a course online by Professor Steve Joordens of the University of Toronto Scarborough called ‘Mind Control: Managing Your Mental Health During COVID-19’, which broke down some of what was going on in the brain, the body, etc. . The frontline workers are stretched. We are already seeing signs of doctors’ adverse mental health with the recent suicide. How do you think this segment will be different from people like you and me?  This is such a huge concern and issue — it’s not just extreme burn-out and fatigue, there’s also the concept of secondary trauma, compassion fatigue, guilt, survivor’s guilt, PTSD. Suicide is a huge challenge for both the country and the medical community, and while there are helplines available, the jury’s out on whether that’s enough support.  If these topics cause emotional, mental, or physical distress, please call Sneha 044-24640050 or Aasra 9820466726   Kamna Chhibber Speaks   Focus on the things that you can control. Follow safety protocols and engage in COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Be mindful of your own emotional experiences and be willing to discuss what you are going through with those around you. Reach out for support if you feel too overwhelmed. Make a conscious effort to limit information overload to ensure you are well so that you can provide much needed support to those around you. Follow reliable and verified sources to make sure that the information you have is authentic and accurate.  If volunteering to coordinate SOS calls and tweets, be watchful of shifts in your own emotional experiences. Being mindful can help you pace yourself better. Get peer or expert supervision to ensure that the ways in which you are handling situations are okay both for the callers as well as for your own well-being. If you are a caretaker for a COVID-19 patient at home: It is easy to fall into a pattern of ignoring what your body and mind need to cope with the distressing experiences. Try and create a schedule for yourself while including some activities that relax and calm you.  Staying connected to people who form your support system.If you don't have a support system, make an active effort to connect with neighbours, coworkers, family members and acquaintances to build it. Self-care: Indulge in activities that you like, which contribute towards making you feel relaxed and calm. These can range from exercise, cooking, playing games, to indulging in art, music, dance, meditation, or yoga.   The helpline volunteers and counsellors themselves would need psychological support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-anxiety-pandemic/article34523597.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Of memories and losses||My WhatsApp is buzzing continuously and Facebook newsfeed is choking with COVID stories from back home. For some time I managed to hold myself together, but the news of losing one of my classmates to COVID last week broke me. He was only 42. I spent the next 24 hours going through old albums, a stash of greeting cards and letters — and memories. I smiled one minute, sobbed the next. There were memories that we were able to share as a group. Then there were our collective recollections of just what a great guy and a wonderful friend he was. This person was my best buddy. We got along really well when we were in school, kept in touch through university days and beyond. He was back in hometown Delhi after a stint in the US around the same time as my separation and divorce. He was one of the people in my life that built me up during that difficult time. We spent hours talking on the phone — many a times through the night, hanging up only because we had to get to work. Then catching up where we left, in the evening. Years went by. We were both still single. And we decided to be ‘friends with benefits’— thinking neither of us were in any rush to get married so why not be there for each other. But that didn’t end well. Within a few months, he gave in to the pressure from his family and agreed to an arranged marriage. He dropped the news on me one afternoon — on my week off. He was to be married the following month. That was it. I think I felt betrayed more as a friend than as a ‘girlfriend’. It hurt so much that I thought I would die (the irony is not lost on me!) I spent three sleepless nights crying helplessly. I finally came out on the other side and decided not to shed another tear for him. I ‘unfriended’ him on Facebook. And didn’t keep in touch after that call. He called, texted, emailed on a daily basis, then weekly and monthly... but I didn’t respond, except twice. I congratulated him when he sent me his wedding card and then two years later, sent my best wishes when he told me that he had a daughter, adding I was the first friend he was sharing the news with. Years passed. We moved on, I remarried, relocated to another country and the episode became just another of life’s experiences. Even though we were part of the classmates WhatsApp group, we never talked. In the last few years I have often thought that it’s foolish and I should call him the next time I am in Delhi and clear the air. But it’s too late now. I am the kind of person that shares her joys and sorrows with everyone. But that day I didn’t want to talk, except with a few friends who we shared special memories with. There was another person I talked to — my husband.  The writer wishes to remain anonymous||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/of-memories-and-losses/article34523598.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A possible game-changer||Technology has the potential to span categories and classes and become a powerful leveller in education. But the 30-odd digital start-ups present in the Indian market are designed to help students prepare for competitive examinations such as the JEE, NEET, and the Civil Service. Online tuitions and coaching or Maths and Science lessons especially for high school students are also popular and most of the content is in English. With annual subscriptions reaching up to Rs. 40,000, the accessibility for lower-income groups is extremely limited, despite discounts being offered during the pandemic. Most videos and apps focus on concept clarification and coaching. Their purpose and business models are different, and we cannot fault them for not reaching everyone. Options available However, there are some options that are not so well known or advertised. The Ministry of Education’s initiative Swayam offers video courses for Classes 9 to 12 and for undergraduate programmes in Science, Humanities and Commerce and for post-graduation in MBA. Created by the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL), with teachers from the IITs, IGNOU, AICTE and the NCERT, a student needs to register, complete assignments and pass a final examination with 75% for certification. The certificate costs Rs. 2000 per course. The video-based lectures are available free of cost on DTH. One wishes the presenters had been more lively because the content quality is rich. The translation of the video courses into various regional languages has begun and experts will review these before they are released to the public. The Diksha Learning App from NCERT focuses on the CBSE curriculum. With over three lakh users, it offers lesson plans to teachers, engaging material for parents and students, worksheets and activities to help with conceptual understanding. Adding material to support other Boards would make it accessible to more students. One negative comment on the website was that the app was not working properly but the ministry had promised to rectify it. Another app is iDream Education, funded by corporate CSR and NGOs and offered free to students in the regional languages. Initially, launched as an online portal in 2016,. the app was released in March 2020 in response to the demand for at-home learning, says Rohit Prakash, co-founder, iDream. It offers interesting digital content for State Boards across the country and the CBSE in 14 languages. Besides interactive videos on Maths, Science, Social Sciences, Commerce, English Grammar, Hindi Vyakaran, Computers, STEM, do-it-yourself experiments, it also provides a rich digital library, practice questions, life skills. An app for teachers tracks usage, assigns tasks and monitors students’ progress. It won the Yes Foundation’s “Yes, I am the Change” award last year, which will support it for three years. Achievable dream While the pandemic has broken teachers’ hesitation to use technology, compulsory refresher courses in using online learning methods, and hand-holding will make educators adept at complementing their classes with e-learning. With continuous use and over time, the dream of quality education for all is achievable. The future of India’s school/college education lies in creating engaging offline videos and worksheets, lesson plans, question banks in all subjects in regional languages and English. These should be designed to be used along with the teacher’s own inputs. Cost-free offline videos for every student, whether in school or college, is essential. Connectivity issues can be prevented by screening the videos on a low-cost Smart TV installed in every classroom with a backup battery for uninterrupted power supply. Investing in detailed planning, teacher training, timely installation of the needed infrastructure and e-learning apps, followed by close monitoring for a year or two to transform the culture in educational institutions, could make e-learning a game changer. It is necessary to take courageous steps forward to offer quality education to everyone. Viney Kirpal is former Professor of English at IIT Bombay. Email: vineykirpal@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/a-possible-game-changer/article34523303.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A possible game-changer||Technology has the potential to span categories and classes and become a powerful leveller in education. But the 30-odd digital start-ups present in the Indian market are designed to help students prepare for competitive examinations such as the JEE, NEET, and the Civil Service. Online tuitions and coaching or Maths and Science lessons especially for high school students are also popular and most of the content is in English. With annual subscriptions reaching up to Rs. 40,000, the accessibility for lower-income groups is extremely limited, despite discounts being offered during the pandemic. Most videos and apps focus on concept clarification and coaching. Their purpose and business models are different, and we cannot fault them for not reaching everyone. Options available However, there are some options that are not so well known or advertised. The Ministry of Education’s initiative Swayam offers video courses for Classes 9 to 12 and for undergraduate programmes in Science, Humanities and Commerce and for post-graduation in MBA. Created by the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL), with teachers from the IITs, IGNOU, AICTE and the NCERT, a student needs to register, complete assignments and pass a final examination with 75% for certification. The certificate costs Rs. 2000 per course. The video-based lectures are available free of cost on DTH. One wishes the presenters had been more lively because the content quality is rich. The translation of the video courses into various regional languages has begun and experts will review these before they are released to the public. The Diksha Learning App from NCERT focuses on the CBSE curriculum. With over three lakh users, it offers lesson plans to teachers, engaging material for parents and students, worksheets and activities to help with conceptual understanding. Adding material to support other Boards would make it accessible to more students. One negative comment on the website was that the app was not working properly but the ministry had promised to rectify it. Another app is iDream Education, funded by corporate CSR and NGOs and offered free to students in the regional languages. Initially, launched as an online portal in 2016,. the app was released in March 2020 in response to the demand for at-home learning, says Rohit Prakash, co-founder, iDream. It offers interesting digital content for State Boards across the country and the CBSE in 14 languages. Besides interactive videos on Maths, Science, Social Sciences, Commerce, English Grammar, Hindi Vyakaran, Computers, STEM, do-it-yourself experiments, it also provides a rich digital library, practice questions, life skills. An app for teachers tracks usage, assigns tasks and monitors students’ progress. It won the Yes Foundation’s “Yes, I am the Change” award last year, which will support it for three years. Achievable dream While the pandemic has broken teachers’ hesitation to use technology, compulsory refresher courses in using online learning methods, and hand-holding will make educators adept at complementing their classes with e-learning. With continuous use and over time, the dream of quality education for all is achievable. The future of India’s school/college education lies in creating engaging offline videos and worksheets, lesson plans, question banks in all subjects in regional languages and English. These should be designed to be used along with the teacher’s own inputs. Cost-free offline videos for every student, whether in school or college, is essential. Connectivity issues can be prevented by screening the videos on a low-cost Smart TV installed in every classroom with a backup battery for uninterrupted power supply. Investing in detailed planning, teacher training, timely installation of the needed infrastructure and e-learning apps, followed by close monitoring for a year or two to transform the culture in educational institutions, could make e-learning a game changer. It is necessary to take courageous steps forward to offer quality education to everyone. Viney Kirpal is former Professor of English at IIT Bombay. Email: vineykirpal@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/a-possible-game-changer/article34523301.ece
10 May 2021||Mumbai,||Role of private doctors crucial in battle against COVID-19: CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday stressed the role of private doctors, especially family physicians, in the fight against COVID-19, saying they could help in early diagnosis of the infection in their patients and facilitate timely treatment for them. Addressing around 700 private doctors from across the State during a meeting held via videoconferencing, Mr. Thackeray appealed to them to join hands with the State administration to curb the spread of the viral infection. Mr. Thackeray said if family physicians kept a check on the treatment of their patients in home isolation and updated ward officers regularly, the civic body concerned could make arrangements for their further treatment in a proper way. “Family doctors play an important role. If they guide the patients at the initial stage of the infection, it will be helpful to arrest the virus spread. They can identify symptoms and check whether a patient is asymptomatic or needs hospitalisation,” he said. The CM said family doctors should focus on patients in home isolation so that if required they could be shifted to hospitals timely. He appealed to private doctors to register themselves with the COVID-19 care centres and jumbo field hospitals in their localities and visit the facilities for consultation. It was necessary to have uniformity in the treatment protocol, the CM added. Mr. Thackeray also said that the State’s oxygen production capacity was 1,270 metric tonnes, but due to the surge in COVID-19 cases, the demand had risen to 1,700 MT. “We have prepared short and long-term plans to become self-sufficient in oxygen and the enhanced production capacity of the life-saving gas will be realised soon,” he said. During the meeting, the State government’s task force of medical experts, comprising Sanjay Oak, Shashank Joshi, Rahul Pandit, Tatyarao Lahane and others, informed private medical practitioners about COVID-19 treatment protocols. They told the doctors about the use of steroids, importance of six-minute-walk test, how to identify the need for giving oxygen, identifying reduction in oxygen level, treatment of mucormycosis — a fungal infection detected in COVID-19 survivors, use of key anti-viral drug Remdesivir, and taking care of patients on ventilators. Mr. Thackeray said a paediatric task force was also being set up by the State government as experts were of the view that the third wave of COVID-19 could affect children. Around 700 private doctors participated the virtual meeting on Sunday, while 300 doctors had attended a meeting held some days ago via videoconferencing with Mr. Thackeray and the task force members, a statement issued by the Chief Minister’s Office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/role-of-private-doctors-crucial-in-battle-against-covid-19-cm/article34523593.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital records lowest number of daily cases in nearly a month||The Capital on Sunday recorded 13,336 new COVID-19 cases — the lowest figure since April 12 — as the lockdown was extended for another week to put brakes on the virus spread and strengthen the city’s health infrastructure. Also, 273 persons died on the day, which is the lowest on record after April 21. The health bulletin issued by the Delhi government showed that 61,552 tests have been conducted over a 24-hour period with a positivity rate of 21.63%, which was less than the 74,384 tests conducted the previous day that showed a positivity rate of 23.34%. The bulletin did not mention any reason for the fall in the number of tests. Active cases The Capital now has 86,232 active cases with 52,263 under home isolation. The number of containment zones has risen to 53,127 from 51,338 the previous day. The cumulative figures for the city now stand at 13,23,567 positive cases with 19,344 deaths and 12,17,991 recoveries. The government said the Capital had received 499 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen on Saturday against its daily demand of 700 MT as per the directions of the Supreme Court. The average oxygen supplied over the past seven days was 533 MT, which was 76% of the quantity directed by the Supreme Court, it said. The government added that it received four SOS calls regarding the shortage of oxygen and addressed all of them. On the vaccination drive, the government said 1,29,142 beneficiaries had been vaccinated in 24 hours, which is the highest since the drive began on January 16. Of these, 90,289 were those who got their first dose. The cumulative beneficiaries vaccinated so far now stand at 3,875,636 of which, 8,60,639 have received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-records-lowest-number-of-daily-cases-in-nearly-a-month/article34523618.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Regional front in Assam may have been factor in loss of Cong., allies||The regional front of the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and jailed activist Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal (RD) could have been a factor in the failure of the Congress-led Mahajot, or grand alliance, in dislodging the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies in Assam. The BJP-led Mitrajot (group of friends) won 75 of the 126 Assembly seats while the Mahajot settled with 50. Mr. Gogoi was the lone winner for the regional front that engaged in a “friendly fight” in a few constituencies. Anti-CAA fire Both the AJP and the RD were forged in the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act fire that had swept Assam briefly in December 2019. Data from the Election Commission of India reveal that the votes polled by the AJP-RD combine exceeded the victory margin of the BJP and its allies in 14 constituencies. Eleven of these seats were among the 47 where elections were held in the first phase, 37 of which were won by the BJP and its allies. Of these 14 seats, the BJP won 11 and the ally Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) three. Election to one of these seats, Barhampur, was held in the second phase on April 1. The remaining two are in western Assam, which went to the polls in the third and final phase on April 6. The BJP had contested Barhampur after the AGP denied ticket to former Chief Minister Prafulla Kumar Mahanta, who had held the seat since 1991. The BJP’s Jitu Goswami had polled 79,111 votes, 751 more than his nearest Congress candidate Suresh Borah while the AJP’s Dipika Saikia Keot bagged 1,922 votes. AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi contested Duliajan and Naharkatia constituencies where he garnered 24,192 and 24,232 votes respectively. The margin of votes between the BJP victors and the Congress losers in these two constituencies was 14,976 and 8,110. Victory margin Likewise, AJP general secretary Jagadish Bhuyan received 29,849 votes in Sadiya constituency, 7,765 more than the margin of victory of BJP’s Bolin Chetia over Lakhin Chandra Chetia of the Congress. On April 1, BJP’s chief poll strategist Himanta Biswa Sarma told a local TV channel that his party had encouraged the formation of the AJP and the RD with the objective of splitting the anti-CAA votes. Alluding to this claim after the results were announced, Congress pointsman Jitendra Singh attributed the party’s loss in at least 10 sets to the AJP-RD factor. “The regional front was definitely one of the factors,” State Congress leader Apurba Bhattacharya said while analysing his party’s poll performance. Had the Congress managed to win the 14 seats, the 10-party ‘Mahajot’ tally would have been 64 — the majority mark in the Assam Assembly. “Linking of the regional front to our party’s victory is crying over spilt milk. A few of our candidates lost for similar reasons, but there’s no point talking about it now,” BJP leader Dhrubajyoti Moral said. The BJP gave the example of the Nazira seat to drive home the point. Debabrata Saikia of the Congress defeated Mayur Borgohain of the BJP by 683 votes to retain Nazira. The AJP’s Ribulaya Gogoi polled 2,896 votes here. AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi said blaming his party for the loss of an alliance was ridiculous. “The votes we got reflect the scope for a regional party. This is just the beginning for us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/regional-front-in-assam-may-have-been-factor-in-loss-of-cong-allies/article34523608.ece
10 May 2021||Srinagar,||J&K extends lockdown till May 17||The J&K administration on Sunday extended ‘Corona curfew’ up to May 17 in all 20 districts, with the experts fearing that daily positive cases may touch up to 10,000 a day in coming weeks. “Corona curfew imposed in all 20 districts of J&K till 7 a.m. on Monday is extended further by seven days till Monday (May 17). The curfew will be strict except for a few essential services,” a government spokesman said. The spokesman said the gathering permissible for marriages is now reduced to 25.  L-G chairs meet These decisions were taken during a high-level meeting of the Covid Task Force chaired by J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha. “Ten additional oxygen generation plants are coming up in J&K soon with the intervention of the Central government. Most of the big COVID care government hospitals here now have their own oxygen generation plants. The upcoming plants will add to the capacity of oxygen availability in the UT,” Mr. Sinha said. Meanwhile, restrictions have yielded some favourable results in containing the spread of the corona virus, especially at the community level, the officials said. The J&K administration also decided to start contractual reappointment of retired healthcare workers, including faculty members, medical officers and senior-cum-junior consultants. “In view of the surge in COVID-19 cases in its second wave and with a view to augment the efforts of the government in fight against this pandemic, sanction is accorded to the contractual appointment of those faculty members, as have retired from the Government Medical Colleges, Srinagar and Jammu, and SKIMS, Soura/Bemina, who are within 70 years of age as on June 2021 and are willing to join in their respective parent institutions for deployment for COVID duty,” a government order said. The engagement shall be for a period of one year, it added. The fresh measures have come after Prof. M.S. Khuroo, Chairman of the Apex Level Advisory Committee of Government of Jammu and Kashmir for COVID-19, in an interview to a local daily, asked the administration to prepare for receiving close to 10,000 COVID positive cases with around 100 deaths per day. Likely to peak “The pandemic is likely to peak within 3 to 4 weeks and stay at a plateau for several weeks before showing regression. The next six to eight weeks are crucial as J&K is likely to witness 6,000 to 10,000 cases, 60 to 100 deaths per day,” Prof. Khuroo was quoted as saying by the daily. He said many mutant strains of the virus in addition to the wild strain have resulted in some distinctive features this year. “There is a suspicion that COVID-19 as of today in J&K has higher mortality and morbidity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jk-extends-lockdown-till-may-17/article34523612.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||Steadfast farmers work on immunity, seek vaccination||Desi ‘kaadha’ and lemonade have become the most consumed beverages among farmers protesting against the agricultural laws at three borders in Delhi for nearly six months now, even as the raging pandemic claims hundreds of lives daily and leaves thousands sick. They have also added multi-vitamin and zinc tablets as supplements hoping to improve their immunity against the virus, but are resolved not to yield ground until their demands — a repeal of the three farm laws and a new one guaranteeing MSP on crops — are met. But, they say, they would take the vaccination. Hundreds of farmers, chiefly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, continue to encamp Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points of Delhi despite “a few” of them being removed after testing positive for COVID-19 and some symptomatic protesters undergoing medication. “There are no such cases of COVID here at Singhu border. The farmers are taking care of themselves by consuming ‘kaadha’ [a traditional Indian hot beverage mixed with herbs and spices to boost immunity] and multi-vitamins. The situation at the border area is normal, as it was earlier. There is nothing to worry about,” said Sukhwinder Singh, a farmer. Farmer leader Kulwant Singh, who hails from Punjab, said a vaccination centre is being operated at a hospital at the Singhu border. “One of our leaders tested positive for COVID. He has recovered. Those who are showing symptoms are getting tested for the virus. The farmers at the border are taking a healthy diet. The vaccination process is underway at a hospital near the border. I got my first jab in Punjab. To get the next dose, I will go back to the state,” Kulwant said. Vaccination facility At Tikri and Ghazipur, the protestors said they have demanded for a vaccination facility but the government has not responded to their appeal yet. They added they are firmly resolved to stay put at Delhi’s borders, and are making arrangements to ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour among crowds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/steadfast-farmers-work-on-immunity-seek-vaccination/article34523616.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Helplessness during this time lead to The Good Food Project’||Two friends, Nandini Ghosh and Shray Gupta, were speaking over the phone last Sunday afternoon. They were trying to find out ways to help people in COVID times. Later that evening, they decided to venture out with 100 food packets and distributed them at Nigambodh Ghat. Ms. Ghosh, a 29-year-old management consultant, said it was her helplessness that helped her come up with “The Good Food Project”. “Ever since the second wave struck, a lot of us have been feeling helpless. Last Sunday, the feeling grew stronger, and I called Shray, who has been helping people with resources already, asking him if we could do something. Then we decided to help the crematoriums staff workers with food,” she said. Mr. Gupta chipped in Rs. 10,000 and the duo bought 100 dinner packets. By the evening, both were outside Nigambodh Ghat, talking to the officials about food provisions at the facility. “First we were shocked because bodies were still coming in. A worker told us that bodies come all night these days. The crematorium office staff person said they provide all meals to the workers. But when we asked the workers, they said they are managing themselves. We gave dinner packets to about 30 of them,” Mr. Gupta said. The rest of 70 packets were distributed to other workers at the crematorium, he added. Taking the idea forward and calculating the amount — Rs. 50,000 a day if they fed even 100 people daily at a few crematoriums — they decided to set up a crowdfunding online, which has been steadily growing. By Sunday night, they formed a team of 10 persons — all friends, including Kriya Bhansali from Mumbai, managing social media and research, and Siddharth Pandey in London arranging and coordinating volunteers from London. By Monday, over 15 people were ready to go and help the team with delivering food to crematoriums. “Most of the people who agreed to volunteer were those who had faced a personal loss due to COVID-19,” Mr. Gupta said. Personal loss Twenty-nine-year-old Dawar Naqvi said he became a part of the project because one of his uncles — a retired Army Colonel — died of COVID-19 and there was no one during his funeral. “There were no relatives there, not even his children. His wife was still in the hospital fighting the virus. He was cremated by non-family members. We were in so much pain that a person who always had a well-decorated life was all alone in his last journey. People in the crematorium are doing selfless service, helping them is my way of giving back to the society,” he said. The group delivered food packets to 200 crematorium staff workers on Wednesday, 400 each on Thursday and Friday and planned for 800 on Saturday. The team members wear PPE kits and take all the precautions before hitting the ground, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/helplessness-during-this-time-lead-to-the-good-food-project/article34523624.ece
10 May 2021||Chandigarh,||13 prisoners escape from COVID-19 facility in Haryana||Thirteen prisoners escaped from a jail in Haryana’s Rewari, a dedicated facility for COVID-19 positive inmates in the State, officers said on Sunday. Four police teams have been formed to trace the prisoners while the Rewari Police is also coordinating with police departments of neighbouring districts including Narnaul, a senior officer said. The incident took place on the intervening night of Saturday-Sunday, they said. The prisoners, who were kept in a special section of the Rewari jail, cut an iron grill of the barrack in which they were lodged and used cloth from their beddings as rope to escape, they added. At present, the jail is functioning as a dedicated facility for COVID-19 positive prisoners in the State. As many as 493 COVID positive undertrial prisoners from different parts of the State are lodged in the special section of the Rewari jail, which is in the final stages of construction, Rewari Superintendent of Police Abhishek Jorwal said over the phone. Inmates from different Haryana jails are shifted to the facility for isolation and treatment once they test positive for the coronavirus. “Thirteen prisoners have escaped. They were facing cases including murder, theft, dacoity and rape in Rewari and Mahendergarh. They were brought to Rewari from Narnaul jail,” Mr. Jorwal said. Mr. Jorwal said jail officials informed the police that during a routine counting of the prisoners in the morning, 13 were found missing. He said a case has been registered in the incident and negligence on part of the jail officials is being investigated.  The prisoners were facing cases including murder, theft, dacoity and rape in Rewari and Mahendergarh   Abhishek Jorwal   Rewari SP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/13-prisoners-escape-from-covid-19-facility-in-haryana/article34523610.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia lashes out at Centre for exporting 6.5 cr. doses of vaccine||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday lashed out at the Centre for exporting 6.5 crore doses of vaccines to 93 nations. He alleged that they did so to build their image globally instead of making the vaccine available to its own citizens. He said the vaccines could have instead been used to inoculate youth, many of whom have died during the current wave. “Since the start of this second wave, we have lost a cumulative of 1 lakh people in India as a result of COVID-19. What was hoped from the Central Government was to manage the COVID crisis in India, but they were too busy in managing their image instead. It is important to help nations in this crisis, and it is required, but not at the expense of our own people,” Mr. Sisodia said. The Deputy Chief Minister said when the government opened up the vaccination drive for the 18-44 years category, the Centre supplied only 5.5 lakh vaccines for the youth while it provided 6.5 crore vaccine for other nations. “This is the sad reality of our Central Government. The Centre has no value for Indians. We could have saved our youth and our community of older people if Centre wasn’t so interested in image management,” Mr. Sisodia said. He alleged that when States were pleading with the Centre to increase doses, it was too busy providing the vaccines to other nations. “I request the Central Government to learn something from the International fraternity. Canada, U.S., France and European nations prioritised vaccinating their own people first. Prioritise vaccinating all Indians,” Mr. Sisodia said. On the issue of vaccines being made available, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote a letter to Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan asking for vaccines be supplied in sufficient quantity to the Capital. He said the government has put in place the infrastructure needed to vaccinate over three lakh people a day. The Chief Minister also pointed that there were continued glitched in the CoWIN app that was leading to most people spending valuable time registering and trying to book an appointment. “A large number of people are not savvy to be able to register themselves. I request you to allow States to develop their separate app or develop mechanisms other than apps to manage vaccinations in their States,” he wrote.  I request the Centre to learn something from the International fraternity. Canada, U.S., France and European nations prioritised vaccinating their own people first.... Manish Sisodia Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-lashes-out-at-centre-for-exporting-65-cr-doses-of-vaccine/article34523620.ece
10 May 2021||Mumbai,||Probe against Deshmukh: Chandiwal committee gets powers of civil court||The Maharashtra government has delegated powers of a civil court to Justice Chandiwal committee, set up to conduct a probe into the corruption allegations levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against ex-State home minister Anil Deshmukh. The one-member committee comprising the High Court’s retired judge Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal was set up on March 30 to conduct a judicial inquiry into Mr. Singh’s allegations made in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20. Mr. Singh wrote the letter after he was shunted from the post of the Mumbai police commissioner and appointed as the DG, State Home Guards. In a notification issued on May 3, the State government delegated powers of a civil court to the probe committee. Mr. Singh alleged that NCP leader Mr. Deshmukh had given a target to some police officers to collect Rs. 100 crore per month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. After formation of the probe committee, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis had criticised the government and claimed that the panel could not be called a judicial commission as it was not given powers under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952. He had termed setting up of the committee as an “eyewash” and wondered how a retired judge could investigate charges against an incumbent home minister without any powers. Mr. Deshmukh, who has rejected the allegations against him, resigned as home minister on April 5 after the Bombay High Court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the corruption allegations against him. The CBI registered an FIR against Mr. Deshmukh and conducted searches at his premises in Mumbai and Nagpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probe-against-deshmukh-chandiwal-committee-gets-powers-of-civil-court/article34523589.ece
10 May 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. seeks apology from BJP for ‘false’ charges||The Maharashtra Congress on Sunday demanded an apology from the BJP for levelling “false” allegations of corruption against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the State over the Manora MLA hostel project in Mumbai. On May 7, BJP legislator Atul Bhatkalkar had written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, alleging a Rs. 300 crore scam in the redevelopment of Manora MLA hostel in south Mumbai, and said the cost had increased by 66%. Responding to the charges, State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said in a statement, “The BJP’s lies are exposed as the Central government-owned National Buildings Construction Corporation Limited (NBCC) has decided the cost of the project for reconstruction of the Manora MLA Hostel.” Therefore, Mr. Bhatkhalkar and the BJP, who had been levelling corruption charges without knowing how the figure of Rs. 900 crore arrived at, must now offer an unconditional apology, he said. The decision to rebuild the Manora MLA hostel was taken by the Devendra Fadnavis government and the work was given to the NBCC by that dispensation, he said. “The NBCC had first stated the cost of the project at Rs. 810 crore in the draft e-tender notice submitted to the legislature on February 28, 2020. But in December that year, it increased the cost of the project to Rs. 875.62 crore in its detailed estimate,” he said. Due to the delay, the State government took away the contract from the NBCC and handed it over to the Public Works Department, Mr. Sawant added. The Congress shares power with the Shiv Sena and NCP in the MVA government led by Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-seeks-apology-from-bjp-for-false-charges/article34523590.ece
10 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Lockdown failed to slow down iron ore extraction in Odisha: RTI reply||When frequent COVID-19 lockdowns brought life to a halt across the country last year, it was business as usual for the mining sector in Odisha, said activists. According to the information obtained through the exercise of the Right to Information, 1,109.86 lakh metric tonnes of iron ore was extracted in the State from January to December 2020. “When the whole State was under lockdown and manufacturing sector could not function to its potential, iron ore extraction went on unabated. Of the 1,109 lakh mt iron production, 240 lakh mt was exported,” said Pradip Pradhan, the RTI activist who obtained the information. Govt. got Rs. 5,663.68 crore Mr. Pradhan said the State government got richer by Rs. 5,663.68 crore on account of iron ore extraction. He added lessees operating merchant mines continued the operations and accrued huge benefits. Odisha, which accounts for 64% of India’s iron production, has been extracting iron ore above 1,000 lakh mt for the past several years. The State boasts of 33% India’s iron ore reserve. During the lockdown, 7,086.835 hectares of area bearing iron ore were leased out to different companies, he said. Exports to China According to the RTI information, even during the India-China border stand-off, huge quantities of iron ore were exported to China through Pradip Port. Recently, sarpanchs of three gram panchayats – Talakanisar, Kumundi and Suakati — around the Gandhamardan Iron Ore mine in Keonjhar district had urged the State-run Odisha Mining Corporation to stop ore transportation in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases. However, it is alleged that the company did not pay any heed to the request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdown-failed-to-slow-down-iron-ore-extraction-in-odisha-rti-reply/article34523613.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Staying united||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/staying-united/article34523866.ece
10 May 2021||Thane,||Activists hold protest against quota verdict||Maratha quota activists on Sunday staged a protest at Diva in Thane district against the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down the law granting them reservation in admissions and jobs. At least a dozen office-bearers and activists of the Bharatiya Maratha Sangh (BMS) tonsured their heads and displayed banners opposing the SC verdict at Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Chowk. BMS leaders lashed out at political leaders belonging to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government as well as the Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/activists-hold-protest-against-quota-verdict/article34523591.ece
10 May 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks govt. to create COVID facility at IHBAS||Considering the acute shortage and severe demand for beds pertaining to COVID-19 patients, the High Court has directed the Delhi government to process the proposal to create a COVID facility at the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS). Justice Prathiba M. Singh also asked the government to assist in making 60 to 80 beds at IHBAS as a designated COVID facility. “Further, an endeavour shall be made to immediately operationalize the said COVID facility at IHBAS, as per the applicable protocols and norms,” the court ordered. The court’s direction came while hearing the plea of a man whose 83-year-old father was admitted at IHBAS on April 29, 2021 due to an emergency suggesting a neurological ailment. The son said his father suffered a brain stroke and was admitted to IHBAS. Later, the father was detected with fever and upon conducting an RT-PCR test, he turned out to be positive for COVID-19. The grievance raised by the son is that IHBAS, not being a designated COVID-19 hospital, has asked him to shift his father to LNJP. He has asked the court to direct the IHBAS to treat his father and not discharge him, as it would jeopardise his life and chances of survival. It was submitted by a team of doctors from IHBAS that the patient has neurological as also cardiac issues, and hence it would be advisable for the patient to move to a general hospital like LNJP Hospital rather than a specialised hospital like IHBAS. The government also assured the court of the availability of a bed for the father in LNJP Hospital with a transport facility through an ambulance from IHBAS. However, as the son remained adamant about not shifting his father following which the court allowed continued treatment of the man at IHBAS. The court also clarified that IHBAS would not be held liable in any manner, as the man and his family are conscious of the fact that the doctors at the facility may not have the same specialisation required for a COVID patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-asks-govt-to-create-covid-facility-at-ihbas/article34523614.ece
10 May 2021||May 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Fight against COVID-19||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fight-against-covid-19/article34523607.ece
10 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Eminent sculptor passes away||Eminent sculptor and Rajya Sabha member Padma Vibhushan Raghunath Mohapatra passed away while undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at AIIMS-Bhubaneswar on Sunday. Mohahapatra, 77, was admitted to AIIMS-Bhubaneswar on April 22. Several members in his family were found to be infected. When his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to the ICU on April 25. Subsequently, he was on ventilator support. In 2018, President Ram Nath Kovind nominated Mr. Mohapatra – first person from Odisha — to the Upper House of Parliament. As a doyen of stone sculpture, he was chosen for Padma Vibhushan in 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/eminent-sculptor-passes-away/article34523609.ece
10 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Missing patients: inquiry ordered into incident||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday ordered an inquiry into an incident at the Hindu Rao Hospital where it is alleged that 23 COVID-19 patients have gone “missing”. The government sources said Mr. Sisodia has asked the Health Department to conduct an inquiry into the matter and submit a report by Monday evening as the incident was not only dangerous to the lives of these patients but is also a set back to the efforts of the government, which has imposed a lockdown to check the spread of the disease. The North body Mayor Jai Prakash had on Saturday said at least 23 COVID-19 patients left the hospital between April 19 and May 6 without informing the medical facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/missing-patients-inquiry-ordered-into-incident/article34523622.ece
