11 May 2021||Patna,||Bodies of suspected COVID-19 victims found floating in Ganga||Videos of several bodies of suspected COVID-19 victims floating at Mahadeo Ghat of the Ganga at Chausa village in Bihar have gone viral on social media, sparking outrage and shock. Officials who visited the site said the bodies might have floated in from the adjoining districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh. Chausa is about 10 km from the headquarters of Buxar, adjoining eastern Uttar Pradesh. Villagers first spotted several bodies floating along the bank of the river on Monday and informed the authorities. “Nearly 30-40 bodies can be seen in the Ganga and there are stray dogs roaming around. Yes, most of them are likely to be those of COVID-19 victims,” social activist and lawyer Ashwini Varma told The Hindu over the phone. According to Mr. Varma, the exorbitant cost of cremation could have forced the poor to jettison bodies in the river. “It costs nearly Rs. 30,000-Rs. 40,000 to cremate a body. So, the poor people prefer to dispose of bodies in the Ganga,” he said. “Stray dogs are eating the bodies, which could be of COVID-19 victims. This could spread the virus,” he added. Officials who visited the village said there were “about 10-12 bodies floating in the river”. While acknowledging that most of them could be of COVID-19 victims, the officials said “they could have floated in from neighbouring districts of Uttar Pradesh.” “The bodies are bloated. They seem to have been in water for at least 5-7 days. It needs to be investigated from where they’ve come. They could be from Varanasi or Allahabad,” senior district official K.K. Upadhayay told mediapersons. Chausa Block Development Officer Ashok Kumar said, “None of the deceased happens to be a resident of the district. How can we confirm whether the deceased were indeed COVID-19 positive? The bodies have decomposed and are bloated but we’re ensuring that they are disposed of in a decent manner.” Villagers seek action However, the villagers of Chausa said, “The local officials came, visited the spot, looked at the floating bodies from the river bank and went back.” Demanding the deployment of officials at cremation grounds to prevent people from leaving bodies in the river, the villagers wanted the prices of firewood to be kept in check so that families could perform the last rites of the deceased properly and are not forced to discard their bodies. “The villagers are panicking and are terrified of the spread of COVID-19 via the bodies,” local journalist Kaushalendra Kumar told The Hindu . In a video uploaded on social media, a stray dog could be seen sitting near a body and others barking at the floating bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bodies-of-suspected-covid-19-victims-found-floating-in-ganga/article34531269.ece
11 May 2021||Pune,||MVA Ministers slam Centre over CoWIN glitches||Ministers within the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Monday hit out at the glitches in the CoWIN app as well as the Centre’s tardy vaccine supply to Maharashtra. State Water Resources Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) State president Jayant Patil complained that faults in the CoWIN app were causing hassles for those trying to register for vaccination slots. While Mr. Patil urged the Centre to overhaul the app, NCP leader and State Minister Nawab Malik said the slow supply of vaccines to the State had led to over 4.5 lakh senior citizens still awaiting their second dose. Mr. Patil said, “Over 1.3 billion Indians are compelled to register from a single, central app. The technical issues and error being reported daily about the CoWIN app are causing inconvenience to millions of people in the country as well as in the State.” He said that people are getting fed up with the inordinate delays while trying to log in as well as getting a one-time password that will enable them to book a vaccination slot. “These are extremely serious issues at a time when rapid vaccination is being widely touted as a solution to rein in the virus,” the minister said. ‘Panic among citizens’ He added that such inconveniences and delays in smoothly getting a vaccination slot were only aggravating the fraught situation and increasing panic among citizens anxious to get inoculated. Mr. Patil said, “Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow each State to either develop their respective apps [to enable registration for vaccination] or at least allow the Maharashtra government to create its own app. The Central government must immediately consider this option.”  Mr. Malik lashed out at the Centre’s misguided policymaking. He said, “There are massive queues outside vaccination centres, with lakhs of senior citizens gathering to receive their second dose… vaccine stocks are depleted because the Centre cannot provide the requisite vaccine supply… if the Modi government does not have the capacity to fulfil its obligations, what was the reason for announcing the third phase of vaccination [18-44 age group] from May 1?”  There are massive queues outside vaccination centres in the State, with lakhs of despondent senior citizens gathering to receive their second dose Nawab Malik NCP leader and State Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-ministers-slam-centre-over-cowin-glitches/article34531791.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine production is being gradually ramped up: Centre||The Centre informed the Supreme Court that the production capacity of COVID-19 vaccines had been “gradually ramped up” in light of the immunisation drive. “In times of grave and unprecedented crisis when the nation is fighting a disaster of unprecedented magnitude, the executive functioning of the government needs discretion to formulate policy in larger interest. It is submitted that in view of the unprecedented and peculiar circumstances under which vaccination drive is devised as an executive policy, the wisdom of the executive should be trusted,” the government noted. The vaccine production was expected to increase in the next couple of months, it stated. The Serum Institute of India had ramped up production from five crore doses a month to 6.5 crore doses. A further increase was expected in July 2021. Similarly, Bharat Biotech Intl Ltd. had hiked production from 90 lakh a month to two crore. An increase was expected up to 5.5 crore doses per month by July 2021. Lastly, the Russian Sputnik-V was expected to increase production from 30 lakh to 1.2 crore doses a month by July 2021. “Discussions for procurement of vaccines from out of India have been going on since third-quarter of 2020, at a time when the foreign vaccine manufacturers were prioritising their domestic requirements. These negotiations are a complex undertaking, which is currently ongoing on a war-footing using all resources including diplomatic channels,” the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-production-is-being-gradually-ramped-up-centre/article34531271.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Lockdown: Caning by police raises people’s hackles||Police across the State on Monday began enforcing a strict lockdown, often resorting to caning motorists and people on the streets. Such instances were reported from across the State. In many instances, the policemen allegedly caned everyone in sight indiscriminately, even those out on medical emergencies and other permitted activities, raising hackles. At least three complaints — by two lawyers and Congress leader Ramesh Babu — were filed against the Karnataka Police with the Karnataka State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) in this regard on Monday. R.K. Dutta, KSHRC member, said the commission was looking into the complaints and collecting details and evidence of specific instances. The police have expressed concern over videos on social media of police personnel caning people in other places being passed off as instances from the State. However, several persons recounted their ordeal at the hands of the police on Monday. Irshad Alam was on his way from a hospital in the city to arrange for Remdesivir for his relative when the police allegedly caned him and seized his bike. “They did not listen to me at all. They released the bike two hours later when I got a call that my brother-in-law died in the hospital. But I couldn’t ride my bike due to the beatings,” he said. People misusing the window for essential services and medical emergencies were to blame for police action, said a senior official. “We observed traffic jams during the window for essentials during the last two weeks and everyone claimed they were out for essential services, misusing the window. So enforcement was strict from Monday,” explained a senior officer. Praveen Sood, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police, said while the police have been instructed to act with restraint, people must also cooperate. Meanwhile, Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant tweeted: “Contrary to the videos doing rounds on Social Media, Bengaluru City Police has been strictly advised to only take action strictly as per law, in case anybody violates lock-down guidelines. They have been advised not to use any kind of force in this regard”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-caning-by-police-raises-peoples-hackles/article34531327.ece
11 May 2021||K. Umashanker,||At least 11 killed as SVRR Hospital runs out of oxygen||At least 11 patients died and several others were in a serious condition when the pressure in oxygen supply suddenly dipped at the SVRR COVID Hospital in Tirupati on Monday night, coupled with a delay in the arrival of an oxygen tanker from Chennai. Probe ordered Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has called for a probe and action against those responsible for the incident. District Collector M. Hari Narayanan confirmed that 11 patients in the ICU ward of the hospital had died. According to a medical officer, around 8.45 p.m., about 15 patients in the ICU, depending on the non-invasive ventilators and oxygen supply, felt suffocated and started gasping for breath. A team of doctors rushed out to call for the technicians and look for measures to provide alternative supply but the oxygen stocks had run out. Noticing the commotion, the relatives of the patients got agitated. The patients awaiting oxygen-fitted beds too were in panic. A mob reportedly barged into the wards and allegedly vandalised the premises, resenting the lack of response from the medical team. The police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Fearing public wrath, some of the paramedical staff fled the hospital premises. About 400 patients are on oxygen support at the facility. After half an hour of the incident, an oxygen tanker reached the SVRR COVID Hospital and normalcy was restored. District Coordinator of Health Services P. Saralamma said that she had no knowledge about the episode at the SVRR Covid Hospital as she “was under isolation”. Joint Collector Veerabrahamam and the District Nodal Officer Harikrishna did not respond, despite repeated attempts to contact them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-least-11-killed-as-svrr-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen/article34531273.ece
11 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||CM for floating global tenders for vaccine procurement||Observing that completing the COVID vaccination drive would take at least six months if the State gets 1 crore vaccines a month, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy suggested to the officials to consider floating global tenders to procure enough quantities . Only 19 lakh doses of vaccine are being supplied per month now, he said in a review meeting on COVID vaccination and disease control measures at his camp office on Monday. Mr. Jagan said though the States were at liberty to directly procure vaccines from the companies, the Centre had a say in the allocations. In spite of knowing this, some politicians with vested interests were spreading misinformation, which was causing panic, he said. He asked the officials to strengthen the 104 helpline number and to make mock calls from time to time to monitor them. He ordered that patients who need not be hospitalised should be sent to COVID Care Centres. Vaccine supply Officials told the Chief Minister that the State had so far received 60,60,400 doses of Covishield and 12,89,560 doses of Covaxin. A total of 1,33,07,889 people aged above 45 were registered, of whom 41,08,917 were given the first dose and 13,35,744 both doses. He said officials should ensure there was no rush at vaccination centres and asked the officials to take steps for the establishment of PSA oxygen plants in teaching and community hospitals to meet the demand. He instructed the DGP to submit a daily report on the implementation of curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-for-floating-global-tenders-for-vaccine-procurement/article34531276.ece
11 May 2021||Hyderabad/khamMam,||Telangana refuses entry to COVID patients from A.P.||The Telangana police on Monday stopped the entry of all ambulances with COVID-19 patients from Andhra Pradesh heading towards Hyderabad, the hub for medical treatment in the twin States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, amid the virulent second wave. Ambulances with COVID-19 patients were turned away by the Telangana police on all inter-State borders from the checkposts at Panchalingala in Kurnool district, Kodada on the Nalgonda-Krishna district border and at the Pullur toll gate. Distraught attendants of the critically ill patients, many on oxygen support, pleaded with the police to enable them to access better medicare in Hyderabad-based hospitals, but in vain. At the Panchalingala checkpost, when patients arrived from various places in Kadapa, Kurnool, and Anantapur districts, they were asked to furnish an ‘RT-PCR negative certificate’ or a confirmed admission appointment from a hospital in Telangana. The majority of the patients were caught unawares, and were seen pleading with the police citing medical emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-refuses-entry-to-covid-patients-from-ap/article34531285.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Cabinet meeting today to decide on lockdown||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened a meeting of his Cabinet on Tuesday afternoon to discuss imposition of lockdown in the State in view of surge in COVID-19 cases. A release of CMO said the meeting was taking place in the background of diverse opinions emerging about lockdown yielding results to curb COVID. Reports suggested that the results were not satisfactory in some States where lockdown was clamped. At the same time, sections of people favoured lockdown as the only way to deal with the situation. In these circumstances, the Cabinet will discuss the merits and demerits of lockdown and its impact on the ongoing procurement of paddy in villages. Tuesday’s meeting assumed significance after the High Court on Wednesday last asked the State government to consider weekend lockdown or extending the night curfew hours which are presently 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar had told media persons that the Cabinet will discuss and take an appropriate decision. Both, Mr. Rao and Mr. Somesh Kumar were of the firm opinion earlier that lockdown would not serve the purpose. Mr. Rao had also suggested that lockdown would bring life to a standstill and result in collapse of financial system. Added to this was the Chief Minister’s assertion that imposition of the lockdown at this stage would cripple the normal life and economy of the State which is on a recovery mode. From a huge shortfall of revenue of close to Rs. 50,000 crore during previous financial year, the State is inching towards normalcy in revenue collection. Tax and non-tax revenue during April was more than Rs. 9,300 crore, including State’s own revenue of close to Rs. 6,750 crore, indicating that the State is on accelerated recovery financially. He based his observation on past experiences and COVID positive cases not coming down in States where lockdown was in force. There were 25 to 30 lakh workers from other States working here. The first wave of COVID showed how their lives were adversely impacted by lockdown. What will happen to the workers from other States who are working in rice mills in the midst of the ongoing paddy procurement season? The entire paddy purchase process will come to a standstill, Mr. Rao had said at an official meeting which was his first after going into home isolation for testing COVID positive. Senior officials are of the view that the present scenario is leading to a “lockdown-like” situation where there could be more restrictions, not a full-fledged closure of all the activities. “The situation is trending towards lockdown. There is 60 % chance of imposition of lockdown at least partially,” a senior official told The Hindu . Officials feel that there will be more restrictions on the movement of people and public gatherings rather than a total lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-meeting-today-to-decide-on-lockdown/article34531756.ece
11 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||Police seize vehicles out on the streets without valid reason||The first day of lockdown in Dharwad district saw vehicles being seized in large numbers as the Police Commissioner and Superintendent of Police themselves swung into action, in a bid to ensure strict implementation of the guidelines. As per the guidelines, people were not to use vehicles unless it was found absolutely necessary. However, the police found many people out on the streets either on their two-wheelers or driving their four-wheelers and on enquiry many of them were not able to give a justifiable reason for the use of the vehicle. Consequently, several of such vehicles were seized. Police Commissioner Labhu Ram himself monitored the situation for a while at the landmark Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi on Monday after the 10 a.m. deadline ended. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant said that 430 two-wheelers were seized for violating guidelines in various taluks and rural areas of the district. In a press release, he said that the vehicles seized would be released after the end of the lockdown and after verification of documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-seize-vehicles-out-on-the-streets-without-valid-reason/article34531373.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Acute shortage of oxygen is putting lives at risk, T.N. tells HC||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday told the Madras High Court that though the Centre had revised the quantity of oxygen allotted to the State from 220 to 419 tonnes a day, it still falls short of the current actual consumption of around 470 tonnes a day. “The acute shortage of medical oxygen on a day-to-day basis is putting the lives of affected COVID-19 patients at grave risk,” the government told the court. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram said the State’s oxygen requirement was expected to increase further to around 850 tonnes a day in the next 15 days if the number of COVID-19 patients under hospitalisation on oxygen-supported beds continues to increase in the days to come. However, if the lockdown restrictions succeed in bringing down the number of cases, there may not be any necessity for another 400 tonnes of oxygen, he added. The A-G also submitted a status report filed by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, who stressed the need to make three essential amendments to the National Oxygen Plan “to avert a major catastrophe and loss of many lives in Tamil Nadu”. The Health Secretary noted that a revised oxygen allotment order, issued by the Centre on May 8, said 40 tonnes of oxygen from INOX Air Products Private Limited, Kanjikode, Kerala, would be supplied to the western and southern districts of Tamil Nadu only till May 12. This was done with the anticipation that the Sterlite copper smelting plant in Thoothukudi would commence oxygen production this week. “However, the production in the Sterlite plant is expected to commence in a small way from May 12, and it will take at least 10 days to reach around 40 tonnes on a sustainable basis. Therefore, if the 40 tonnes from INOX, Kanjikode, is stopped, the supply of oxygen to Coimbatore and the southern districts of Tamil Nadu will be totally cut off. This will be catastrophic for 10 districts in the western and southern parts of Tamil Nadu,” he said. He insisted that the supply from INOX, Kanjikode, should be continued for at least 10 more days. Secondly, Mr. Radhakrishnan also wanted the supply of another 20 tonnes of oxygen from Air Water India Private Limited in Bellary, Karnataka, to continue for another 10 days as a transition measure. Further, he insisted upon allotting 200 tonnes of oxygen to Tamil Nadu from the steel plants in Rourkela, Odisha, to meet its deficit and the increasing demand. He pointed out that these three requirements did not find a mention in the revised oxygen allotment order for Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acute-shortage-of-oxygen-is-putting-lives-at-risk-tn-tells-hc/article34531369.ece
11 May 2021||KALABURAGI,||Lockdown near-total in Kalyana Karnataka||Lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 was almost total in the towns and cities of Kalyana Karnataka region on Monday. Except for essential services such as hospital and pharmacies, all other establishments pulled down their shutters. With vehicular movement being thin, the towns and cities across the region wore a deserted look.  The police in Kalaburagi seized 399 vehicles — 228 two-wheelers, 13 three-wheelers and 58 four-wheelers — that were out on the roads without a valid reason. A number of COVID-19 positive cases and deaths continued to be reported on Monday as well. Ballari reported 26 deaths followed by Bidar with four, Kalaburagi three, Raichur three and Yadgir three.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-near-total-in-kalyana-karnataka/article34531371.ece
11 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. sets up State, dist. ‘oxygen war rooms’||Buckling under pressure to bridge the gap between the demand and supply of medical oxygen and sort out the related logistical issues, the State government has set up a ‘State Oxygen War Room’ (SOWR) and is in the process of ensuring similar facilities in the districts. These ‘war rooms’ have been tasked with procuring oxygen, arranging its transportation to COVID-designated facilities and ensuring safe storage for use in the coming months. The sharp spike in the number of COVID patients in the need of oxygen support for survival has prompted the government to accord a top priority to augmenting the production and supply infrastructure and setting up the ‘war rooms’ to ensure proper coordination that is crucial for preventing fatalities. According to an official release, the SOWR and DOWRs will ensure that the required medical oxygen is dispatched to the district headquarters hospitals and other major COVID facilities and refills are done properly in time. The responsibility of pooling up oxygen and allocating it to the districts rests with the SOWR, which is also mandated to keep a watch on the usage of the lifesaving gas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-sets-up-state-dist-oxygen-war-rooms/article34531277.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||1 lakh tonnes of grain given under PMGKAY||Of the 40 lakh tonnes of free foodgrains promised under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana for May, one lakh tonnes has been distributed so far, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Monday. In the first 10 days, PMGKAY grains reached 2.03 crore of the 80 crore beneficiaries, with 13 States and Union Territories having started distribution, according to the Ministry’s data provided at a virtual press briefing.  Distribution begins The States which have started distribution of the 5 kg of free rice and wheat include Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tripura and Uttarakhand. The progress is on expected lines, given the eight-month experience of implementing the PMGKAY during the first wave of COVID-19 in 2020, said Food Ministry Joint Secretary S. Jagannathan. He added that 34 States had already begun lifting foodgrains from the Food Corporation of India’s stock, and 15.5 lakh tonnes had been lifted so far. Migrant workers Asked about the needs of migrant workers affected by the lockdown and others without ration cards, Mr. Pandey said, “This time, migrants are not facing that kind of crisis.” There was also no national lockdown this year, but only State and local lockdowns, he said, noting that migrants who reached home would be able to collect rations in their villages, while those still in cities could make use of ration card portability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1-lakh-tonnes-of-grain-given-under-pmgkay/article34531286.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. needs to put its house in order: Sonia||The recent Assembly elections are a clear indication that the Congress needs to put its house in order, party president Sonia Gandhi told an online meeting of the Congress Working Committee on Monday as she announced the setting up of a fact-finding group to analyse the results. The meeting, convened to discuss the party’s performance in Assembly polls as well as the election of a party president, unanimously adopted a resolution to defer internal polls until the COVID-19 situation came under control. Though some members asked former party chief Rahul Gandhi to take over again, he was not present at the meeting, stating that he was recovering from COVID. “We need to understand why in Kerala and Assam we failed to dislodge the incumbent governments, and why in West Bengal we drew a complete blank. These will yield uncomfortable lessons, but if we do not face up to reality, we will not draw the right lessons... These results tell us clearly that we need to put our house in order,” Ms. Gandhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-needs-to-put-its-house-in-order-sonia/article34531289.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Former JNU student gets 3 weeks interim bail for father’s funeral||The Delhi High Court on Monday granted three weeks interim bail to former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Natasha Narwal, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, to perform the last rites of her father who died of COVID-19 on Sunday. The court took note of the fact that deceased Mahavir Narwal was survived by a son, who himself is in self-isolation due to the pandemic, and that Ms. Narwal was the only family member who could conduct the last rites. The court was informed that the deceased’s body was at a hospital in the city. As a condition for her interim bail, the High Court ordered Ms. Narwal to provide her phone number to the local Station House Officer and to keep the mobile phone active at all times. It also noted the concern raised by the police that she should not comment or tweet on the pending trial while on bail. RT-PCR test At the time of surrender, she will have to furnish to the jail authorities a copy of her RT-PCR test report. Ms. Narwal, booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, was arrested on May 23 last year along with fellow JNU student Devangana Kalita in connection with an FIR registered on February 24 over the sit-in protest at Jafrabad metro station against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Crime Branch has lodged a separate FIR against both Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita in connection with the Delhi riots with charges ranging from Section 147 (rioting), 353 (using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 307 (attempt to murder), 302 (murder) among others. The FIR also named relevant Sections of the Arms Act and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-jnu-student-gets-3-weeks-interim-bail-for-fathers-funeral/article34531733.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Stark district-wise divide in vaccinating the elderly||An analysis of the district-wise percentage of people aged 60 and above who have received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in Tamil Nadu shows a stark district-wise divide, with the performance of the rural districts being significantly poor. A yawning gap was revealed between Chennai and other areas when the number of people vaccinated is compared with the projected population of the 60-plus age group in every district, as of noon on May 10. In a majority of the predominantly rural districts, less than 10% of the elderly received their first dose. In comparison, with an estimated 53.3% of its elderly population having received at least one dose of the vaccine, Chennai was way ahead. Coimbatore had a coverage of 20.1%. The Nilgiris stands out The Nilgiris, which does not have a significant urban population, stood out as an exception with a coverage of 30.3%, the second-highest in the State. Madurai, Tiruchi, Kancheepuram, Salem and Virudhunagar had covered more than 12% of their elderly population. While four other districts had a coverage of 10% to 12%, the remaining districts had a poor coverage of less than 10%. District population figures were estimated by extrapolating from the 2011 Census and applying factors based on the Sample Registration System 2018, released in May 2020. The data comes in the backdrop of concerns already being raised about Tamil Nadu’s poor performance overall in terms of vaccination coverage when compared to other States. While the overall performance remained poor, the district-wise data showed that even the minimum coverage achieved in the State was largely concentrated in a handful of districts. A recent analysis by The Hindu showed that the percentage of the elderly who had received at least one dose of the vaccine was the lowest in Tamil Nadu. Also, a look at the vaccine supplies sent to the States showed that Tamil Nadu received doses for only an estimated 12.44% of its adult population as of May 7, the third-lowest among all States, suggesting a relatively lower supply when compared to other States. But the State had used up about 85% of the allocation of the vaccines as of May 7 (including wastage), a middling figure when compared to States like Odisha (96%), Kerala (95%) and West Bengal (95%). A senior official from the Medical and Family Welfare Department, speaking on the condition of anonymity, cited supply-side constraints, hesitancy and reduced uptake in places where the case load was low as key reasons for the poor coverage. “When the supply is limited, we focus on places with a high case load. Vaccines are sent to places in districts based on their uptake in the previous three to five days as we do not want any wastage,” the official said. Acknowledging that the poor coverage in rural areas could soon shift the disease burden to these areas, K. Kolandaisamy, former Director of Public Health, Tamil Nadu, said focusing the vaccination in cities with a far higher case load was, however, not a bad approach when there was a vaccine shortage. “That way, Chennai’s coverage is good. We need to vaccinate more people in places where the case load is high. If we have supply-side constraints, we need to use a very targeted approach to vaccinate high-risk people in rural areas,” he said. “We should target not only the elderly, but also other groups like those working in pharmacies and grocery shops and autorickshaw drivers in rural areas, who come into contact with more people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stark-district-wise-divide-in-vaccinating-the-elderly/article34531367.ece
11 May 2021||Mumbai,||Aaditya asks BMC to explore global vaccine procurement||Guardian Minister of Mumbai (Suburban) Aaditya Thackeray has requested the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to explore the possibility of global procurement of vaccines. The State Environment Minister said he had discussed the issue with the Chief Minister. Mr. Thackeray said the State is working on a method to ensure non-tech-savvy citizens and those unable to operate the CoWIN app can register for the vaccines in time. “Efforts to increase vaccination centres are ongoing and the BMC will have a centre in every municipal ward, along with a drive-in vaccination centre, across all zones. This has been formally requested to the city Mayor and the BMC Commissioner,” he said. Mr. Thackeray said the BMC has issued guidelines for the vaccination policy in housing societies in partnership with hospitals. He also appealed to the other cities in the State to provide drive-in vaccination for citizens above the age of 65.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aaditya-asks-bmc-to-explore-global-vaccine-procurement/article34531790.ece
11 May 2021||BENGALURU,||People can use vehicles to buy essentials||A big confusion through the day on Monday was whether vehicles were allowed to buy essentials between 6. a.m. and 10 a.m.  However, later in the day Praveen Sood, DG&IGP, tweeted, saying there was no bar on use of vehicles to buy essentials. “To buy groceries,vegetables and daily needs there is no bar for using a vehicle to your neighbourhood shop in cities or nearest availability point in rural areas. Use this facility with discretion and not as a licence for free run every day,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-bar-on-use-of-vehicles/article34531325.ece
11 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||e-pass must for inter-State travel||The State government has made it clear that obtaining an e-pass was mandatory for inter-State and inter-district journey. A press release from the A.P. Covid Command Control said people intending to travel have to obtain an e-pass by applying by logging onto the citizen's portal http://appolice.gov.in in case of emergency travel. They can also reach through twitter APPOLICE100, Facebook @andhrapradeshstatepolice. They need to furnish necessary documents for obtaining e-pass. E-pass would be issued for attending funeral rites, and auspicious events as per the government guidelines. The restrictions on inter-State travel would continue until the government takes a decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-pass-must-for-inter-state-travel/article34531274.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre justifies vaccination strategy||The COVID-19 vaccination drive is the “biggest” ever and “completely different” from the immunisation drives of the previous decades, the Centre said on Monday, responding to criticism that its inoculation push is crumbling.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-justifies-vaccination-strategy/article34531282.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Over 1 cr. doses available with States: Centre||More than 1.04 crore vaccine doses were still available with the States and U.T.s, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. The States with a negative balance were showing more consumption, the Ministry said.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-1-cr-doses-available-with-states-centre/article34531283.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Waiting for sustenance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/waiting-for-sustenance/article34531333.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccines arrive||The first batch of 3.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine, directly procured by the State government, arrived at Kochi on Monday and was moved to the warehouse of Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd. (KMSCL), the State’s purchasing agency. Kerala had decided to purchase a crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine – 75 lakh doses of Covishield and 25 lakh doses of Covaxin – directly from the manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccines-arrive/article34531444.ece
11 May 2021||MANGALURU,||100 ventilators for Dakshina Kannada||Member of Parliament and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has agreed to provide 100 ventilators to Dakshina Kannada district in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/100-ventilators-for-dakshina-kannada/article34531374.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Sub-registrar offices closed till May 23||In light of the pandemic, sub-registrar offices in the State have been directed to remain closed till May 23. An order to this effect came from the Inspector-General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps K.P. Mohan Raj on Monday. The number of registrations over the last fortnight saw a slump of over 70%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sub-registrar-offices-closed-till-may-23/article34531328.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Vaccination for 18-44 group sees good turnout||Vaccination for those between 18 and 44 years, that began in all major government hospitals and medical colleges from Monday, saw a good turnout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-for-18-44-group-sees-good-turnout/article34531330.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Over 60,000 migrants have returned to villages||Over 60,000 people who had migrated elsewhere have returned to their villages across the State in the past few weeks, as per the data collected by the task force established at the gram panchayat level. It has also identified 15,799 persons in rural areas as being in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-60000-migrants-have-returned-to-villages/article34531331.ece
11 May 2021||Belagavi,||15 COVID-19 deaths reported in Bagalkot||There was panic among residents of Bagalkot after the toll due to COVID-19 touched 15 on Monday. This was the highest toll since last year. The highest COVID-19 toll till now was eight, in July last year. On Monday, the district reported 968 fresh cases. And, 461 patients were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-bagalkot/article34531370.ece
11 May 2021||Kolkata,||43 Ministers take charge in West Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday retained the crucial departments of Home and Health in the allocation of portfolios among the 43 new Ministers who were adminis-tered the oath of office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/43-ministers-take-charge-in-west-bengal/article34531731.ece
11 May 2021||Nainital,||HC pulls up Uttarakhand govt. over religious fairs||The Uttarakhand High Court on Monday pulled up the State government for continuing to allow religious events despite a surge in novel coronavirus cases and doubted its preparedness to deal with the pandemic, asking it to “wake up from slumber”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-pulls-up-uttarakhand-govt-over-religious-fairs/article34531734.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Test positivity rate in Delhi dips below 20%||The national capital reported 319 COVID-19 deaths over the past 24 hours, pushing the toll to 19,663 on Monday. It also registered 12,651 new cases, taking the tally to 13,36,218. A total of 66,234 tests were also conducted in a single day and the test positivty rate was 19.1%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/test-positivity-rate-in-delhi-dips-below-20/article34531735.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 naval ships bring in medical supplies||In one of the single largest consignments of emergency medical supplies from abroad, Navy’s landing ship tank INS Airavat arrived at the naval dockyard in Visakhapatnam from Singapore with eight cryogenic oxygen tanks and other critical COVID medical stores, as part of Operation Samudra Setu II. In addition, INS Trikand and INS Kolkata reached Mumbai and New Mangalore respectively with oxygen-filled containers from West Asia. “These ships are part of nine ships deployed for COVID relief operation ‘Samudra Setu II’ for shipment of Liquid Medical Oxygen and associated medical equipment from friendly foreign countries in the Persian Gulf and South East Asia,” the Navy said in a statement on Monday. INS Airavat’s consignment also comprised 3,150 oxygen cylinders (empty), 500 filled oxygen cylinders, seven oxygen concentrators, 10,000 Rapid Antigen Test kits and 450 PPE kits, the Navy stated. INS Trikand arrived in Mumbai with 40 MT of liquid oxygen. The consignment is part of the French mission, “Oxygen Solidarity Bridge”, to support India’s fight against COVID-19, the statement said. INS Kolkata arrived at the New Mangalore port with two 27 MT oxygen-filled containers, 400 oxygen cylinders and 47 oxygen concentrators embarked from Qatar and Kuwait. Two more warships were en route to India from Kuwait and one ship was at Brunei to embark with medical supplies, the Navy added. Singapore has also facilitated the contribution of 300 oxygen concentrators from Olam International and Temasek foundation to Tamil Nadu. These were handed over to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday, the Singapore High Commission in India said on social media. In addition, supplies also arrived from Egypt, Spain and the U.K. A shipment of 10 oxygen concentrators and 141 ventilators arrived from Spain while three aircraft loaded with medical equipment arrived from Egypt. “Total shipment includes 300 oxygen cylinders, 50 oxygen concentrators, 20 ventilators, 8,000 vials of Remdesivir and other medical equipment,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on social media. Also 1,350 oxygen cylinders arrived from the U.K. gifted by British Oxygen Company and the shipment was facilitated by Qatar Airways. “This is part of their generous contribution of 5,000 oxygen cylinders,” the MEA said in a tweet. IAF initiative As on early hours of May 10, Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft carried out 534 sorties from various parts of the country, airlifting 336 oxygen containers of total capacity of 6,420 MT and other medical supplies and equipment, the Defence Ministry said. IAF aircraft also carried out 84 international sorties, airlifting 81 cryogenic oxygen storage containers of total capacity of 1,407 MT along with 1,252 empty oxygen cylinders, 705 oxygen concentrators and Zeolite (respiratory oxygen raw material). The equipment has been procured from Singapore, Dubai, Thailand, United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, Australia, Indonesia and Israel, a Ministry statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-naval-ships-bring-in-medical-supplies/article34531191.ece
11 May 2021||Kolkata,||43 Ministers take charge in West Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday retained the crucial departments of Home and Health in the allocation of portfolios among the new Ministers. Along with these two crucial portfolios, Ms. Banerjee will be in charge of the Land and Land Reforms, Information and Cultural Affairs and North Bengal Development departments. Earlier in the day, 43 Ministers — 24 Cabinet Ministers, 10 Ministers of State with independent charge and nine Ministers of State — were administered the oath of office by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in the Throne Room of the Raj Bhavan. The Ministry is a mix of old and new faces, giving adequate representation to women and legislators from the minority community. Eight women have been inducted into the Cabinet, apart from the Chief Minister. The Council of Ministers includes seven members of the minority community. Ms. Banerjee accorded adequate importance to each region and district, and members of the Cabinet are from 20 out of 23 districts of the State. Former Finance Minister Amit Mitra, who did not contest the Assembly election, has been allocated the charge of Finance again and Partha Chatterjee has been appointed Industry and Commerce Minister. Rathin Ghosh is the Food and Supplies Minister and Gholam Rabbani is Minority Affairs and Madrasa Education Minister. Senior Minister Subrata Mukherjee is in charge of Panchayat and Rural Development. Bratya Basu is in charge of School and Higher Education and Firhad Hakim of Transport and Housing. Sovandeb Chattopadhyay has been appointed Agriculture Minister, while Bamkim Chandra Hazra is in charge of Sunderbans Affairs. Manas Ranjan Bhunia, a Rajya Sabha member who had held key portfolios in the first Cabinet of Ms. Banerjee, has been given charge of Water Resources Investigation and Development. Siddiqullah Chowdhury retains his portfolio of Mass Education Extension and Library Services and Sashi Panja Women and Child Development. Ratna De Nag will hold the portfolio of Environment, Science and Technology and Sujit Bose gets Fire and Emergency Services. Among the new faces, Sabina Yeasmin has been appointed Minister of State for Irrigation and Waterways, and Birbaha Handsa Minister of State for Forest. Former cricketer Manoj Tewari is the Minister of State for Sports. The Ministry includes Paresh Chandra Adhikari, a former Minister in the Left Front government, who has been appointed Minister of State of School Education Department. After the swearing-in, Ms. Banerjee announced that Asima Patra and Partha Bhowmick will be inducted in the Ministry later. The other key announcements include the nomination of Nirmal Ghosh as the Chief Whip of the Trinamool Congress in the Assembly and Tapas Roy as the Deputy Chief Whip. Biman Banerjee has already been appointed Speaker and Asish Banerjee will serve as the Deputy Speaker. Later in the day, the Chief Minister held a meeting with representatives of different religious groups and urged them to take steps to contain the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/43-ministers-take-charge-in-west-bengal/article34531213.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||In SC, Centre justifies its vaccination strategy||The COVID-19 vaccination drive is the “biggest” ever and “completely different” from the immunisation drives of the previous decades, the Union government on Monday responded to criticism that its inoculation push is crumbling. The government said that unlike the vaccination campaigns of the past, the COVID-19 immunisation drive did not have the “luxury” of time. Scientists, in those years, had the breathing space to research and develop. There was time to manufacture and distribute vaccines unlike in the case of COVID-19, which crash-landed on humanity. The current need for vaccination was both “emergent and urgent”. Critics and experts have said the government has many a lesson to learn from the polio immunisation drive conducted decades ago. “This drive to vaccinate each and every adult person in the country is completely different from other vaccinations conducted by the country in the past in more than one way... The vaccines [for COVID-19] are developed very recently throughout the world and therefore, their production has also started very recently. Another peculiar feature of this vaccination is that the vaccine requires two doses, separated by four to eight weeks,” the government reasoned in a 218-page affidavit filed in the Supreme Court. A three-judge Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, could not hear arguments on the affidavit due to technical glitches during the virtual hearing. The hearing was adjourned to Thursday. In the affidavit, the Centre promised an equitable allocation of vaccines to States. It said it had determined, in consultation with the vaccine manufacturers, the State-wise “pro rata” population of those within the target age of 18 and 44. “Each State will procure only that quantity so that there is no disparity in availability of vaccines between the States inter se either based upon difference in their bargaining power or otherwise,” the government pointed out. It said each State government had been informed about the number of vaccines it would receive in May. ‘Cheaper deal’ Recently, the Mamata Banerjee government had criticised the Centre in the apex court on the differential vaccine pricing and how the Centre, at Rs. 150 a dose, had got a cheaper deal than the States. Explaining its “cheaper deal”, the Centre said it had a “large vaccination programme” and had to place “large purchase orders” for vaccines as opposed to the State governments and private hospitals. “Therefore, this reality had some reflection in the prices negotiated,” it explained. On the bigger States allegedly bullying and getting the better of smaller ones over vaccine purchases, the Centre said it had had “informal consultations” with the vaccine manufacturers and ensured that the prices of vaccine would be “uniform” for all the States. The Centre, however, made it a point to mention that citizens would not be affected by the pricing as all the State governments have already declared that they would administer the vaccines free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-sc-centre-justifies-its-vaccination-strategy/article34531217.ece
11 May 2021||new delhi,||HC to hear plea against Central Vista work today||The Delhi High Court will on Tuesday hear an application seeking a stay on all construction at the Central Vista here amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing the petitioners, told a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh that the Supreme Court on May 7 asked the petitioners to seek urgent hearing before the High Court on May 10. Petitioners Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, had moved the Supreme Court against the High Court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17.  The Supreme Court said that since the case was already pending before the High Court, it did not want to enter into its merits. However, the Bench said the case could be heard by the High Court “as early as possible”. Mr. Luthra had told the top court that the workers were ferried by bus from Karol Bagh, Kirti Nagar and Sarai Kale Khan. The work seemed to continue owing to a stringent deadline. Mr. Luthra had also referred to a disaster management authority circular, which had directed construction activities, except where labourers are residing on-site, be stopped. He had said the petitioners were only concerned with construction work on Rajpath, Central Vista and garden stretches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-to-hear-plea-against-central-vista-work-today/article34531186.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre to rectify error in treatment payment note||The Finance Ministry issued a corrigendum notification late on Monday night to enable cash payments of more than Rs. 2 lakh for treatment of COVID-19 patients, hours after assuring the Delhi High Court that an error in its May 7 notification to permit the same shall be rectified. As per the notification that was issued last Friday after a petition was filed in the court, cash payments were allowed till May 31, provided the hospitals or health care providers obtained the Aadhaar or PAN details of the patients and the ‘payee’ and the relationship between the patient and the ‘payee’. Since ‘payee’ refers to the person being paid and not the person paying the bill, the notification had not had the intended effect yet. The government’s counsel in the case informed the High Court that the word ‘payee’ shall be corrected. The word “Payee” in the May 7 notification issued under the income tax law is to be read as “Payer”, the Ministry said in its corrigendum notification. “Based on the Centre’s assurance, the matter has been disposed of by the High Court,” said advocate Praveen Kumar, who was representing the petitioner in the case. Consultancy firm EY said the term ‘payer’ was more appropriate to cover situations where payment in cash is made by patients’ relatives or friends. The firm noted that the relaxation may also need to be extended beyond May 31 ‘if the second wave prolongs beyond 31 May 2021’. The Centre may need to consider extending the relief beyond May 31, 2021. The notification will provide relief to families of patients who are not familiar with banking channels or electronic payments, while tax authorities can use the data collected to verify the sources of income of those paying bills, the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-rectify-error-in-treatment-payment-note/article34531187.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Second wave due to govt.’s neglect’||The second wave of the pandemic is nothing short of “a grave calamity and a direct consequence of the Narendra Modi government’s indifference, insensitivity and incompetence,” the Congress Working Committee (CWC) said in a resolution on Monday. The CWC, which met virtually to discuss the party’s performance in the recent Assembly elections, spent considerable time discussing the COVID-19 situation. In her opening remarks, party president Sonia Gandhi said the country had paid a “horrendous price” for the Modi government’s neglect and the health system had collapsed. The CWC expressed concern over the government’s vaccination strategy, insufficient supplies, “opaque and discriminatory” pricing policy and the mandatory online registration that would exclude people in rural areas and from poor economic backgrounds from vaccinations. It pointed out that the infection had travelled “massively” to rural areas that had no access to RT-PCR testing, medicines, oxygen or hospitalisation, and it had resulted in a large number of painful deaths. ‘National unity’ The CWC stated that it was time for unwavering national unity. “In order that it may become a reality, the Prime Minister must atone for his mistakes and commit to serving the people instead of carrying on with personal agenda, oblivious to the suffering all around,” it said. “The CWC expresses its revulsion at the shocking expenditure priorities of the Modi government. At a time when the nation’s resources should be devoted to ensuring expansion of vaccination coverage and supply of essential medicines and oxygen, the Modi government is indulging in criminal waste of money by continuing with the personal vanity project of the Prime Minister in the national capital. This is the height of callousness and insensitivity and is also an insult to the people of the country,” it noted.  ‘Wrong data’ The data on COVID-19 deaths was “horribly wrong” and “afflicted by massive non-reporting”. “The solution lies in facing the challenge and stopping the casualties from COVID-19 and not in concealing the truth by burying the data on deaths and infections,” it observed. The CWC accused the government of “wilful” disregard of scientific advice, premature declaration of victory over the pandemic, unwillingness and inability to plan in advance in spite of warnings from public health experts and the Parliamentary Standing Committee concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/second-wave-due-to-govts-neglect/article34531205.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre seeks a free hand in COVID-19 management||The Centre wants the judiciary to keep its hands off the management of the COVID-19 crisis and its “waves/surges”. The latest 218-page affidavit filed by the Centre in the Supreme Court on May 9 informs the judiciary in no uncertain terms that “though it [Centre] is duty-bound to fully assist this Honourable Court... the policy, strategy and steps taken by the Executive, based on expert medical and scientific advice, have to be appreciated in the context of the medical crisis”. It said decisions were taken after “detailed deliberations at the highest Executive level”. Hence, no “interference” is called for in judicial proceedings. In other words, the Centre has asked the courts — Supreme Court and the High Courts — to “leave it open” for the government to discharge its functions in “larger interests”. However, an examination of the Supreme Court orders from April 30 to May 6 show that the court acted only on the Union government’s suggestions and in consultation with it, right from revisiting the government’s “rough and ready” formula of “oxygen for bed” to the formation of a national task force. The judiciary’s attitude can be clearly understood from the words of Justice D.Y. Chandrachud to the Centre. He made a point to say that courts refused to remain a “mute spectator” to a national calamity, but it is “together” with the government to “help the Centre” ease the pain of people. A look at the orders show the Centre initially shifted the blame on the States for their lack of oxygen lifting prowess and making “unrealistic” demands for oxygen. All the while, the Centre had claimed that it had “no dearth of oxygen”. The court records in its April 30 order that “the Solicitor General has stated that there is no dearth of oxygen supply in the country as on date and steps are being taken continuously to augment the supply of oxygen... Having said that, the Solicitor General also admitted that there has been a shortage of supply to certain States and has attributed this shortage to various factors including the failure of State governments to lift the allocated quantity of oxygen from the supply point; transportation bottlenecks caused by inter-State movement of tankers; and technical failure of certain plants leading to reassessment of allocation on a real-time basis”. The hearings in the Supreme Court also saw the Centre express its annoyance at the “judicial interference”. When the court termed the Karnataka High Court’s direction to the Centre on May 5 to allocate 1200 MT to the State, an exasperated Centre had reacted by offering to hand over its oxygen stock to the High Courts for distribution. However, by May 6, the Centre toned down to admit in court that its “oxygen for bed” formula needed a “revisit” and there was an urgent requirement to form a national task force to devise an equitable way of allocation of oxygen. In fact, the court, in its order on May 6, recounted the Centre’s submission that “the formula on the basis of which oxygen is being allocated to the States and UTs is not static but needs to be revisited”. On the formation of the national task force, the Centre had found such a move necessary “to ensure that the allocation and distribution of oxygen takes place on a rational and equitable basis”. “It is necessary to constitute a national task force of experts which would determine the method of allocation and distribution of oxygen across States/UTs. Smaller expert committees or sub-groups may look into issues of auditing the manner in which supplies are to be distributed and utilised in each State/UT,” the Supreme Court had recorded the Centre’s submission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-seeks-a-free-hand-in-covid-19-management/article34531224.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,||India records 3,493 new deaths||India recorded 3,05,284 new COVID-19 cases until 9.30 p.m. on Monday. As many as 3,493 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 2,29,67,832 cases and 2,49,641 deaths. Karnataka reported 39,305 infections, followed by Maharashtra (37,236) and Tamil Nadu (28,978). Karnataka also recorded 596 casualties, followed by Maharashtra (549) and Uttar Pradesh (278). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Assam, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the health bulletins of the respective States. Only 14.74 lakh samples were tested on Sunday (the results for which were made available on Monday), which is 3.91 lakh fewer than the number of tests conducted on Saturday. It is also 30,000 fewer than those conducted the previous Sunday (May 2). A total of 30.37 crore samples have been tested in the country since the beginning of the pandemic. Only 6.89 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Monday, which is 12.86 lakh doses fewer than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is around 3.54 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the same period, a week ago. The daily vaccination rate in the country has fallen sharply since mid-April. As on May 9, only 18.44 lakh doses were administered daily on an average which is significantly lower than the 35.74 lakh doses recorded a month ago. In Uttar Pradesh (7.4%), Tamil Nadu (8.5%), Bihar (8.7%) and Assam (9.9%), less than 10% of the adult population had received the first dose of a vaccine as on May 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-3493-new-deaths/article34531226.ece
11 May 2021||Kolkata,||Strict steps taken to curb COVID-19: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said strict measures have been taken to control the spread of COVID-19 in the State, while also maintaining that a total lockdown, if imposed, will hamper livelihood of people. Contending that peace prevails in the State, she said that her government will act against the ones circulating fake videos over post-poll violence. Urging the Centre to facilitate free-of-cost vaccines for all in the country, she said that her government won’t be charging anything for innoculating its people. “The number of hospital beds in the State have been increased to 30,000. Also, all medical college hospitals have been asked to set up oxygen plants and given liberty to decide on further increase in the number of beds. A total lockdown will hamper the livelihood of people, especially those of daily wage earners,” the Chief Minister told reporters at the State secretariat after the first Cabinet meeting of her newly formed government. She requested faithfuls to hold small prayer meetings with less than 50 people in attendance on Eid ul-Fitr. The CM said her government has sought three crore vaccines from the Centre, of which one crore will be distributed to private hospitals. “Several steps, such as suspension of local train services, are being taken to break the chain of virus transmission. Every person should strictly abide by the protocols, and behave like a lockdown is in force across the State,” she insisted. Ms. Banerjee further said that a negative RT-PCR test will be made mandatory for all those coming to West Bengal, even if they fly to the State via helicopters or special flights. Asking media persons to refrain from causing panic among people, the CM said that a Pandemic Act will be enforced soon to deal with such issues. Ms. Banerjee thanked common people and corporate houses for providing valuable aid to the State government for boosting its healthcare infrastructure. She requested them to continue backing the administration financially for purchase of requisite vaccines, assuring them that there will be an audit of all expenditure made with the money. Reiterating demand The CM said the Centre should do away with GST on any initiative to build health infrastructure so that more number of corporate entities can come forward to provide assistance. “As the Central government is not providing any financial aid, we can strengthen healthcare infrastructure and buy vaccines with the support rendered by corporate entities and other residents. Bengal needs 550 metric tonnes of oxygen, but the Centre has allotted it a little over 300 metric tonnes,” she said. Claiming that the Centre has reportedly exported 65% of vaccines produced in the country, she said, “I ask the Union government to mull over its options and source more vaccines, if necessary from foreign countries.” The CM said the Cabinet has formed a committee comprising the Chief Secretary and other top officials of Home, Finance and Health departments to address gaps in critical infrastructure. She said, “This committee will look into implementation of promises made to the people after the COVID-19 situation is brought under control.” On allegations made in reference to post-poll violence, Ms. Banerjee claimed that the BJP’s IT cell was spreading rumours with fake videos. “People have given their verdict for peace and unity. We will not tolerate any violence,” she said. “Why should a Central team be sent within 24 hours after the new dispensation took over?” she said on the Ministry of Home Affairs sending a team to find out the reasons for the violence. Accusing the team of adopting a “partisan attitude”, Ms. Banerjee said that the team was only visiting the houses of BJP workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/strict-steps-taken-to-curb-covid-19-mamata/article34531420.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bangladesh opts for China’s vaccine||Bangladesh will receive a major consignment of China-made vaccine doses for the pandemic which will arrive on Wednesday. This will be the first time that Bangladesh will receive the Chinese vaccine in such a large quantity since the beginning of the pandemic last year as India has delayed delivery of Covishield vaccine in recent weeks. “China is dedicated to international vaccine cooperation. It’s the latest outcome of China-Bangladesh anti-pandemic cooperation,” said China’s Ambassador to Bangladesh Li Jiming in a press conference announcing that the Sinopharm vaccine will arrive in Dhaka this week. Sinopharm is among the few globally recognised vaccines that are cleared for emergency use by the World Health Organisation. Bangladesh and China have been in dialogue on vaccine for COVID-19 from the beginning of the pandemic but differences had grown over the funding of the vaccine last year. Dhaka began sourcing Covishield vaccine from Pune’s Serum Institute of India earlier this year but had to diversify for Sinopharm as the SII has delayed the delivery of at least two million doses that Bangladesh has already purchased from the vaccine manufacturer. The announcement by the Chinese ambassador in Dhaka came in the backdrop of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s message of condolence to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. “She conveyed condolences and prayers for victims of this unprecedented devastation taking place in India due to pandemic and pledged to combat the pandemic together with all-out support from Bangladesh,” said a statement from Bangladesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangladesh-opts-for-chinas-vaccine/article34531189.ece
11 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Chief Minister seeks 10%-20% NRC reverification||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said the BJP-led government wanted 10%-20% reverification of the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Soon after being sworn in as the State’s 15th Chief Minister, he said his coalition government favoured 20% reverification of the updated list of citizens in districts that shared a border with Bangladesh and 10% in the remaining districts.  ‘Only if flawless’ “We will go ahead with the NRC if the draft [published in August 2019] is found to be flawless during the reverification process. But we want the Supreme Court to look into it if anomalies are detected,” he said. The Supreme Court had monitored the exercise of updating the NRC of 1951 in Assam. About 19.06 lakh out of 3.3 crore applicants were excluded from the updated draft. In his first media briefing as the Chief Minister, Dr. Sarma also appealed to Paresh Baruah, military chief of the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I), to come forward for peace talks. “A dialogue with the ULFA-I is a two-way traffic. Paresh Baruah has to come forward. Similarly, we have to go to him. If both sides have the will, communication won’t be difficult,” he said. Dr. Sarma also said the priority of his government would be to contain the “alarming” pandemic, while claiming that the Assam government had Rs. 7,000 crore in the treasury for dealing with any crisis. He said the first meeting of the Cabinet would be held on Tuesday and the government would try to fulfil all pre-poll promises, which include making Assam flood-free. Earlier in the day, Governor Jagdish Mukhi administered the oath of office and secrecy to Dr. Sarma and the 13 others who were sworn in as Cabinet Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-chief-minister-seeks-10-20-nrc-reverification/article34531203.ece
11 May 2021||Kolkata,||Adhikari elected Leader of Opposition||The BJP MLAs on Monday elected Suvendu Adhikari the Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said at a meeting of the legislators. Mr. Prasad said Mr. Adhkari was elected unopposed. Mr. Adhikari, 50, was a Minister in the Mamata Banerjee government from 2016 to 2021 and held key portfolios of Transport and Environment. He joined the BJP in December 2020. He contested the 2021 Assembly election from Nandigram and won against Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee by a slender margin of 1,956 votes. Two of the party’s 77 legislators, Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, who are also MPs from the Cooch Behar and Ranaghat Lok Sabha constituencies, did not take the oath. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar held a press conference at the Raj Bhavan after the swearing in and said he conveyed to the Chief Minister his concerns over the post-poll violence. “I have expressed deep anguish and concern at the situation earlier. I did the same today,” Mr. Dhankhar said when asked if he had any discussion with the Chief Minister. He said he expected the State government to take note of the “grim ground reality”, restore the confidence of the people and bring those who have tarnished democracy to the book. “I have received reports that people are being made to pay for carrying out their usual activities. Extra-legal mechanisms have overtaken the situation and the State apparatus is yet to take tangible steps,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adhikari-elected-leader-of-opposition/article34531207.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||U.K. returnees’ citizenship to be checked||Children born to Indians staying illegally in the United Kingdom will be granted emergency travel documents to return along with parents based on birth certificates issued by the British authorities, according to a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between the two countries on May 4. British citizenship is not acquired by birth alone; there are a combination of factors, including the year of birth and parents’ circumstances. Before illegal immigrants identified by the U.K authorities are allowed to return, government officials here will conduct a probe to establish if the person is indeed an Indian citizen or not. The State police will be roped in once a request is received by the Centre. “The U.K. will share its expertise to train specialists in the fight against document fraud and to provide its expertise in the field of detection equipment,” the MoU on migration and mobility partnership between India and the U.K. said. The MoU, which has been in the works for the past three years, has been revised after India declined a proposal by the U.K. to use DNA sampling to establish the nationality of document-less illegal immigrants who the U.K suspects to be Indians. According to an earlier estimate by the U.K government, there are around 1,00,000 Indians who entered illegally or are overstaying their visa in the U.K.. India has contested the numbers saying the figure is not more than 2,000. As per the fresh MoU, the time frame to verify the nationality of a person who holds an Indian passport and who has overstayed the visa will be not later than 30 days on the receipt of request from the U.K authorities. In instances where a person has acknowledged that he is an Indian but does not have a passport or a ‘Visa Overstayer’ document, the time limit to establish the nationality will be 90 days. But here, the U.K authorities will have to provide either a national identity card, a driving licence or a birth certificate among others to the Indian authorities to authenticate her/his Indian nationality. The U.K will also have to follow the same procedures if a British national is found staying illegally in India. The MoU, which came into effect after it was signed by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and U.K Secretary of State Priti Patel on May 4 in London, will continue for seven years until terminated by either participant giving three months’ prior written notice. It will be revived automatically after seven years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-returnees-citizenship-to-be-checked/article34531197.ece
11 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Take strict action against Sidhu: Ministers||After former Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu launched a verbal attack against Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, several Cabinet Ministers on Monday urged the Congress high command to take strict disciplinary action against Mr. Sidhu. Terming Mr. Sidhu’s onslaught on the Chief Minister an act of “gross indiscipline” and an attempt to “undermine the Congress government in the State”, the Ministers said the MLA’s personal attack on Mr. Singh was an “anti-party act”, which called for immediate disciplinary action. The Cabinet Ministers, including Brahm Mohindra, Sunder Sham Arora and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, criticised Mr. Sidhu’s attack on the Congress Chief Minister while being an elected MLA from the same party. In a joint statement, the Ministers said Mr. Sidhu’s recent spate of comments against the Chief Minister could no longer be dismissed as the rantings of a disgruntled member of a democratic political party, adding that the open rebellion was damaging the interests of the Congress at a time when Assembly election in the State was less than a year away. “Failure to take action against Sidhu now could trigger unrest in the party’s State unit, which would be fatal for the party that had suffered major electoral blows in the recently concluded Assembly polls in five States,” the Ministers added. They said it was more than evident now that Mr. Sidhu’s intentions were nefarious and motivated by his vested interests. Mr. Sidhu had on May 9 alleged that there was a consensus among legislators that the State was being run by the “Badals” instead of their own Congress party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-strict-action-against-sidhu-ministers/article34531209.ece
11 May 2021||Nainital,||HC pulls up Uttarakhand govt. over religious fairs||The Uttarakhand High Court on Monday pulled up the State government for continuing to allow religious events despite a surge in the coronavirus cases and doubted its preparedness to deal with the pandemic, asking it to “wake up from slumber”. “We cannot behave like the proverbial ostrich and bury our head in sand in the face of the pandemic,” Chief Justice R.S. Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma said while hearing a PIL on the government’s handling of the pandemic. The Bench asked why the State was still not prepared despite combating the pandemic for more than a year, and reminded the government about predictions of a third wave. The court said the while the State reeled under the effect of the Kumbh Mela, the Purnagiri Mela took place attracting a crowd of 10,000. It asked whether the rise in coronavirus cases in Kumaon was a result of that mela. Confusion over yatra The court questioned the State government for the confusion over the Chardham yatra, asking whether the annual pilgrimage will be allowed to become a coronavirus hotbed. While the government says the yatra has been cancelled, the board managing the temples has issued the standard operating procedure for the same, it said. “How can we make sure that it will be followed when the same was flouted during the Kumbh Mela?” it asked, referring to the SOP. The court directed the State government to pool all its resources in the fight against the pandemic. “We are fighting a world war with an invisible enemy and must put in all the resources. Under Article 21 of the Constitution, it is the foremost duty of the state to preserve the life of its citizens. The government must pour every drop into it,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-pulls-up-uttarakhand-govt-over-religious-fairs/article34531736.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police step up search for Olympic medallist||The Delhi police on Monday issued a Look out Circular against the Olympic medallist, wrestler Sushil Kumar, who is absconding after he was named in the murder of a 23-year-old former junior national champion during a brawl in North West Delhi. Police said two other victims, who were also thrashed during the brawl at a parking area of Chhatrasal Stadium, had recorded their statement before the police and confirmed the presence of Kumar at the site. The clash took place over vacating a flat in the Model Town area, the police said. Traced to Haryana “The technical surveillance has also confirmed the location of Kumar in the stadium during the brawl. We are conducting raids in Delhi-NCR and Uttarakhand to arrest him,” said a police officer. He added that Kumar’s location was traced to Haridwar. He then took shelter at an ashram in Rishikesh. Thereafter he was traced to Haryana. He is continuously changing his location to evade arrest. Kumar, along with other accused, have been named in the FIR for murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy at the Model Town police station in North West Delhi, said the police. Prince Dalal, a resident of Jhajjar in Haryana, has been apprehended in the case.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-step-up-search-for-olympic-medallist/article34531194.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Telangana refuses entry to patients from A.P.||However, except for a couple of them with transparent medical records or ‘Negative’ RT-PCR certificates, the rest were turned back. A similar scenario played out at Kodada checkpost and frantic messages flooded social media from the morning of people turning to friends and associates in Telangana to gain entry. The ban comes despite there being no official restrictions on inter-State travel between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Dozens of medical emergency vehicles from the Rayalaseema region, especially from the Kurnool and Kadapa districts, were stuck at the border with Jogulamba-Gadwal police not allowing the vehicles to move to Hyderabad. All the ambulances were carrying COVID positives patients who were in need of immediate medical assistance — many being shifted to various hospitals in Hyderabad and Mahabubnagar. “All the patients stopped by the police were on liquid oxygen support and they need immediate medical assistance, but police are not allowing us stating that there are no beds in Hyderabad and asked us to go back,” said the family member of a COVID-19 patient who was stopped and forced to go back to Kurnool. Among those turned back to Kadapa by the police was an ambulance carrying a patient who had ‘confirmed booking’ at a private hospital in Hyderabad. “They are not even allowing patients even after managing to get a bed at the hospital,” another person said. More than three dozen police officers from the district were deployed on the border to stop and check each vehicle and send them back if they are heading to the State capital for treatment. “We have clear instructions from the senior officers not to allow ambulances to Hyderabad in any case. So we are stopping them and asking the family members to arrange for the treatment in AP,” an officer monitoring the movement of vehicles at the border said. Speaking to The Hindu a senior officer confirmed that they were not allowing the ambulances without any prior confirmation from the hospitals in Hyderabad, where there is a severe shortage for COVID beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-refuses-entry-to-patients-from-ap/article34531188.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||1 lakh tonnes of grain given under PMGKAY||The Centre was also selling its food grain stock at a discounted rate to NGOs and to State governments for those with State ration cards, he said. However, Right to Food activists have filed an intervention application in the Supreme Court’s suo motu case on migrant workers, saying that migrants are facing distress during the current local lockdowns as well, and seeking a resumption of last year’s scheme to give free food grains to those without ration cards as well. In an open letter to the Chief Justice on Monday seeking an urgent listing of their plea, petitioners Harsh Mander, Anjali Bhardwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar said payment of minimum wages as cash transfers and appropriate transport facilities for migrant workers were needed as well. With regard to edible oil prices, which had shot up over 50%, Mr. Pandey said the release of imported stock stuck at Kandla and Mundra ports due to COVID-19 related clearance issues would help to ease the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1-lakh-tonnes-of-grain-given-under-pmgkay/article34531192.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Sonia says Cong. needs to put its house in order||Her comments set the stage for an intense debate as senior leaders questioned the party’s decision to choose allies, especially in Assam and Bengal. Congress general secretaries and State in-charges — Jitender Singh for Assam, Tariq Anwar for Kerala, Jitin Prasada for West Bengal and Dinesh Gundu Rao for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry — gave presentations on their respective States. Sources said Digvijaya Singh, who had earlier handled Assam a general secretary, pointed out that he had always opposed any alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) for its potential to polarise voters. The general secretary for Assam, however, argued that regional parties like Raijor Dal and Axom Jatiya Parishad split anti-BJP votes in the State and the party would have formed the government if it had secured 68,000 votes more. Ghulam Nabi Azad, a prominent member of Congress’ group of 23 dissenters, not only endorsed Mr Singh but questioned the party’s alliance in Bengal, especially the Indian Secular Front founded by the cleric of Furfura Sharif Abbas Siddiqui. Since the move was seen as trying to divide Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee’s support base among minorities, Mr Azad asked if it would not have helped the BJP. He suggested that key decisions like choosing an ally should not be left to the State leader and suggested that a central committee should deliberate on such issues. He noted that the party had suffered one of its worst defeats in Kerala that usually elected a new government every five years. Backing Mr Azad, another G-23 member, Anand Sharma, said the CWC should give a call to all progressive, democratic, non-BJP parties to come together. He is also learnt to have pointed out that calling for introspection was not going against the party. Quoting Mr. Gandhi to argue that only the Congress allows divergence of views within, he is learnt to have said the ‘virus of intolerance’ shouldn’t afflict the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-says-cong-needs-to-put-its-house-in-order/article34531195.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Vaccine production gradually ramped up’||“100% advance of Rs. 1732.50 crore was released to Serum Institute of India (SII) for 11 crore doses of Covishield vaccine for the months of May, June and July. Additionally, 100% advance of Rs. 787.50 crore was released to Bharat Biotech India Ltd (BBIL) for 5 crore Covaxin doses for the months of May, June and July,” the government detailed its purchase plans for the vaccines. It said the current manufacturing of Covaxin of 10 million doses a month would be enhanced to nearly 100 million doses in the next eight to 10 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-production-gradually-ramped-up/article34531198.ece
11 May 2021||Kolkata,||Police in West Bengal undergo major overhaul||The police administration in West Bengal, where the Trinamool Congress scored a massive win against the BJP in a bitterly contested election for the Assembly, is undergoing a major shake-up. So far, more than 45 IPS officers have been transferred in the overhaul, a process that began last Wednesday when Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee took charge as the Chief Minister for the third time. Many more officers are expected to receive their orders in the coming days. Eight of them have been put on “compulsory wait”, when they aren’t assigned any duties. ‘More changes’ “More changes are in the pipeline, they are all coming soon,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named. “A noticeable feature of this overhaul is that importance is being given to Bengali IPS officers,” the officer said, pointing out that most of the officers put on “compulsory wait” were non-Bengalis appointed to their posts by the Election Commission during the election process. Young officers who have been entrusted with key postings are all Bengalis: Arnab Ghosh as the Police Commissioner of Chandannagar, Sayak Das as the Superintendent of Police (SP) of Ranaghat, Debarshi Datta as the SP of Jalpaiguri, Rahul De as the SP of South Dinajpur and Avijit Banerjee as the SP of Diamond Harbour. “The importance being given to Bengali officers may be the outcome of the thought that a son of the soil would be better acquainted with the sentiments of the local people,” the officer said. The “outsider versus insider” was one of the battle cries in the election, with the Trinamool projecting Ms. Banerjee as Bengal’s “own daughter” challenged by outsiders such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. This cry grew shriller as both campaigned aggressively and the Election Commission replaced several IPS officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-in-west-bengal-undergo-major-overhaul/article34531200.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Natasha Narwal gets bail for her father’s funeral||The Delhi High Court on Monday granted three weeks interim bail to former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Natasha Narwal, arrested in connection with the northeast Delhi riots, to perform the last rites of her father who died of COVID-19 on Sunday. The court took note of the fact that deceased Mahavir Narwal was survived by a son, who himself is in self-isolation due to the pandemic, and that Ms. Narwal was the only family member who could conduct the last rites. The court was also informed that the deceased’s body was at a hospital in the city. At the time of surrender, Ms. Natasha will have to furnish to the jail authorities a copy of her RT-PCR test report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/natasha-narwal-gets-bail-for-her-fathers-funeral/article34531201.ece
11 May 2021||AGARTALA,||Manik Sarkar, others face unruly mob in Tripura||Former Chief Minister and CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Manik Sarkar, the party’s central committee member Badal Choudhury and party MLA Sudan Das faced an unruly mob at Shantirbazar here when they arrived to attend a party programme on Monday. The crowd comprising a large number of women raised anti-CPI(M) slogans and allegedly threw stones and empty water bottles at the top party leaders. Tripura State Rifles (TSR) personnel, who escorted the convoy of Mr. Sarkar, also Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly, cordoned off the area and summoned security reinforcement. The unruly mob damaged two vehicles in the convoy and attempted to break the security cordon. The CPI(M) confirmed that Mr. Sarkar escaped unhurt, but Mr. Chowdhury, Mr. Das and south district leader Tapas Datta suffered minor injuries. A visibly angry Mr. Sarkar lashed out at the BJP’s leadership for “a series of attacks on party leaders and cadres”. He said the government had failed to establish the rule of law in the State. “The way Opposition ranks are targeted is completely unacceptable,” he said. Mr. Sarkar claimed the attack was planned and there was inadequate deployment of security forces, despite the authorities being informed of their visit. Leaders of the Opposition parties, including the chief of the Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA), Pradyot Kishore Debbarman, condemned the incident. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau strongly condemned the attack on Mr. Sarkar and party leaders, and accused the BJP of orchestrating it.  (With inputs from Special Correspondent in   New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manik-sarkar-others-face-unruly-mob-in-tripura/article34531208.ece
11 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||More farmers from Punjab head for Delhi||A fresh batch of farmers from Punjab started their march to the Delhi border on Monday to participate in the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s controversial farm laws. Several groups of farmers from different regions, mainly from Sangrur, Ludhiana, Mansa, Barnala, Patiala, Jalandhar, Nawanshahr and Ropar districts of Punjab, left for the Singhu and Tikri border of Delhi in vehicles. Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several places on the Delhi borders for many months, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balibir Singh said the BJP-led government at the Centre had been trying to spread misinformation on the ongoing agitation by floating reports that the farmers’ movement was weakening. “The farmers are constantly coming to the protest sites, and fighting with full strength. It is only the obstinate attitude of the Modi government that is testing the patience of the farmers... The spirits of the farmers is always high and the movement is in a strong position,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-farmers-from-punjab-head-for-delhi/article34531211.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Over 1 cr. doses available with States, says Centre||More than 1.04 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses were still available with the States and the Union Territories, the Union Health Ministry said in a release issued on Monday. The States with a negative balance were showing more consumption, including wastage, than the vaccine supplied, as they had not reconciled the vaccine they had supplied to the armed forces, the Ministry said. Nearly 18 cr. doses given More than 9.24 lakh doses would be received by the States and the Union Territories within the next three days, it said. The Centre had so far provided more than 17.93 crore doses to the States and the Union Territories free. “Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 16,89,27,797doses [as per data available at 8 a.m. on Monday],” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-1-cr-doses-available-with-states-says-centre/article34531221.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Calls grow for govt. to boost health spending||The government has been evading its responsibility for the ongoing COVID-19 crisis and should fulfil its obligations by boosting public health spending and increasing vaccine supply, among other steps, a group of civil society organisations under the umbrella of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA) said on Monday. “The Central government failed to anticipate this second wave, or make any preparations for it, despite having the clear experience of many countries before it,” the statement read. It added that there was a need for a “quantum jump” in public expenditure on healthcare and expanding infrastructure and human resources. The statement said the government should reverse all decisions of privatising government hospitals and review health insurance schemes to expand services. ‘Remove GST’ The JSA called for comprehensive regulation of private healthcare, including “rates of services, quality of care, treatment practices and patients’ rights.” It also demanded that GST should be removed from all medicines and medical devices for COVID-19. It also called for increasing the supply of vaccines and making distribution equitable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/calls-grow-for-govt-to-boost-health-spending/article34531222.ece
11 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to go global for vaccine procurement||With vaccine shortage hampering the drive in Odisha, the Cabinet on Monday decided to float global tender to procure vaccines from international companies. The Cabinet meeting held under the Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik discussed the COVID-19 situation at length and approved the proposal for procurement from the international market. “Countries like Israel have returned to normalcy after mass vaccination. In our State, the health or front-line workers, who have taken two doses, are no more contracting the virus. Vaccination is the way out to win the war against the pandemic and it can help us face the next waves,” said Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra after the meeting. Mr. Mohapatra said, “The Cabinet backed the government in its efforts to vaccinate all and ensure return of normalcy in the State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-to-go-global-for-vaccine-procurement/article34531458.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Deep seated bhakti||The concept of Ishta devata in worship is indicative of the Supreme Lord’s many ways to reach out to the jivatmas and enable them to worship Him according to their individual level of realisation. In this context, it is interesting to note that Appayya Dikshitar exemplifies staunch Siva Bhakti, said Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. From early childhood he had exceptional faith in Siva and in the Advaita system of philosophy, which he explained with great clarity in his many works. But he also had an open mind in his approach to Vedanta Sastra. So he was able to analyse other systems such as Dvaita or Visishtadvaita and pinpoint the salient features in each without any dvesha or prejudice. Similarly, though he held Siva close to his heart, he had also sung hymns in praise of deities such as Varadaraja of Kanchi. In all, he has written 104 works in the form of sastras and stotras that establish his depth and versatility as a bhakta and a scholar. He has written commentaries to explain his own ideas that had motivated his compositions. To make sure that his Siva bhakti was genuine and ingrained in his nature, that is swabhavika, and not any kind of contrived bhakti bhava that arises on sudden impulse, he conducted an experiment on his own self. He decided to drink the juice of the Unmatta flower that can cause one to get into a state of intoxication and asked his sishyas to write down whatever he spoke in that state. It was then that the lovely hymn Atmarpana Stuti, also known as Unmatta Panchasati, flowed revealing all that was really deep seated in his heart. Just as Adi Sankara spoke to Siva in a heartfelt vein in the Sivanandalahari, Appayya Dikshitar also presents an honest prayer that can be sung by each one to seek out Siva at a personal level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deep-seated-bhakti/article34531214.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Taking steps for supply of Remdesivir’||The Union government informed the Supreme Court that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP) have jointly undertaken the allocation of available supplies of COVID-19 drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab across the States and the Union Territories in view of a surge in demand for them. The Centre said the Health Ministry, with the support of the DoP and Ministry of External Affairs, was “making all efforts to enhance availability of Remdesivir through ramping up of production and sourcing through imports”. However, there were constraints on the availability of raw materials and other essential inputs for Remdesivir. “It is difficult to predict the trend of the pandemic and, therefore, difficult to forecast the demand for Remdesivir with a reasonable degree of certainty. Therefore, it is communicated that the matter of sending the proposal for invocation of the provisions of Section 100 (for government use) of the Patents Act, 1970, is being processed,” the government stated.  In the case of Tocilizumab, as the countrywasentirely dependent on imports, out of the limited stock of vials imported on April 26, 3,245 were allocated to States the next day and an additional allocation of 6,655 vials was done on April 30 to States. Another 1,200 vials have been kept for Central allocation by the Health Ministry, it pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/taking-steps-for-supply-of-remdesivir/article34531215.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nearly 2,000 staffers have died: Railways||As many as 1,952 employees of the Indian Railways have died due to COVID-19 since March 2020, and nearly 1,000 are getting infected daily on an average, Railway Board Chairman and CEO Suneet Sharma said on Monday. “It [the COVID-19 situation] is a challenge. Railways are no different from any other State or territory... We also have COVID cases... We are in the business of transportation. We need to run trains to transport essential items, passengers as well as freight,” Mr. Sharma said during a press conference. The Railways are one of the country’s largest employer with around 12 lakh employees. “This is a dynamic figure. Some days, there are 1,300 cases and on some days 750… things seem to be getting better,” Mr. Sharma added. “Our employees are getting treatment in our hospitals, we have increased our beds, we have also built new oxygen plants at Railway hospitals ... As of now, we have 4,000 beds occupied by staff and their families. Our effort is to see that they recover quickly,” he said. While he did not share the total number of employees who have been infected, Mr. Sharma had in April said around 93,000 employees had tested positive for COVID-19. Talking about the ‘Oxygen Express’, Mr. Sharma said the Railways had delivered nearly 4,700 tonne of liquid medical oxygen in more than 295 tankers to various States across the country since April 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nearly-2000-staffers-have-died-railways/article34531227.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Roads deserted as people stay indoors||With the fortnight-long lockdown in place, city roads saw lesser traffic and commercial establishments in Anna Salai, Broadway, T. Nagar and Purasawalkam remained closed as people stayed in. More than 35 flyovers were closed and unnecessary traffic movement blocked on roads. City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal issued instructions to be followed by police personnel during the implementation of the lockdown. Personnel were deployed at points of interest for bandobust, including at Amma Canteens and fair price shops. Additional personnel were deployed at the Koyambedu and Kasimedu market areas. Police warned that legal action would be taken against those found not wearing face masks and flouting physical distancing norms. Legal action would be initiated by the traffic police against motorists roaming around unnecessarily. Over 10,000 police personnel were deployed for bandobust duty. Vehicle checks were being conducted at nearly 320 places, and about 360 patrol vehicles were doing the rounds. “Police personnel should be polite while enforcing the lockdown, and at no cost should external force be used. Use of lathi by personnel of any rank is strictly prohibited during the enforcement of the lockdown, except in case of self-defence,” Mr. Jiwal said. In a set of instructions, he said personnel should wear masks and also carry hand sanitisers with them (100 ml sanitiser will be provided by the headquarters). Personnel on duty should ensure that essential commodities, including medicines, vegetables, milk and provisions, were transported without any hindrance. Police personnel were advised to use public address systems to sensitise people on physical distancing and wearing of masks. They should also brief them about the number of cases reported in the city each day. Assistant Commissioners were told to conduct meetings with representatives of shops and businesses to ascertain that physical distancing rules were followed. Shopkeepers were also told not to entertain people without masks and to not allow more than 50% of customers at a time. They should also ensure the closure of shops at 12 p.m. and render all cooperation to the police for the successful implementation of the lockdown. Drones could be used to monitor long open stretches, such as beaches, effectively. The movement of oxygen cylinders should be facilitated by both traffic and local police personnel. Vehicle checking should be organised so that those carrying essential commodities were not held up at any cost. For this purpose a separate lane system could be used, the City Police Commissioner said. The instructions also said that the traffic/local police should avoid physical contact with individuals violating traffic rules. Photographs of the vehicle in violation should be taken for documentation and for registering a case, and seized vehicles should be released as early as possible. Deputy Commissioners, Joint Commissioners and Additional Commissioners should stagger timings in a way that adequate presence of senior officers in the field was felt. Help desk launched The police have started a round-the-clock help desk for 14 days, commencing from Monday, to render assistance to the public during the lockdown. The help desk will assist residents who require clarification regarding the lockdown mechanism. Residents can call the following numbers for assistance — 94981 81236 and 94981 81239.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-deserted-as-people-stay-indoors/article34531700.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||28,978 more people test positive, 232 die||Tamil Nadu on Monday logged 28,978 cases and 232 deaths, with Chennai recording the highest number of fatalities at 67. The State’s tally surpassed 14 lakh — so far, 14,09,237 people have tested positive for COVID-19. Its toll touched 15,880. With the fresh cases, the active caseload went past the 1.5 lakh-mark. A total of 1,52,389 people, including 35,153 in Chennai, 12,978 in Chengalpattu and 13,406 in Coimbatore, are under treatment across the State. Chennai, for the second consecutive day, reported 7,000-plus cases. A total of 7,149 people tested positive in the city. There were 2,781 cases in Coimbatore and 2,181 in Chengalpattu. Madurai and Tiruvallur reported 1,024 and 1,008 cases respectively. There were 895 cases in Krishnagiri, 869 in Tiruchi, 862 in Tirunelveli and 831 in Thanjavur. Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan was among those who tested positive. He said on Twitter that he was going to isolate himself. Among the 232 fatalities, Chengalpattu and Kanniyakumari recorded 20 deaths each. Coimbatore reported 15 deaths, while there were 14 in Madurai, 13 in Kancheepuram and 11 in Tiruchi. Three people in their 20s succumbed to the infection. One of them, a 24-year-old man from Chennai, who did not have co-morbidities, was admitted to a private hospital on April 26 with complaints of fever and cough for 18 days and difficulty in breathing for 17 days. He died on May 8 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Twenty-one people in their 30s were among the deceased. This included a 30-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai, who was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital, Cheyyar, on May 4. As many as 20,904 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 12,40,968. In the last 24 hours, 1,46,233 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 2,41,54,820. Another 94,890 people, including 48,729 people in the 45-59 age group and 32,725 senior citizens, were vaccinated in the State on Monday, taking the State’s overall coverage to 65,08,416. Vaccination was held in 2,836 sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28978-more-people-test-positive-232-die/article34531713.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City receives 300 oxygen concentrators from abroad||The city is set to get at least 3,500 oxygen concentrators from countries, such as Singapore and China, for COVID-19 management. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the civic body had received 300 oxygen concentrators from Singapore through the State government. The civic body had received support from the State government to install oxygen beds in COVID-19 Care Centres too. After taking charge on Sunday, Mr. Bedi directed Joint Commissioner (Health) Alby John Varghese and Regional Deputy Commissioner P. Akash to speed up the process of installation of oxygen beds. Deputy commissioner P. Akash said 80 oxygen concentrators would be installed at the Communicable Diseases Hospital in Tondiarpet, 50 at the Stanley Medical College Hospital, 33 at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, 40 at the Meenakshi Engineering College, 50 at the King Institute, Guindy, and 40 at the Chennai Trade Centre. The Corporation would start shifting COVID-19 patients who are not very sick to the Trade Centre on Tuesday. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had visited the Trade Centre a few days ago. More beds are expected to be made available for very sick patients in tertiary care centres after such patients are shifted to oxygen supported beds in Corporation facilities, such as the Chennai Trade Centre. Senior officials led by Mr. Bedi visited areas such as Kodambakkam on Monday to inspect door-to-door surveillance by volunteers for COVID-19 management. The officials also visited the Chennai Trade Centre to speed up the installation of 865 oxygen beds at the facility. Mr. Stalin on Monday directed the Corporation to launch a help desk for migrant labourers who were stranded at the Puratchi Thalaivar Dr. MGR Chennai Central Railway Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-receives-300-oxygen-concentrators-from-abroad/article34531691.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami set to be the Leader of the Opposition||Former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is set to be the Leader of the Opposition in the 16th Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly. On Monday, he was “unanimously” elected leader of the AIADMK legislature party. He will be the Opposition leader by virtue of the AIADMK being the second largest party in the new House. However, during Monday’s meeting of the party’s newly elected legislators, no decision was taken on who would be the AIADMK’s Deputy Floor Leader in the Assembly. A letter electing Mr. Palaniswami as the AIADMK legislature party leader was handed over by party leaders to Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan in the afternoon. The election was not a smooth affair as party coordinator and former Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam is learnt to not have been wholeheartedly in favour of the decision. However, a former Minister, who is also a party district secretary, rejected the suggestion that there was dissent within. He told The Hindu : “It was Mr. Panneerselvam who proposed Mr. Palaniswami’s name and the election was unanimous. Though we wanted to elect Mr. Panneerselvam as the Deputy Floor Leader, he insisted to hold only the post of the party’s coordinator.” Despite several legislators insisting that Mr. Paneerselvam take up the post, he declined, he said. Another senior leader acknowledged it was not a smooth sail. Political analyst P. Ramajayam said, “This election by the MLAs shows that Mr. Palaniswami is emerging as a strong leader in the AIADMK. It also shows the western region’s growing influence over the party.” A party source also confirmed that both the AIADMK MPs in the Rajya Sabha, K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam, had decided to resign from the membership of the Upper House in view of their election to the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-set-to-be-the-leader-of-the-opposition/article34531711.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare providers, families test positive||Many healthcare providers/workers have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. In a number of cases, family members of the doctors too have been infected. In the last two days, a government doctor and two nurses lost their lives to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. With exhaustion setting in among health workers, the risk of getting infected is adding to their stress. A doctor at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital said a ward meant for infected health workers, with about 25-30 beds, had no vacancies. “There are cases of re-infections among healthcare providers. Some have mild infection. Some who have taken both doses of the vaccines have also tested positive but with a mild infection, while those who are yet to get the jabs have become very sick,” he said. A postgraduate medical student said, “Many doctors are testing positive for COVID-19. Most are those involved in non-COVID-19 ward duties. Unlike the last year, even family members of doctors are getting infected. I know of three or four families of postgraduates who have been infected.” He said basic needs such as proper personal protective equipment (PPE), masks, sanitisers, quarantine after a week of COVID-19 duty, grant of stipend and payment of salaries without delays would be of help. “A separate ward for doctors who test positive is needed, so that we do not get cross-infected and can get back to the fight against COVID-19 soon,” he added. A doctor at a city government hospital said an exclusive facility should be set up for health workers and their family members. “Fully vaccinated health workers are getting infected. In some cases, their entire families are testing positive. We are finding it difficult to provide beds even for them and their family members,” he said. “Hotel quarantine and isolation for health workers may reduce transmission among them,” he said. A postgraduate student at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital said, “My friends and colleagues who tested positive for COVID-19 had mild to moderate disease. They recovered and joined duty again.” Doctors are also calling for the setting up of a mechanism to address their grievances related to accommodation for quarantine and getting beds for infected healthcare providers. K. Senthil, president of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association, said doctors and health workers were getting infected while on duty. “They are now being asked to quarantine after duty. The government should decide on fixing the number of beds and number of doctors. If there are extra patients, the government should decide on how to go about it,” he said. P. Saminathan, president of the Service Doctors’ and Postgraduates’ Association, said, “Postgraduates, who are the backbone of medical college hospitals, are exhausted. It is important to recruit doctors, nurses and paramedical personnel. Like last year, doctors should be provided accommodation during their quarantine period and should be tested before they return home and before they resume duty.” He added that pending financial relief should be handed over to the families of doctors who died due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-providers-families-test-positive/article34531715.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child Welfare Committees sensitised on those orphaned during the pandemic||After an advisory from the Centre and a review meeting convened by the Supreme Court’s Juvenile Justice Committee a couple of days ago, the Child Welfare Committees (CWC) in Tamil Nadu have been sensitised on the care and protection of children who lost their parents to COVID-19. According to sources in the Social Welfare Department, the Centre had sent an advisory expressing concern that several messages offering children who had lost their parents to COVID-19 for adoption were circulated on social media. Advising the public to refrain from engaging or encouraging such action, a set of guidelines was rolled out to deal with the issue. SOP for rehabilitation The note said under Section 2(14) of the Juvenile Justice Act (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, children without parents or caregivers were defined as children in need of care and protection. The Act and Rules made thereunder not only mandated a safe net of service delivery structures, along with institutional and non-institutional care, for these children but also prescribed a detailed Standard Operating Procedure for their rehabilitation. “If any child is found to have lost parents to COVID-19, with no one to look after them, the child ought to be produced before the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) within 24 hours, excluding journey time. The State governments have been advised to use digital platforms for interaction in exceptional cases where physical interaction is not possible in the current circumstances,” the note said. According to a senior official in the Department of Social Welfare, no case of a child losing parents to COVID-19 was reported in any district in Tamil Nadu. “A mechanism is in place to ensure the safety of such children. A committee would decide whether a child was an orphan or not after conducting social investigation. The CWCs have been sensitised to the issue...,” the official said, adding that the cardinal principle of the Act was that any decision taken should be in the best interest of the child. Lawful adoption He said information about any child who lost parents to the pandemic should be shared with the Childline (1098) network that would produce the children before the CWC for appropriate action and also monitor their well-being. Persons wishing to adopt could approach the Central Adoption Resource Authority for lawful adoptions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-welfare-committees-sensitised-on-those-orphaned-during-the-pandemic/article34531692.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen plants at 142 places soon: Minister||Oxygen generation plants will be set up at 142 places across Tamil Nadu. These plants will come up at a cost of Rs. 16 lakh each, while larger plants will be set up at Perambalur, Virudhunagar and Nilgiris at an estimated cost of Rs. 60 lakh each, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Monday. “Work on these plants will begin soon. We have included Tiruvallur district in the priority list. Each of these plants can supply oxygen for 30 to 50 beds,” he told presspersons. The Minister was inspecting the government hospital at Avadi and the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvallur. During the Chief Minister’s meeting with the Collectors, a plea to recruit 2,000 doctors, 6,000 staff nurses and 2,000 workers was put forward, he said. “The Chief Minister has approved the same and steps will be taken to recruit them,” he said. Delay in test results About RT-PCR test results getting delayed, he said when compared to the corresponding period last year, the number of cases had increased by four times. “We are taking steps to increase laboratory facilities. We will take up steps to make available test reports in 24 hours,” he said. He said 50 oxygen supported beds would soon be brought to use for patients with COVID-19 at the Government Hospital in Avadi. Work on an annexe building estimated at a cost of Rs. 27 crore would start soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-plants-at-142-places-soon-minister/article34531702.ece
11 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Appavu to be Tamil Nadu’s new Speaker||The DMK on Monday announced that it would field M. Appavu, elected from the Radhapuram constituency, for the post of Speaker of the Assembly, for which election will be held on May 12. K. Pitchandi, elected from the Keezhpennathur constituency, will be fielded for the post of Deputy Speaker. The latter was on Monday administered the oath of office as pro-tem Speaker by Governor Banwarlilal Purohit at the Raj Bhavan. Mr. Pitchandi will on Tuesday administer the oath to newly-elected legislators. Given that the DMK has a majority in the House, Mr. Appavu and Mr. Pitchandi are likely to be elected unopposed to the two posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appavu-to-be-tamil-nadus-new-speaker/article34531708.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child rights activists want govt. to act against illegal adoption messages||“For Adoption: If anyone wishes to adopt a girl, please feel free to contact Priyanka. One girl is three days old and another is six months old. They have lost their parents recently due to COVID-19. Please help these kids get a new life, spread the word.” Such messages on illegal adoption have been circulating on social media platforms as the second wave of COVID-19 rages on. Child rights activists want the government to create awareness on adoption measures and monitor such illegal adoption networks to prevent the trafficking of children. They also want the government to involve civil society organisations to monitor and follow up with families affected by COVID-19. “All adoptions are regulated by the Central Adoption Research Agency (CARA). So, if anyone comes across a child orphaned due to COVID-19, they should inform the police, Childline 1098 or the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC),” said a source from the State Adoption Research Agency (SARA). “Civil society organisations should be roped in by the government to monitor families with children affected by COVID-19. This was supposed to be done in the first wave itself. The District Child Protection Units, along with Childline, should check if the children orphaned due to COVID-19 have any relatives to take care of them or they should be taken to childrens’ homes and given care,” said M. Andrew Sesuraj, State convener, Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch. Smriti Gupta, CEO, Where Are India’s Children, said in the past few days, they had been overwhelmed by the amount of messages on social media about adoption of children who had been orphaned by COVID-19. “The entire adoption process is regulated pan-India by the CARA. People can find the nearest agency by contacting Childline or using http://cara.nic.in,” she added.  (Childline operates a toll free helpline 1098 for children in distress across the country)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-rights-activists-want-govt-to-act-against-illegal-adoption-messages/article34531695.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health dept. announces new treatment protocol||The Health Department has announced a revised protocol to treat COVID-19 patients in health facilities other than medical college hospitals, government hospitals and dedicated COVID hospitals. According to a Government Order issued on Monday, COVID-19 (suspect and confirmed) patients need treatment at the earliest accessible facility. Those eligible for home isolation and treatment at primary care facilities were reaching higher facilities due to lack of awareness and panic. This was draining the resources. An Expert Committee has recommended guidelines for managing patients with COVID-19 symptoms at all health facilities other than medical college hospitals, government hospitals and dedicated COVID-19 hospitals. It has made clear that patients with an oxygen saturation level of more than 96 should not be admitted in hospitals. R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, said the protocol was meant to initiate treatment in the initial stages to prevent disease progression and lung involvement. Through this, hospital admissions could be brought under control, he said. “If a patient comes to a testing centre or primary health facility after experiencing symptoms, his/her oxygen saturation levels will be checked. Treatment will be started as per his/her health status. Sometimes, by the time a patient comes after getting the test report, it is a full-blown disease. We want to prevent lung involvement in patients,” he said. Accordingly, treatment can be done at primary health centres and COVID-19 Care Centres. For instance, at a testing centre, screening/triaging centre and outreach camps, patients would be assessed on these criteria — irrespective of vaccination status, positive or negative or not tested for COVID-19, and symptoms suggestive of COVID-19. The case management includes prescription of medications, adequate hydration, prone position and seeking hospital care/admission if red flag signs appear. The protocol outlined the discharge criteria — patients with oxygen saturation of over 92% in room air for three days in medical college/district headquarters hospital/dedicated COVID-19 hospital, COVID-19 health centres with oxygen beds and COVID-19 Care Centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-dept-announces-new-treatment-protocol/article34531399.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin launches financial aid distribution scheme||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday launched the scheme to distribute financial assistance to rice ration cardholders across the State, in view of the hardships faced by them due to COVID-19. Tokens for receiving the cash assistance would be distributed till May 13, and beneficiaries could receive the assistance from May 15, an official release stated. Tokens with details Tokens would have details of when the beneficiaries should come and collect the cash, Mr. Stalin said. Cooperation Minister I. Periasamy, Food Minister R. Sakkarapani and Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-launches-financial-aid-distribution-scheme/article34531694.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Searing heat from today||Coastal and adjoining interior districts may have to brace for scorching weather as mercury level is expected to rise by two or three degree Celsius above normal from May 11. However, some of the south coastal and western ghats districts may continue to enjoy thunderstorm activity till May 14. Though the day temperature is close to normal, places like Chennai have been experiencing sultry weather owing to high humidity levels aided by moist easterlies. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the moist easterly winds had helped day temperature stay close to or below normal so far across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/searing-heat-from-today/article34531398.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Got 5.16 lakh vaccine doses for 18-44 age group’||The State government on Monday told the Madras High Court that it had received 5.16 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines for inoculating people in the 18-44 age group. Stating that it had paid 100% advance amount to two domestic vaccine manufacturers for procuring 13.85 lakh doses allotted by the Centre in the first phase, the government said it was yet to receive the rest of the 8.68 lakh doses. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy were also informed by Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram that the State had received 76.99 lakh vaccine doses for immunising those aged 45 and above, and that it had utilised 64.13 lakh doses so far. The submissions were made during the hearing of a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up to monitor efforts to fight the pandemic. On the availability of Remdesivir, the A-G said the Centre had allocated 2.05 lakh vials of the drug to Tamil Nadu, as against pending orders for 3.5 lakh vials placed by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. Nevertheless, the TNMSC was drawing from its reserves and supplying them to patients in private hospitals too, establishing sales counters in Chennai, Salem, Madurai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Tirunelveli. The court was further told that there were 43,858 oxygen-supported beds in the State, and the government had already started creating 12,500 additional beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/got-516-lakh-vaccine-doses-for-18-44-age-group/article34531709.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temporary oxygen beds set up for COVID-19 patients||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) is set to launch temporary oxygen bed facilities at government hospitals in Chennai on Monday. At least 50 beds at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and 50 beds at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital were made available by CREDAI on Monday. The facilities were developed using German technology. “We have planned to increase the beds in Kilpauk to 250 in two days. The Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, will get 100 more beds. Another 200 beds have been planned in Anna Nagar,” said Suresh Krishn, president, CREDAI-Tamil Nadu. The temporary oxygen beds will be managed by doctors from the hospitals. Once an ambulance reaches the hospital, the patient can be placed in the temporary facility, and the vehicle will be free to transport more patients. Currently, ambulances were queuing up owing to the unavailability of oxygen beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-oxygen-beds-set-up-for-covid-19-patients/article34531701.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shakeel Akther is DGP, CB-CID||The State Government on Monday transferred Director General of Police, Training, Md. Shakeel Akhter and posted him to head the Crime Branch CID, the premier investigation agency of the Tamil Nadu police. Mr. Akhter is a 1989-batch IPS officer. He is a Z-Scale protectee and recipient of the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service in 2014. Special DGP P. Kandaswamy has been posted as Director, Directorate of Vigilance & Anti-Corruption in the existing vacancy. Mr. Kandaswamy, as DIG on deputation with the CBI, headed the special team that arrested Amit Shah, who was then the Home Minister of Gujarat, in July 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shakeel-akther-is-dgp-cb-cid/article34531687.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman run over by car||A 50-year-old homeless woman was killed when a car driven by a businessman ran over her in Kothawal Chavadi while she was sleeping on the pavement. Police identified the victim as Dhanaselvi, a domestic help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-run-over-by-car/article34531690.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kothai Aachi passes away||Kothai Annamalai, also known as Kothai Aachi, wife of Kumudam magazine founder S.A.P. Annamalai, passed away in the city on Monday morning. She was 92. One of the directors of the Kumudam Group, she had been instrumental in the development of the magazine from the beginning. An avid writer, Kothai Aachi was also a voracious reader. When her husband and Kumudam founder-Editor S.A.P. Annamalai passed away in 1994 and their son S.A.P. Jawahar Palaniappan took over the reigns, Kothai Aachi continued to offer constructive guidance to him. She is survived by a son and two daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kothai-aachi-passes-away/article34531696.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deadline for EB bill extended||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has extended the electricity bill payment for low-tension consumers, whose payment cycle falls during the lockdown period, till May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deadline-for-eb-bill-extended/article34531697.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heat, thunderstorms lie ahead||Mercury level is expected to rise by two or three degree Celsius above normal in coastal and adjoining interior districts from May 11. However, some south coastal and Western Ghats districts may continue to enjoy thunderstorms till May 14. Though the day temperature is close to normal, places like Chennai have been experiencing sultry weather owing to high humidity levels aided by moist easterlies. This weather scenario is likely to change from three days from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heat-thunderstorms-lie-ahead/article34531471.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC weighs in on retention of Health Secy.||The Madras High Court on Monday noted that the Tamil Nadu government did not replace the Health Secretary to avoid loss of momentum in its fight against COVID-19. “Upon the new government taking over the State, there have been changes in key personnel. Learned Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram, however, makes over a report prepared by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, and it is evident that continuity in the office of the Health Secretary has been maintained to ensure there is no loss of momentum or lack of rhythm in continuing measures to fight the pandemic in the State,” the court said. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations while hearing a PIL petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-weighs-in-on-retention-of-health-secy/article34531706.ece
11 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allocate more Remdesivir vials to T.N.’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin spoke to Union Minister for Commerce Piyush Goyal over phone on Monday and urged the Centre to allocate at least 20,000 vials of Remdesivir a day to the State, even as it has intensified its fight against COVID-19. Presently, Tamil Nadu is being allocated about 7,000 Remdesivir vials a day. Ao far, 2.05 lakh vials have been allocated to the State. “The needs of government and private hospitals across the State will be catered to only if 20,000 vials of Remdesivir are allocated to Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Stalin told Mr. Goyal, according to an official release. Mr. Goyal replied saying that he would consider the request, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allocate-more-remdesivir-vials-to-tn/article34531716.ece
11 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC operates 15 buses for govt. employees||With the two-week lockdown coming into force on Monday, the Coimbatore Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) operated 15 buses for employees of the District Collectorate and conservancy workers on Monday. TNSTC officials said that six buses were operated for 123 Collectorate employees and nine buses for 412 conservancy workers. The employees of various government departments at the Collectorate were picked up from Pollachi, Mettupalayam, Annur, Sulur, Karumathampatti and Vadavalli and were dropped at the Collectorate at 9.45 a.m. The buses will also be operated at around 5 p.m. for their return journey, the officials said. The nine buses for conservancy workers were operated from Keeranatham, Vellalore and Malumichampatti at 5.30 a.m. to the Corporation headquarters. They will be picked up at 2 p.m. after their work everyday, the officials said. Out of the total fleet of 1,012 town and mofussil buses in Coimbatore district, the buses that were not operated on Monday were parked at 17 bus depots across the district. The buses operated for the Collectorate employees and conservancy workers would be increased in the coming days as per the requirement, according to the officials. Complaints Amid complaints of a few conservancy workers being stranded at Ukkadam Bus Terminus due to lack of buses on Monday morning, the TNSTC officials said that steps would be taken to ensure that all the workers board their buses from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-operates-15-buses-for-govt-employees/article34531726.ece
11 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle movement remains low||Movement of vehicles along the districts bordering neighbouring States of Karnataka and Kerala and the Union Territory of Puducherry was low on Monday when Tamil Nadu imposed a fortnight-long intense lockdown to combat COVID-19. In Hosur, company vehicles plied with exemption given to continuous processing industries to continue work albeit with 50% workforce. On the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border in Coimbatore district, Revenue Department officials said traffic was minimal as both States had gone into lockdown and made e-pass mandatory for inter-State travel. At Walayar, the main interstate border, a joint team of the Police, Revenue and Health Departments checked vehicles which entered Tamil Nadu. Police presence at all border checkposts and across the Nilgiris was stepped up. All non-essential travel into and out of the district was stopped. People requiring treatment either in Coimbatore, Sultan Bathery in Kerala or Chamrajanagar in Karnataka would be allowed if they possessed permits issued by the Zonal Medical Officer, officials said. Tamil Nadu’s border with Puducherry was sealed in the districts of Cuddalore and Villupuram. While people scrambled at the interState borders to enter Cuddalore and Villupuram from 6 a.m., the police turned them away after 12 p.m. Cuddalore Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said about 1,500 police personnel had been deployed to implement the restrictions. The police sealed 11 entry points at the border with Puducherry. Deputy Inspector General (Villupuram Range) M. Pandian appealed to people to remain indoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-movement-remains-low/article34531684.ece
11 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||People throng Coimbatore Medical College for Remdesivir||As people swarmed the Coimbatore Medical College (CMC) in Peelamedu on Monday to buy Remdesivir, the staff at the special sales counter had to issue tokens for the next four days. “As of now the counter sells 500 vials of Remdesivir a day (a maximum of six vials for a buyer). A large number of people came to the campus and requested us to issue tokens rather than making them wait for long hours. We took their request into consideration and tokens were issued for four days”, said an official. The counter remained closed on Sunday and the staff had issued tokens for Monday. In addition to the people who were given tokens, hundreds of people came to the CMC on Monday after coming to know about the special sales counter. When the stock of vials for the day got exhausted, people staged a protest on Avinashi Road by blocking it on Monday. The Peelamedu police held talks with people who had come from various parts of the city, its suburbs and even faraway places. Most of them were given tokens for Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. The counter, which functions from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., sells a vial of Remdesivir for Rs. 1,568. A person can buy a maximum of six vials of Remdesivir upon producing RT-PCR test result, CT scan report of the patient, original prescription for the drug by the doctor who treats the patient, photocopies of the Aadhaar card of the patient and the person who comes to buy the drug.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  Long queues were seen at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College near Salem Steel Plant to buy Remdesivir. The sale of the drug began at the medical college on Saturday with 500 doses, all of which were sold that day. Caregivers of patients from neighbouring districts like Namakkal, Erode, Kallakuruchi, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri are travelling here to procure the drug. Since the counter was closed on Sunday, they queued up from the early hours of Monday get the vials. According to officials, 300 doses were available for sale on Monday. The doses are given on the basis of the severity of the infection in a patient. M. Mohamed, caregiver of a patient in Vellore, said “I came here on Saturday and since the stock got over, I was provided only with a token. Though the hospital has prescribed six doses, I have been provided only three. Now I would have to return again from Vellore for the medicine”. K. Kandhasamy, caregiver of another patient, said he had been waiting in the queue since early morning for the medicine and received only three dose. The place is also getting crowded, posing risk of COVID-19 infection, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throng-coimbatore-medical-college-for-remdesivir/article34531720.ece
11 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wait for Covaxin continues||The wait for Covaxin by people, who have to take their second shot, continues in Coimbatore district. Second shot As the district was getting doses of Covishield alone in recent allotments, people who have to take their second jab of Covaxin are in a fix now. Many of them have been approaching government-run vaccination centres in the last several days. People, who had taken their first jab of Covaxin from private vaccination centres, are also now forced to knock on the doors of government-run vaccination centres. “Since we are not getting vaccines from the Health Department since April 30, we have closed the vaccination centre. Now we are asking them to approach government-run vaccination centres. People, who had taken their first shot of Covaxin, are suffering the most as they are unable to find it in government-run centres too,” said the spokesperson of a private hospital. A 47-year-old woman, who had taken her jab of Covaxin from a private hospital, said she approached five government run centres last week to get her second shot, but none of them had its stock. Though the district on Sunday got 11,200 doses of vaccine, all of them were Covishield. These doses were administered on Monday. A notice board kept at the vaccination centre at the Government Arts College, Coimbatore, where the vaccination drive resumed after a gap of five days on Monday read that Covaxin was not available. An official in the know of allocation of vaccines for Coimbatore district told The Hindu that it did not receive stocks of Covishield or Covaxin on Monday. According to the official, it was uncertain when the district would get adequate doses of Covaxin to give second jabs to people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wait-for-covaxin-continues/article34531721.ece
11 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Onion traders to be shifted||Wholesale onion traders at MGR market here are expected to shift to the bus stand on Mettupalayam road on Tuesday. Tomato traders had shifted to the bus stand and now the onion traders had been given space at the bus stand, said market sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/onion-traders-to-be-shifted/article34531724.ece
11 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Officials appointed to coordinate contributions||The Coimbatore district administration on Monday appointed six officials to coordinate contributions from individuals and private organisations in the fight against COVID-19. Support In a press release, District Collector S. Nagarajan said that many private organisations have come forward to support the district administration during the second wave of the pandemic and voluntary organisations also offered to provide food to the people who are unable to afford it during the lockdown. Those wishing to contribute may contact the following six officials: Rameshkumar, Project Director of Mahalir Thittam (94440 94251 and 0422-2301855); T. Maheshkumar, Special Tahsildar (Election) (99405 59393 and 0422-2303786); Mohandas, District Rural Development Agency (99944 69494 and 0422-2301547); M. Raveendran, Dean of Government Medical College and ESI Hospital (98422 51132 and 0422-2574391); A. Nirmala, Dean of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (94430 25300 and 0422-2301393) and G. Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services (63695 66177 and 0422-2220351), a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-appointed-to-coordinate-contributions/article34531408.ece
11 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation levies fine for violation||On the first day of COVID-19 lockdown, officials from the Coimbatore Corporation levied a total fine of Rs. 10,200 on nine shops near the Coimbatore Railway Station on State Bank Road for allegedly violating the lockdown rules. Sources said a team of officials led by Assistant Commissioner – Central Zone T. Sivasubramaniam inspected shops near the railway station on Monday. The team spotted some establishments such as tea shops where the customers were allowed inside as opposed to providing only takeaway (parcel) services. The nine establishments that were fined also allegedly did not ensure compliance with wearing masks, according to the Corporation sources. ‘No major violations in Tiruppur’ Tiruppur City Police said there were no major violations in the district on the first day of lockdown. Only essential movement of private vehicles were allowed in the city limits such as travels to hospitals, for supplying food and for ferrying workers to garment companies, police said. About 600 personnel were deployed in the city on Monday and the vehicles were monitored at 23 check posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-levies-fine-for-violation/article34531727.ece
11 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for duping private firm||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Coimbatore City Police on Monday arrested a 32-year-old man on charges of defrauding a private firm of Rs. 29.98 lakh. The arrested has been identified as K. Raju, a resident of Process Server Street, B.S.S. Road in Tiruppur. As per a release issued by CCB, Raju worked in a private firm near Sulur. The firm offered booking of flight tickets. As per complaint lodged by the principal manager of the firm, Raju cheated the firm of Rs. 29,98,217 by defrauding the collection amount generated from flight ticket bookings between September 1, 2019 and July 30, 2020. Raju was arrested on Monday and produced before the judicial magistrate, Sulur. CMCH suspends two women workers The administration of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday suspended two women conservancy workers, working on contract basis, after they allegedly collected Rs. 10 each from a patient as bribe for their service. The alleged incident happened in obstetrics and gynaecology ward recently and a video related to the incident was circulated on social media. The woman patient complained about the incident to the hospital administration, which placed the two workers under suspension on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-duping-private-firm/article34531403.ece
11 May 2021||COIMBATORE Bureau,TAMIL NADU||Businesses down shutters, industries function in Coimbatore||As the district entered into a two-week lockdown to control the spread of COVID-19, businesses downed shutters in Coimbatore and industries in the essential sectors continued operation. Shops in the main commercial areas of the city – Gandhipuram, RS Puram and Big Bazaar Street – did not open on Monday. “The compliance is total and shops will remain closed during the lockdown period,” said C. Balasubramanian, president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore. Medical shops continued to serve customers, eateries and bakeries were open for parcel service, and grocery shops stopped sales by noon. However, in some areas, a few shops were kept open well past noon too. About 30 % Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises in the district that were supplying to essential sectors and exporting units operated on Monday. Some of the large-scale companies had declared holiday for the lockdown period. On the labour front, compared to migrant workers a larger number of workers from other districts in Tamil Nadu had returned to their home towns. “So, even if industries want to operate, they cannot because of worker shortage,” said J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. “We have urged the industries to cooperate for the lockdown and focus on health and safety,” said MV Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. Nearly 25 % workers in the construction sector left during the first lockdown last year. On Monday, projects that had workers and materials on the site continued. The builders had stocked materials for a week or so and so there were no problems, said Paneerselvam, president of the Builders Association of India, Coimbatore. Banks, post offices were open. Some bank branches had 50 % staff. In some branches, the staff strength was already low. As May 10 was a salary day, banks saw a heavy rush of customers, said a bank employee. At the wholesale and retail vegetable markets in the city, there was a heavy rush on Saturday and Sunday. So, customer walk-in was low on Monday. Following the announcement of the lockdown, customers wanted to buy more vegetables and hence, there was a heavy rush during the weekend, said M. Rajendran, president of the Thyagi Kumaran Market vegetable traders’ association. At Anna Market, only 50 % of the shops were open. Prices were low, sales were limited, and stocks were also limited, said Suresh, secretary of the market. A few autorickshaws were seeing plying on Monday morning in the city. However, two-wheeler movement was almost normal across the city. In Tiruppur, the exporting garment units operated on Monday. Two-wheeler movement has been curtailed and industries are transporting workers through vans and buses. The factories operated with the workforce available. “The current lockdown is expected to not affect industries and still be effective,” said Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association. A total of 2,500 police personnel were deployed across Coimbatore district to enforce lockdown restrictions. They conducted static vehicle checks and patrols. In city limits, 1,000 police personal were involved in surveillance, vehicle checks and law and order management. The rural police had 1,500 personnel on lockdown duty in their limits including check posts along Tamil Nadu-Kerala inter-State border. The police started vehicle checks from morning to restrict the movement of people who come out unnecessarily. Post noon, they permitted vehicles plying for emergency services and those transporting essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/businesses-down-shutters-industries-function-in-coimbatore/article34531718.ece
11 May 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Patients in care centre go on protest||Asymptomatic COVID-19 patients housed at the COVID Care Centre in the hostels of Annamalai University staged a protest on Monday evening alleging lack of facilities and poor quality of food. A section of the patients alleged that over 400 people, including 115 women, were housed in the hostels as against the strength of 300. The food was not nutritious and also inadequate. The patients alleged that there were not adequate toilets for women. On information, Chidambaram Deputy Superintendent of Police Lamech visited the spot and pacified the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patients-in-care-centre-go-on-protest/article34531685.ece
11 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of tokens to ration card holders begins||Distribution of tokens to ration card holders to disburse the first instalment of Rs. 2,000 announced by the State government as relief for COVID-19 began in the district here on Monday. Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department officials said that there are 7,13,910 ration cards attached to 1,152 ration shops in the district and distribution of token would be done till May 12. Officials said that staff from the shops distributed tokens to the card holders at their doorsteps and the distribution of financial assistance would begin from May 15. “Even it is a total lockdown, ration shops were permitted to function from 8 a.m. to noon to distribute the cash,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-tokens-to-ration-card-holders-begins/article34531404.ece
11 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||18 omni buses fined for violations||Officials of the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) fined 18 omni buses for various violations. The Erode zone, comprising RTOs in Erode and Namakkal districts, conducted a special drive on May 9 and 10 in the two districts. A total of 47 omni buses were checked and 18 vehicles were fined Rs. 43,500 for various violations. One bus was detained for not paying the tax. Similarly, 820 other classes of vehicles such as lorries, vans, cars and two-wheelers were checked and 163 were fined for violations, including fine on drivers for not wearing masks. A fine of Rs. 76,552 was collected from motorists. Officials said that no omni buses were found collecting excess fee from passengers during the two days when people returned to their native before the commencement of the total lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-omni-buses-fined-for-violations/article34531407.ece
11 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals asked to audit use of oxygen||The district administration has urged the private hospitals to use oxygen only in cases warranted medically and to audit the use of oxygen. In a consultative meeting with the doctors of private hospitals, District Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy asked them to share the burden and responsibility in treating the public during the pandemic. The hospitals were urged to contact the district control room in the event of oxygen shortage. Addressing complaints of hospitals turning away patients citing shortage of beds, Dr. Reddy urged the private hospitals to ensure the status of beds and possibility of creating beds before turning away patients to other hospitals. The administration would assist private hospitals in securing medicines in shortage and similarly, transport of essential medical supplies would be facilitated by the officials, he said. For those COVID- 19 patients undergoing dialysis, one bed has been allocated at the Krishnagiri Government Medical College Hospital and two beds at the Sri Chandrashekhara hospital, Hosur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-asked-to-audit-use-of-oxygen/article34531410.ece
11 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Industries urged to appoint special officers||Industries continuing operations during lockdown have been directed to set up special officers to liaison with the district administration on COVID-19 management and safety protocols. Earlier, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy held a consultation with the industries here on the safety norms with the continued functioning of industries falling in the category of continuous processing industries. Interacting with the industrial heads here, the Collector urged industries to follow the rigour of COVID-19 protocols. Workers’ health All firms shall set up special officers to monitor the health of the workers. The contact number of such officers shall be shared with the district industries centre. Units are urged to contact the local Primary Health Centres to organise inoculation of their workforce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-urged-to-appoint-special-officers/article34531397.ece
11 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Waving medical prescriptions to evade action?||The number of vehicles on arterial roads in the city came down considerably after the total lockdown came into force on Monday. A vast majority of shops and commercial establishments remained closed. On Sunday, the city bustled with people making last-minute purchases to face the 14-day lockdown. But movement of residents and vehicles came down drastically on Monday. “Only 30% of cars and motorbikes plied on the road,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) A. Tirumalai. Police checkposts had been set up at all important junctions to contain unnecessary movement of vehicles, he added. The number of vehicles further declined after noon as shops selling essential items such as vegetables, groceries and meat closed down. A traffic policeman said several people who were intercepted carried medical prescriptions. “When there are shops in the vicinity, they go to far off places to buy even ordinary medicines.” Police personnel could be seen warning three persons travelling in autorickshaw, who claimed that they were going to a medical shop, and those who apppeared to be loitering After noon, movement of two-wheelers was higher as single men came to hotels for take-aways. Hospitals, pharmacies, petrol bunks, banks and ATMs were open in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waving-medical-prescriptions-to-evade-action/article34531466.ece
11 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Increase supply of Remdesivir: MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan on Monday appealed to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to increase daily supply of the anti-viral drug, Remdesivir, to 20,000 vials to Tamil Nadu as the present allocation of 7,000 did not meet the growing need of COVID-19 patients. In a letter to the Union Minister, the MP said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had already sought increase in daily supply of the drug to the State. Mr. Venkatesan said he personally witnessed the ordeals of patients and their near and dear ones waiting in long queues to get the life-saving drug. While Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai received 500 vials every day, they would be sufficient only for 60 patients. However, more than 250 people stood in queue. “If the supply is not increased, it may cost several lives,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-supply-of-remdesivir-mp/article34531470.ece
11 May 2021||Madurai/Theni/Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Major shops closed on first day of complete lockdown||All major shops and commercial establishments, except individual retail units selling grocery, fruits and vegetables, were closed across Madurai district on Monday, the first day of the 14-day complete lockdown imposed by the State government to contain the spread of COVID-19. As per government rules, only individual shops selling grocery, vegetables and meat were allowed to operate until noon. With the fortnight-long lockdown in place, the city roads saw lesser traffic. However, residents could be seen travelling on their own vehicles. A traffic police posted near Vilakkuthoon said many residents travelled in their own vehicles saying they needed to reach hospitals or for other medical emergencies. “Unlike the complete lockdown imposed last year, we have been instructed not to be very strict in restricting the movement of residents,” said the officer. Pharmacies and other medical-related operations were allowed to function. With non-operation of buses, many conservancy workers and domestic breeding checkers of Madurai Corporation had to travel in their personal vehicles to reach their workplace. “In Chennai, exclusive buses have been arranged for conservancy workers. It would be nice if such arrangements are made for conservancy workers in Madurai,” said K.P. Thangavel, a conservancy worker. Collector T. Anbalagan said the complete lockdown would curtail the movement of residents and, thereby, help to reduce incidence of new COVID-19 cases. “With aggressive testing through fever camps, we can identify more number of positive patients and begin their treatment at the earliest.” Other districts Arterial roads, key junctions and bus stands in Theni and Dindigul wore a deserted look after 1 p.m. Grocery shops, meat stalls and tea shops were allowed to operate till noon. People thronged the shops to buy essential commodities. Street vendors who continued to operate beyond the noon deadline were asked to close their business for the day. Police personnel were seen making announcements at key junctions urging people to abide by COVID-19 protocols and to follow the lockdown order. Despite the announcements, a few vehicles continued to ply on the roads. Medical stores and other essential services were allowed to function in both districts. Emergency service vehicles were also allowed to ply on the roads. Restaurants were allowed to operate for a limited period, but only for parcel services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-shops-closed-on-first-day-of-complete-lockdown/article34531469.ece
11 May 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Eight held for murder||Namakkal police on Monday arrested eight persons on the charges of murdering a cable operator near Tiruchengode recently. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Murugan (40). Police suspect the murder could have happened due to real estate business rivalry. The arrested were Jayaraman, Selvam, Surya, M. Manikandan, Kumar, Karthi, Manikandan and Arjun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-held-for-murder/article34531405.ece
11 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cabinet expansion to be delayed||The hospitalisation of Chief Minister N. Rangasamy for COVID-19 treatment could delay the Cabinet expansion by more than a week, authoritative sources told The Hindu . Mr. Rangasamy, who was keeping ill for some time, tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday and was immediately rushed to a private hospital in Chennai. “The treatment started on Sunday night itself and his health condition is stable,” a top party functionary told The Hindu . ‘No consensus’ BJP in-charge for the Union Territory Nirmal Kumar Surana said the expansion of the Cabinet would take place after the Chief Minister got cured of the virus. “Talks on inducting ministers are in an advanced stage. We wanted to form the Ministry as soon as possible so that we could aggressively participate in the COVID-19 containment measures,” he said. However, authoritative sources in the AINRC and BJP have confirmed that even before hospitalisation of the Chief Minister, both the parties could not arrive at a consensus on the Deputy Chief Minister’s post. The BJP was keen on getting the Deputy Chief Minister’s post but the AINRC leadership was not keen on accepting the formula. The AINRC had so far conceded to accommodate two Ministers, the Deputy Speaker and share other parliamentary posts between members of the parties. L-G calls CM Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday contacted the Chief Minister over phone and enquired about his health. The Lt. Governor wished the Chief Minister a speedy recovery to render service to the people of the Union Territory, a release from Raj Nivas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cabinet-expansion-to-be-delayed/article34531682.ece
11 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T.’s toll touches 988 after region records 23 deaths||The Union Territory of Puducherry registered 23 deaths to take the toll to 988 while recording 1,266 new cases in the last 24 hours on Monday. Puducherry recorded 17 deaths, Karaikal three, Mahe two and Yanam one. The region-wise cumulative toll stood at Puducherry (807), Karaikal (102), Yanam (61) and Mahe (18). The patients, including seven women, were in the 32 to 84 years age bracket and 17 of them had no history of co-morbidity. Puducherry accounted for 1,080 of the new cases, followed by Karaikal (92), Yanam (79) and Mahe (15). The test positivity rate was 21.73%, case fatality rate 1.35% and recovery rate 79.23%. With the recovery of 1,108 patients in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory aggregated to 14,169. Of this, 2,078 were in hospitals and 12,091 in home isolation. Bed occupancy The bed occupancy position in Puducherry was JIPMER (501), IGMCRI (354) and Covid Care Centres (741). The cumulative caseload in the Union Territory stood at 72,975 cases, with 57,818 patients recovered to date. Of an estimated 8.65 lakh tests carried out by the Health Department so far, over 7.80 lakh were negative. Vaccination drive Meanwhile, 18 healthcare workers, 30 frontline staff and 481 members of the public took their first shots of the COVID-19 vaccine in the Union Territory. The total number of persons vaccinated so far aggregated to 2,15,319 — 32,979 healthcare workers, 19,488 frontline personnel and 1,62,852 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uts-toll-touches-988-after-region-records-23-deaths/article34531688.ece
11 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||3 BJP men appointed nominated MLAs||The Union Government on Monday appointed three BJP members as nominated MLAs, taking the number of party legislators in the House to 9, one short of the All India N.R. Congress in the Puducherry Legislative Assembly. A notification issued by the Centre said K. Venkatesan, V.P. Ramalingam and R.B. Ashok Babu had been nominated as MLAs. While Mr. Venkatesan is a former DMK legislator, Mr. Ramalingam was a former Congress functionary. Both joined the BJP a few days before the recent Assembly election. Mr. Babu, a BJP functionary and advocate, served as district president of the party till last week. According to a BJP source, he resigned as district president to take up the new assignment. With this, the strength of the Assembly has gone up to 33. The tally now is AINRC 10, BJP 9, 6 DMK, 6 Independents and 2 Congress. Meanwhile, three Independents are reported to have handed over letters expressing support to the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-bjp-men-appointed-nominated-mlas/article34531686.ece
11 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Condition of CM is stable, says hospital||The condition of Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, who is undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital in Chennai, is stable, the hospital said. Mr. Rangasamy is maintaining normal oxygen saturation and continues to be stable, a bulletin from MGM Healthcare said. He is being monitored by an expert team of clinicians, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan tested negative for COVID-19, a press note from Raj Nivas said. Ms. Soundararajan, 59, had undergone an RT-PCR test at the laboratory in JIPMER as a precautionary measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/condition-of-cm-is-stable-says-hospital/article34531689.ece
11 May 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for stocking banned tobacco products||In separate incidents, police personnel seized banned tobacco products, pan masala and ghutkha products from two villages in the district on Monday. Acting on information, a special police team raided locations at P. Azhagapuri village in Ponnamaravathy sub-division. Interrogation of A. Anbarasu (30) led to seizure of more than 2,000 packets containing banned tobacco products, 500 banned pan masala packets, and around 80 liquor bottles from his house. He was subsequently arrested. The contraband valued at Rs. 1.5 lakh was handed over to the Tirumayam police station. In another incident reported at Vellaiyakoundampatti village in Karaiyur police station limits, the police seized 180 packets containing banned gutkha products in a petty shop and arrested shop owner S. Shanugam (43).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-stocking-banned-tobacco-products/article34531819.ece
11 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC earns Rs. 3.20 crore||The Salem Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has earned about Rs. 3.20 crore by operating additional buses during the weekend ahead of full lockdown. The division operated additional buses on Saturday and Sunday after the State government announced full lockdown to contain spread of COVID-19 disease. The Division operated 108 buses additional buses on routes like Chennai, Chidambaram and other important routes here on Saturday and Sunday. According to TNSTC officials, additional 40 buses were operated to Chennai alone as many persons returned from Chennai to their native places. According to officials, about four lakh commuters travelled during the weekend. Additional buses were operated from Salem to neighbouring districts to transport passengers from Chennai and other cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-earns-rs-320-crore/article34531406.ece
11 May 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Buses, taxis and autorickshaws stay off roads in districts||With the two-week complete lockdown coming into effect from Monday, buses, taxis and autorickshaws stayed off the road in the districts on the day. The Salem Corporation operated two buses to transport the civic body workers. The markets as usual witnessed heavy crowd in the early hours of the day. Though the movement of two-wheelers and four-wheelers seemed normal until noon, only a few vehicles were seen on the roads in the afternoon. Hotels and eateries operated only for providing takeaways and TASMAC outlets remained closed. The Labour Department has set up a help desk at the Salem Railway junction to assist workers wishing to return to their native States. The Salem City police has set up about 16 check points within city limits and has deployed 747 personnel for vehicle checks and to provide security for Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Forty personnel have been deployed at the Medical College near the Steel Plant where Remdesivir is being sold. Salem District police has set up over 30 check points and has deployed about 1,200 personnel. Superintendent of Police S.Deepa Ganiger said that motorists found moving without valid reasons were stopped and advised to go home. In Namakkal, police have set up 24 check posts. Motorists warned and let off in Erode In Erode, wholesale shops at the Nethaji Market started functioned from Sunday evening to Monday morning, while retail shops were allowed only till 7 a.m. Vegetable and provision stores, meat and fish stalls functioned till noon. While hotels and restaurants had parcel service, Amma canteens functioned as usual. In the absence of buses, taxis and autorickshaws, the roads wore a deserted look in the noon. Motorists moving on the road without genuine reasons were warned and let off by the police. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai told The Hindu that 1,300 police personnel were on duty on shift basis to enforce total lockdown in the district. Two inter-State check-posts with Karnataka at Hasanur and Thattakarai in Bargur Hills and 11 inter-district check posts were manned with additional police personnel and only ambulances, vehicles carrying vegetables and essential commodities were allowed to enter the district. Forty-three temporary check points were created to monitor vehicle movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buses-taxis-and-autorickshaws-stay-off-roads-in-districts/article34531730.ece
11 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Celebrate Sir Arthur Cotton’s birth anniversary, urges CPI||The Communist Party of India has urged the State government to celebrate the birth anniversary of Sir Arthur Cotton, who, during the British regime, was instrumental in strengthening the Kallanai constructed by Chola Emperor, Karikala Cholan, across the Cauvery river. In a press release, CPI Thanjavur North District secretary, M. A. Bharathi, said that the British engineer adopted the Chola-era technique to put up the base for the check dam in the sandy riverbed while constructing check dams across the river Cauvery at Mukkombu in 1835-36. He was instrumental in the construction of check dams-cum-regulators at Anaikarai and Lower Anicut across Coleroon river and across the branches of Cauvery river - Vennar and Vettar in the delta. In order to remember the efforts taken by Sir Arthur Cotton, Mr.Bharathi urged the Tamil Nadu government to celebrate the British engineer’s birth anniversary which falls on May 15 as a State function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebrate-sir-arthur-cottons-birth-anniversary-urges-cpi/article34531803.ece
11 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Mix-up of bodies shocks family of COVID-19 victim near Pattukottai||Family members of a COVID-19 victim realised at the time of cremation that the Health authorities had delivered an unknown body. Sangeetha, wife of the victim Balakrishnan (45) of Karikadu near Pattukottai, complained that she had received the body of an unknown person from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Balakrishnan was admitted at the Government Hospital, Pattukottai, on May 1, and was shifted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital where he died on May 6. Only, when the family members removed the cloth that covered the corpse to perform some rituals at the burial ground that they found it to be of an unknown person. They then surrendered the body to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. The hospital authorities have promised to trace Balakrishnan’s body and hand it over to the family. However, till Monday they did not get the body. When contacted, senior hospital authorities admitted that there was a lapse on the part of lower-level staff and that efforts were on to trace the victim's body. Meanwhile, Muthukumar, a social activist in Thanjavur, deplored the practice of handing over the bodies of COVID victims to their families, ignoring the inherent danger of causing further spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mix-up-of-bodies-shocks-family-of-covid-19-victim-near-pattukottai/article34531814.ece
11 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||MLA bears cost of ‘Amma Unavagam’ food||Kumbakonam MLA G. Anbalagan has remitted the amount required by the Kumbakonam Municipality to provide food to the needy through “Amma Unavagam” free of cost during the lockdown period. Supervising the distribution through the Municipal public canteen on Monday, the MLA said that the food items served as breakfast, lunch and dinner could be availed by the needy free of cost. The civic body officials said that instructions have been issued to the canteen staff in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-bears-cost-of-amma-unavagam-food/article34531804.ece
11 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Senior citizen shows the way||The Thanjavur Corporation officials have called upon the people to get themselves tested for COVID-19, by emulating a senior citizen at Kizhavasal area. Mohammed Abhukasir had volunteered for the test after some people in the locality had tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-citizen-shows-the-way/article34531812.ece
11 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Independent candidate succumbs to COVID||An independent candidate Balakrishnan (60) of Santhankadu near Pattukottai, who had put up a valiant fight in the elections to the Pattukottai Assembly segment, died at Government Medical College Hospital, Pudukottai, on Monday. Balakrishnan, who had contested under the banner of ‘Samooganala Kootani’ of Mutharaiyars and secured 27,771 votes, developed health complications before the start of the counting process, and was admitted to a private hospital at Pattukottai. On Sunday, he was diagnosed with COVID and shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Pudukottai, where he died||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/independent-candidate-succumbs-to-covid/article34531813.ece
11 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle movement to Kerala from Bodi hit||The Bodimettu-Munthal ghat section has been closed after boulders fell along the sixth hair-pin bend late on Sunday night, officials said. As a sequel, vehicular movement between Tamil Nadu and Kerala had been cut off since early hours of Monday. As the information reached, a team of officers led by Bodinayakkanur (sub-division) DSP Parthiban and highways officials inspected the spot. The boulders had rolled from atop the hill and blocked the road at least in two stretches. They cannot be moved by bulldozers. The boulders have to be cut with the help of breakers, the engineers said. With the lockdown coming into force from 4 a.m. (Monday) onwards, only essential commodities such as milk, meat, vegetables and fruits were being transported. The police alerted the transport agents in both Theni, Bodi and also on the Kerala side. "Now, vehicles are moving through Cumbum to Kerala," Mr Parthiban said and added that by evening, the ghat section should be clear. The rainfall along the western ghats over the last two days may have been a reason for the fall of the boulders. Fortunately, with the lockdown, there was no movement of any vehicles. Even two-wheelers could not cross the spot due to the block, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-movement-to-kerala-from-bodi-hit/article34531535.ece
11 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested||In a predawn operation, the Q Branch police arrested six persons with Rs. 8 lakh worth turmeric even as they were attempting to smuggle it to Sri Lanka on Monday. The boat owner M. Syed Umar, 40, cargo auto driver A. Charles, 33, and K. Nagoor Ghani, 42, of Madhavan Nair Colony, M. Antony, 42, of Tooveypuram, J. Joseph, 25, of MCF Colony in Terespuram and J. Antony Raj, 39, of Keezha Alangaarathittu were arrested. The team handed over the boat, arrested persons and the cargo auto to Tharuvaikulam Coastal Security Group police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-arrested/article34531536.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Situation is under control: Collector||Stating that the State government was talking all steps to increase the number of oxygen beds to meet the rising requirement, Collector S. Divyadharshini on Monday said that there was no need for panic. Speaking to reporters here, she said that the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi had 450 oxygen-supported beds, and that 200 more will be established. In addition, 50 oxygen- supported beds have been established at the Government Hospital in Srirangam. Efforts were on to add 30 more beds there. The health authorities had begun admitting COVID-19 infected patients in Srirangam GH. Similarly, 100 beds in the Government Hospital in Manapparai had been provided with oxygen supply. The unit would function from Tuesday. Ms. Divyadharshini said that a ‘unified war room’ had been set up at the Collector’s Office to monitor the bed and oxygen requirement. She observed that a section of patients, who had shown mild decrease in oxygen level, had been making frantic efforts to move to other hospitals in search of ventilator support. “The situation is under control. There is no need for panic,” she said. As for reports regarding sale of expired Remdesivir drugs, the Collector said that the drug control authorities had clarified that the drugs could be used up to 12 months from the date of manufacture. Ms. Divyadharshini said that the sale of Remdesivir drugs had commenced in Tiruchi. About 300 vials of Remdesivir would be sold to needy patients belonging to Tiruchi, Karur, Pudukottai and the delta districts daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/situation-is-under-control-collector/article34531815.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi looks to other districts for treating positive patients||With the capacity created for COVID-19 patients entirely utilised, authorities of Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital are looking at possibilities for increasing beds at other district headquarters hospitals and approaching private hospitals for expanding intake. All the 335 beds allotted to emergency COVID care, including oxygen-support beds and beds in the intensive-care unit with ventilator support, are occupied. The beds that get cleared when a patient recovers or succumbs to the infection are immediately filled up with the waiting list of patients, officials here said. The Srirangam Government Hospital has also been converted into a COVID treating facility, where patients would be shifted for oxygen support. Manapparai Government Hospital too is ready and would be functional soon. However, due to the lack of beds and manpower, the number of ICU beds with ventilator remains low. District Collector S. Divyadarshini told The Hindu that a request has been made to private hospitals to increase the number of beds allotted for COVID care from 50% to at least 75%. Meanwhile, Deputy Director of Health Services, S. Ram Ganesh, said that increase in infection rate in semi-urban and rural parts of the district has become perceptible. “Cases are increasingly being reported from places like Thuvakudi, Manachanallur, and Andhanallur”, he said. The district administration would look to increase COVID Care Centres if the situation persists. K. Vanitha, Dean, Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, said that six tonnes of oxygen has been supplied. Only with an increase in oxygen stock can more beds be added, the Dean said, adding that Tiruchi East MLA S. Inigo Irudayaraj had, after inspecting the hospital a couple of days ago, promised to arrange for increasing the supply of oxygen. It would not be possible to convert the Super Speciality Block of the Tiruchi GH into a COVID ward like last year, Dr. Vanitha pointed out. The GH carried out about 300 procedures at the catheterization laboratory in March and April. “Dialysis patients and those who require emergency care continue to visit the hospital. We cannot suspend these services,” she said. The Dean also said that 48 nurses were being appointed on a contract basis for a period of two months, and that 20 doctors from mini clinics in the district were diverted to help in the COVID wards in the Tiruchi GH. A total of 15 lab technicians were also being appointed to work at the COVID-19 testing facility, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-looks-to-other-districts-for-treating-positive-patients/article34531810.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of tokens for financial aid begins||Distribution of tokens to ration card holders to receive Rs. 2,000 cash as first of the two instalments began in Tiruchi on Monday. As per the order of the State government, employees of the respective fair price shops visited the houses of the card holders and distributed tokens. A senior official said that the process of distribution of tokens would take place for four days. There were 1,224 fair price shops in the district. A total of eight lakh ration card holders were eligible for the cash assistance announced by the State government. The distribution of cash would begin after May 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-tokens-for-financial-aid-begins/article34531808.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Many stay indoors as lockdown period begins||Public, by and large, remained indoors on Monday on the first day of the complete two-week lockdown announced by the State government till May 24 Shops permitted for carrying out business closed down within the specified time in adherence to the restriction. The otherwise busy Central and Chathram bus stands in the city wore a desolate look as operation of government and private buses were completely suspended. Movement of auto rickshaws was sparse. Business and commercial hotspots in and around the Fort area presented a deserted look. In the morning hours, people could be seen going to medical shops, hospitals and neighbourhood grocery stores. These outlets were kept open till noon.  Many road-side vendors were found conducting their business in adherence to the time restrictions. Police sources said they were more inclined towards sensitising people who were venturing out to the need to remain cautious at the time when there was a rapid spike in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-stay-indoors-as-lockdown-period-begins/article34531821.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||SOPs observed at Remdesivir counter||Not more than 300 vials of Remdesivir drug will be sold every day through the counter at the Government College of Physiotherapy by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, according to official sources. The Revenue Department has taken over the management of the counter and has been ensuring social distancing, and smooth process of the transactions from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., health officials said. Only 10 persons are allowed to queue up at the counter at any given point of time. “We are giving them even one vial if required; a pack of six costs Rs. 9,408,” a salesman at the counter said. The patients must visit the counter located opposite to the Tiruchi District Collectorate with the following documents: prescription from the doctor showing that Remdesivir is required, RT-PCR Report, CT Scan of the lungs, Aadhar card of the patient, and Aadhar card of the person purchasing the medicine. The move would help curb sale of medicine in the black market and ensure that the drug was sold to patients who need it, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sops-observed-at-remdesivir-counter/article34531817.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||No vandalism in statue damage, says Collector||Putting to rest speculations of vandalism over the damage caused to the statue of late Chief Minister M. G. Ramachandran in Tiruchi, District Collector S. Divyadharshini said that a hand of the statue installed about three decades ago broke when the cloth covering was removed after the duration of model code of conduct. The Collector said an analysis was made by examining footage of the closed circuit televisions in the surroundings. “It was not an incident of vandalism,” the Collector said. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had ordered prompt rectification of the damage. It would be done immediately, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-vandalism-in-statue-damage-says-collector/article34531806.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||3,160 COVID-19 cases in central region||The central region reported 3,160 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday. the highest since March 2020. The region reported 24 deaths, a sharp increase over the last few days. Tiruchi reported the highest number of deaths with 11 patients succumbing to the infection. Thanjavur reported six, Tiruvarur, three, Nagapattinam two, and there was one death each in Permabalur and Pudukottai districts. As many as 869 patients reported positive in Tiruchi. In Thanjavur, 831 fresh cases were reported. Of the patients who tested positive in Tiruchi, nearly 50% belonged to city limits. Tiruvarur reported 334 cases, and Nagapattinam, 317. Karur reported an increase with 250 fresh cases, and a similar spike was reported in Pudukottai with 239 cases. Rapid rise in the rate of infection was also reported in Perambalur and Ariyalur districts where 180 and 140 fresh cases were reported respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3160-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article34531818.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.94 feet on Monday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,125 cusecs and the discharge was 801 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34531822.ece
11 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Influx of COVID-19 patients to hospitals||Barring fuel stations, pharmacies, grocery, vegetable and tea hops and restaurants, all shops remained closed on Monday as the two-week-long lockdown commenced. However, people could be seen moving around unnecessarily in their vehicles. The police personnel deployed at important junctions intercepted the vehicles and inquired about the necessity of their travel. Several persons were booked for violating lockdown norms. Collector V. Vishnu said 11 surveillance teams in Corporation area and seven teams in taluks had been deployed to monitor violators. “Pharmacies should not issue tablets for cold or fever without proper prescription by the qualified physician. Names and complete addresses of those who come to pharmacies for buying tablets for cold or fever with prescription should be registered. If not, action will be taken against pharmacies,” Mr. Vishnu warned. He said panchayat-level teams were monitoring entry of people from other districts and sending reports to higher-ups. On Monday morning, 10 bodies, mostly those of COVID-19 patients, were waiting in a queue to be cremated in Sindhupoondurai crematorium. Since Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) is receiving COVID-19 patients from Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts, all 940 beds with oxygen facility are full and even those coming with low oxygen saturation level have to wait for a few hours.  Apart from the 19 KL (13 KL + 6 KL) oxygen tanks at the TVMCH’s old block, the multispecialty block has another 19 KL oxygen tank. While the old block is now a fully dedicated COVID-19 patients, the multispecialty block handles patients suffering from other ailments. With the arrival of more and more COVID-19 patients from other districts, Mr. Vishnu asked the TVMCH administration to dedicate another 500 beds in the multispecialty block for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/influx-of-covid-19-patients-to-hospitals/article34531539.ece
11 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Collector speaks to patients through videoconferencing||Collector V. Vishnu on Monday interacted with the doctors, nurses and a few COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital through videoconferencing about the treatment being given to them. While interacting with the doctor and the nurses, Mr. Vishnu inquired about the facilities available in TVMCH and their genuine but unfulfilled needs to take the medical treatment being given to the COVID-19 patients to the next level. During his interaction with the patients, the Collector asked them about the quality of treatment given and the food being served to them. “With the selfless services and sacrifices of the doctors and the nurses, the patients undergoing treatment in the hospitals and the COVID Care Centres should return home soon after recovering from the viral infection,” Mr. Vishnu wished the patients during the videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-speaks-to-patients-through-videoconferencing/article34531537.ece
11 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Crowds at medical college to buy Remdesivir||The Tirunelveli Medical College witnessed huge crowd on Monday as the kin of COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals came there to buy Remdesivir, the medicine to treat the deadly viral infection. Though the sale of Remdesivir — 6 doses per patient at Rs. 9,408 — started on Saturday last, only 156 doses were sold on the first day against the daily quota of 300 doses. Hence, the remaining 144 doses were added to the quota for Monday and the doses were sold on the second day of the sale as Sunday being the holiday. “We’re selling it only to save patients battling for life in the hospital,” said a senior official of Tirunelveli Medical College where medicine is being sold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crowds-at-medical-college-to-buy-remdesivir/article34531540.ece
11 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Dean dead||Ganapathy Sakthinathan, 44, formerly Dean, Anna University, Tirunelveli Regional Office, and Associate Professor, Department of Automobile Engineering, Anna University, Chennai, who rejuvenated major irrigation tanks in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts through his work, succumbed to COVID-19 on Monday afternoon. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter. After being under treatment in two private hospitals in Palayamkottai for over a week, Sakthinathan was shifted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) on Monday morning and died around 2.45 p.m. His body was cremated in Sindhupoondurai gasifier in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-dean-dead/article34531534.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘No deaths due to waiting outside Tiruppur GH’||Following rumours on social media platforms that two COVID-19 patients died while waiting outside Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, officials from the hospital and the district administration on Monday denied that such deaths had occurred. Hospital authorities said that the two patients – a 65-year-old man and a 40-year-old woman – were referred to the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital after 11 p.m. on Sunday from private treatment centres in an advanced stage of infection. While one of them was dead on arrival, the other died within 30 minutes of admission, according to the authorities. With the hospital grappling with shortage of beds for patients, some private hospitals have been allegedly referring patients in critical condition without inquiring about the vacancy in beds, the hospital officials claimed. As of Monday, Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital had 281 beds earmarked for COVID-19 patients, out of which 156 are oxygen beds. About 45 additional oxygen beds will be set up by this week, according to the officials. Officials in the district administration said that District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan held a meeting with Dean of the medical college hospital Valli Sathyamoorthy and confirmed that the deaths were not due to waiting outside the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-deaths-due-to-waiting-outside-tiruppur-gh/article34531400.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two die in road accident||Two persons were killed and one suffered injuries in a collision involving a two-wheeler and a mini truck at Uthukuli here on Sunday. Police said that N. Karuppusamy (26), S. Ajai (20), and S. Rajesh (25) from Tiruppur were travelling on a two-wheeler to attend a birthday party in Uthukuli. At around 9.30 p.m., a mini truck collided with the two-wheeler, leaving Karuppusamy and Ajai dead on the spot. The driver of the mini truck fled the spot after the accident, police said. Uthukuli police have registered a case. Efforts to nab the accused are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-road-accident/article34531409.ece
11 May 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||A day’s salary for COVID care||The Tamil Nadu Elementary School Teachers Federation has expressed readiness for deduction of a day’s salary by the State for carrying out the fight against COVID-19 . Talking to reporters here on Monday, Federation general secretary N. Rengarajan said that the deduction could be effected after getting the consent of teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-days-salary-for-covid-care/article34531805.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Missing jewellery shop employee murdered||The case relating to a missing employee of a jewellery shop here who reportedly went missing on Sunday with gold ornaments weighing nearly 1.6 kilograms in his possession while returning from Chennai to Tiruchi in a car hired from a travels agency took a twist on Monday with the police announcing that it was a case of ‘murder for gain’. Swift action by the city police team resulted in the recovery of the stolen jewels and the arrest of two accused - Prashanth aged around 26 years, the driver of the hired car, and another person named Prashanth aged around 21 years. The murdered victim was identified as Martin Jayaraj who worked in the jewellery outlet functioning along the Karur By Pass road here. Five more persons were also involved in the murder. Martin Jayaraj was allegedly strangulated to death and the body buried at Azhagiyamanavalan near Manachanallur a few kilometres away from the city. Sources said Martin Jayaraj was returning from Sowcarpet in Chennai with the consignment of gold ornaments as per the instructions of the shop owner on Saturday night when the gang members who had gone in another car from Tiruchi committed the murder a few kilometres away from the Thozhudur check post in Perambalur - Cuddalore border and made away with the valuables. Thereafter, the body of Martin Jayaraj was transported to Tiruchi by driver Prashanth in the same car, and buried. Initially, the Woraiyur Crime police was on the look out for Martin Jayaraj after a complaint was lodged on Sunday stating that he had gone missing along with gold ornaments weighing nearly 1.6 kilograms as his cell phone was switched off. The police had initially booked a case under IPC sections 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) naming Martin Jayaraj as the accused. However, the case took a new turn on Monday when the police team conducted detailed investigation. The sources said based on information, the police narrowed down on the accused and established the crime to be a case of ‘murder for gain’. The police recovered the stolen gold ornaments from the duo. The sources said five more persons who were involved in the murder would be arrested soon. Further investigations were on. The body of Martin Jayaraj would be exhumed on Tuesday from the spot where it was claimed to have been buried, the sources further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-jewellery-shop-employee-murdered/article34531811.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stark district-wise divide in vaccinating the elderly||District population figures were estimated by extrapolating from the 2011 Census and applying factors based on the Sample Registration System 2018, released in May 2020. The data comes in the backdrop of concerns being raised about Tamil Nadu’s poor performance overall in terms of vaccination coverage when compared to the other States. While the overall performance remained poor, the district-wise data showed that even the minimum coverage achieved in the State was largely concentrated in a handful of districts. A recent analysis by The Hindu showed that the percentage of the elderly (17%) who had received at least one dose was the lowest in Tamil Nadu. A look at the vaccine supplies sent to the States showed that Tamil Nadu received doses for only an estimated 12.44% of its adult population as of May 7, the third-lowest among all States. But the State had used up about 85% of the allocation of the vaccines as of May 7 (including wastage), a middling figure when compared to States such as Odisha (96%), Kerala (95%) and West Bengal (95%). A senior official of the Medical and Family Welfare Department cited supply-side constraints, hesitancy and reduced uptake in places where the case load was low as key reasons for the poor coverage. “When the supply is limited, we focus on places with a high case load. Vaccines are sent to places in districts based on their uptake in the previous three to five days as we do not want any wastage,” the official said. Acknowledging that the poor coverage in rural areas could soon shift the disease burden to these areas, K. Kolandaisamy, former Director of Public Health, Tamil Nadu, said focusing the vaccination in cities with a far higher case load was, however, not a bad approach when there was a vaccine shortage. “We need to vaccinate more people in places where the case load is high. If we have supply-side constraints, we need to use a very targeted approach to vaccinate high-risk people in rural areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stark-district-wise-divide-in-vaccinating-the-elderly/article34531704.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle movement along border districts remains low||Movement of vehicles along the districts bordering neighbouring States of Karnataka and Kerala was low on Monday when Tamil Nadu imposed a fortnight-long intense lockdown to combat COVID-19. In Hosur, company vehicles plied with exemption given to continuous processing industries to continue work albeit with 50% workforce. In the TN-Kerala border in Coimbatore district, Revenue Department officials said that the traffic was minimal as both states went into lockdown and made e-pass mandatory for inter-State travel. At Walayar, a joint team of the police, Revenue and Health Departments checked vehicles that entered Tamil Nadu. “Vehicles plying for essential services and medical emergencies were permitted. Goods vehicles were also allowed,” said R. Srinivasulu, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Perur sub-division. Periyanaickenpalayam DSP G. Krishnamoorthy said that very few vehicles passed through the inter-State border at Anaikatti. In Valparai sub-division, which has four inter-State borders, officials allowed local people involved in agriculture related works in both States to cross the borders, said Valparai DSP M. Vivekanandan. Police presence at all border checkposts and across the Nilgiris was stepped up. People requiring medical treatment either in Coimbatore, Sultan Bathery in Kerala or Chamrajanagar in Karnataka would be allowed if they possessed the relevant permits issued by the Zonal Medical Officer, officials said.  In the TN-Kerala border in Coimbatore district, Revenue Department officials said that the traffic was minimal as both states went into lockdown and made e-pass mandatory for inter-State travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-movement-along-border-districts-remains-low/article34531402.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 2,781 new cases||Coimbatore district reported reported 2,781 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, registering the highest single day caseload. The toll escalated to 774 after the Health Department declared that 15 persons died of the disease between May 7 and 10. The total number of confirmed cases reported so far in the district increased to 97,886. According to the Health Department, the district is expected to cross the 1 lakh mark on Tuesday. Coimbatore district had 13,406 active cases. The district had 717 vacant beds including 19 ICU beds in different hospitals and 206 beds in COVID-19 Care Centres as of Monday evening. In its highest-ever daily caseload, Tiruppur district reported 746 new cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 31,931 cases. Two persons died of the disease, taking the toll to 255. The active cases were 3,654. In Tiruppur district, 216 beds (oxygen, non-oxygen and ICU beds) at government and private hospitals and 256 beds at COVID-19 Care Centres were reported to be vacant as of Monday. In the Nilgiris, 179 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 11,118. The toll stood at 53, while 884 people were under treatment. In Salem, 532 fresh cases were reported. All cases were indigenous and 217 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Six persons died of the disease. In Namakkal, 352 cases were reported. Erode reported 771 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 27,459. While 677 persons were discharged, 4,046 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 174. As many as 895 persons tested positive in Krishnagiri. The district reported four deaths. Dharmapuri saw 295 fresh cases, 166 discharges and one death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-2781-new-cases/article34531723.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Long queues to buy drug||Long queues were witnessed outside Madurai Medical College on Monday as people lined up from morning to buy Remdesivir. Since Saturday, the drug is being sold across the counter to public at MMC. Each vial costs Rs. 1,568. A maximum of six vials will be sold to each person. Interested buyers must submit the doctor’s prescription, CT scan report, RT-PCR test report, a photocopy of the patients’ and their Aadhaar card. The medical team present at the counter will verify the records and sell the drug only to eligible persons On Monday, hundreds of people stood in long queues under the hot sun to buy the drug. Besides locals, people from other southern districts also arrived in private vehicles. There was even one buyer from Vellore. However, only around 500 vials were available at the counter and sold quickly. A source from GRH said many bought the maximum limit of six vials. As a result, a lot of buyers had to return empty-handed. “If there are only a limited number of vials available, then the authorities could have at least informed us earlier,” said L. Arun, a buyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/long-queues-to-buy-drug/article34531474.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Acute shortage of oxygen putting lives at risk, State govt. tells High Court||This was done with the anticipation that the Sterlite copper smelting plant in Thoothukudi would commence oxygen production this week. “However, the production at the Sterlite plant is expected to commence in a small way from May 12, and it will take at least 10 days to reach around 40 tonnes on a sustainable basis. Therefore, if the 40 tonnes from INOX, Kanjikode, is stopped, the supply of oxygen to Coimbatore and the southern districts of Tamil Nadu will be totally cut off. This will be catastrophic for 10 districts in the western and southern parts of Tamil Nadu," he said. He insisted that the supply from INOX, Kanjikode, should be continued for at least 10 more days. Secondly, Mr. Radhakrishnan also wanted the supply of another 20 tonnes of oxygen from Air Water India Private Limited in Ballari, Karnataka, to continue for another 10 days as a transition measure. Further, he insisted upon allotting 200 tonnes of oxygen to Tamil Nadu from the steel plants in Rourkela, Odisha, to meet the deficit and increasing demand. He pointed out that these three requirements did not find a mention in the revised oxygen allotment order for Tamil Nadu.  If the 40 tonnes from INOX, Kanjikode, is stopped, the supply of oxygen to Coimbatore and the southern districts of Tamil Nadu will be totally cut off||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/acute-shortage-of-oxygen-putting-lives-at-risk-state-govt-tells-high-court/article34531705.ece
11 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lockdown near-total in North Karnataka||Lockdown was near total across the districts in North Karnataka on Monday. The main challenge the police faced was to convince people that they are not allowed to use motorbikes or cars to buy essential goods in the morning. Youth entered into altercation with the police at a few places in Vijayapura. There were allegations of lathi-charge at Gandhi Chowk, Shastri Market and the Central Bus Stand in Vijayapura to control guidelines violators. The streets in Bagalkot were deserted the whole day. Some vehicles that were seen on the Ring Road were checked by the police at the check-post. As many as 564 motorbikes and four four-wheelers were seized by the police. In Belagavi, the police began enforcing the lockdown at daybreak. A team led by Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amate was on the streets. The team members succeeded in stopping most vehicles on the road. However, they had a difficult time in convincing commuters that vehicles were not allowed for movement, except for medical emergencies. The police put up barricades on the main roads, including College Road. Near the railway station, they put up small tents by the roadside where police personnel sat with a book to record the reasons given by riders who said that they had medical emergencies or those who were going to work. Traffic police seized the vehicles from several youth who could not show that they were going on urgent business. Flower sellers picked up a quarrel with the police when they tried to move them away from the street behind the bus stand. The vendors argued that they had time till 10 a.m. for business, but the police were forcing them to close at 9 a.m. “What can we do if are stopped from selling flowers so early? I cannot take them home unsold,’’ asked Rathnamma, a vendor from Kakati, who fought with a woman police constable. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath promulgated prohibitory orders under CrPC 144 in the border towns of Athani, Nippani, Raibag and Mudalagi to reduce crowding on the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-near-total-in-north-karnataka/article34531378.ece
11 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Doctor, nurse assaulted||A doctor and a nurse were injured when some local residents assaulted staff members of Mai Hospital in Shahapur in the Old City of Belagavi on Sunday night. The residents were agitated after learning that the hospital was trying to set aside half the beds for COVID-19 patients, following government orders. They argued with the doctors that this could lead to spread of infections and reduce the beds for non-COVID-19 patients. When the doctors tried to reason with them that they were only acting as per government orders, the residents lost their temper and assaulted them, the hospital said in a police complaint. Members of Indian Medical Association have threatened to close down all clinics and private hospitals if the police did not arrest the offenders immediately. Some IMA office-bearers met Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath on Monday and sought protection for doctors working in private COVID-19 hospitals. Milind Halgekar, Anand Patil, Rohit Joshi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctor-nurse-assaulted/article34531376.ece
11 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Manohar Kattimani dies of COVID-19||The former MLA Manohar Kattimani died in Belagavi of COVID-19 complications on Monday. He was 62. His wife and son who have tested positive are being treated in Belagavi. Mr. Kattimani had won from the Chikkodi Assembly Constituency on a Janata Dal(United) ticket in 1999. He had defeated Congress candidate and former MP Ratnamala Savanur. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has expressed condolences on the death of Mr. Kattimani. He was known for his simplicity and helping nature. He will be remembered by the people for long, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manohar-kattimani-dies-of-covid-19/article34531380.ece
11 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||SI dies of COVID-19||A woman police officer died of COVID-19 complications in Vijayapura on Monday. Sub-Inspector of Police Sulochana Bhajantri, who was working in the Adarsh Nagar Police Station, died in a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/si-dies-of-covid-19/article34531379.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bed allotment software glitches cause anxiety||Glitches in the hospital bed allocation system of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) are adding to the anxiety of families of critically ill COVID-19 patients. Take the case of Monisha Gupta (name changed), whose mother was in a high dependency unit (HDU) bed allotted by the city’s civic body. Her condition worsened and she needed to be upgraded to an ICU bed. “Hospital staff told me that when they sought an ICU bed through the software, the HDU bed occupied by the patient was displayed as vacant in the BBMP’s bed allotment portal. This meant that it was back in the system ready to be allotted to someone else even though my mother was still using it, and there was no guarantee of her getting an ICU bed,” she recounted. It was almost a day later that the confusion was sorted out and her mother upgraded to an ICU bed in the same hospital. “This is a serious systemic issue that needs to be resolved,” Ms. Gupta said. She is not alone. In another glitch in the bed allocation portal, many patients who are allotted ICU beds land up at hospitals only to realise that they are already occupied. Sources in hospitals where such cases were reported said it was not the case of bed blocking. “More often than not, patients being treated in general beds or HDU beds in a hospital would have been upgraded to an ICU bed in that same hospital. The civic body has instructed hospitals that priority must be given to patients who are already being treated in house and need an upgrade, rather than a new patient being allotted an ICU bed,” said hospital management staff. A senior civic official, in charge of bed allotment in the city, acknowledged these glitches in the software. “The software is under review and they will be fixed,” he said. “Hospitals update bed status on the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) portal, which is reflected live on the BBMP bed allotment software, creating this confusion. “We are thinking of introducing a time lag of a few minutes between the two portals for upgrading of beds for in-house patients to take priority,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bed-allotment-software-glitches-cause-anxiety/article34531342.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 60,000 migrants have returned to villages||Over 60,000 people who had migrated elsewhere have returned to their villages across the State in the past few weeks, as per the data collected by the task force established at the gram panchayat level. It has also identified 15,799 persons in rural areas as being in home isolation. As many as 61,143 migrants have returned to their villages, said a note from the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, which has set up the task force. The task force has been set up by the State to help the rural population, especially those returning to their villages. These migrant workers were among those who left cities in anticipation of the lockdown snatching away their livelihood. Of those returning to their villages, nearly 10,500 have been issued job cards under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The data was updated till Saturday. More than 55,000 people were provided with vehicle facilities when they went for vaccination, and 5,590 call centres/help desks have been established at the gram panchayat level to help, the note said. The task force has identified over 35 lakh persons between the ages 45 and 60 who have taken a single dose of COVID-19 vaccination, and 5.54 lakh persons who have taken both doses. Helping the poor The task force has deployed over 24,000 trained ‘Corona Warriors’. It has also identified one lakh extremely poor persons in need of help, of whom 34,000 have received help. As many as 43,523 persons have received ration through the Public Distribution System via the task force. Meanwhile, RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has urged the rural local bodies to popularise vaccination in rural areas and adhere to the guidelines issued by the Centre and the State to manage the pandemic. He has urged them to take the leadership role in handling the situation by identifying symptomatic patients, testing them, and quarantining them with treatment. In separate letters to the zilla panchayat presidents and chief executive officers, taluk panchayat chairmen and executive officers, gram panchayat presidents, and panchayat development officers, the Minister has urged them to take the help of the task force in increasing awareness on wearing mask, sanitising hands, and maintaining social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-60000-migrants-have-returned-to-villages/article34531362.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination for 18-44 group sees good turnout at centres||S. Murugan, 33, a resident of Srirampura in the city, turned up for the vaccination at the State-run K.C. General Hospital in the city on Monday morning hoping he would get a dose. Unaware that the inoculation for his age group was only for those who had registered and scheduled an appointment on the CoWIN portal, he returned disappointed. “I did not know that I had to register before coming here. My parents and neighbours had got vaccinated without any prior registration. The government should have allowed a similar system in our age group too,” he said. Dhanalakshmi G, 42, a Mathikere resident, too had a similar experience at K.C. General Hospital. “I waited in the queue for nearly an hour. And, finally when my turn came, I was told that I could not take the vaccine as I had not registered. Although I have a phone, I do not know how to do the registration and had assumed that I could enrol at the centre itself,” she said. Vaccination for those between 18 and 44 years, that began in all major government hospitals and medical colleges from Monday, saw a good turnout with many who had not registered on the CoWIN portal also turning up at the centres. In Bengaluru, the vaccination for this group was held at K.C. General Hospital, Jayanagar General Hospital, Sir C.V. Raman General Hospital, government medical colleges, ESI hospital and NIMHANS. The demand was so high that the slots got filled up in a jiffy. Nodal officers of the vaccination centres said the slots for the next day got booked in a few minutes soon after the site was open for registration. According to the data from the Health Department, 10,300 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group took the jab till 8.30 p.m. Almost all designated vaccination centres for 18-44 had an exclusive site with a queue system. While unregistered persons were filtered at the entrance itself in many centres, there was chaos at K.C. General Hospital for sometime as authorities found it hard to convince those who had not enrolled to go back. K.C. General Hospital Medical Superintendent B.R. Venkateshaiah told The Hindu that the police had to be called in to disperse the crowd. “Many who had not registered had turned up. It was difficult to manage with many not getting convinced that walk-in registrations are not allowed. We had to take the help of police to ensure that COVID-19 protocol was not violated at the centre,” he said, adding that 147 of the 150 registered got vaccinated by the end of the day. T.S. Ranganath, nodal officer for vaccination at Victoria Hospital, and H.D.R. Radhakrishna, Medical Superintendent of Sir C.V. Raman General Hospital, said they had ensured that only registered persons were allowed to enter the vaccination hall. “We had informed the security guard at the entrance to check the booking confirmation sent to the beneficiaries on their phones and allow only those with confirmed slots inside,” said Dr. Ranganath. On Monday, although Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that discussions on postponing the drive for the 18-44 age group were on and that a decision would be taken by evening, there was no news till late in the night. On May 1, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had symbolically flagged off the fourth phase of vaccination for citizens in the 18 to 44 age group. It is estimated that there are about 3.26 crore people in the State in this group with a requirement of 6.52 crore doses of the vaccine for complete innoculation. The State government has already placed an order for two crore doses of Covishield and one crore doses of Covaxin in this regard. The State has so far procured a stock of 6.5 lakh doses of Covishield for the 18-44 age group and more consignments are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-for-18-44-group-sees-good-turnout-at-centres/article34531346.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||First oxygen express train to Karnataka leaves Jamshedpur||The first oxygen express train to Karnataka has left from Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. The train, carrying 120 tonnes of liquid oxygen, will reach the Container Corporation India in Whitefield, Bengaluru on Tuesday. Chief PRO of South Western Railway (SWR) Aneesh Hegde told The Hindu that the first express train is carrying six cryogenic containers, each loaded with 20 tonnes of liquid oxygen. The train left at 3.30 a.m. on May 10 from Jamshedpur. It is expected to reach at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. “Based the request from the State government, the Railways is running the oxygen express train. The distance between originating station and the city is approximately around 1,860 km. A green corridor has already been created for the train. The train will reach Whitefield on Tuesday,” the official said. To facilitate movement of tankers, the SWR had built a ramp in Whitefield. If required, the officials will also use facilities at Doddaballapur for transportation of oxygen tankers in future. In the first week of May, Chief Secretary of the State P. Ravi Kumar had written a letter to the Railway Board requesting operations of oxygen express to mitigate shortage of liquid oxygen in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-oxygen-express-train-to-karnataka-leaves-jamshedpur/article34531349.ece
11 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Politics did not figure in meeting with Shah’||In the midst of the rising speculation over a change of leadership in the State, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday argued that building such a narrative during the pandemic was wrong. He also maintained that such discussions have not taken place in the BJP. His response came following his meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah during the weekend, after he was summoned by the party high command for discussions. Mr. Bommai and BJP vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra, younger son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, were in Delhi for confabulations, triggering speculation about a change of guard in the State. “I want to make it clear that no political issues were discussed during the meeting. It was not our focus to discuss politics during the times of COVID-19,” he told presspersons on Monday. “It is wrong to think about these issues during now. It is a lie.” Asked if he himself was in the race for the top spot, he said he did not want to respond to speculation.  On the other hand, Mr. Bommai said that the discussions in the capital revolved around the action being initiated in the State to handle the pandemic. “We gave him the full details about COVID-19 management. He expressed his satisfaction over how things are being handled, but was also anxious about the growing number of people being affected by the virus,” he said. The Minister said the discussion revolved around the oxygen needs of the State. While the Centre has allocated 965 tonnes of oxygen, the State has sought to utilise the oxygen produced in Karnataka. “We explained that getting oxygen from outside the State has become difficult,” Mr. Bommai said. Furthermore, he said the Centre was told about the problems in distribution of oxygen due to shortage of tankers. “Four tankers have been sanctioned yesterday, and the Centre has promised to provide 10 more in the coming days since they have to be converted from nitrogen tankers to carry oxygen. Mr. Shah has asked the two tankers that came from Bahrain to be used and informed us that two tankers coming from Kuwait, carrying 40 metric tonnes, would be diverted to Mangaluru.” The Centre, Mr. Bommai said, has also assured the State of increasing its Remdesivir quota and ensuring complete support in handling the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/politics-did-not-figure-in-meeting-with-shah/article34531354.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bed allotment scam: Two hospital staff arrested||The Central Crime Branch (CCB), on Monday, arrested two hospital staff members for their alleged involvement in the bed allotment scam. The accused, Sudhir and Venkoba Rao, were allegedly found blocking beds in the names of patients who had been discharged. The CCB is further investigating to ascertain the involvement of others. CCB officials, on Sunday, zeroed in on three hospitals, which are suspected to have been involved in the bed allotment scam. The CCB questioned hospital staff, Arogya Mitras and persons in charge of ambulances. The CCB is yet to divulge the names of the hospitals. Six persons have been arrested in connection with the scam. Meanwhile, the staff arrested earlier in connection with the racket have been booked again for cheating a 28-year-old engineer. Based on the complaint by Nishanth Mahesh , a resident of Vijayanagar, the Sadashivanagar police booked Venkatasubba Rao, technician at People Tree hospital, and his colleague Manjunath, and Punith, Arogya Mitra at M.S. Ramaiah hospital; Bharath Kumar, medical officer, and Sadam, an employee of M.S. Ramaiah hospital, charging them with criminal branch of trust and cheating. Nishanth, in his complaint, said that he had taken his grandfather Annayappa, 87 to People Tree hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19. The hospital said that they did not have ventilator beds. But Venkatasubba Rao approached him and offered to help him for a price. Rao, with the help of Bharath and Sadam, arranged a bed under private quota at M.S. Ramaiah for Rs. 1.25 lakh, he alleged. Nishanth got his grandfather admitted on April 27 and paid the money. After three days, Annayappa succumbed. The hospital informed him and told him to collect the body. While completing the formalities, the hospital issued Form No. 4, which mentioned that the patient was admitted and treated under government quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bed-allotment-scam-two-hospital-staff-arrested/article34531340.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Those who step out for medical reasons, vaccination find it tough||The first day of the 14-day lockdown that began on Monday proved to be difficult for many who were trying to reach hospitals or diagnostic centres for medical care. Many who had to get their second vaccination dose and did not have SMSes were also stopped by the police at several places and asked to return home. ‘Police were aggressive’ Avinash D., a resident of Rajajinagar, had a tough time going to the diagnostic laboratory to get the scan reports of one of his family members on Monday afternoon. “The police stopped me multiple times and it was tough convincing them that I was out for a genuine medical reason. Some of them were aggressive and not ready to believe me,” he said. Only those with messages for scheduled vaccination slots are being allowed to travel, which has turned into an issue. While vaccination for those in the age bracket of 18-44 is only through an online pre-booked slot, walk-ins are allowed for those above 45 years for their second dose. Second dose “I have to take my second dose of the vaccine and when I ventured out, I had a tough time convincing the police at the barricades to let me go. They ask for the message which I do not have, as I am going for a walk-in ,” said Sadashiavaiah, a resident of Vidyaranyapura. People who stepped out to procure medicines for their relatives or even wanted to get tested were also stopped at multiple points and faced hurdles before they reached their destination. Santosh S., a private firm employee, said that the police ensured that he went back home even though he showed them the test reports of his brother who had tested positive for COVID-19. “I had to get medicines for him and they asked me to go back home and refused to believe that I was indeed out to help my brother,” he said. What the police say Meanwhile, the police requested the Health Department to allow vaccination for people above 45 years also only through a pre-booked slot on the CoWIN portal. “If walk-ins are allowed, people will roam around the city in search of a vaccine desperately from one centre to another and this will sabotage the lockdown,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/those-who-step-out-for-medical-reasons-vaccination-find-it-tough/article34531344.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Did not communalise scam: Tejasvi Surya||Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya denied communalising the alleged bed-blocking scam and claims that he did so was a “conspiracy by Congress and its ecosystem” to derail the probe into the scam. “I read out a list of names given to me by a senior officer saying they were either sacked or taken off during restructuring. I only questioned on what basis they were recruited. I did not make any allegations against them,” he claimed. Quizzed on the communally loaded statements made by MLAs Ravi Subramanya and Satish Reddy, he said he was answerable about only what he said. Refusing to take any further questions, he accused journalists of ‘having an agenda’ and ended the press conference. Representatives of Crystal Infosystems & Services and the civic body refused to comment on the issue. However, Muslim youths, who were told not to report to work after his visit to the South zone war room, refuted the claims of the BJP MP. Sources among the Muslim youths named by Mr. Surya said they had no indication from the firm that they were being sacked or transferred before Mr. Surya read out their names. “Most of those named by Mr. Surya were in the war room when he read out the names, making it evident that they had not been sacked,” said Ayesha, who was among those taken off work related to the war room. Eleven of the 17 youths reported back for duty at the war room on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/did-not-communalise-scam-tejasvi-surya/article34531341.ece
11 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Establish task force to handle third wave: CM||Though the State is still battling the second wave of COVID-19, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday directed officials to set up a task force to handle the third wave that is expected in a few months’ time. To remain prepared for a possible third wave, directions were issued to set up a task force, a note from the Chief Minister’s Office said. The direction came after a meeting of Ministers and officials at his residence on Monday. He also called for the execution of oxygen generation plants in stages at medical hospitals and colleges. Insisting on the strict implementation of the new guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus in Karnataka, the Chief Minister directed Ministers to remain accountable for the responsibilities delegated to them. “Unnecessary movement of people in particular has to be avoided,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. The Chief Minister also directed the Ministers and officials to take action if any irregularities were noticed in bed allocation and oxygen and Remdesivir distribution. Sources in the CMO said Mr. Yediyurappa did not delve into the issue of relaxation of the strictures that came into effect on Monday. “The stricter curfew came into effect only on Monday. There was no discussion on relaxation,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/establish-task-force-to-handle-third-wave-cm/article34531355.ece
11 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Integrate real-time data with SAST portal: Dy. CM||The authorities have been asked to integrate with the SAST portal real-time data on the supply of oxygen, the anti-viral drug Remdesivir, and bed allocation under the government quota in private hospitals. “It is not possible to deliver services systematically if this data is not integrated with theSAST portal. Officers have been asked to link this data with the portal within the next three days,” Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who heads the COVID-19 task force, told reporters on Monday. Saying that measures were being taken to reduce the time taken for providing RT-PCR test reports, he said the time had now reduced to two days from the earlier 4-5 days. “Further measures are being taken to provide results in 24 hours. The labs delaying test results are being fined at the rate of Rs. 150 per case,” he said. The Deputy Chief Minister also said the current demand for beds in Bengaluru was about 7,000, and after triaging the patients through maternity home, medical colleges, COVID care centres, and primary health centres, the demand was expected to come down to 2,500 beds. There are about 1,000 beds in government hospitals, apart from the beds reserved in private hospitals, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/integrate-real-time-data-with-sast-portal-dy-cm/article34531356.ece
11 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Many factories report thin attendance as tighter curbs begin||As tighter lockdown norms came into effect on Monday, confusion reigned in many industrial areas across Bengaluru. Some workers walked to their factories, while others in Peenya industries were turned away by the police. Several factories reported lower attendance as many workers stayed away from work. Worse still, several industries which had received relaxation, after the State government issued an addendum to the guidelines by Sunday evening, saw many employees remaining absent. For, many of them had left Bengaluru ahead of the lockdown, assuming that the industries would remain closed. “The industries saw workers remaining absent over the confusion. Based on the first lockdown guidelines, many workers had returned to their villages. By Sunday evening, when relaxation was given, they were unable to return quickly,” said Karnataka Employers’ Association president B.C. Prabhakar. Some factories even had rented out nearby hotels to house their workers since the nature of the curfew was not known. “Hotels are closer to the factories and this way, the workers could walk to work,” he said. Concurring that workers were unable to return to Bengaluru, Centre of Indian Trade Unions State secretary Meenakshi Sundaram said that because of the multiple addendums to the notification to relax the lockdown for industries, confusion prevailed. “The overnight permission given to industries led to confusion. By then, many workers had left. There is some kind of a panic. Workers could lose their wages or in some cases, even their jobs,” he said. Mr. Sundaram said many industries, even though they do not belong to the essential category, had received permission to function, especially in the automobile, auto components, and electrical sectors. While trade unions have been alleging that factories were being given exemptions without much thought, sources in the government said the industries were being looked into on a case-to-case basis. AITUC Bengaluru secretary M. Satyananda also said that workers had trouble reaching factories. However, this was more profound in the Peenya-Yeshwanthpur area, which receives workers from city areas too. He also said workers were scared to come to work in the midst of the pandemic when health facilities were under severe strain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-factories-report-thin-attendance-as-tighter-curbs-begin/article34531357.ece
11 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah demands total lockdown in State||As a few industries have been permitted to operate during the 14-day lockdown, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday demanded that the government impose a total lockdown for containing COVID-19 in the State. He said the current partial lockdown till May 24 would not help in containing the spread of the virus. The State government has permitted the functioning of agro-based industries and manufacturing industries, as well as weddings at home, limiting the number of people to 40, during the lockdown. Citing examples of a decline in the spread of the virus in neighbouring States that clamped a total lockdown, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the existing partial lockdown would not help in containing the rise in COVID-19 cases as people daily go to markets for purchasing commodities and to industries for work.  Participating in a programme to distribute food items to the poor at Pulakeshinagar constituency, he said it was the responsibility of the government to ensure the supply of beds, oxygen, and other drugs for COVID-19 patients. Congress legislators have been distributing food kits to the needy in their constituencies, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-demands-total-lockdown-in-state/article34531359.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Focus on second dose||Following directions from the Centre, the State Health Department will vaccinate those who are due for second dose on priority for another week. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission (NHM), told The Hindu that although the Centre had asked to set aside 70% of the stock for the second dose, the State has left it to the districts. “We have a stock of nearly 6 lakh doses as on Monday. This includes three lakh doses that we got last week. We are awaiting more stocks and will accelerate the drive as and when we get,” she said asserting that first doses are also being given. Admitting that there is a shortage of Covaxin, she said the State had got a consignment of 80,000 doses last week. “We have not got any more doses after that and are hoping we will get this week,” she said. On Monday, a total of 1,00,758 beneficiaries took the jab till 8.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-on-second-dose/article34531343.ece
11 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cap on ambulance charges||The Health and Transport departments have initiated the process of fixing a cap on charges for ambulance services. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi met with Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar on Monday to discuss the matter. Over the past few weeks, there have been complaints of ambulance drivers overcharging aggrieved families trying to take their relatives to hospitals or those wanting to shift bodies of the deceased to crematoria in the city. They are allegedly being asked to cough up between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 50,000. Meanwhile, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said on Monday that the State government would soon launch a free ambulance service to ferry bodies from the mortuary to the crematorium. According to a press release, the service would be launched shortly in Bengaluru Rural district, and would be extended to Bengaluru Urban district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cap-on-ambulance-charges/article34531352.ece
11 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||No question of leadership change in State: Kateel||Defending the State government over the way it has handled the COVID-19 pandemic, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday said there was no question of a leadership change in Karnataka or even any discussions on the matter. “Party legislators and Ministers are working on handling COVID-19,” he said after meeting Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday, adding that this was not the time to indulge in politics. Mr. Kateel said both the State and the Centre were together in handling the pandemic, and every leader had certainresponsibilities. On legislators speaking out against the Chief Minister, he said, “Legislators have to understand their responsibility. I will speak to whoever has spoken about the issue. Legislators have to work for the people instead ofindulging in such talk.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-question-of-leadership-change-in-state-kateel/article34531358.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||596 fatalities on a single day in State||Karnataka on Monday reported another new high with 596 COVID-19 fatalities. This is the biggest single-day spike so far. Of these, 374 are from Bengaluru Urban alone. On Friday, the State had recorded 592 deaths of which 346 were from Bengaluru Urban. The number of deaths have been on a steep rise since April 23. From 190 deaths on April 23, the toll rose to 217 on April 30 and 270 on May 1. Subsequently, 292 deaths were reported on May 4, 346 on May 5, and 328 on May 6. The number nearly doubled on May 7 with 592 deaths. Subsequently, 482 and 490 deaths were reported on May 8 and 9 respectively. CFR rate While the day’s case fatality rate (CFR) for Karnataka stood at 1.51%, the cumulative CFR continued to hover around 1% despite the huge case-load. The highest CFR during the first outbreak was around 1.6%. With 39,305 new cases reported on Monday, the total tally rose to 19,73,683. Of these, 16,747 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. The day’s positivity rate for the day stood at 31.66%. As many as 32,188 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 13,83,285. The State now has 5,71,006 active patients. Tests conducted As many as 1,24,110 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,17,045 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,71,42,330.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/596-fatalities-on-a-single-day-in-state/article34531345.ece
11 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Eshwarappa lashes out at Opposition leaders||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has criticised leaders of the Congress and the Janata Dal(S) for their comments on lockdown and urged them to keep their mouth shut for the next 14 days. Speaking to presspersons in Shivamogga on Monday, the Minister said that the country was facing a big health crisis never anticipated. The Leaders of Opposition Siddaramaiah, D.K. Shivakumar and H.D. Kumaraswamy should keep their mouth shut without making comments until the lockdown was over. “We are taking all steps necessary to handle the situation. You have not appreciated even one thing. If you want, give us suggestions,” he said. Further, reacting to comments that poor families should be paid Rs. 10,000, Mr. Eshwarappa said that the government was not printing currency to provide people with that much money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eshwarappa-lashes-out-at-opposition-leaders/article34531382.ece
11 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Lockdown almost total in three districts||The lockdown that came into effect on Monday was almost total in Hassan, Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts. The police seized hundreds of vehicles that hit the streets violating guidelines. Senior police officers did rounds in the districts to oversee the enforcement of the restrictions. The State government has prohibited people from taking out private vehicles even to procure essential items. Finding this rule anti-people, many argued with the police, who seized the vehicles, in compliance with the guidelines. The police insisted that people could only reach the nearest shop by foot. However, they had no response when asked how shopkeepers in residential localities should procure essential things from the wholesale market, without taking out their vehicles. The Agriculture Department officers have issued circulars appealing to farmers to purchase essential fertilizers from the nearest Raita Samparka Kendras. However, the farmers sought to know how they could transport the heavy bags without vehicles. The police maintained that they were just following the guidelines issued by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-almost-total-in-three-districts/article34531394.ece
11 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Retired govt. official found dead||A retired government official, who tested positive for COVID-19 infection, was found dead with a gunshot wound at his farm near Belenahalli Tanda in Tarikere taluk on Monday. Somla Naika (71), who retired as Deputy Tahsildar, had given his swab for COVID-19 test on May 7 and the laboratory report confirming the infection reached him on Sunday. Somla Naik, who was disturbed as he was infected, shot himself with his licensed gun in his vehicle. Tarikere Sub-Inspector of Police Chandramma told The Hindu that a note was found at the spot. He had written that he was worried about the health and safety of his family members as he was infected. Tarikere Police have registered a case. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/retired-govt-official-found-dead/article34531383.ece
11 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||22 more deaths||Hassan reported 22 more COVID-19 deaths and 1,597 fresh cases of infection on Monday. With that, the toll increased to 703 and the total number of cases rose to 55,841. Of the dead, 11 were from Hassan taluk, five from Alur, three from Channarayapatna and two from Belur. There was one from outside the district. Of the fresh cases, Arsikere reported 436, Hassan 387, Channarayapatna 248, Holenarasipur 161, Sakleshpur 120, Alur 58, Arkalgud 55 and Belur recorded 118. As many as 14 cases were from other districts. So far, 38,750 patients have recovered, while 16,388 are in treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/22-more-deaths/article34531381.ece
11 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Efforts on to get more oxygen allocated for State: Shettar||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that efforts are on to get further allocation of medical oxygen for the State and for the purpose, the State is in regular touch with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. Speaking at a review meeting on COVID-19 scenario in Dharwad district and lockdown implementation, at the Hubballi Circuit House on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that a coordinated effort involving all Deputy Commissioners of the districts is being done to ensure systematic and timely supply of oxygen for COVID-19 treatment. Emphasising on the need for strict implementation of lockdown, he said that citizens should realise the gravity of the situation and extend cooperation to the administration in the implementation of lockdown by avoiding unnecessary visits out of their houses. “If we control ourselves for 14 days, then it will automatically lead to the control of the pandemic,” he said. The Minister said that he would appeal to the public not to venture out of their houses unnecessarily on the pretext of purchasing essential commodities and medicine. “People should avoid coming out on the streets. Already, pushcarts for vegetables have been allowed for the benefit of the public. Almost every locality has a grocery and medical shop. I appeal to the people to restrict themselves to their respective localities,” he said. Two tankers Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said that the Union government has written to the State government increasing oxygen allocation and six oxygen tankers of 30 tonne-capacity each will be reaching the State on Tuesday. As Dharwad district supplies oxygen to Vijayapura and Belagavi districts, it has been allocated two tankers, he said. Mr. Joshi said that the Centre has sanctioned 150 oxygen plants in the State and 1,500 oxygen concentrators. The Centre has ensured free treatment for COVID-19 patients under Ayushman Bharat scheme. Despite the surge in COVID-19 cases, the police were out on the streets trying to impose the lockdown for the purpose of breaking the chain. People should stop roaming around unnecessarily and they should remain extremely careful, he said. Strict action Police Commissioner Labhu Ram said that check-posts have been set up at various strategic points to check unnecessary movement of vehicles and action is being taken against violators. In the last three days, over 1,000 vehicles have been seized, he said and added that barricades have been installed on arterial roads to check movement of vehicles. Members of Legislative Assembly Prasad Abbayya and Arvind Bellad, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant, District Health Officer Yashwanth Madinkar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/efforts-on-to-get-more-oxygen-allocated-for-state-shettar/article34531388.ece
11 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Pension Adalat tomorrow||In the wake of the pandemic, the Office of the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner will hold “Online Pension Adalat’ from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday to help pensioners get their grievances redressed. Pensioners may attend the webinar using the link which will be available on the status of the WhatsApp No: 8762525754 of EPFO, Hubballi. Pensioners may submit their grievances through email: ro.hubli@epfindia.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pension-adalat-tomorrow/article34531386.ece
11 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||There is no dearth of funds for handling COVID-19, says Minister Anand Singh||Pointing to the funds available under District Mineral Foundation (DMF) lying with the district administration in Ballari, Minister for Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf and district in-charge B.S. Anand Singh has said that there is no dearth of funds for tackling COVID-19. The administration had, a few weeks ago, resolved to use funds under the DMF, which has accumulated from the contributions of mining companies and are originally meant for taking up development and rehabilitation activities in mining-affected areas, for COVID-19 containment activities, including the expansion of healthcare facilities in the district. “The district has a large sum of DMF funds and there is no need for the district administration to seek money from the government for handling COVID-19. We will use these funds to take up extensive pandemic containment activities. Saving people’s lives is our first priority. We will positively take suggestions from all people’s representatives for controlling the pandemic and incorporate them in our plans,” Mr. Singh said. He was addressing a review meeting at a conference hall on PDAA Football Grounds in Ballari on Monday. Anticipating a third wave of the pandemic, Mr. Singh said that the administration is already making all preparations to face the situation by expanding medical infrastructure not just at the district headquarters but also in the taluk centres. “We have decided to provide each one of the taluk hospitals with 10 ventilators and 10 dura cylinders. As many as 40 ventilators sent by the State government have already reached Ballari. We are in the process of expanding and upgrading the existing medical facilities by increasing bed capacity, appointing additional health staff, including doctors and nurses, and procuring other required equipment. In addition to 109 ambulances working in the district, we have planned to purchase more ambulances. We will shortly establish VRDL laboratories at Hosapete and Huvina Hadagali. Oxygen plants would be set up in the taluk hospitals. The funds under DMF would be used for the purpose,” Mr. Singh said. The establishment of a temporary hospital with 1,000 beds with oxygen, including 40 Intensive Care Unit beds, Mr. Singh added, is being taken up at Toranagal with assistance from JSW Steel. “Work has been put on the fast track. A public notice has been issued expressing interest in recruiting the required staff — doctors, staff nurses, laboratory technicians and others. The hospital is expected to be functional shortly,” Mr. Singh said. Referring to the increased number of COVID-19 deaths in the district as compared to other districts, Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapat told the meeting that patients with respiratory problems being rushed to hospitals in an advanced stage is the major reason for the increasing deaths. On vaccination, the officer said that of the 6,01,191 people in the 45-59 age group, 3,22,879 have taken the first dose and 31,573 have taken the second dose. Of the targeted 1,74,345 people aged above 60, 1,37,546 have taken the first dose and 33,733 have taken the second dose, Mr. Malapati added. Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, Lok Sabha member Karadi Sanganna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-dearth-of-funds-for-handling-covid-19-says-minister-anand-singh/article34531385.ece
11 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Heavy rush as shops re-open after weekend curfew||Heavy rush was seen at grocery and vegetable shops across Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada district on Monday during the three-hour time given for purchasing essential items. The shops opened on Monday morning after remaining closed since 10 a.m. on Friday in view of the weekend curfew. People flocked the markets, including those in Jeppu, Kankanady, Kadri, Thokkottu Olapete, Urva Store and Urwa, to buy vegetables, grocery and other essential items. Grocery and vegetable shops were among the many that remained closed between 10 a.m. on Friday and 6 a.m. on Monday. However, milk booths and healthcare facilities were allowed to operate during the period. The district administration has allowed people to buy essentials between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. and reach home by 10 a.m. during weekdays as against the 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. window suggested by the State Disaster Management Authority. Apart from regular grocery, vegetable and fruit stores, there were several vendors selling fruits and vegetables on push carts and on the roadside across the city. A good number of people made their purchases at shops surrounding the fish markets. As people had parked their two-wheelers and cars by the roadside, movement of vehicles was slow on roads in the surrounding areas. As people were buying essentials, the police were patrolling the areas and booking cases against those who were not wearing masks properly. There was heavy rush in the Thokkottu Olapete and Kadri Market area where people had come in large numbers to buy essential items. A long queue was seen outside Reliance Smart at Chilimbi. People, who were in a hurry to buy essentials, crowded market places in the three hours of relaxation of guidelines resulting in violation of social distancing norms. Retail shop owners complained that they did not have enough time to replenish their stock from the wholesale dealers, while the latter said that they too did not have enough time to get stock and send it to retailers during the three-hour relaxation period on Monday. Consequently, many grocery stores, including departmental stores, ran out of stock. Also, there were complaints against some HOPCOMS stores overcharging for fruits and vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rush-as-shops-re-open-after-weekend-curfew/article34531392.ece
11 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Second Navy vessel with oxygen cylinders arrives at NMPT||The second Indian Navy vessel carrying oxygen and other medical aid from Kuwait arrived at the New Mangaluru Port on Monday. According to a press release by the New Mangaluru Port Trust, the Indian Navy vessel INS Kolkata brought two containers with 20 tonnes of oxygen, 200 oxygen cylinders packed in 10 pallets of 10 ton and four 10-litre high flow oxygen concentrators. This was sent by Government of Kuwait to the Indian Red Cross Society for use in treatment of COVID-19 patients. The INS Kolkata is one among the nine vessels involved in the Samudra Setu-II operation of the Indian Navy to bring relief material for COVID-19. The vessel sailed out from Shuwaikh Port, Kuwait, on May 5. It arrived at the New Mangaluru Port at 2 p.m. The NMPT said, as directed by the Ministry of Shipping, INS Kolkata was given the highest priority in berthing at the port. It provided all resources for handling of the cargo and arrangement was made for sending it to different parts of Karnataka. NMPT Chairman A.V. Ramana said that the port was ready to contribute in all possible ways in the country’s fight against COVID-19. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, MLAs Y. Bharath Shetty and Umanath Kotian and officers of Indian Navy, Coast Guard and NMPT were present while the cargo was being unloaded. From Bahrain On May 5, INS Talwar landed at the port with 40 tonnes of oxygen from Bahrain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-navy-vessel-with-oxygen-cylinders-arrives-at-nmpt/article34531396.ece
11 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Trains via Mangaluru Junction cancelled||The Railways have cancelled the services of three pairs of special trains operating via Mangaluru Junction temporarily in view of reduced passenger patronage. Press releases from Konkan Railway and Southern Railway said that Train Nos 09424/09423 Gandhidham-Tirunelveli-Gandhidham weekly festival special will remain cancelled with effect from Monday and from Thursday, respectively. Train Nos 09322/09321 Indore Junction-Kochuveli-Indore Junction weekly special will remain cancelled with effect from Tuesday and from Friday, respectively. Train Nos 09262/09261 Porbandar-Kochuveli-Porbandar superfast weekly special will remain cancelled with effect from Thursday and from May 16, respectively, the releases said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trains-via-mangaluru-junction-cancelled/article34531390.ece
11 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seer’s anointment to be held at Shiroor instead of in Sode||Udupi Sode Vadiraj Mutt, the dwanda mutt of Udupi Shiroor Mutt, has decided to hold the anointment ceremony of the new seer of Shiroor Mutt at Shiroor near Udupi instead of Sode in Uttara Kannada district. The anointment ceremony of Anirudha Saralatthaya as the seer of Shiroor Mutt at Sode Mutt’s moola mutt in Sode from Tuesday to Friday was scheduled as per the wishes of Sode Mutt seer Sri Vishwavallabha Tirtha Swamiji. A statement from Shiroor Mutt here said that in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation, it was decided to hold the ceremony on the earlier decided dates at Shiroor. Seer-designate Saralatthaya has already visited a few pilgrimage centres and sought blessings from the seers of the Udupi Ashta Mutts. The ceremonies, however, will not be open to the general public and devotees due to the restrictions, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seers-anointment-to-be-held-at-shiroor-instead-of-in-sode/article34531389.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lockdown almost complete||The lockdown was almost complete in Karnataka on Monday with police taking to the streets on Monday after 10 a.m. to enforce the government order. Police put up barricades across the city, including in busy bylanes, to prevent people from getting on the roads. However, despite warnings of strict action, they found thousands of motorists on the streets. City police seized 2,410 vehicles. In some cases, motorists were made to do sit ups and take an oath to follow lockdown restrictions. In several towns, police did not allow vehicles even during the 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. window for essential services, raising hackles, as people had to walk long distances to buy essentials in rural areas. Leader of opposition Siddaramaiah had raised the issue on Sunday. Later in the day, Praveen Sood, DG & IGP, Karnataka Police tweeted a clarification that there was no ban on vehicles to buy essentials and said there is no bar for using a vehicle to visit a shop in the neighbourhood. Meanwhile, many complained that those travelling for permitted activities were also stopped and, in some cases, caned. P.C. Rao, president, Bruhat Bengaluru Hotels’ Association, complained that hotel owners and workers were being stopped and caned, and threatened to close down all hotels in the city if the harassment continued. Several street vendors selling vegetables complained that police did not allow them to do business despite the guidelines allowing pushcarts till 6 p.m. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant tweeted: “In case of any issue regarding travel to the place of work or carrying out permitted activities during the lockdown, DCP Intelligence Shri. Santhosh Babu, IPS, may be contacted on 080-22942354”. Travel down to a trickle Unlike last year, police decided not to issue any passes for inter-district and inter-State travel during the lockdown. Such travel is allowed only in case of emergencies, and the police on the ground have been authorised to take a call on a case-to-case basis. Movement of goods and cargo vehicles remained undisturbed. Karnataka has sealed its borders with neighbouring States. “We are allowing people to enter the State only in case of emergencies. If even mild symptoms are observed in the travellers, health officials at the checkpost conduct a Rapid Antigen Test and then take a call on letting them into Karnataka,” said a senior police official manning a checkpost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-almost-complete/article34531339.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Four reforms in software’||Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya, who had live streamed an ‘expose’ of an alleged scam in bed allotment for COVID-19 patients on May 6, said four reforms have been implemented in the software to prevent bed-blocking. This, he said, was a result of 100 hours of work put in by himself, a team of senior officers and tech architects sent by Nandan Nilekani, chairman, Infosys. Cases unearthed till now reveal several asymptomatic patients in whose names beds were blocked did not even know beds were booked in their name. “To prevent this, patients and the hospital concerned will get an auto-generated SMS as soon as a bed is allotted to them,” Mr. Surya announced at a press conference on Monday. An analysis of specific instances where beds were blocked show that they were manually changed to allot them to someone else later, at a price, as there was a window of 10 hours for the patient to report to the hospital. “The option to manually change bed allocation has been entirely dropped from the software, and the window from a bed being blocked to a patient reporting to a hospital has now been reduced to four hours,” he said. To bring accountability in bed allocation, the name of the person allotting a bed will be logged in with every bed allocation in the software, he added. Mr. Surya said presently, there was no set transparent criteria for allotment of beds by the civic body. “We are evolving a queue system where a patient requesting a bed will be given a token number, and you can see your seniority in the queue. Meanwhile, if the condition of a patient worsens, they will shift to the queue for HDU or ICU beds,” he said. The hospitals are also not reflecting discharge of patients in the system on time, which is also leading to bed-blocking. This will be corrected using an OTP or a biometric system, he said. “The two reforms will be implemented over the next 100 hours,” he added.  The option to manually change bed allocation has been entirely dropped from the software, and the window from a bed being blocked to a patient reporting to a hospital has now been reduced to four hours Tejasvi Surya, MP, Bengaluru South||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-reforms-in-software/article34531334.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Work order for ORR line likely next week||The Bangalore Metropolitan Planning Committee (BMPC), headed by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, has approved Outer Ring Road (ORR) and Airport metro being taken up by the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) under Phase 2A and 2B of the Namma Metro project. Rakesh Singh, MD, BMRCL told The Hindu that the project management committee will meet by next week followed by release of the work order for construction of metro on ORR (Silk Board to K.R. Puram). The tender for Phase 2B (K.R. Puram to Kempegowda International Airport) was supposed to be opened on May 15, but that is being postponed by a month due to the lockdown. The total length of the ORR-airport line from Silk Board to KIA that runs via K.R. Puram, Nagawara and Hebbal is 58 km with stations at 30 locations. The Karnataka government had sanctioned the project in January 2019 followed by approval by the Union government on April 28, 2021. The total cost of the project is Rs. 14,788 crore. Namma Metro will help lakhs of professionals working in various tech parks and other industries on the ORR. Providing a metro link to the airport has been a long-pending demand of commuters. The BMRCL has been maintaining that land required for the ORR line has already been acquired, and over 90% of the land has been acquired from K.R. Puram to KIA. The BMRCL has already begun shifting of utilities along the metro alignment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-order-for-orr-line-likely-next-week/article34531337.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||5 held for illegal sale of Remdesivir||Despite a crackdown, sale of Remdesivir injections in the black market continues unabated. The Hennur police, on Saturday, arrested two persons and recovered 17 vials of Remdesivir from them. The accused Shanmugaiah Swamy, 33, a native of Yadgir and resident of Malleswaram, and his associate Malyesh, 31, from Shivamogga and resident of Sanjeevininagar, were caught red handed on Hennur Main Road trying to sell the vials. The police said that the duo was offering to sell each vial for Rs. 15,000. They has been booked for cheating and under the Drugs Control Act. Efforts are on to ascertain the source of the injections. Earlier, the S.J. Park police caught two persons claiming to be pharmacy officers from the BBMP while selling Remdesivir to the public near S.J.P. Road last week. Based on a tip-off, a team of officials caught Praveen, 41, from Konanakunte, and his associate Srinath M.S., 35, from K.R. Puram. The police recovered five vials of the injection along with ID cards, which stated that they are pharmacy officers, BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5-held-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir/article34531335.ece
11 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||1,908 new cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 1,908 COVID-19 cases on Monday. It also recorded three COVID-19-related deaths. Among the new cases, as many as 1,906 patients contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of one person remains unidentified. One person who reached the district from another State recently also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The test positivity rate stood at 29.86 %. Of the 1,908 cases, 306 were reported from Alappuzha municipal area. The municipality has registered 2,312 COVID-19 cases in the last seven days. The rapid rise in COVID-19 cases as well as the increasing number of active caseload remain a cause for concern in the municipality. Apart from Alappuzha, Cheruthana (114 cases), Ezhupunna (96), Cherthala (95), Kayamkulam (69), Muthukulam (59), Chengannur (56), Ambalappuzha North (56), and Mavelikara (54) logged a high number of cases on Monday. Meanwhile, 2,071 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 25,687. On the third day of the lockdown, the police registered 41 cases and arrested 28 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 624 people for not wearing face masks, 413 people for violating physical distancing norms, and nine people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 93 vehicles. Like in the previous COVID-19 induced lockdown, various local bodies, pain and palliative care units, NGOs, and youth organisations in the district have started community kitchens and janakeeya bhakshanasalas (food courts) to ensure no one goes hungry in the region during the lockdown. For needy and people who are observing quarantine, food packets are delivered at doorsteps by volunteers. A review meeting chaired by Ambalappuzha MLA-designate H. Salam has decided to arrange eight ambulances along with other vehicles to shift COVID-19 patients in the Assembly constituency to hospitals and COVID-19 treatment centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1908-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article34531798.ece
11 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha panchayat to sponsor antigen kits||The Alappuzha district panchayat will sponsor 15,000 antigen test kits. District Panchayat president K.G. Rajeshwari who chaired a virtual meeting attended by grama panchayat presidents, secretaries, and district panchayat members on Monday said that all medical equipment sought by medical officers would be distributed soon. The meeting also decided to arrange ambulances in all grama panchayats in the district. Directions have also been issued to provide food to COVID-19 patients, the needy, and the homeless through community kitchens. To alleviate the mental stress in people caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, respective local bodies in association with the district panchayat will conduct a campaign titled ‘Nadinayi Nammal’. As part of it, volunteers will conduct house visits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-panchayat-to-sponsor-antigen-kits/article34531799.ece
11 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Landslip blocks traffic on NH 85 stretch||Traffic on Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway (NH 85) was suspended for hours after a major landslip at Munthal, near Bodimettu, on Kerala-Tamil Nadu border blocked the road on Monday afternoon. Huge blocks of rocks from the upper part of the road fell on the road at around 1.30 p.m. following heavy rainfall, said the sources. The traffic on the stretch was less following the lockdown in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, and thus the impact of the landslip was considerably reduced. Munnar-Bodimettu stretch, the main road connecting Kerala to Tamil Nadu, is used to carry goods from Tamil Nadu. There are three roads connecting Kerala with Tamil Nadu from Idukki, the other two being one via Cumbom Mettu and then through Kumily. The narrow stretch from Bodimettu with hairpin curves was constructed by cutting the heavy rocks on the loose soil. Post the landslip, the workers were seen blasting the rocks to restore traffic, according to an official of the NHAI (National Highway Authority of India). There are chances of more landslips, according to officials. A major landslip on the Lower Periyar stretch, near Kumily, on the Kollam-Theni National highway in 2018 had suspended the traffic for a month. The traffic was then diverted via Cumbom Mettu. The NHAI official said the landslip-hit stretch was under the NHAI Tamil Nadu region. “We have received information that the NHAI Tamil Nadu wing officials have begun efforts to clear the debris from the road and resume the traffic in the stretch,” he said. Gap road The traffic on the Gap road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi NH was already suspended, as the road work was not completed following a major landslip on June 17 and August 6 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslip-blocks-traffic-on-nh-85-stretch/article34531494.ece
11 May 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Oxygen shortage: patients being shifted from hospitals||Two hospitals treating COVID-19 patients had to shift critically-ill patients to other hospitals owing to acute shortage of medical oxygen in Kasaragod. According to officials, oxygen shortage was reported at E.K. Nayanar Hospital and Kasaragod Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Sunrise Hospital. In the absence of an oxygen plant in the district, the hospitals had procured cylinders from a BALCO unit in Kannur and from plants in Mangaluru. Two patients were shifted from KIMS Hospital, which has the highest intake of COVID-19 patients among private hospitals, to MIMS Hospital in Kannur, while another was moved to a hospital in Mangaluru. Five others too will be shifted soon. KIMS Hospital manager A.V. Krishnan said that in view of medical oxygen shortage the hospital had stopped admitting patients. He added that of the eight patients in ICU, three had been shifted, while discussions were on with other hospitals for shifting the remaining patients. E.K. Nayanar Hospital manager Pradeep said shortage of oxygen cylinders had been brought to the attention of the district authorities and people’s representatives. He added that 65 cylinders were required daily at the hospital. Besides, there are 48 COVID-19 patients, and 12 of them are on oxygen support. A senior Health Department official said the situation was no better in government hospitals in Kasaragod. The existing cylinders will exhaust soon, he added. However, BALCO plant in-charge K. Madhu said over 650 cylinders were being supplied to hospitals in Kannur and Kasaragod with the support of plants in Palakkad and Kozhikode. According to him, there is no crisis as of now, as there is enough stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oxygen-shortage-patients-being-shifted-from-hospitals/article34531482.ece
11 May 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Oxygen war room in Kasaragod||The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has set up an oxygen war room to monitor oxygen storage and its use in Kasaragod. The facility will ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to all health centres in the district. It will function from the Kanhangad Science Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oxygen-war-room-in-kasaragod/article34531483.ece
11 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam sees dip in cases||Ernakulam district recorded a dip in new COVID cases, when 2,834 people tested positive on Monday. Testing also dipped to 11,931 samples collected on the day. The test positivity rate (TPR) has fallen to 23.75%. The TPR of the district has been at a figure well over 25% for the past 10 days. The number of ICU admissions has risen to a total of 447, up from 375 people recovering in ICUs a week ago. Fourteen health workers and one police officer tested positive on Monday. In an area-wise break up of fresh cases, Palluruthy topped the list with 133 new cases, followed by Thrikkakara with 103. Nayarambalam recorded 81 cases, Perumbavoor 62, Pallipuram 59, and Payipra 57. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Monday, when 3,999 recoveries were recorded. The number of discharges was also higher than fresh admissions to hospitals. While 612 people were discharged from hospitals and other treatment facilities, 361 were newly admitted. A total of 65,993 people are being treated for the infection or are in isolation after testing positive. As many as 1,47,041 people remain in quarantine. While 58,778 people are recovering at home, 2,427 are admitted at private hospitals, 655 are at government hospital, and 111 are at INHS Sanjivani. Of the tests done on Monday, 6623 were RT-PCR tests. A total of 19 panchayats in Ernakulam have a TPR of over 50%, said Additional Chief Secretary Saradha Muraleedharan at a meeting held with the Chief MInister and District Collectors to evaluate the situation. Additional measures Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said additional measures would have to be implemented in local bodies with a TPR over 50%. Two doctors should be posted in shifts in these areas to make their services available round-the-clock. Call-centres should remain active, and ambulances should be made available. At the Refineries School auditorium, in collaboration with BPCL, 100 oxygen beds will be ready by Wednesday, District Collector S. Suhas said. Another 100 beds are being readied in another part of the school in collaboration with Aster Medcity. Beds with oxygen supply will also be readied at the Adlux convention centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-sees-dip-in-cases/article34531498.ece
11 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police step up lockdown enforcement||As the State-wide lockdown entered the third day on Monday, the Kochi City police intensified checks and restrictions, registering 97 cases who entered the city limits in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. This was in addition to 237 persons booked for not wearing masks and 275 for not maintaining physical distancing. Sixty-two vehicles were also seized from across various police station limits. Cases are being registered invoking the Disaster Management Act, Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance, and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Those speeding along the largely deserted roads are also being booked with the help of CCTV footage. As a deterrent, the police have made it clear that police clearance certificate will not be issued for passport verification to those booked for violations. C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City) said people should use the e-pass only for inevitable emergency trips. Applications should clearly cite the purpose for which passes are being sought, failing which they would be rejected. The police have also intensified inspections at migrant workers’ camps. Apart from creating awareness, they are also ensuring supply of essential commodities at the camps. Meanwhile, the rural police registered 221 cases for various violations, arrested 76, seized 127 vehicles, and booked 1,201 persons for not wearing masks and 1,438 for not maintaining physical distancing. Besides, four were booked for quarantine violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-step-up-lockdown-enforcement/article34531505.ece
11 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Private hospital booked for overcharging patients||The Aluva East police have registered a case for cheating against a private hospital following complaints about alleged fleecing of patients. The case was registered invoking IPC 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) against Anwar Hospital near the Aluva private bus stand. “The case was registered following multiple complaints about exorbitant bills served by the hospital, including for PPE [Personal Protection Equipment] kits. We are probing the matter and are about to collect the statement of the hospital management. We have asked the sectoral magistrate and tahsildar to look into the matter, and a report will also be submitted to the District Collector in his capacity as the Chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority,” said P.S. Rajesh, Station House Officer, Aluva East. The police, however, have not invoked the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance, citing that it was silent on excessive bills and mostly covered civic violations. Neither have they invoked the Disaster Management Act, as it requires the approval of the authority concerned. The complainants alleged that the exorbitant bills were not consummate with the facilities offered by the hospital. That there is no uniformity regarding the billing for COVID-19 treatment by private hospitals does not make enforcement easy either, the police said. On its part, the hospital management alleged that the issue was politically-motivated and borne out of a legal battle running since 2018-end over the ownership of the hospital. The present management had taken the hospital for a 10-year lease in 2017 reportedly on a mutual understanding to buy it in two years. However, the 2018 deluge threw a spanner in the plans, and the owner allegedly sought the hospital to be vacated abruptly thereafter leading to the legal battle. “In the instant case, two patients had complained about the bill — a woman about the food expenses and a male patient about the cost of 40 PPE kits included in his bill. The allegation by the former that we charged Rs. 1,300-odd for rice gruel served for dinner alone is misleading. It was the total expense for all her meals served as per demand over her 24-hour-long admission. The latter wanted us to show the cost of 40 PPE kits of Rs. 40,000-odd over his 10 days of admission as treatment expenses so that he gets it reimbursed under his medical insurance. We flatly declined to do it,” said Maneesh Babu, director, Anwar hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-hospital-booked-for-overcharging-patients/article34531506.ece
11 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Oxygen concentrators to be supplied at home||Efforts are on to make oxygen concentrators available at home to COVID and non-COVID patients requiring oxygen support. Three such concentrators are ready for use in the Kochi Corporation area and will be made available through the civic administration’s health wing. More concentrators will be made available in the district for COVID patients in emergency situations. Beds with oxygen supply are also being set up at first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and domiciliary care centres. Oxygen cylinders are being distributed to treatment centres through a centralised distribution system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oxygen-concentrators-to-be-supplied-at-home/article34531499.ece
11 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam residents fear more KCZMA curbs||Residents of the coastal village of Chellanam have expressed concern at what they feel is an attempt by the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) to possibly impose more severe restrictions on coastal residents. Paschima Kochi Theerasamrakshana Samiti spokesman T.A. Dalfin said a draft of the coastal protection plan for Ernakulam district had been issued on April 22, seeking reactions and suggestions from “stakeholders” within a fortnight of it being brought out. Mr. Dalfin said his concern was that not enough time had been given to coastal residents to be heard. However, sources in the KCZMA said the draft issued on April 22 had basically sought suggestions from various departments like Harbour Engineering, Irrigation, and Town Planning and from local bodies so that major issues were addressed when a public hearing was held to elicit views from coastal residents. Fishers union leader Charles George said the fishing community had expected the government to be lenient towards fisherfolk who lived close to the coast. Mr. Dalfin claimed that there were anomalies in the draft which needed to be addressed. Some provisions in the draft threatened the very existence of a few local bodies, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-residents-fear-more-kczma-curbs/article34531501.ece
11 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LNG tankers overhauled to ferry medical oxygen||Three cryogenic tanker lorries of a private company that were being used to transport LNG, which were seized by Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) personnel and handed over to Petronet LNG for being cleaned and adapted to transport liquid oxygen in bulk, got safety certification from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) on Monday. Each of these tankers can transport up to 15 tonnes of medical oxygen. The PESO certification is mandatory to change their category from tankers that transport LNG to those that can ferry medical oxygen, MVD sources said. The vehicles which had been idling since September, were seized by an MVD team led by Ernakulam Enforcement RTO Shaji Madhavan from a workshop in Thripunithura where they were lying prior to their annual fitness test. “We acted on the basis of directions issued by the District Disaster Management Authority [DDMA]. Once Petronet modifies the tankers for safe transportation of medical oxygen, they will be tested by officials of PESO and certified fit for the purpose. The body has specified SOPs, which, among others, mention that there must not be any hydrocarbon content in the tankers, to transport oxygen,” said R. Chanthu, Assistant Motor Vehicles Inspector who apprised Ernakulam RTO P.M. Shabeer and Mr. Madhavan about the potential to adapt the lorries to ferry the much-needed oxygen, following which they gave their go-ahead for the proposal. Mr Chanthu also did the groundwork to trace these idling lorries. The MVD is helping combat COVID through activities like enabling safe and smooth transit of lorries carrying oxygen, arranging vehicles to carry oxygen in bulk and also enabling safe loading and unloading of cylinders. The department has also helped install beacon lights, GPS, and sirens on the vehicles. The Industries Department and the Factories and Boilers Department have already begun enabling the process to clean oxygen cylinders that were being used in industrial units for use in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cryogenic-tanker-lorries-overhauled-to-ferry-oxygen/article34531500.ece
11 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chemists demand vaccination on priority||The All Kerala Chemists and Druggists Association (AKCDA) has demanded that druggists and employees be given vaccination on priority. Wholesale distribution centres and godowns of a majority of pharmaceutical companies are in Kochi, and drug dealers and employees in the district are working to deliver drugs across the State in the midst of the epidemic, according to a statement issued by P.V. Tomy, Ernakulam district president, AKCDA. The association has submitted a petition to the Chief Minister, Health Minister, and the State Drugs Controller. “Hundreds of workers in the region are no longer working due to fear of disease outbreak, leading to a crisis in the State’s drug supply,” the statement said, urging the government to take action immediately. In the COVID aftermath, some establishments distributing medicines have already closed down, and supply issues could worsen, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chemists-demand-vaccination-on-priority/article34531495.ece
11 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Nurse killed in accident||A nurse on her way to duty on her scooter was fatally knocked down by a speeding lorry at Madavana junction near Panangad just metres away from the private hospital where she worked, on Monday morning. The deceased was identified as Anu Thomas, a resident of Cherthala, working at Lakeshore Hospital. The police said she was crossing the signal when the lorry knocked her down. The signal was reportedly not functioning at the time owing to power outage. Though she was rushed to Lakeshore Hospital, she was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nurse-killed-in-accident/article34531503.ece
11 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KCBC: charge minimum treatment fee||The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council has directed all hospitals run by the Catholic dioceses and religious congregations in the State to impose only the ‘minimum fee’ for COVID-19 treatment. In a circular issued here on Monday, the bishops’ council, the apex body of the Catholic hierarchy, directed the hospitals to provide telemedicine consultation facilities and to make the phone numbers available to the public. The bishops also directed the Church authorities to coordinate activities against COVID-19. The KCBC’s anti-pandemic activities are being coordinated through a forum. Call: 90728 22364, 90728 22365, 90728 22366.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcbc-charge-minimum-treatment-fee/article34531508.ece
11 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,713 test positive in Kottayam||As many as 1,713 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Monday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was 25.64%. Of the fresh cases, all but four contracted the virus through local transmission. Among the local bodies, Kottayam continued to lead the tally with 263 cases, followed by Changanassery with 106 cases. The district presently has 16,589 active cases while 54,445 others are under observation. Despite strong intervention by the authorities, the TPR in Kottayam continues to rise and stands well over 30% in 24 local bodies. With a TPR of 50.91%, Kumarakom leads the tally, followed by Maravanthuruth with 41.42% and Thalayazham with 41.30%. Of the 607 people subjected to testing in Kumarakom, as many as 309 were confirmed of the virus infection, while in Maravanthuruth, 285 out of 688 tested positive. Oxygen plant The TPR hovers between 20% and 30% in 46 other local bodies, while it varies between 6% and 10% in the remaining six locations. With a TPR of 6.77%, Vellavur panchayat is placed at the bottom of this list. Meanwhile, the Union government approved a proposal to establish an oxygen plant at the Pala General Hospital. The step follows a letter sent by Thomas Chazhikadan MP to the Principal Secretary of the Union Health Ministry in April last week. The decision comes as a major relief to the hospital, which has been experiencing a shortage in oxygen supply with the spurt in COVID-19 cases. As per estimates, the hospital possesses only 120 oxygen cylinders as against a requirement of 240 cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1713-test-positive-in-kottayam/article34531801.ece
11 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Decline in fresh COVID cases in Kozhikode, TPR remains high||Decline in lab tests in the weekend led to a subsequent fall in fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district on Monday when only 2,522 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The daily test positivity rate, however, remained high at 28.15%. According to the District Medical Officer, only 9,567 results were made available. On normal days, this number often crosses 15,000 and some times reaches up to 20,000. A total of 4,995 people recovered from the infection, bringing down the active caseload to 49,258. The DMO said that there were 2,419 cases of local transmission of the infection, and the source of 95 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 904 cases, Peruvayal 87, Kadalundy 82, and Vadakara 78. Meanwhile, the district administration urged people to make use of the telemedicine facility launched in association with the Health Department. COVID patients and those vulnerable to the infection can interact with doctors without visiting hospitals and continue their treatment. Doctors would talk to patients through WhatsApp voice call or video call and send medical prescription to their phones. Directions would be issued to those on the contact list if they are to be shifted to hospitals or triage centres. The numbers are 8593000424, 8593000425, and 8593000426. Mental health counselling is available between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m. on 9495002270.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decline-in-fresh-covid-cases-in-kozhikode-tpr-remains-high/article34531490.ece
11 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pandemic leaves transgenders in lurch||With the pandemic leaving vulnerable sections in society worried, the future looks bleak for many of the State’s homeless transgender persons. Snehakoodu shelter homes that used to provide them accommodation have been closed across the State, and many are now finding it hard to pay rent on homes. “The shelter home in Kozhikode which had given accommodation to around 45 persons at different times was closed down nearly two months ago following the expiry of the lease agreement. Those who sought refuge in rented houses are now struggling to pay the monthly amount. We need support to survive this period,” says transgender activist Sisily George. Ms. George, who is also a member of the district-level Transgender Justice Board, says that a rehabilitation shelter with facilities for vaccination and treatment should be made available immediately for the community in every district. In Kozhikode district alone, six transgender persons have already sought treatment for COVID-19 infection. Though none of them is critical now, there is fear among others who live in unsafe premises. According to them, only a district-level facility exclusively for the marginalised section will only help them get medical attention and care. They say that district administrators or the Social Justice Department can easily think of such a service with the support of sponsors. Figures available with ‘Punarjani’, a city-based cultural society for transgender persons’ welfare, show that there are over 300 persons in Kozhikode district alone who needs help. Functionaries of the society say that all of them deserve the free kit supplied by the Civil supplies Department. “What they seek is the supply of such kits at least once a month for overcoming the pandemic season. It should be implemented in such a way to cover the whole LGBT community members in the State.” Nagma Susmi, District Transgender Justice Board member and activist who now works with a recently opened help desk for the LGBT community members, says the demands will be submitted for the consideration of district administrators and the State government for speedy action. “As you see, we have only very simple demands which will ensure the protection of the community with about 4,000 members. The Chief Minister can definitely lend a helping hand,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-leaves-transgenders-in-lurch/article34531485.ece
11 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Master writer who made stars shine brighter||Dennis Joseph, who died in Kottayam following a cardiac arrest on Monday aged 64, was one of Malayalam cinema’s most successful scriptwriters. If the mainstream cinema of the 1980s and 90s was so enjoyable to watch, he could take some credit for it. He penned several blockbusters and played a significant role in the careers of two of the biggest stars of Malayalam cinema. If his Rajavinte Makan marked the beginning of the superstardom for Mohanlal, New Delhi helped Mammootty script a spectacular comeback after a series of disappointing films. Joshiy was the director of New Delhi , which remains one of the finest thrillers in Malayalam more than three decades after its release. Based, unofficially, on Irving Wallace’s English novel The Almighty , the film set the box office on fire. Mammootty was also the hero of the first film that Dennis and Joshiy had come together for titled Nirakkoottu . It too was a hit; the film’s well-written screenplay was noticed and a young Dennis had arrived. However, his debut film Eeran Sandhya , directed by Jesey, hadn’t won him much acclaim. The huge success of Rajavinte Makan , directed by Thampi Kannanthanam, established Dennis as one of the busiest scriptwriters. Though there was a time when he wrote as many as eight scripts in a year, he tried to ensure that the quality didn’t suffer. He was more in demand for fast-paced thrillers, but with Akashadoothu , directed by Sibi Malayil, he showed he could write emotional dramas as well. His big hits include Kottayam Kunjachan , No. 20 Madras Mail , Sangham , and Nair Saab . Director too Director I.V. Sasi once told this writer that the late Padmarajan had high regard for Dennis. He also directed a few films,like Manu Uncle that won the national award for Best Children’s Film, and Adharvam , but it is as a successful scriptwriter he will be remembered. He is survived by wife Leena and children Elizabeth, Rossy, and Jose. Funeral will be decided later.  (With inputs from Kottayam bureau)   His ‘Rajavinte Makan’ and ‘New Delhi’ were turning points in the careers of Mohanlal and Mammootty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/master-writer-who-made-stars-shine-brighter/article34531514.ece
11 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn.’s Oxygen Challenge evokes good response||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation’s Oxygen Challenge is getting good response from the public with the account started for the purpose receiving around Rs. 50,000 as contribution in just two days. The challenge was launched on Saturday with an aim to collect enough oxygen and associated equipment for domiciliary care centres, first-line treatment centres and the urban centre under the corporation. The plan is to ensure the availability of oxygen cylinders, oxygen masks, oxygen concentrator and pulse oximeters at treatment centres. Meanwhile, CDSs of Kudumbashree in the corporation have promised to contribute 10 oxygen concentrators to the cause. One oxygen concentrator costs around Rs. 60,000. The equipment is not available in India and is being imported. The first of the ten concentrators was handed over to Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed by CDS chairpersons T.K. Geetha, Rajitha.O and Sheeja Vinod. The rest is to be handed over in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpns-oxygen-challenge-evokes-good-response/article34531493.ece
11 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Crackdown on inessential travel in city intensified||Curbing all inessential travel, the police have intensified road checking and protocol enforcement activities covering 51 points within the Kozhikode city police limits. On a regular basis, 800 police officials are being deployed for enforcement activities aimed at flattening the curve and supporting the health machinery. Assistant Commissioner (Special Branch) M.P. Mohanachandran says the heightened regulations have resulted in less vehicular traffic, and subsequently the rush within the city limits. “All the 16 police stations in Kozhikode city are collaborating to manage the increased responsibilities in the area,” he adds. Since the rules and regulations related to travel have been defined well, incidents of verbal duel between the police and motorists are minimal. Station house officers within the city limits say that they are taking utmost care to avoid any interruption of emergency services. Those having proper travel records as suggested by the government will not have to worry about police action, they add. Following the District Collector’s order, local patrol teams, including motorbike patrol squads, are also in action covering the interior areas of critical containment zones in the district. The drive is to prevent all unhealthy get-togethers, casual neighbourhood meetings, outdoor games by children’s groups and wayside interactions violating the physical-distancing protocol. 714 cases registered The police on Monday registered 714 more cases as part of the ongoing enforcement actions against the violation of COVID-19 protocol in Kozhikode district. According to the police, 579 persons were booked for not wearing safety masks properly. Of them, 353 persons were tracked from the city limit. The remaining 135 cases were registered against those who either violated the physical-distancing norm or kept shops open beyond the permitted working hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crackdown-on-inessential-travel-in-city-intensified/article34531491.ece
11 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Dispute in NCP over Cabinet berth||Trouble is brewing in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), somewhat a sequel to the pre-poll tangle, with former Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran and newly elected legislator Thomas K. Thomas staking claim for ministerial birth in the Pinarayi Vijayan Cabinet. As the dispute is snowballing in the State unit, the party Central leadership has deputed its national general secretary Praful Patel, MP, to hold discussions with the warring groups on May 18. He will also meet Mr. Vijayan. Mr. Saseendran, who survived dissidence in the party against his candidature in Elathur, now faces Mr. Thomas, brother of former Minister the late Thomas Chandy, who won from the Kuttanad segment. Remark on Kappan Rumblings of discontent in the party have come out with State general secretary Abdul Rassaq Moulavi and vice president P.K. Rajan questioning the statement of State president T.P. Peethambaran that the party should make an introspection into the circumstances that led to Mani C. Kappan’s exit from the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front, and he pulling off a victory in Pala. Another State general secretary Jayan Puthenpurakkal, one of the contenders for the Elathur seat, has backed the claim of Mr. Thomas. Sources said Mr. Patel, assigned by NCP national president Sharad Pawar as a troubleshooter, favoured Mr. Thomas’s induction into the Cabinet rather than giving a second term to Mr. Saseendran, whose performance as Transport Minister was viewed as disastrous. Mr. Patel may also devise a power-sharing deal with both legislators equally sharing the five-year term, the sources said. Chacko’s stance Incidentally, P.C. Chacko who quit the Congress on the eve of the elections and subsequently joined the NCP is rooting for Mr. Saseendran’s Cabinet berth. But a strong group is against Mr. Chacko calling the shots in the party. Many feel that Mr. Chacko had a good political run for several decades and they attributed his entry to the NCP to the denial of the Congress ticket in the Assembly polls.  Praful Patel will hold discussions with groups backing A.K. Saseendran and Thomas K. Thomas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dispute-in-ncp-over-cabinet-berth/article34531512.ece
11 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Project for differently abled launched||The Composite Regional Centre for Skill Development, Rehabilitation and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, based in Kozhikode, in association with M’Adin Able World, Malappuram, launched ‘COWE Care- Kerala’, a model project to assist differently abled people during the second wave of COVID in the State. State Commissioner for persons with disabilities S.H. Panchapakeshan launched the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-for-differently-abled-launched/article34531486.ece
11 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Consumerfed launches portal for home delivery||The Kerala State Cooperative Consumers' Federation (Consumerfed) has entered the online market with the launch of its web portal www.consumerfed.in here on Monday. Deputy Mayor Musafir Ahamed launched the portal in the presence of Consumerfed Chairman M. Mehaboob and Administration Manager P.K. Anil Kumar. All products of Triveni supermarkets will be available in the portal and will be delivered on the doorsteps within 24 hours of ordering. The cash-on-delivery system is being followed in the initial stage. There is no change in prices, but a delivery charge of Rs. 30 will be levied within 3- kilometre radius of the stores and Rs. 5 extra for every two kilometres after that, Mr. Mehaboob said. The trial run will begin based on 14 Triveni supermarkets in Kozhikode district and will extend to Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam districts soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consumerfed-launches-portal-for-home-delivery/article34531487.ece
11 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||450 cases in Pathanamthitta||Amidst a continuing rise in test positivity rate, Pathanamthitta on Monday reported 450 new COVID-19 cases. Of the fresh cases, 440 people contracted the virus through local transmission. With 55 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 44 cases. Meanwhile, the district also reported two COVID-19 related deaths during the day. With 962 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 12,802 active cases while 29,919 others are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/450-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article34531802.ece
11 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||With 3,494 new cases, capital tops daily tally||The district recorded 3,494 more COVID-19 cases on Monday as the number of active cases rose to 38,870. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 27%, while 12,936 people were subjected to tests during the last 24 hours. Thiruvananthapuram topped the district-wise daily case tally on the day. Among the fresh cases, the source of 248 cases were not identified. Twelve health care workers were among those who tested positive for the infection. A total of 2,696 COVID-19 patients recovered from the disease on the day. The dip in daily caseload was, however, attributed to the decrease in the number of people who underwent COVID-19 tests. As many as 15,118 people were tested on the previous day. Nine more deaths were attributed to the disease, taking the district’s death toll to 1,117. The deaths, which occurred on May 6 and 7, were of five men, aged 78, 75, 70, 54 and 42, and four women, aged 83, 72, 72 and 67. As many as 7,334 people were placed in quarantine on the day, taking the count of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 94,854. The district authorities permitted 4,784 people to conclude quarantine during the last 24 hours. Containment zones Meanwhile, Chenkal, Kuttichal, Parassala and Perunkadavila grama panchayats have been declared containment zones. Similar restrictions also came into effect in Mudiyottukonam in Karavaram grama panchayat and Melamcode in Vellanad grama panchayat. The City Police initiated legal action against 437 people for violating COVID-19 norms. Among them, 97 were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. The police also fined 330 people for failing to wear masks outdoors and two people for flouting social distancing norms. A cumulative fine of Rs. 1.66 lakh was collected from such violators. Eight motorists were also charged for non-essential travel. In addition, 5,477 people were reprimanded for violating the pandemic norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-3494-new-cases-capital-tops-daily-tally/article34531451.ece
11 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State fixes private hospitals’ rate||In response to a directive from the High Court, the State government, after consultations with private hospitals, has drawn up standard rates for COVID-19 treatment in private sector hospitals and nursing homes. Accordingly, the rates for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals in general wards in NABH-certified hospitals will be Rs. 2,910 a day, while in non-NABH hospitals, this will be Rs. 2,645 a day. The per day charges for treatment in High Dependency Unit (HDU) will be Rs. 4,175 for NABH hospitals and Rs. 3,795 in non-NABH hospitals. The daily charges for care in ICUs in NABH hospital will be Rs. 8,580 and Rs. 7,800 in non-NABH hospitals. The daily treatment rates in ICUs with ventilator support will be Rs. 15,180 for NABH hospitals and Rs. 13,800 for non-NABH hospitals. These charges are inclusive of registration fee, bed charges, nursing charges, consultation fee, anaesthesia, oxygen, pathology and radiology tests, medical procedures, including essential radiological imaging and diagnostic tests such as X-ray,ultrasound scan, haematology and so on. These charges will also include pre- and post-hospitalisation expenses, including expenses incurred for consultation, diagnostic tests and medicines before admission of the patient in the same hospital and cost of diagnostic tests and medication up to 15 days after discharge from the hospital for the same ailment Excluded items The government has excluded high-end investigations like CT Chest HRCT Chest, PPE kits and medications like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, which are very expensive, from these rates. All hospitals must publish their treatment rates in a place accessible to the public. The treatment rates should be published by hospitals on their websites too. Hospitals found to be charging more than the fixed rates will be penalised . Oximeters, cylinders The GO also makes it clear that there will be no exorbitant pricing of COVID-related consumables like PPE, pulse oximeter, masks, portable oxygen cylinders and consumables. No shops or hospitals shall charge more than MRP or else the district collectors can take action All the private hospitals must admit the patients as soon as they come in, as per the admission protocols. Hospitals cannot insist on any advance payment at the time of admission, the government has ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-fixes-private-hospitals-rate/article34531521.ece
11 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cases post a dip along with tests||Kerala registered a dip in new COVID-19 cases on Monday, reporting 27,487 cases, in response to the dip in testing over the weekend, when 99,748 samples were tested in 24 hours. The average test positivity rate in the State over the past three days seems to show a slight dip and registered 27.56% on Monday. For the first time in weeks, the State’s active case pool dipped from 4,23,514 on Sunday to 4,19,726 patients on Monday. This could be because for the first time in weeks, the State registered more recoveries than new cases on Monday, with 31,209 persons recovering. 65 deaths The State added 65 recent deaths to the official COVID-19 toll on Monday, taking the cumulative toll to 5,879. This included 12 deaths from Palakkad, 11 from Kozhikode, 10 from Thiruvananthapuram, seven each from Thrissur and Kannur, five from Ernakulam, four each from Kollam and Malappuram, while three deaths each were reported from Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha. Hospitalisations continue to increase. The number of COVID-19 patients being treated in hospitals has risen to 33,059, with 3,580 persons newly admitted on Monday. ICU admissions continue to rise and another 113 persons who were critically ill were newly admitted to ICUs. A total of 2,641 persons are occupying ICUs now and 1,340 COVID-19 patients are on ventilator support. Ninety-one patients newly required ventilator assistance on Monday. Ernakulam continues to have the highest number of active cases with 65,987, followed by Thrissur (51,754), Kozhikode (49,659), Malappuram (46,193) and Thiruvananthapuram (38,870). Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 3,494, Malappuram 3,443, Thrissur 3,280, Ernakulam 2,834, Kozhikode 2,522, Palakkad 2,297, Kollam 2,039, Alappuzha 1,908, Kannur 1,838, Kottayam 1,713, Kasaragod 919, Pathanamthitta 450, Idukki 422 and Wayanad 328 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-post-a-dip-along-with-tests/article34531520.ece
11 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Extended hospitals’ set up in two KTDC properties||Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) has offered two properties, one in Thiruvananthapuram and the other in Kochi, to be converted into COVID-19 care facilities for use by private hospitals. The novel initiative of the KTDC that has the largest chain of hotels in the public sector is at a time when finding a bed in a hospital for a COVID-19 patient and those with mild symptoms are a daunting task. KTDC’s premium property Bolgatty Palace, Kochi, and Grand Chaithram in Thiruvananthapuram are the ones identified. Pilot basis In Bolgatty Palace, the entire Marina House Block that has 24 rooms spread over two floors will be made available for private hospitals. In Chaithram, which was renovated recently, the entire 88 rooms in four floors are available for private hospitals. The interested private hospital management can also take a floor in the budget hotel housed at Thampanoor that has 22 rooms for setting up the ‘extended hospitals’. The KTDC had floated Expression of Interest (EoI) for converting the two properties on a pilot basis into COVID care facilities, a senior official told The Hindu . The ‘extended hospitals’ will help to ease the pressure on private hospitals from patients who do not require ICU or other health support systems. This facility will also be useful for those who wanted to stay away from their family while they recovered from COVID-19 and do not have facilities in their homes. ‘Back-end’ support The KTDC will only be a ‘back-end maintenance provider’ for the extended hospitals. The hospitals taking the hotels for the facility would have to take care of cleaning of the rooms, corridors, sanitising, and garbage disposal, he said. The KTDC had provided quarantine packages for those coming from outside the State and country during last year’s nationwide lockdown. Almost all properties, including the flagship property Mascot Hotel in the capital, were used by hundreds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/extended-hospitals-set-up-in-two-ktdc-properties/article34531447.ece
11 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel to check bid to implicate CM||The State government on Monday fixed the terms of reference for the judicial commission examining the alleged attempt on the part of the Customs Department and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to falsely implicate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the UAE gold smuggling case. The government had named retired High Court judge V.K. Mohanan as the Commission of Inquiry (COI). He would also probe the alleged jurisdictional overreach and pronounced political bias of the agencies. The government seemed encouraged that the scandal had scarcely dented its electoral prospects. It alleged that the agencies had illegally diverted the investigation into the smuggling of gold via the UAE consulate’s diplomatic channel to politically target the Left Democratic Front government ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections. It pointed to a conspiracy and warranted a judicial inquiry given the public import. Audio clip The government tasked the COI to inquire into the facts gold-smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh had “stated” in a recorded audio clip. She had revealed an attempt to implicate the Chief Minister in the case falsely. The COI would probe the circumstances that led to such a statement. The COI would also probe the circumstances that prompted Sandeep Nair, another accused in the gold smuggling case, to reveal to the District Judge, Ernakulam, in writing, of an attempt to falsely implicate members of the Council of Ministers and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan in serious criminal cases. The COI would probe whether the episodes revealed a conspiracy to frame the State’s political executive. In the event the commission stumbled on such a plot, it should identify the conspirators. December deadline The government also allowed the COI to probe “other facts incidental, ancillary or connected with” its subject of inquiry. The commission should conclude the investigation by December and submit its report to the government. In an explanatory note, the government said the Customs and the Enforcement Directorate had discarded professionalism and pursued a path of political partisanship to ensnare the State’s elected political executive in criminal cases. The officers had strayed from their original purpose of finding the source of the contraband gold, its intended recipients, and those who facilitated and profited from the racket. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress had exploited the scam and “findings” of the Central agencies to unleash a tsunami of invective against the government in the run-up to the Assembly polls. The Opposition parties had also unleashed a storm of street protests to put the government on the defence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-check-bid-to-implicate-cm/article34531509.ece
11 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM opens power-sharing talks||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday opened discussions with the Kerala Congress (M) about government formation at the AKG Centre here. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) was negotiating with its new allies, the KC(M) and the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), from a position of strength. It already possessed the majority to form the government without their support. KC(M) chairperson Jose K. Mani had reportedly staked a claim for two Cabinet posts. However, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) had reportedly not committed. The KC(M) had won five of the 12 seats it had contested in the Assembly elections. Mr. Mani had lost Pala to Mani C. Kappan of the Nationalist Congress Kerala by a margin of 15,000 votes. Strong contenders Consequently, Roshy Augustine, KC(M) veteran and five-time legislator from the Idukki constituency, stood a good chance of gaining a Cabinet berth in his leader’s stead. Nevertheless, Mr. Augustine’s prospects would hinge on whether the KC(M) would name him as the head of the legislative party. Mr. Mani would have a significant say in the nomination. However, there were reports that Mr. Mani’s defeat had diminished his standing in the party and Mr. Augustine had emerged stronger in the scheme of things. N. Jayaraj, a four-time legislator from Kanjirapally, is also a robust contender for a cabinet post. Mr. Mani told reporters later that the KC(M) had communicated its requirement to the LDF leadership. Negotiations were at a nascent stage. The discussions were positive, he said. An LDF insider said the CPI(M) and the Communist Party of India (CPI) might be constrained to shed some cabinet seats to accommodate the new allies. Mr. Vijayan was also reportedly in close consultation with CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran on government formation. LDF meet on May 17 The CPI(M) had also opened negotiations with the Janata Dal (Secular), Kerala Congress (B), and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The LDF would convene on May 17 to formulate the makeup of the next Pinarayi Vijayan government. Before the crucial meeting, LDF partners would reach a broad consensus on power-sharing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-opens-power-sharing-talks/article34531517.ece
11 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water utility invites fresh tender for Neyyar pipeline||Forced to cancel the initial tender, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has invited fresh bids for constructing a transmission main for carrying drinking water from the proposed 120 mld Neyyar water supply project to the capital city. The tender conditions are the same and May 31 has been fixed as the deadline for submitting bids, KWA officials said. Once the work is awarded, the contractor has to complete it in a year. The 1,422-mm mild steel, clear water gravity main will cover a distance of 23.8 km from the Neyyar dam site to the ground-level storage reservoir (GLSR) at PTP Nagar. Although the KWA issued a selection notice to an Erode-based firm in February this year, the latter failed to execute the agreement on time. KWA had cancelled the tender in March and decided to call fresh bids. Deadline extended The Neyyar project promises 100 million litres of drinking water per day to the capital city and 20 mld to four panchayats. The grim COVID-19 situation in the State has forced the water utility to extend the deadline for placing bids for the construction of the water treatment plant (WTP) at Neyyar by another 10 days. The deadline for bidding had expired on May 7, but interested firms had sought an extension due to the pandemic, KWA officials said. KWA has taken up the pipeline and the WTP as two separate projects. The WTP work had been re-tendered in April after delays due to land disputes and COVID-19. In February, the State government had issued orders permitting the KWA to construct the WTP on an alternate five-acre plot in the Neyyar region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-utility-invites-fresh-tender-for-neyyar-pipeline/article34531453.ece
11 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. control room buzzes with aid calls||The COVID-19 control room opened by the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation is proving to be a big help to the public during the lockdown. According to the civic body, 491 people contacted the control room on Monday. Of this, 321 callers required medical assistance, while 118 others contacted regarding food. Twenty people called over disinfection of establishments, and 30 others, for travel assistance. The medical team provided timely assistance either online or directly, the Corporation said, adding that travel arrangements were also made in auto-rickshaws arranged by the civic body. As many as 11,857 people had tested positive for COVID-19 in the capital city in the past one week. New Janakeeya Hotel The control room was contacting the patients and collecting the details, the Corporation said. As part of efforts to ensure food for all during the lockdown period, the 18th Janakeeya Hotel in the Corporation limits began functioning on Monday. V. K. Prasanth MLA and Deputy Mayor P.K. Raju were present at the opening of the facility. Ambulances ready Food will be supplied free of charge to BPL families and those approved as beneficiaries by the rapid response teams. For others, meals thrice a day comes at Rs. 60. The Corporation has also arranged three ambulances as part of COVID-19 management measures, as per a decision taken at a meeting convened by Minister Kadakampally Surendran. Mayor Arya Rajendran said that the Corporation would finalise the rehabilitation measures adopted for the destitute in the city limits by Monday night. The Corporation had taken over the Government Central High School at Attakulangara for the purpose. Cooperation sought The Mayor urged individuals and organisations to assist the civic body in tackling the pandemic. Ms. Rajendran also requested the public to cooperate with the restrictions imposed by the government and the district administration.  Civic body says the control room is contacting COVID patients and collecting their details||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-control-room-buzzes-with-aid-calls/article34531455.ece
11 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Low-pressure area likely over Arabian Sea||With the southwest monsoon season just weeks away, the Arabian Sea region appears to be switching to the turbulent mode. A low-pressure area is likely to take shape over the southeast parts of the sea and the adjoining Indian Ocean region around May 14, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. It is likely to become more marked over the subsequent 48 hours. The likely formation of the low-pressure area is due to a cyclonic circulation extending up to 3.1 km above mean sea level, which lies over the equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining parts of the Arabian Sea. The IMD, in a 5 p.m. weather advisory on Monday, said it was closely monitoring the development. Such systems might be treated as an indication of the approach of the southwest monsoon season, K. Santhosh, director, IMD Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, said. Advisory to fishermen The weather agency has also warned of rough seas. Given the possibility of squally weather with wind speeds touching 40-50 kmph, fishermen have been advised not to venture into the southwest and southeast parts of the Arabian Sea and the Maldives region till Friday, as per the latest update. Rainfall is expected to continue in Kerala. The IMD has put Idukki district on yellow alert on Tuesday and Wednesday and Thiruvananthapuram on Friday, given the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-pressure-area-likely-over-arabian-sea/article34531510.ece
11 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held with 250 bottles of liquor||The capital city continued to witness an inflow of liquor from Tamil Nadu by racketeers looking to exploit the closure of liquor shops during the State-wide lockdown. The Vizhinjam police on Monday arrested one Edwin (39), who hails from near the Vizhinjam old Portuguese Church, with alleged possession of 250 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL). The accused was caught near Kottapuram by a team led by Vizhinjam station house officer Ramesh G. on the basis of a tip-off. Having purchased the liquor from Tamil Nadu, the accused smuggled the bottles with the aim of selling them for high profits. Ramesh, who had been involved in criminal cases and had undergone jail term after being detained under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, has been remanded in judicial custody, the police said. The incident came two days after the Kovalam police arrested two people with alleged possession of 27 IMFL bottles smuggled from Kanyakumari. Spirit seized In a separate incident, Excise officials seized around 4,000 litres of ‘koda’ (undistilled spirit) and equipment used to brew spurious liquor in Peringamala on Sunday evening. The seized items were found stored in plastic packets and buried underground in Mullankunnupara by an unidentified gang. Efforts were on to nab those involved in the illegal making of spurious liquor in the area, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-with-250-bottles-of-liquor/article34531448.ece
11 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vaccination drive faces uncertainty||The district’s vaccine stock neared depletion with its vaccination drive facing uncertainty. While the district health authorities remained hopeful of an allocation from the Covishield batch of 3.5 lakh that arrived in Kochi on Monday, there has been no official communication yet in this regard. 7,843 inoculated With the vaccine store in Thiruvananthapuram emptying its Covishield stock, only Covaxin will be administered to the public on Tuesday. The vaccination drive will be confined to the Fort Taluk Hospital and Coastal Speciality Hospital, Valiyathura. Meanwhile, as many as 7,843 people were inoculated on Monday. Among them, 7,136 people were administered Covishield, while the others received Covaxin. A total of 6,129 people were provided their second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-faces-uncertainty/article34531452.ece
11 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nodal officers appointed in war room||Eleven nodal officers have been appointed in the district as part of the State-level COVID-19 war room for assisting local bodies in pandemic management. The new batch of officials replaced 11 nodal officers whose terms had ended, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. The officers have been posted in the following grama panchayats: R.S. Sreekala (Pallichal), P.R. Shine (Vellanad), Sudheer (Anchuthengu), Chandrika (Ottoor), T. Santhosh (Karumkulam), Joseph (Karode), K.L. Prakash (Vembayam), L. Sandhya Devi (Balaramapuram), A. Rafeek (Pangode), S.L. Anil Kumar (Pallickal) and Shajeer Khan (Tholikode).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nodal-officers-appointed-in-war-room/article34531454.ece
11 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||7 more COVID care facilities||Six domiciliary care centres (DCC) and one more COVID first-line treatment centre (FLTC) will be opened in Thiruvananthapuram as part of the COVID-19 management activities, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. This will add another 435 beds for COVID-19 care in the district. The six DCCs will be capable of accommodating 310 patients. The FLTC is being opened in the Rosa Mystica Residential School, Pulinkudy, in the Kottukal panchayat. It will have 125 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-more-covid-care-facilities/article34531456.ece
11 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Daily TPR 33.07% in Thrissur||The COVID test positivity rate (TPR) is remaining high in Thrissur. On Monday, the district recorded a TPR of 33.07%. As many as 3,280 fresh cases were reported while 2,076 patients recovered from the disease. Seven local bodies in the district had TPR higher than 50%. Elavally panchayat has the highest test positivity rate of 82.67 %. The other local bodies with high TPR are Mullassery (52.79%); Chazur (59.55%); Puthenchira (67.21%); Porkulam (53.13%); Engandiyur (50%) and Venkidangu (55%). Active cases in the district is 51,126 and 91 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 1,84,512 COVID-19 cases were reported from the district and 1,32,435 people have recovered. According to official data, 3,249 people, including nine health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Monday. Of them, 491 people are above the age of 60 and 205 children are below the age of 10. In all, 44,822 people are under home care. As many as 9,917 samples were taken for the test on Monday. In all 5,85,544 people have taken the first dose of COVID vaccine while 1,52,720 people took the second dose. The availability of oxygen has been ensured in the district, said District Collector S. Shanavas. An oxygen plant, which can supply oxygen to 150 patients, has started functioning in the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-tpr-3307-in-thrissur/article34531488.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bread-and-butter issue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bread-and-butter-issue/article34531788.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/helping-hand/article34531786.ece
11 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||School alumni provide succour to GGH||The Guild of Service School 1977 Class-7 Batch Alumni Association has come to the rescue of some COVID-19 patients at the Government General Hospital here, after observing the hardship they were facing with regard to the admission into hospital in an Oxygen-supported bed. Hundreds of patients referred to the GGH from the PHCs or people voluntarily coming here to get an admission into an oxygen-supported bed were sitting outside in the open to fend for themselves before their admission formalities were completed. The alumni association members led by Meka Janardhan, Chavva Rajasekhara Reddy and Geetha Bala have pooled in Rs. 3.5 lakh and put a waiting area with temporary tents, chairs, fans and lights, where some of the oxygen concentrators of the GGH have been placed so that patients with SPO2 concentration of more than 80% could be made to sit and comforted. “We have been loaned five oxygen cylinders from some friends and we have put them up also,” Mr. Janardhan said. Very soon (likely by May 15) 100 oxygen concentrators will arrive from Hong Kong to support all the patients waiting here, he explains. A charitable organisation has sponsored all the oxygen concentrators and they have made arrangements for 100 patients to wait in ‘easy chairs’ with oxygen support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/school-alumni-provide-succour-to-ggh/article34531525.ece
11 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Groundnut seed registration in phase I off to good start in Anantapur||The demand for groundnut seeds from farmers was encouraging on the first day on Monday as 7,406 farmers registered to purchase the seeds on D-Krishi app at Rythu Bharosa Kendras in Anantapur district. Joint Director Agriculture Y. Ramakrishna said that out of 7,406 farmers, 3,856 made the payment of Rs. 1,76,19,185 for 3,383 quintals. Those who did not pay will be given 72 hours time from the time of registration to pay the amount. The delivery of the K 6 variety of groundnut seed will be made available from May 17 to those who register and make payment. The entire operation will be done in three phases in each mandal with registrations for the second phase opening on May 17, and third phase on May 21. Demand for doorstep delivery Meanwhile, the A.P. Rythu Sangham leaders in Obuladevaracheruvu mandal demanded supply of groundnut seeds at the farmers’ doorstep. This provision has, however, not been made by the State government, the Joint Director said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/groundnut-seed-registration-in-phase-i-off-to-good-start-in-anantapur/article34531527.ece
11 May 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID second wave surge takes the sheen off affluent weddings||Though the auspicious season for the wedding bells is set to begin, the dreaded coronavirus seems to be haunting the prosperous grooms and brides who have been waiting in the wings to tie the nuptial knot. Many, who had planned their children's marriage on a big scale last year, postponed the event as the virus raised its ugly head stalling everything. Those who put off the marriage schedule to this year to celebrate it amid a big gathering, were a disappointed lot this time also as the second wave is sending shivers down the spine of everyone. Wedding service providers like priests, caterers, flower decorators, orchestra singers and function hall organisers are all in dire straits for the second year in a row. The curfew, imposed by the State government, from 12 noon till 6 a.m. from May 5 will add to their woes. The government has, however, noted in the guidelines that weddings, which were already fixed, could be held during the curfew hours but with a maximum of 20 guests. “There are a number of ‘muhurtams’ during ‘Vaisakha month’, beginning from May 11, and they continue up to July 10. The ‘muhurtams’ are again available from August 9 to September 7. In view of the restrictions on the number of guests, parents are postponing the wedding of their sons and daughters,” says Uttarandhra Archaka Sangam joint secretary Vakkalanka Muralikrishna. “Our convention centre has a capacity of 2,000. We have a provision to split the hall but the restrictions on the number of invitees and the pandemic threat have led to some of the bookings getting cancelled and three postponed to August,” says Gouri Shankar, General Manager(operations) of Vizag Conventions, located beside the International Cricket Stadium at P.M. Palem. Flower decorators are facing a hand-to-mouth existence as they had given advance to florists in Bengaluru and ordered structures for the decoration from suppliers. They spend lakhs of rupees for the flowers and structure and give advance to the suppliers but now with the postponement of weddings, they are facing untold hardship. “The big halls should be permitted to fill at least 10% of their capacity so that flower decorations can be made. When only 50 guests are allowed, the wedding organisers view huge flower decorations as a wasteful expenditure. Some of the guests are taking back the advances they had given, though we promise to honour the decoration contract, whenever the wedding is held,” says Duvvi Kali Prasad, president, Vizag Town and Lighting Decorators Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-second-wave-surge-takes-the-sheen-off-affluent-weddings/article34531840.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deaths in Karnataka touch a new high of 596||Karnataka on Monday reported 596 COVID-19 fatalities, its biggest spike, and 374 of these were from Bengaluru Urban. On Friday, the State recorded 592 deaths of which 346 were from Bengaluru. Fatalities have been on a steep rise since April 23. Also, 39,305 new cases were reported on Monday in the State, 16,747 from Bengaluru Urban, and the day’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 31.66%. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday asked officials to consider floating global tenders to procure COVID-19 vaccines, because the vaccination drive would take at least six months to complete even if the State gets one crore vaccines a month. Only 19 lakh doses were being supplied per month now, he said at a review meeting. Mr. Jagan said although States were at liberty to directly procure vaccines from companies, the Centre had a say in the allocations. The Chief Minister wanted the 104 helpline number strengthened and to be tested using mock calls. Patients who need not be hospitalised should be sent to COVID Care Centres. Arogya Mitra volunteers should be available in every hospital to help patients and their families. Andhra Pradesh recorded 14,986 new infections and 84 more deaths on Monday. Meanwhile, 60,124 samples were tested with TPR of a high 24.93%. Kerala registered a dip in new cases on Monday, registering 27,487 cases, as there was a drop in testing over the weekend and only 99,748 samples were tested. The average TPR over the past three days was marginally lower and was 27.56% on Monday. The State’s active cases dropped from 4,23,514 on Sunday to 4,19,726 on Monday. The State added 65 deaths to its toll. On Monday, Telangana added 4,826 cases. With 32 more deaths, total fatalities rose to 2,771. Active cases stood at 62,797. The government took up a fever survey, but testing on Monday covered only 65,923 samples.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram & Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deaths-in-karnataka-touch-a-new-high-of-596/article34531240.ece
11 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||First dose to be given from June 1 in Chittoor||District Collector M. Hari Narayanan said that the vaccination drive for those waiting to get their first dose would resume from June 1, as the focus this month would be on the people who are due for second dose on seniority basis. Speaking to the media here on Monday, the Collector said that as many as 1.22 lakh people were yet to be given the second doses in the district. There was a stock of 24,000 units for the second dose, and the drive would resume from Wednesday, he said. Allaying fears over shortage of medical oxygen, Mr. Narayanan said that at present there was no dearth in the district where over 40 tonnes of oxygen is being used for the COVID patients every day. He said a request was placed with the State government for increasing their daily quota by four tonnes in view of the spike in the number of cases and demand for the beds. The Collector appealed to the public not to panic, but to strictly follow protocols such as wearing facemasks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distance. Fall in daily cases Meanwhile, the number of cases in the district during the last 24 hours stood at 1,543. “In the last one week, the daily tally stood over 2,500. Monday’s figure has brought a relief to the COVID Task Force personnel,” a senior medical official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-dose-to-be-given-from-june-1-in-chittoor/article34531529.ece
11 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special teams formed to tackle jumbo menace||Special teams comprising forest and police personnel were formed in Puttur and Karveti Nagaram forest ranges to track the movement of two wild elephants, after they killed an elderly watchman at a mango orchard on Sunday. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor Wildlife Division-East) G.G. Narentheran told The Hindu that the special parties were formed to prevent the two elephants from moving closer to agriculture fields, human habitations and national highways. Of the three elephants forming the Bachelors’ Group, while one turned into a loner, the other two are criss-crossing Puttur and Karveti Nagaram ranges. The elephants are depending on the sparse vegetation on the hillocks and occasionally raiding the crops. Mr. Narentheran said the wild elephants could have left the Karveti Nagaram reserve forest area and entered the plains due to a fire reported few days ago. Mr. Narentheran urged cattle herders not to resort to forest fires as it would reduce edible grass for the elephants and increase the lantana growth, which is harmful for the cattle when ingested. The DFO appealed to the people of the villages to cooperate with the personnel in the operation to confine the animals to the forest area. Meanwhile, forest officials handed over an initial ex gratia of Rs. 1 lakh to the family members of the watchman at their residence at Kalyanapuram, near Puttur, on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-teams-formed-to-tackle-jumbo-menace/article34531291.ece
11 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beds being set aside for YSRCP cadres: JSP leader||Jana Sena Party in-charge (Tirupati Assembly constituency) K. Kiran Rayal on Monday alleged that though there were sufficient number of beds equipped with oxygen and ventilators for the COVID patients in SVRR, SVIMS and BIRRD Hospitals in Tirupati, they had not been allotted to common people in need of critical care, but earmarked for the cadres of the ruling YSR Congress Party and their kith and kin from the four districts of Rayalaseema. In a press release, the JSP leader alleged that the YSRCP leaders were controlling allotment of beds through volunteers. Mr Kiran Rayal also pointed out bias in providing vaccines to the public as only those who had voted for the ruling party were reportedly being identified and given importance. The JSP leader demanded that the State government keep the beds at the disposal of public without bias.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beds-being-set-aside-for-ysrcp-cadres-jsp-leader/article34531528.ece
11 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||App to check vehicle thefts launched||Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Venkata Appala Naidu on Monday launched ‘Vahan Raksha’ app and device, intended to curb the menace of two-wheeler thefts, at the SP office here in Tirupati. The app, designed by Ayan Tech Solutions, comes with a device fitted to the two-wheeler that would alert the area police station with a message and issue a loud siren whenever someone attempts a theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/app-to-check-vehicle-thefts-launched/article34531530.ece
11 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Permanent vaccine centres set up in Guntur district||After days of uncertainty over the vaccine drives and the surging crowds at the vaccine centres, the Guntur’s district administration has decided to set up permanent vaccination centres at municipal/mandal headquarters in the district to administer vaccines to the general public and frontline workers. A total of 77 permanent vaccine centres have been set up in all the mandals of Guntur district. Five of them — SKBM High School (AT Agraharam), Sri Rama Nama Skethram (Sampath Nagar), Lal Jan Basha Function Hall (Lalapet), 140th ward secretariat (Bharathpet) and Sri Krishna Community Hall (Old Guntur) — have been designated as permanent vaccine centres. District Collector Vivek Yadav, who came up with the vaccine strategy, said that the inoculation drive would continue till May 31 during which only the second dose would be administered. “We have introduced three colour-coded tokens: red for healthcare workers and frontline workers, green for senior citizens and blue for the general public. Commissioners or MPDOs will issue tokens to persons waiting for the second dose. A model of tokens have been provided to all Commissioners and MDOs,” the Collector said. The tokens would be issued a day before the vaccine date through volunteers to the people and senior citizens and the record would be kept by the VROs/panchayat/ward secretaries. There shall be no provision for giving first dose of vaccine till May 31, 2021 and beneficiaries cannot book slots for the first dose online and all pre-booked slots have been cancelled. The beneficiaries of the second dose would be communicated either by a phone call or an SMS informing them of the date and location. The detailed guidelines also include allotment of duties at vaccine centres, setting up of entrance barricades, waiting halls, registration counters and slip issuance counters and observation rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/permanent-vaccine-centres-set-up-in-guntur-district/article34531293.ece
11 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID submits counter-affidavit to HC in Capital lands scam||More skeletons continue to tumble out of the closet of the maze of Capital lands scam. Fresh investigations by the Crime Investigation Department has reportedly revealed a deep rooted nexus between politicians and certain bureaucrats in bringing in G.O Ms 41 (The Andhra Pradesh Capital City Land Pooling Scheme), amending rules to allot developed plots to those in possession of assigned lands. In a counter-affidavit submitted to the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, which had stayed all proceedings in the case filed by Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy against former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and former Minister for Municipal Administration P. Narayana, the CID submitted crucial evidences and urged the court to lift the stay and help in further investigations. “The whole scam centred on a web of lies and deceit. A campaign was run over claims made by some political sections and government agencies that the assigned lands would be taken over by the government creating a sense of fear and panic in the assignees, most of them belonging to Dalit communities. The assigned lands were then bought at throwaway prices and later submitted to a land pooling scheme. In return, they were provided with developed plots after bringing in G.O Ms No 41 in February 2016 in violation of all existing rules. The issuance of the GO has caused massive loss to the State exchequer and in violation of business rules,’’ said the CID DSP Lakshminarayana in a counter affidavit submitted in the High Court. The CID further said that the GO had neither prior Cabinet approval nor passed by the Legislative Assembly, mandatory according to the APCRDA Act. Stating that the agency had established the criminal conspiracy by the then Chief Minister and the then Municipal Administration Minister in issuing the GO, the CID said that further investigation would bring all the facts into light. The CID said that it had obtained details of land owners who had given lands in categories 4,5,6 from the CRDA and mapped the details on the ground. Most of the persons who had given lands in Category 4 belonged to the Telugu Desam Party and have tried in vain to register the lands in sub registrar office at Mangalagiri. These persons have purchased lands from the assignees on registered sale agreements by paying nominal amounts, later gave their lands to LPS and some of them even sold the developed plots at exorbitant rates. In yet another startling evidence, the CID had said that then Joint Collector of Guntur Ch. Sreedhar had issued oral instructions to the Tahsildar, Thullur, to hand over all the RSR, FMB, Adangals, 1 B original land records to the office of JC. The CID recorded the statement of then Tahsildar Tirupathi Venkateswarlu, who served as Thullur Tahsildar during September-November , 2014. He was succeeded by Anne Sudhir. The whole conspiracy came into light when the office of Collector, Guntur, wrote to Tahsildars of the three mandals of Thullur, Tadepalli and Mangalagiri to say that there were no revenue records available and asked them to do a field survey and find out who were in possession of assigned lands. “The nature of the scam is so clear as the then JC had asked the Tahsildars to take possession of all revenue records and keep them in his room, and later in 2016, the office or collector wrote a letter seeking records. It is evident that only Dr. Sreedhar (the then JC, Guntur) knew where the original land records were and he had not submitted the records neither to his successor nor to the Collector. The CID had already filed cases against Mr. Sudheer and Mr. Brahmananda Reddy and further investigations would bring all facts into light,” said the CID. The investigative agency had further cited a judgment of Supreme Court ruling out interference by courts in cases under 482 Cr.P.C. and vesting all authority with the police to investigate in cognizable offences and appeared to the High Court to lift the stay and allow it to continue the investigations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-submits-counters-to-ap-high-court-in-capital-assigned-lands-scam/article34531771.ece
11 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pregnant women to get free beds with oxygen supply||Guntur-based Ahalya Nursing Home has announced that it would provide beds equipped with oxygen supply free of cost to pregnant women suffering from COVID-19. Ahalya Nursing Home chairman S. Rajakumari said that this initiative was made possible with the support of Indian Cultural Centre-Barcelona, headed by Robert Masih Nahar and Fons Catala from Spain, which donated 10 oxygen concentrators to the nursing home. Dr. Rajakumari requested all women to get vaccinated for COVID-19, and added that the vaccines provided by the government were safe and that there was no reason for pregnant women to panic. “In most cases, only mild symptoms appear and only a very few cases need hospitalisation. Prevention, early diagnosis and treatment is essential for a safe pregnancy. As pregnant women have lesser immune levels, they are prone to infection and so they should be more careful,” said Dr. Rajakumari. Wearing a mask, following social distancing and using hand sanitiser frequently will greatly reduce the chances of infection, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pregnant-women-to-get-free-beds-with-oxygen-supply/article34531294.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expats worried about health of kin||Anirudh Vamsi is 14,000 km away from India, but the raging second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has filled him with anxiety and an overwhelming sense of helplessness. His elderly parents reside in Hyderabad, and tested positive for the coronavirus, one after another. “I was at the mercy of relatives, friends, and strangers who offer the best help they could. My parents have become weak and are not able to talk for too long over phone. I can’t stop thinking about their health,” said Mr Anirudh, who is in his early 40s and based in Atlanta, USA. This emotional turmoil is not limited to Mr Anirudh, who continues to spend sleepless nights worrying about the well-being of his parents. Many other Telanganites in USA, one of their favourite work destinations, constantly have a prayer on their lips. With the COVID crisis deepening, leading to a shortage of ventilator beds in major hospitals of Hyderabad, they are concerned about the safety of their family members. Multiple questions are playing on their minds — who will come to help if both parents get infected? What if they need hospitalisation? What if their vitals fluctuate even after recovery? With travel restrictions in effect, the option of flying home is slim. They are relying heavily on phone and online services to connect with the family and stay updated about the health of everyone at home. Hoping to ensure that their parents or family members do not contract COVID-19, they are making use of technology for doorstep delivery of groceries, medicines and other essentials to minimise exposure to the outside world. Meena Dheep, who stays in Florida, said her sister’s children stay with her parents in Dilsukhnagar. “I ask my parents not visit anyone’s home, and to ensure no one visits our home. We have paid advance salary to the maid salary and asked her not to come. The children there share the burden of household chores,” said Ms Meena. Since grim news makes its way through phone or the television, she tries to pep up her family’s mood by engaging them in conversations about good old times they had with family and friends. But some of the expatriates are at their wits’ end when their parents do not pay heed to their suggestions and step out for unessential work. Volunteers save the day Responding to their family’s needs from a distant land is challenging, no doubt, but a few ‘strangers’ are helping them hang on to hope amid the uncertainty. The expats are breathing a little easy, thanks to the efforts of COVID-19 volunteers, who are answering SOS messages for hospital beds, oxygen, drugs and food on social media and liasing with the authorities concerned for the resources. In Hyderabad, the volunteers are fielding calls for help relating to arrangements for ICU beds and doorstep delivery of medical resources. Ravi Sambari from Relief Riders Hyderabad said he received an SOS call at 9.15 p.m. from a man in the UK. His elderly parents stay in Warangal and were in need of an oxygen cylinder as their saturation levels were dropping. With the help of his team and others, Mr Ravi managed to arrange an oxygen cylinder as well as a skilled healthcare professional to fix the cylinder at home. “There is a lot of good in society which is helping save lives,” he added. Sai Charan Chikkulla, another volunteer, said that he received close to 30 calls in the past one month from people residing abroad. A woman in the USA requested him to track down a verified oxygen cylinder provider for her parents who had just recovered from COVID-19. She had a few numbers but was unsure if she could rely on those, especially since she had to make advance payment. “Since we are vetting all the numbers, I spoke to an oxygen cylinder provider and explained the situation to him. He had it delivered before her parents could reach home. Another person in the USA called requesting an ICU bed for his father,” Mr Sai Charan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expats-worried-about-health-of-kin/article34531229.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||At least 60 ‘Black Fungus’ cases detected in Hyderabad||Doctors in Telangana who are already battling with COVID-19 are coming across another rare health crisis which could have serious impact on people. They have diagnosed some COVID-recovered patients with Mucormycosis — a rare form of fungal infection which could affect vision, and threatens life, if people do not get treated immediately after spotting its symptoms. Around 50 such cases were detected at Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills, alone in the past one month. Another five cases each came to light at Continental Hospitals and Aster Prime Hospitals in the city. Mucormycosis is also known as black fungus. Of the 50 cases at Apollo Hospitals, 16 patients are showing good progress, 6 patients have succumbed to the disease and the remaining are fighting with mucor in ICUs and wards. It was estimated that there could be more such cases at other major corporate hospitals What is Mucormycosis? “Mucormycosis is a fungal infection that mainly affects people who are on medication for other health problems, that reduces their ability to fight environmental pathogens. Sinuses or lungs of such individuals get affected after fungal spores are inhaled from the air,” according to an advisory developed by National Task Force for COVID-19 and experts. The advisory states that Mucormycosis has to be suspected in COVID-19 patients, diabetics and immuno-suppressed individuals when they have sinusitis – nasal blockade or congestion, nasal discharge (blackish/bloody), local pain on the cheek bone. It further added, “One-sided facial pain, numbness or swelling. Blackish discolouration over bridge of nose or palate. Toothache, loosening of teeth, jaw involvement. Blurred or double vision with pain; fever, skin lesion; thrombosis & necrosis (eschar). Chest pain, pleural effusion, haemoptysis, worsening of respiratory symptoms”. ENT surgeons from Aster Prime Hospitals were among the first who tried to create awareness about this crisis. Incidentally, ENT specialists from two more corporate hospitals sent awareness notes on Tuesday afternoon. Doctors pointed at link between indiscriminate use of steroids, high sugar levels, and activation of Black Fungi. The doctors from the Apollo Hospital said that one of the major reasons for the exponential rise in cases among COVID patients is the excessive usage of steroids. High sugar levels “Steroids are leading to extremely uncontrolled sugar levels, which make it a fertile field for the black fungi to grow, multiply and invade at a rapid rate. Though on many occasions usage of steroids is invariably necessary, but the dosage, and duration needs to be reconsidered, especially for diabetic patients,” the Apollo Hospitals doctors said. An ENT surgeon Dr Ajay Kumar Yadlapalli, said that steroids are used only in around 10% to 15% of COVID-19 patients who have high levels of inflammation. “When steroids are used, sugar levels go up. And the sugar levels further shoots up in patients with uncontrollable diabetes. So it should be used strictly under qualified doctors’ monitoring. Sugar levels have to be regularly monitored, and maintained,” Dr Ajay said. Senior ENT consultant Dr K Rambabu said that all COVID patients who are given steroids have to be watchful of mucormycosis symptoms, especially people with diabetes. The specialist doctors stressed that indiscriminate usage of steroids has to be stopped. Treatment includes aggressive surgery or radical debridement and exenteration of effected or blind eye, long term follow-up along with anti-fungal medications. Apart from surgery, prolonged anti-fungal treatment plays a major role in curing the patient.  Steroids are leading to extremely uncontrolled sugar levels, which make it a fertile field for the black fungi to grow, multiply and invade at a rapid rate. Doctors of Apollo Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/black-fungus-cases-found-in-hyderabad/article34531351.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical infra being strengthened in all Central govt. hospitals: Kishan Reddy||The Centre is strengthening medical infrastructure in all ESI, Railway, Defence and AIIMS hospitals across the country to convert them into COVID healthcare facilities in order to deal with the second wave COVID surge, said Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Monday “We could not anticipate the huge number of COVID cases in the second wave after successfully containing the first wave,” he said after inspecting AIIMS-Bibinagar on the outskirts of the capital. The DRDO is working on bringing out a cheaper vaccine with indigenous research and development soon into the market to add to the country's vaccine arsenal, he said. “We will come out of this dire situation with the cooperation of people and the Centre has been taking all possible steps to mitigate the sufferings by clearing the path for round the clock production of vaccines, medicines and oxygen besides allowing liberal exports," said Mr. Reddy. States have been given complete freedom to contain the pandemic and efforts are already showing with not a single case reported from 180 districts in the last seven days. With regard to the enhancement of facilities at AIIMS-Bibinagar, Mr. Reddy said a master plan to upgrade it into a 750 bed hospital is ready. He requested the State government to hand over the premises fully and assured that within the next 10 days the number of beds for COVID treatment would be increased from 50 to 200 along with ICU wards. The hospital has 16 cylinders and 50 more would be supplied for improving oxygen supplies while the machine to capture oxygen from air of 1,100 PSA - pressure swing absorption capacity would be installed soon, he said. Sufficient ventilators too would be provided with TIMS-Gachibowli and Gandhi Hospital already receiving 200 ventilators each from the PM Cares Fund. He also expected the number of medical graduates enrolment to be more than 100 soon. The Minister urged the government to ensure there is no hoarding of Remidisver and address vaccine shortage besides ensuring 'Arogyasri' health insurance is made applicable for COVID treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infra-being-strengthened-in-all-central-hospitals-kishan-reddy/article34531774.ece
11 May 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two quarry owners held||The Kadapa police on Monday took two persons into custody in connection with the blast of gelatin sticks at the limestone quarry in Kalasapadu mandal of Andhra Pradesh on Saturday that killed 10 workers on the spot. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anbhurajan told The Hindu that the two accused were the quarry owners Nageswara Reddy and Raghunatha Reddy. “A thorough investigation is going on. It has been found that the blast occurred when the explosives were being shifted to the godown from a car,” he said. The SP said that many key aspects pertaining to the case including provision of licence for quarrying, procurement of explosives and deployment of workforce without safety precautions were being probed. Negligence on the part of the quarry management and violation of the safety protocols were said to be the reason for the incident. ‘No licence’ “It has been found that the quarry has neither licence pertaining to environmental clearance nor permit for carrying out the blasts,” the SP said. The official said that the bodies of the victims had been handed over to the respective family members. Meanwhile, the district administration is said to be preparing a detailed report on the incident which would be submitted to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quarry-owners-in-ap-taken-into-custody/article34531230.ece
11 May 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work at UCIL suspended||The management of Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL) has temporarily suspended works at its Tummalapalle mine in Vemula mandal, 75 km from here, in view of the COVID pandemic. The UCIL management has announced that the works at the mine would remain suspended for the next one week and the decision was taken in compliance with the Central government’s guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-at-ucil-suspended/article34531826.ece
11 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 20 crore from Mineral Fund spent on roads, water projects||The East Godavari District Committee on District Mineral Fund (DMF) on Monday accepted a proposal to allocate funds for the seven rural water supply works and repairs of the Tuni-Kattipudi road, during a virtual meeting headed by Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy. Joint Collector (Revenue) G. Lakshmisha and Sub-Collectors at Amalapuram and Rajamahendravaram and Project Officers at Rampachodavaram and Chintoor participated in the meeting. “A total of Rs. 20 crore fund from the Rs. 32.89 crore District Mineral Fund has been spent on various developmental works including roads, water and health in the areas where the mining activities have been permitted,” said Mr. Muralidhar. The government collects fund from the mining companies and agencies engaged in the mining of various mineral resources in the district. The committee has allocated Rs. 2.64 crore for the seven rural water supply projects at Rajanagaram Assembly segment. Officials have been directed to speed up the proposed works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-20-crore-from-mineral-fund-spent-on-roads-water-projects/article34531296.ece
11 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GUDA official dies of COVID in Kakinada||Godavari Urban Development Authority (GUDA) Secretary G. Sanyasi Rao (54) succumbed to COVID-19 while undergoing medical treatment at a private hospital in Kakinada on Monday. Condolences Sanyasi Rao hailed from north Andhra region. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and Joint Collectors G. Lakshmisha, Ch. Kirthi and G. Rajakumari expressed their condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guda-official-dies-of-covid-in-kakinada/article34531295.ece
11 May 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala police pull down FB video featuring accused||The Kerala police had to pull down a video featuring an accused from their social media page after complaints of cyberbullying. The youth was earlier taken into custody on the charge of posting a video showing him verbally abusing a girl. He had been released on bail. The police deleted the video from their Facebook page after being criticised for “illegal practices on social media”. “A violation” Many critics equated the act of the police to that of the accused and felt it amounted to cyberbullying by the police. Hareesh Vasudevan, a lawyer, said the police should be held responsible for uploading such videos, which were in violation of the provisions of the Kerala Police Act. The Act states that all information collected by the police in respect of activities of an individual or an institution, in the course of discharge of their duties, shall be kept confidential, except for the purpose of using such information for official needs. The police, who were duty-bound to protect the dignity of an individual, were violating these rights thorough such acts, Mr. Vasudevan said. Another lawyer specialising in criminal law said it was the courts and not the police that were empowered to convict or acquit a person in an offence. Police cannot assume the role of the court. The police also committed the offence of defamation through such acts, he said. Awareness campaign Confirming that the police had deleted the controversial video, Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham, who is overseeing activities of the social media page of the police, said videos of individuals were not uploaded as a matter of policy. The troll videos were made as part of an awareness campaign and aimed at public good, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-police-pull-down-fb-video-featuring-accused/article34531233.ece
11 May 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implement order on rate for COVID-19 treatment: Kerala HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday directed the State government to forthwith implement the government’s new order on the rates fixed for treatment of COVID-19 patients in private hospitals and nursing homes. The Bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice Kauser Edappaganth also made it clear that the charge for the 50% beds reserved in private hospitals for COVID patients would be governed by the new order. The Bench also directed the incident commanders, appointed by the government under the Disaster Management Act for private hospitals, to ensure that hospitals and nursing homes were following the order in its letter and spirit. The order is applicable to FLTCs, if any, run by private establishments. The court also exhorted the authorities to increase ICU beds in view of the spike in caseload. The government should consider adding hospital beds to the existing availability depending upon the number of COVID patients reported. It also ordered that the mechanism for redressing complaints of overcharging by private hospitals, as provided in the new government order, be put in place forthwith. Toll-free number The government was directed to consider establishing a toll-free emergency number at the State-level for providing medical assistance, including availability of ICU beds etc., to patients. When a public interest ligation seeking to regulate charges in private hospitals for COVID treatment came up for hearing, State Attorney K.V. Sohan submitted that the government had issued an order fixing rates for treatment packages in private hospitals and nursing homes. As per the order, the rate for general wards in NABH-accredited hospitals (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers) and non-NABH hospitals would be Rs. 2,910 and Rs. 2,645 respectively. The charge would include oxygen, medicine and drugs, nursing, and boarding. However, high-end investigations had not been included. He also submitted that District Medical Officers would be appointed as grievances redressal officers to look into complaints of overcharging. A State-level authority consisting of three doctors would consider appeal against the orders of the district-level grievances officers. Assistant Solicitor General P. Vijayakumar assured that the court would be informed of the progress on a request made by the government for 400 metric tonnes of medical oxygen. He submitted a dynamic mechanism was in place monitoring the allocation of oxygen to various States. Private hospitals were also directed to display the prices of drugs as well as the rate of services provided there.  The court has exhorted the authorities to increase ICU beds in view of the spike in caseload||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-order-on-rate-for-covid-19-treatment-kerala-hc/article34531232.ece
11 May 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||30,000-plus active cases in Nellore, Prakasam||Over 2,000 persons tested positive for virus in South Coastal Andhra, while eight more patients succumbed to it, all in Nellore, in a span of 24 hours. The toll rose to 1,339 in the region, with Nellore accounting for 664 deaths and Prakasam for 675, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Monday night. For the first time during the second wave, the active caseload rose to 30,694 in the two districts with 1,432 new cases in Nellore and 639 in Prakasam. Unlike during the first wave, more number of youth are contracting the disease now, health officials said. The overall coronavirus case tally touched the 1.78 lakh-mark as SPSR Nellore district accounted for over 94,000 cases and Prakasam district for the rest. Meanwhile, the inoculation drive is expected to resume only from May 15 on getting the vaccine stocks from the Centre, officials said. Respiratory problem common Health officials had a tough time treating the large number of patients, a majority of them having respiratory problem, as the designated COVID-19 hospitals buckled under the pressure. The Prakasam district administration created temporary sheds at the Government General Hospital in Ongole as scores of patients waited at the reception counter at any given point time for allotment of bed. The gap between the fresh cases and recoveries narrowed down to about 200 in SPSR Nellore district and 300 in Prakasam district. Meanwhile, hundreds of people who thronged the session sites to take the shot were a disappointed lot. The ongoing vaccination drive would remain suspended for a few days to prepare a list of persons who had already taken the first dose of vaccine and issue tokens to them to avoid overcrowding at the session sites like during last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30000-plus-active-cases-in-nellore-prakasam/article34531532.ece
11 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen cylinders supplied to PHCs||TDP leader and founder of Nikhila Kalisetti Charitable Trust, Kalisetti Appala Naidu, supplied oxygen cylinders to Primary Health Centres (PHCs) at Etcherla, Laveru, G. Sigadam and in Ranasthalam mandal to enable rural patients get treatment for COVID-19. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Appala Naidu said that doctors were given PPE kits to ensure their safety while treating COVID-19 patients. “We have been supplying oxygen cylinders to patients’ homes in some places as they were unable to travel due to other health problems. We will ensure refilling of oxygen if empty cylinders are given to us. An exclusive van with oxygen facility will crisscross all villages in four mandals,” said Mr. Appala Naidu. Medical kits He said he would ensure that medical kits and doctors’ advice is given to patients in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-cylinders-supplied-to-phcs/article34531299.ece
11 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jobs for kin of COVID victims sought||CPI(M) senior leader and CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao on Monday asked the government to issue guidelines to ensure jobs for family members of employees and workers who died of COVID-19. He alleged that there were no social security measures for workers. Addressing a press meet at a COVID isolation centre established by them in Srikakulam, Mr. Govinda Rao said labourers and daily wagers were the biggest victims of the lack of oxygen facilities and beds at government hospitals. “The government has failed to stop the sale of lifesaving drugs on the black market. It has turned into a bane for poor patients as they are unable to afford them. That is why we have started an isolation centre where they will get medicines under the supervision of service-oriented doctors,” said Mr. Govinda Rao. CITU leaders Ch. Ammannaidu urged Collector J. Nivas to establish exclusive isolation centres for employees and labourers working in various industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jobs-for-kin-of-covid-victims-sought/article34531298.ece
11 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader Gumma Nagaraju dead||AP Brahmin Corporation former member and TDP leader Gumma Nagaraju died due to ill health in Srikakulam on Monday. He was 65. Nagaraju had been with the Telugu Desam Party for the last thirty years. Several TDP leaders, including former Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu, Boina Govinda Rajulu, Madarapu Venkatesh, expressed shock over his sudden death. They recalled his contribution to the party and services to poor Brahmin families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-gumma-nagaraju-dead/article34531301.ece
11 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala unable to part with oxygen, CM writes to Modi||The Kerala government has informed the Centre that it was hard-pressed to supply supplemental medical oxygen to other States. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Kerala’s demand for oxygen was likely to spike by May 15, when the number of active COVID-19 cases was expected to touch six lakh. Kerala had pegged its projected requirement of oxygen to tide over the demand at 450 metric tonnes. Kerala’s current oxygen reserve was barely 86 metric tonnes. It had promised to supply up to 40 metric tonnes to Tamil Nadu before May 10. Kerala has worked hard to optimise medical oxygen to ease the strain on the national grid. It sent technical teams to plug leaks in delivery systems and to ensure thet hospitals ration the compound’s supply to critically ill patients. INOX at Kanjikode in Palakkad is Kerala’s primary source for oxygen. Kerala’s total oxygen generation capacity is an estimated 219 metric tonne. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala was remote from major oxygen-producing industrial centres. Hence, there was a delay in procuring oxygen from far-off steel plants. The Chief Minister requested the Centre to allocate more cryogenic tankers to transport liquid medical oxygen to Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu via rail. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala had shifted doses of vital Remdesivir to needy States as directed by the Centre’s Allocation Committee. He told Mr. Modi that the pandemic situation in Kerala was difficult. The State was under lockdown till May 16, he said. A.P. steps up efforts Meanwhile, buckling under pressure to bridge the gap between the demand and supply of medical oxygen and sort out related logistical issues, the Andhra Pradesh government has set up a ‘State Oxygen War Room’ (SOWR) and is in the process of ensuring similar facilities in the districts. These ‘war rooms’ have been tasked with procuring oxygen, arranging transportation to COVID-designated facilities and ensuring safe storage for use in the coming months. The sharp spike in the number of COVID-19 patients in the need of oxygen support for survival has prompted the government to accord top priority to augmenting the production and supply infrastructure, and set up the ‘war rooms’ to ensure proper coordination that is crucial for preventing fatalities. Green corridor The first Oxygen Express train to Karnataka has left from Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. The train, carrying 120 tonnes of liquid oxygen, will reach the Container Corporation India in Whitefield, Bengaluru, on Tuesday. Chief PRO of South Western Railway (SWR) Aneesh Hegde told The Hindu that the first express train was carrying six cryogenic containers, each loaded with 20 tonnes of liquid oxygen. The train left at 3.30 a.m. on May 10 from Jamshedpur. “Based on a request from the State government, the Railways is running the Oxygen Express train. The distance between the originating station and the city is approximately around 1,860 km. A green corridor has already been created for the train. The train will reach Whitefield on Tuesday,” the official said. To facilitate movement of tankers, the SWR built a ramp in Whitefield. If required, the officials will also use facilities at Doddaballapur for transportation of oxygen tankers in future. Chief Secretary of the State P. Ravi Kumar had recently written to the Railway Board, requesting operations of Oxygen Express trains to mitigate shortage of liquid oxygen in the State.  (With inputs from Vijaywada and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-unable-to-part-with-oxygen-cm-writes-to-modi/article34531242.ece
11 May 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 victim’s body taken to mosque||A case has been registered against the Malik Islamic Centre Juma Masjid authorities, Thrissur, and relatives of a COVID-19 victim, whose body was taken to the mosque for religious rites in violation of COVID-19 protocol. The body of the 53-year-old from Varavur, who died at the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital, was taken to the mosque at Sakthan Nagar, Thrissur, on Monday for religious rites, en route to the burial. It is alleged that the body, which was packed according to COVID protocol by the hospital, was opened and washed for the rites at the mosque. Health workers, who reached the mosque upon being informed, stopped further procedures. The District Collector ordered that the body be buried in the presence of health workers. “Such incidents are unfortunate at a time when the country is fighting against the pandemic. Stringent action is needed to check such incidents. The funeral of COVID-19 patients should be done by maintaining protocols, irrespective of caste and religion,” the Collector said. The body was taken to the mosque in an ambulance of a private charitable institution. The body was later buried at the burial ground of the Kanjirassery Masjid, Mullurkkara, in the presence of health workers and the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-victims-body-taken-to-mosque/article34531237.ece
11 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No melody in lives of the visually impaired||They may not be able to see the impact of partial curfew being implemented in view of COVID-19, but could definitely feel it. Philanthropists’ “generous donations” to the visually impaired artists has come down. They sing songs at roadside shows in the city to eke out a living. Nowadays they find it difficult to make both ends meet, as people, of late, hardly stop at the roadside events. “Even if I sing 10 songs at a stretch, we are unable to pool enough money to pay for a square meal a day,” says Yohan, a singer. He is one of the many visually impaired artists, who are dependent on roadside music shows. They visit the city from various places across the State. They team up with different voluntary organisations or associations which help them in making necessary arrangements to organise the shows. Yohan, a native of Vissannapeta, takes help of the Dreams Foundation for the Blind. There are about 18 members in the group, including graduates, pre-university and high-school educated. Nageswara Rao, a native of Macherla, is one among them. “I am a graduate, but could not find a job. It did not disheartened me. I don’t want to depend on others and be a burden on them. Now, singing songs is a way of life for us,” he says. “Before the lockdown, we used to connect with society by our songs. The visually impaired singers used to get decent donations. The lockdown choked our lives and earnings. The happiness that the situation was returning to normalcy was short-lived. Now, the singers neither can return home with a pittance nor stay back here,” he says. Helping hands Whenever these blind artists visit Vijayawada, Guru Satyam, who owns an auto, extends them cooperation by taking them in his autorickshaw and helps in making arrangements for mike by contacting locals. These singers don’t sit quietly after a performance. They keep practising new songs at the accommodation. “Based on their request, I download karaoke from the Internet. It helps them in singing new songs,” he says. According to information, the singers invest around Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 on the sound system and auto. The earnings used to be decent. Though, the expenditure hasn’t come down, the income isn’t enough. Before the lockdown, they used to organise the shows in the evening near Rythu Bazaars, Bandar Road and Eluru Road, near KS Vyas Traffic Complex, Autonagar, Pinnamaneni Polyclinic Road and other areas. Now, the number of roadside orchestras have come down. There are 3 to 4 teams that are actively organising the road shows, say the singers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-melody-in-lives-of-the-visually-impaired/article34531828.ece
11 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set up more oxygen plants, Somu urges State govt.||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to set up more medical oxygen plants at the earliest, procure Remdesivir injections with the government’s own resources, increase the beds in hospitals and improve services at major hospitals such as the King George Hospital (KGH) and Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) on a war-footing to tackle the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. Aarogyasri hospitals In a letter to the Chief Minister on Monday, Mr. Veerraju expressed regret that the government had been keeping quiet on the demand of the BJP’s State leadership that Rs. 2,000 crore be allocated for the fight against the pandemic. “There has been a shortage of medicines and COVID kits at the government hospitals in Visakhapatnam and Tirupati. The Chief Minister must to ensure that no COVID patient is denied treatment at the Aarogyasri-empanelled private hospitals with the excuse that the government is yet to clear their bills,” said Mr. Veerraju. He said if private hospitals and medical colleges came forward to set up oxygen plants, they should be accorded permission without delay. ‘Focus on tribal areas’ Mr. Veerraju also sought a focussed attention on the situation in tribal areas where people might be reluctant to get themselves treated for health conditions induced by COVID infection. “The Police Department should enforce the curfew strictly to prevent the spread of virus. Efforts should be made to vaccinate all people as early as possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-up-more-oxygen-plants-somu-urges-state-govt/article34531831.ece
11 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State ready to buy vaccines from abroad, says Singhal||The State government has decided to buy COVID vaccines from abroad, including the Russian-made Sputnik V, if the Centre permits it. Andhra Pradesh is prepared to immediately procure the required four crore vaccines by paying Rs. 1,600 crore, but certain guidelines laid down by the Centre proved to be an impediment, observed Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal. Mr. Singhal said 50% of the vaccines manufactured by the pharmaceutical companies had to be given to the Centre, which fixed a quota for the allocation of the remainder to the States. Obviously, the States had to pay for it and follow the stipulated procedures, which made the vaccine procurement cumbersome in the prevailing situation. Mr. Singhal said the Centre allowed A.P. to buy 17 lakh vaccines (Covaxin and Covishield) during May, for which the money had been paid. “The State is ready to purchase whatever number of vaccines are required to help people develop immunity (to COVID). In fact, we have resolved to administer vaccines free of cost,” he stated, while expressing the government’s willingness to give clearances to companies coming forward to make the vaccines in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-ready-to-buy-vaccines-from-abroad-says-singhal/article34531829.ece
11 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Open windows in ICU blocks, former MLA urges KGH officials||Former BJP MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has asked the officials of the KGH to open the windows in all the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) blocks in the fourth floor of the CSR Block, which have been reportedly sealed. After visiting the CSR Block and meeting the nursing staff and doctors on Monday, he told the media that due to a couple of alleged suicides in the CSR Block, all the windows have been nailed and sealed. Doctors said that there was no cross ventilation and the blocks were stinking, he added.  ‘Fix permanent grills’ The doctors also said that there was a need for cross ventilation, as the viral load in the blocks was very high, Mr. Raju said. “I have requested the officials to fix permanent grills so that patients cannot jump out and open the windows for cross ventilation,” he said. He said that the doctors and nurses have informed that there was no donning and doffing rooms in the block, where they can don and remove the PPE kits. All the used kits are dumped outside or on the corridors, which was not a safe practice, the former MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/open-windows-in-icu-blocks-former-mla-urges-kgh-officials/article34531846.ece
11 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Keep tab on oxygen supply’||Joint Collector M. Venugopala Reddy has directed the officials to visit the hospitals every day to know the position of vacant beds and oxygen supply. He reviewed the oxygen production and supply position at a review meet here on Monday. He directed the medical officer Chandrasekhar, Assistant Director Manisha Tripathi and Arogyasri Coordinator Rajesh to find out the possibilities of oxygen storage. He directed the DIC General Manager Ramalinga Raju to keep a tab on the oxygen production and supply position. The movement of the oxygen tankers should be monitored through GPS by the IT Department, he said. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-tab-on-oxygen-supply/article34531838.ece
11 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Covaxin second dose to be available at various places today||Covaxin second dose is being made available at various places in city and district from Tuesday. Only those who received the message should go to the centres for vaccination. District Medical and Health Officer P. Suryanarayana noted that the vaccine would be available at the Primary Health Centres/Community Health Centres at Anandapuram, Anantagiri, Araku, Atchutapuram, Butchayyapeta, Cheedikada, Chintapalli Chouduwada, Dumbriguda, G. Madugula, Gavaravaram, Godicherla, Golugonda, GK Veedhi, Hukumpeta, KJ Puram, Kasikota, KD Peta, KV Puram, Makavarapalem, Munagapaka, Munchingput, Nathavaram, Paderu, Payakaraopeta, Pedabayalu, Penugollu, R. Tallavasa, Rambilli, Ravikamatham, Revidi, Sabbavaram and Vemulapudi. In the city and surrounding areas, the vaccine will be available at the health centres at Allipuram, Butchirajupalem, One Town, Rammurthypanthulapeta, Sagar Nagar, Tagarapuvalasa, Vidyuth Nagar, Gajuwaka PHC (Dronamraju Kalyana Mandapam, Drivers' Colony), Madhurawada, Urban Family Planning Centre, Anakapalle, China Waltair, Swarna Bharathi, Arilova, Sriharipuram and Pendurthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covaxin-second-dose-to-be-available-at-various-places-today/article34531842.ece
11 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Approach us for medical help, police tell Maoists||The District Police have appealed to members of the Galikonda, Korukonda, Pedabayalu and Cut-Off Area Dalams of CPI (Maoists) to approach the nearest police station and seek assistance for treatment of COVID-19. In a statement issued here on Monday, the police noted that Intelligence information had revealed that the Maoist members were suffering with cough, fever and body pains due to COVID-19 and they would die if they do not receive timely and proper medical care as was being seen in COVID-19 patients regularly. The Dalam members could approach the police station through their elders or family members for medical assistance and get admitted to a hospital. Free treatment would be provided to them and on recovery, they would be sent home. The police appealed to the Maoist leaders not to “sacrifice” the lives of the tribal people by preventing them from going out for medical treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/approach-us-for-medical-help-police-tell-maoists/article34531832.ece
11 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||An IPS officer who loved his physics experiments||Many IPS officers who have served as Police Commissioners in the city stand out in their own right, but Bayyarapu Prasada Rao was different from the rest. Born on September 11, 1955, in Vijayawada, B. Prasada Rao reportedly died of a cardiac arrest on Monday morning in the U.S.A., where he had been living with his son. Bayyarapu Prasada Rao had served as Commissioner of Police of Visakhapatnam and held many high-ranking positions that culminated in the post of Director General of Police (DGP) of united Andhra Pradesh in 2013-2014. However, physics and the English language remained his first love. He completed B.Sc (Physics Main) with distinction from Andhra Loyola College in Vijayawada in 1975, and went on to do his M.Sc from IIT, Chennai in 1977. He cracked the civil services examinations in 1979 in his first attempt. Ph.D. on light waves He was awarded a Ph.D for his thesis ‘Studies on the wave particle duality of light’ by Sri Krishnadevaraya University in 2014. Such was his love for the subject that he began teaching it after his retirement. He relished discussions on the birth and evolution of the universe, the nature of light, subatomic particles, dark matter and dark energy. He would also boldly negate the Big Bang theory, explaining its ‘anomalies’ in the course of discussions that would stretch over several hours. Science lab at home As Commissioner, he had converted one of his rooms in his official residence into a laboratory and would eagerly show visitors around. His experiments revolved round the wave nature of light, his friends recalled. In one of his conversations with this reporter, he said, “Since my early days, I formed the habit of reading The Hindu, and picking up at least five new English words and writing them in a book with their meaning daily. I would then try to use them in some context during the day.”  “During my school days, my mother would give me 10 paisa daily for carrying the lunchbox to my father. I saved the money and bought my first English dictionary,” he had said. Prasada Rao is survived by his wife Sowmini, son Vilas and daughter Soumya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-ips-officer-who-loved-his-physics-experiments/article34531834.ece
11 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Come out with a national strategy, Centre urged||With the daily new COVID-19 cases exceeding 4 lakhs and the daily number of deaths exceeding 4,000, and with nationwide shortages in terms of ambulances, hospital beds, ICU facilities, ventilators, oxygen and even cremation space, former Union Secretary E.A.S. Sarma, has asked the Central government to come out with a national COVID strategy. In a letter addressed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, he has suggested the declaration of a National COVID Emergency, as part of the plan, which would include a nationwide lockdown till end of May with a comprehensive social security cover for migrant workers, deferment of all elections for the next six months at least and declare all healthcare equipment, drugs, facilities as essential ones to be subject to the State regulation. Mr. Sarma suggested that the emergency should be monitored by an all-party national committee consisting of senior representatives of the Centre, the States and all political parties on one platform. He also suggested that the plan can be modelled on the same lines as adopted by the Bombay Municipal Corporation, which focusses on a patient-centric approach with empathy. Mr. Sarma urged the Union and the State governments to convert vacant large buildings, marriage halls, sports stadiums etc. into hospital space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/come-out-with-a-national-strategy-centre-urged/article34531837.ece
11 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSA: increase public expenditure on healthcare||Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA) has released a statement on COVID-19 second wave seeking urgent policy measures to increase public expenditure on healthcare and reversal of all decisions on privatisation of district hospitals and other government hospitals. General secretary T. Kameswara Rao of Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV), an affiliate of the JSA, noted that a ‘protest day’ was observed on Monday seeking implementation of the suggestions made by the JSA.  Vaccine production The suggestions made by the PSA include reversal of all decision on privatisation of government hospitals, stepping up production of all essential medicines, diagnostics and PPE kits required for treatment of COVID-19 patients and ramping up production of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsa-increase-public-expenditure-on-healthcare/article34531841.ece
11 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1,618 new cases, nine deaths||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 1,618 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours on Monday. There was a marginal drop in cases, as the district was recording around 2,000 plus cases in the last few days. With the new cases, the active cases have now gone up to 19,752 and total cases to 99,949. The district also recorded nine deaths, taking the toll to 707. Meanwhile, 991 persons undergoing treatment were discharged, taking the total number of discharges to 79,490.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-1618-new-cases-nine-deaths/article34531843.ece
11 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drinking water provided to tribal village||The district police, in cooperation with the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), provided drinking water facility at Balarevula village in Budaralla panchayat in Koyyuru mandal, under the ‘Amrutha Jaladhara’ programme, in the district on Monday. The village is located in the Maoist-affected area and the police and the ITDA sunk borewell to provide drinking water to the villagers. According Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, during a past medical camp, the tribal people have brought the matter to the notice of police officers. The borewell was inaugurated by Officer-on-Special Duty(OSD) S. Sathish Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drinking-water-provided-to-tribal-village/article34531844.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State COVID tally races past 13-lakh mark||The State’s COVID tally crossed the 13-lakh mark with 14,988 new infections and 84 deaths reported in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. During the last 10 days, 2,00,899 cases were reported, registering 19% positivity rate. It was the biggest tally to be reported in such a short span. During the same period, 799 persons succumbed to the virus.  Rapid spread Of the two lakh cases, 67.4% were from seven districts: East Godavari (11.83%), Chittoor (11%), Guntur (8.55%), Visakhapatnam (9.97%), Srikakulam (9.35%), Kurnool (8.51%) and Anantapur (8.32%), with at least 16,000 cases from each district. Meanwhile, only 60,124 samples were tested in the past day, but the positivity rate was one of the highest at 24.93%. The overall positivity rate of 1.74 crore samples was 7.47%. The cumulative tally reached 13,02,589 and the toll increased to 8,791. Recoveries rise The number of recoveries also crossed the 11-lakh mark and reached 11,04,431  as 16,167 patients recovered in the past day setting the recovery rate at 8.79%. The death rate remains at 0.67%. There were 1,89,367 active cases. Guntur and West Godavari districts reported 12 new deaths each while East Godavari reported 10 deaths in the past day. Visakhapatnam reported nine deaths and Nellore and Vizianagaram reported eight each while Chittoor and Kurnool reported six each and Srikakulam and Krishna reported four each. Anantapur reported three deaths and Kadapa reported two. Prakasam reported no death. East Godavari reported the highest single-day tally of 2,352 infections in the past day. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (1,618), Guntur (1,55), Chittoor (1,543), Nellore (1,432), Srikakulam (1,298), Kadapa (1,224), Kurnool (948), Krishna (666), Anantapur (639), Prakasam (639), Vizianagaram (629) and West Godavari (423). The cumulative case tally of Anantapur and Visakhapatnam reached close to one lakh and that of Krishna district crossed the 70,000-mark. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,65,545),Chittoor (1,41,480), Guntur (1,22,097), West Godavari (1,10,811), Visakhapatnam (99,437), Anantapur (99,416), Nellore (94,329), Kurnool (93,646), Srikakulam (86,654), Prakasam (83,607), Kadapa (73,138), Krishna (70,624) and Vizianagaram (58,910).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-covid-tally-races-past-13-lakh-mark/article34531825.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. sets up State, district ‘oxygen war rooms’||The SOWR is headed by IAS officers M.T. Krishna Babu and S. Shan Mohan. They will be assisted by nodal officers of Industries, Medical & Health, Transport, Revenue & Disaster Management (R&DM), Police and IT Departments. Each of these departments are entrusted with specific responsibilities to accomplish the larger task of making enough quantities of oxygen available to hospitals without any hindrance. The Industries Department has also been asked to procure oxygen from all possible sources and even get closed units reopened for producing as much oxygen as possible, and more importantly get B and D type (industrial) cylinders converted into medical oxygen cylinders. Green channel The role of R&DM, Transport and Police Departments is to ensure smooth transportation of oxygen containers and cylinders and to source the life-saving gas from Karnataka, Odisha and Tamil Nadu and from the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, which is a major contributor of oxygen. The Police Department will be facilitating the oxygen transportation by opening green channels wherever needed. The Transport Department will get the oxygen containers and cylinders moving on trains and air, if the situation warrants. As far as the IT Department is concerned, it will play a crucial part too by tracking the oxygen consignments through GPS and GIS mapping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-sets-up-state-district-oxygen-war-rooms/article34531836.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||To keep virus at bay||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/to-keep-virus-at-bay/article34531848.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rough ride home!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rough-ride-home/article34531305.ece
11 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Police step up vigil to stop Maoist ‘infiltration’||Police stepped up vigil at the border points with Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh in the border mandals of the district to prevent Maoist rebels from entering the State amid the COVID-19 pandemic. According to sources, police are maintaining a constant vigil at all the inter-State entry points to keep a tab on the movement of Maoists in the present pandemic situation. The move comes in the wake of unconfirmed reports that some Maoist rebels in Dandakaranya forest region, straddling the Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar division, are suffering from COVID-19. Police sources said a woman Maoist leader of the neighbouring Bastar division, carrying a reward of Rs. 25 lakh on her head, was among those affected by COVID. On Saturday, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt called upon the “ailing” Maoists to quit the banned organisation and seek police help to avail COVID treatment. Amid the second wave of COVID pandemic, the district police are continuing the area domination and combing operations in the border mandals in coordination with the CRPF personnel by strictly adhering to COVID-19 safety precautions, sources added. A close watch is being maintained on the movement of vehicles, including ambulances, coming from the neighbouring States to foil attempts, if any, by the extremists to enter into the State in the guise of patients, a police officer of a border mandal in the district, who did not wish to be identified, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-step-up-vigil-to-stop-maoist-infiltration/article34531782.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination centres witness a heavy rush||The vaccination centres across the State witnessed heavy rush on Monday with the convergence of hundreds of people wanting a jab of their second dose, but mainly those who took Covishield in the first dose were lucky. Futile wait All those who turned up for Covaxin returned disappointed as it was not available at most centres. The staff manning the centres had no information where Covaxin was available, which resulted in people scouting for it from centre to centre. As crowds swelled, the staff administered doses to only those who were issued tokens. People waited in queues for long hours till the process was completed around 3 p.m. At places, they jostled to get the tokens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-centres-witness-a-heavy-rush/article34531767.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Felling of trees along Gandipet road begins||Everyone has their priorities. Even as COVID second wave is rampaging across the fear stricken population, the Roads & Buildings department has thought it fit to complete the road widening work at Gandipet by chopping giant decades-old trees, ignoring a pending request from a voluntary body to freely translocate them, on Monday. “Absolutely devastated to see the trees being chopped after I had appealed to the department to give me time till the first monsoon showers to shift the trees as the climate is not suitable for the translocation. But they seem to be a in hurry to get the hack job done,” bemoaned Vata Foundation trustee P. Uday Krishna. There are some 286 trees on either side of the road and the Tree Protection Committee (TPC) has “permitted” cutting 244 trees and allowed 42 trees for translocation! In a letter submitted to the chief engineer concerned, the Founder-Trustee has appealed to allow his organisation to save the trees except for eucalyptus and subabul variety and pointed out that as many as 2,000 trees have been successfully translocated after they were marked for felling in the last few years. Interestingly, the tree chopping was halted few months ago after Municipal Administration and Urban Development Secretary Arvind Kumar intervened to a twitter appeal by the Foundation and other like-minded citizens and asked his officials to get in touch to provide a smooth translocation. “Hyderabad Growth Corridor officials were very supportive and listened to our point of view but realised the road does not come under their ambit. I immediately approached the R&B department and was sure they will heed to my plea as no felling had happened in recent days,” Mr. Uday Krishna said. The Foundation is now planning to approach the court seeking a halt to the tree felling as the Supreme Court too had recently took a serious note of cutting trees for roads widening. In the meantime, the organisation is using Twitter to appeal to the powers that be to stop the felling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/felling-of-trees-along-gandipet-road-begins/article34531776.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Real-time bed availability info, call centre needed’||A State-wide real-time bed availability Dashboard, along with a call centre for COVID triage (sorting) with operators routing the patients based on a simple questionnaire, will enormously reduce the pressure on healthcare workers and unclutter the overcrowded healthcare facilities, said Infection Control Academy of India president B. Ranga Reddy. The triage can identify patients on the basis of various categories — those who don’t need hospitalisation but can be under observation and home care, those who need isolation under supervision, those who need oxygen beds and those who need ventilator beds, he said, in a communication to Minister for IT, Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao on Monday. Dr. Reddy, also a honorary professor of School of Medical Sciences, University of Hyderabad (UoH), said the current dashboard (http://164.100.112.24/ SpringMVC/Hospital_Beds_ Statistic_Bulletin_citizen. html) is static and doesn’t support either the patients or decision makers. “Fear and anxiety are driving people to make irrational decisions, further escalating the mass hysteria at the moment. While there are certain constraints with bed capacity, medicines etc, it is amplified due to lack of real-time information and ambiguity bringing negative publicity,” he pointed out. The pandemic has thrown up an opportunity for a multi-pronged approach for its containment and mitigation where involving the IT sector and other non-healthcare sector can play a vital role. The behaviour of the virus is directly proportional to the actions of people, the executive and the administration, said Dr. Reddy. Though most people are getting to practise and embrace COVID-appropriate behavior, the government can also initiate steps to stem the second wave and stabilise lives and livelihoods. In this context, the “state-wide real-time dashboard” on availability of beds by category and geography can be one decisive step to reduce unnecessary anxiety among population about their care, reduce unnecessary rounds by patients and their relatives to multiple hospitals/ clinics increasing the transmission risk, improve utilisation of available beds besides giving the administration a real time picture and moderate allocation of resources, he explained. Organisations like HYSEA, NASSCOM, CII, FICCI, SCSC, TFMC and many multinational companies like Google, Microsoft, Cognizant etc. could be roped in coordinate such an initiative. The Infection Control Academy (www.ifcai.in) is ready to assist along with its partnering organisations like the Indian Institute of Public Health, University of Hyderabad, and UNICEF, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/real-time-bed-availability-info-call-centre-needed/article34531764.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Specialist doctors on COVID duty to get Rs. 1 lakh a month||The Health Department has fixed consolidated monthly remuneration for doctors, nurses, lab technicians and others to be hired for about three months to deal with the COVID-19 situation in the State with Rs. 1 lakh fixed for specialist doctors. While inviting applications for various temporary posts, the officials said the last date for submitting online application is May 22. Even retired medical professionals can apply for the contract-basis posts. According to the officials, the remuneration offered to doctors with only MBBS qualification is Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 35,000 for Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Sowa-Rigpa and Homoeopathy doctors. Similarly, staff nurses would be paid Rs. 23,000 per month and lab technicians would get Rs. 17,000. Details of the process of empanelment, remuneration payable and online application form have been made available on‘http://health.telangana. gov.in’and‘https://odls. telangana.gov.in/ medicalrecruitment/ Home.aspx’. The district of deployment of the medical professionals would be made as per the preference indicated in the application. The deployment on contract basis would be subject to verification of original documents pertaining to the qualification of applicants. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had stated at a review meeting on Sunday that all the medical professionals who would be selected for the temporary service would be given weightage in the regular recruitment to be taken up by the department in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/specialist-doctors-on-covid-duty-to-get-rs-1-lakh-a-month/article34531759.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State’s COVID tally crosses 5-lakh mark||Over 14 months since the first coronavirus case was detected in the State, the number of COVID-19 infections crossed the 5-lakh mark on Monday. During the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Monday, a total of 4,826 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 5,02,187. With 32 more deaths reported, the total fatalities have gone up to 2,771. According to a bulletin issued by the Public Health Department on the status of COVID-19 cases in the State, another 7,754 infected persons were declared recovered, taking the total recoveries to 4,35,619 or 86.94% as against 82.3% at the national level. Active cases in the State stood at 62,797. Although the government has taken up fever survey across the State, the number of samples tested on Monday were 65,923, just over half the tests done on April 20 (at 1,30,105). Reports of 2,345 samples were awaited at the time of issuing the bulletin. The Greater Hyderabad region and its surrounding areas continue to contribute maximum cases every day as 723 positive cases were reported on Monday followed by 324 in Medchal-Malkajigir and 302 in Rangareddy. Other major contributors included districts like Nalgonda (295), Warangal Urban (242), Nagarkurnool (208), Karimnagar (207), Khammam (205), Suryapet (191), Vikarabad (182) and Siddipet (161). Besides, the number of cases is also high in Peddapalli (144), Mancherial (142), Jagtial (129), Mahabubnagar (126) and Mahabubabad (117). Only Narayanpet district reported single-digit cases (5) on Monday and in the 16 remaining districts, the cases reported were in the range of 42 to 99. The number of micro-containment zones which were 112 on Sunday went up to 121 on Monday with Hyderabad having the maximum such localities (20) followed by 16 in Kumaram-Bheem Asifabad and 12 each in Siddipet and Warangal Urban districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-covid-tally-crosses-5-lakh-mark/article34531757.ece
11 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former DGP B. Prasada Rao passes away in the U.S.||Last Head of Police Force of undivided Andhra Pradesh, former Director General of Police B. Prasada Rao, died following a massive cardiac arrest in Houston of the United States of America in the wee hours of Monday. An IPS officer of 1979 batch, Mr. Rao, complained of chest pain and wanted to be taken to a hospital, but by the time the ambulance reached a medical facility, he breathed his last around 1 a.m. (IST). Mr. Rao took over as the DGP-HoPF after the retirement of V. Dinesh Reddy in November 2013 and retired on attaining superannuation in May 2014. Mr. Rao was the last DGP (HoPF) of undivided Andhra Pradesh. He presided over the division of assets and office spaces of police establishments between the two States post-bifrucation. Prior to his appointment as DGP (HoPF), he served as the Director General of the Anti-Corruption Bureau and after the bifurcation of the State, he was deputed as Secretary (Internal Security) in the Ministry of Home Affairs. Son of a police constable, Mr. Rao hailed from Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh. He served in several key postings, including Superintendent of Police, Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Nalgonda districts, and Commissioner of Police Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Visakhapatnam. He was also the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of AP State Road Transport Corporation. While on Central deputation he was commandant of the Central Industrial Security Force at Visakhapatnam and Bhopal. Post retirement he was working as professor in Physics and director (Training, Placements and Industry Interface) at Bharat Institutions, Hyderabad. He was a postgraduate — M.Sc.(Physics) — from Indian Institute of Technology Madras, he authored a book ‘Word power to mind power’, a unique method of learning and memorising English vocabulary applying visualisation and contextualisation. He was awarded PhD for his research on ‘Studies on the Wave-Particle Duality of Light’ by Sri Krishnadevaraya University in 2014. He is survived by his wife Sowmini, son Vikas, daughter-in-law Soumya and a grandson. Chief Minister of Telangana K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy have mourned the death of Mr. Rao. Former chief minister of AP N. Chandrababu Naidu conveyed his condolences to bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-dgp-b-prasada-rao-passes-away-in-the-us/article34531778.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jr. doctors threaten to boycott duties||Telangana Junior Doctors Association has threatened to boycott duties if their demands are not met by May 25. They demanded hike in stipends for post-graduate medical students and interns due from January 2020, payment of 10% incentives as announced by the State government and ex-gratia to healthcare workers who died in line of duty. In a representation addressed to the State’s Director of Medical Education Dr. K. Ramesh Reddy, the TJUDA members said that they have been regularly pursuing officials to approve 15% hike in stipends from the past six months. NIMS issue They have also requested to increased bed capacity at Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) and issue a circular to offer free treatment to the HCWs and their family members. “Ex-gratia of Rs. 50 lakh for doctors, Rs. 25 lakh for nurses and supporting staff was promised by Chief Minister but not implemented till date. We will boycott duties if above basic genuine demands are not considered in view of pandemic,” the JUDAs said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jr-doctors-threaten-to-boycott-duties/article34531772.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three deaths not due to oxygen shortage, clarifies hospital||A day after it was alleged that at least three COVID-19 patients at District Hospital, King Koti, died due to lack of oxygen, top officials from the Health department descended on the hospital on Monday. Several reports suggested that three to five patients at the government hospital died on Sunday afternoon due to oxygen shortage. However, the hospital superintendent issued a clarification stating the news was incorrect. “The hospital has adequate stock of oxygen. There is a 13KL Liquid Oxygen Tank (LOT) for oxygen storage. We have bulk cylinders for backup. The three patients were on assisted ventilation and in a critical condition,” superintendent Rajendranath stated. Sources at the hospital said though there was low oxygen supply for some time, complaints of deaths due to oxygen shortage were not raised by any attendant. Hyderabad Police also confirmed on Monday that they did not receive any complaints from the family members of COVID patients who allegedly died due to oxygen shortage. However, the alleged news has sent panic waves across the city. A few patients’ attendants are asking hospital authorities about oxygen stocks. An attendant said they were carrying their own oxygen cylinder because they were informed by families of other patients about a shortage. Senior officials, including Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy, and officials from State Drug Control Administration monitoring oxygen supply and others visited the hospital on Monday. “The flow of oxygen from LOT, chances of leakages, and other aspects were checked. The oxygen tanker reached in the nick of the time on Sunday afternoon. Additional quantity has also been brought to avoid any problem,” sources said.  The hospital has adequate stock of oxygen. We have bulk cylinders for backup. Rajendranath, Superintendent, District Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-deaths-not-due-to-oxygen-shortage-clarifies-hospital/article34531762.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corporates eye vaccine for their workforce||A number of companies either individually or through industry bodies in Telangana are exploring prospects of how soon can they get their workforce and families vaccinated against COVID-19. From small, medium and large-sized firms across sectors, be it manufacturing, information technology, banking and even trade and service providers, many are looking to secure vaccine for their employees. There is a growing interest among companies ever since the Centre permitted vaccination of those above 18 years of age, sources in the know said. Though a big task given the inadequate availability of vaccines, something that is delaying the second dose for many above 45 years, inoculation of employees and families is something several companies are keen to get done. Besides from an employee welfare perspective, such a move is a measure towards ensuring continuity in operations. Some companies are also keen on undertaking vaccination of the local community, around their facility, as a corporate social responsibility activity, sources in Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said. For now, CII Telangana as part of a nationwide initiative of the industry body is reaching out to companies in the State desirous of getting employees and families vaccinated and also initiated discussions with hospitals on various aspects pertaining to the vaccines. “We are assessing the demand... all over India, we have received requests for more than 7.15 lakh doses from 700 companies. In Telangana, 30 of the 300 companies to whom mails were sent have registered,” a CII official said, many of the firms with headquarters elsewhere would have placed requests with other CII offices. The prevailing supply side constraints, however, is bound to make the process time consuming for the target segment to get the vaccines. It is a cause of concern for not just the companies, but bank employees as well as many in trade such as petrol bunk dealers and LPG distributors. R.Sravan S. Rao, Executive Director and State Head of Indian Oil Corporation for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh said the oil company at the national level was in discussions to get vaccines for not only IOC employees, their family members, but also the contractual workers. Chair, Healthcare and Disaster Management of the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry Shekar Agarwal says FTCCI is “trying to tie up with a few hospitals for our members, their staff and families to get vaccinated.” Given the shortage of vaccine, it has also advised the members to continue with their efforts in getting the antidote. The earlier the better is something Telangana Convenor of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) R. Sriram emphasised as regards the vaccination, pointing out that an estimated 8,000 bank employees have been infected and 18 died due to COVID-19 complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corporates-eye-vaccine-for-their-workforce/article34531765.ece
11 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Minister takes stock of COVID-19 situation||Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar has called upon the official machinery to constantly monitor the COVID-19 prevention and control measures besides testing, vaccination and treatment services to combat the second wave of pandemic. Mr Ajay, who has recovered from COVID-19 infection, conducted a review meeting on measures to stem the spread of COVID-19 with Collector R V Karnan and officials of the Health and other departments here on Monday. He exhorted the field functionaries of the government departments to create greater awareness on COVID-19 prevention and control measures during the ongoing household fever survey across the district. He said the State government is making concerted efforts to fight COVID-19 and protect public health. PSA plant The recently inaugurated Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plant is effectively catering to the oxygen requirements of the District Headquarters Hospital in the current pandemic situation, he said adding that the State government initiated the process of appointing additional medical and health staff. He said the district administration is regularly monitoring the oxygen stock position and making all the drugs and facilities available for the COVID-19 patients. He appreciated the police for keeping strict vigil to prevent black marketing of COVID-19 drugs. Khammam Police Commissioner Vishnu S Warrier and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-takes-stock-of-covid-19-situation/article34531783.ece
11 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Unload paddy lorries immediately: Collector||Collector A. Harish directed the officials to unload paddy lorries immediately at the mills and send them back to procurement centres. In a tele-conference with revenue and other officials, and after visiting the the procurement centres on Monday, Mr. Rao said, “paddy is not getting unloaded at mills at the expected level due to in-activeness of officials. More than 100 lorries were stranded at Satyasai Rice Mill at Kolcharam when Additional Collector Ramesh made surprise check. This is not acceptable. Paddy procurement at small centres must be completed in the next three to four days so that focus shifts to bigger centres.” Revenue officials should use their powers to speed up the process and mandal revenue officials should see to it that there is no delay in payments, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unload-paddy-lorries-immediately-collector/article34531780.ece
11 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Free food for the poor and kin of COVID-19 patients||With the COVID-19 pandemic hitting families hard and turning life upside down, a number of people feeling responsibility towards society are coming forward to help the needy. An NGO based at the district headquarters, Aadarana, has come forward to supply food to corona patients as well as the poor. The volunteers of the organisation have set up a food distribution point near the Hanuman temple at the old bus stand and would be handing over lunch packets from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. every day. “We are doing our bit to serve society. We are a group of some 10 persons and all of us are either employees or involved in business and have decided to offer our services to the needy. We are spending about Rs. 7,000 per day on distribution of food,” T. Vinay Kumar from Aadarana told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-food-for-the-poor-and-kin-of-covid-19-patients/article34531768.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Many without phones, Net access unable to book vaccination slots||With the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group requiring prior appointments, several recipients who do not own smartphones or have access to the Internet are struggling to book slots. While many are unaware of the registration and booking process after slots open up on the portal, several others like guards and house help have turned to their employers for help. Santosh, a 44-year-old guard at an apartment in Greater Kailash, said: “I do not own a smartphone. I have been on duty throughout the pandemic and want to get vaccinated soon. But how am I supposed to register online as I am not sure of the process? So, I have asked one of the residents in my building to register me as a beneficiary. My family does not stay in Delhi. I have no other option but to ask for help to get myself vaccinated.” Since the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age bracket started, several people have complained of the problems in finding a slot and booking. For those who are unaware of the process, the level of difficulty is even higher. Kaushalya Devi, who works as a domestic help in south Delhi, said: “Even though I do own a smartphone, I do not how to register myself as I am not familiar with the technology. I only know the basic functions of the phone. Here, even if I enter my Aadhaar number and get registered, I cannot understand and track the available slots. I do not know how I will book slots for myself and my husband.” Another house help, Anjana, said her smartphone stopped working a few weeks back. “I have not been able to get it fixed because of the lockdown. Thankfully, my employer has offered to find slots for me and my husband. I have given my details to them for the registration process.” Also, there are some like 48-year-old Sunita, a sanitation worker, who are unaware of the fact that registrations are required to get vaccinated as unline the phase where walk-ins were permitted. “I got myself vaccinated at the local dispensary and I did not need an appointment. I have to get my 19-year-old daughter vaccinated but some people told us that authorities will come home to administer the vaccine. We did not know of the registration process. I was under the impression that I will take her along with me when I go for my second vaccination dose,” said Ms. Sunita.  Even though I own a smartphone, I do not know how to register myself... Here, even if I enter my Aadhaar number and get registered, I cannot understand and track the available slots... Kaushalya Devi House help||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/many-without-phones-net-access-unable-to-book-vaccination-slots/article34531745.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Respond to plea seeking to protect kids orphaned due to COVID: HC||The High Court on Monday directed the Centre and Delhi government to respond to a plea seeking to protect children — who were orphaned due to COVID-19 — against being trafficked till they are legally adopted. An High Court Bench issued notices to the Union Ministries of Home Affairs, Women and Child Development and Health and the city police on the plea. The court also issued notices to the Delhi government, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights and the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The plea filed by Jeetender Gupta, an advocate on record in the Supreme Court, has sought directions to the authorities to provide the interim custody of such children to their relatives or child-care homes and protect their identity. Legal adoptions Mr. Gupta has sought directions to the authorities to explore the options for legal adoptions after scrutinising the details of those who have expressed an interest to adopt such children. Another plea filed by advocate Anand has claimed that State agencies have not prepared any data regarding the number of children whose parents were infected with COVID or have succumbed to the disease. The plea contended that in the absence of the data, these kids have become a target for traffickers. It claimed that according to media, there has been a substantial rise in the number of cases of child trafficking and abuse during the pandemic and therefore, “there is an immediate necessity to curb this evil at the stage of its inception itself”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/respond-to-plea-seeking-to-protect-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid-hc/article34531738.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lookout notice issued against Kalra||A lookout notice has been issued against businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the recovery of over 500 oxygen concentrators from his restaurants, the police said on Monday. It is suspected that Mr. Kalra has left Delhi along with his family. “A lookout notice has been issued against Kalra in connection with the alleged hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators,” a senior officer said. “After the raid at his restaurant, he stopped responding to calls and his last location was traced to Chhatarpur. Thereafter he switched off his mobile phone. House help informed police that Mr. Kalra left the house with his family in two cars, without drivers. All staff members are unaware of his location. The phones of other family members are also switched off,” said the officer. The police had earlier said raids were being conducted in Delhi-NCR and neighbouring States. On Friday, 105 oxygen concentrators were recovered from two upscale restaurants in south Delhi’s Khan Market. The restaurants are owned by Mr. Kalra. On Saturday, the police transferred the case to the Crime Branch. On Thursday, 419 oxygen concentrators were recovered from another restaurant owned by Mr. Kalra and a farmhouse in south Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lookout-notice-issued-against-kalra/article34531743.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 250 passengers from Andhra, Telangana sent to quarantine centres||Over 250 passengers from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana — who arrived at railway stations in Delhi on Monday — were sent to institutional quarantine for failing to produce COVID-related documents like tests or vaccination, said officials concerned. “Around 253 passengers who arrived from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh at New Delhi and Nizamuddin Railway stations on Monday were identified and taken to quarantine centres,” said an official. “The passengers are being checked by the teams of Delhi government and civil defence. Those who require quarantine are being taken to designated centres at DDU Marg and Sultanpuri. Delhi Police was assisting officials to make the driving hassle-free,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways) Harendra Kumar Singh. The police and Railway Protection Force are assisting them in maintaining law and order as well as to prevent any untoward incident, he said. Some of the passengers, who were taken to the quarantine facility set up at a school near ITO, complained about lack of facilities.   “The rooms are unclean, and we have not been given food although we are kept here since morning. There are also children among us who have not been given anything to eat,” said one of the passengers. Another passenger said they were headed to Punjab from Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh when they were rounded up and sent to the quarantine centre. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) last week mandated 14 days of institutional quarantine of people arriving in the Capital from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana through any mode of transport. Quarantine rules Those who have been administered both doses of any COVID vaccine or carry a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey, have to undergo home or institutional quarantined for seven days. The DDMA issued the quarantine order in view of a new COVID-19 strain — with a shorter incubation period and high transmission rate — in the two States. The progress of the virus is quicker in this strain, said the DDMA. Last Thursday, the Delhi government had ordered that travellers from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana would have to undergo mandatory quarantine.  Around 253 passengers from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, who came to the city, failed to produce COVID-related documents like tests and vaccination Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-250-passengers-from-andhra-telangana-sent-to-quarantine-centres/article34531742.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man inspired for COVID work by help received in brother’s cancer treatment||On Monday afternoon, 29-year-old Dawar Naqvi was at a house of a COVID positive woman in Greater Noida with his friend Amir Abbas, setting up an IV for her. Before leaving her house, he wished her a speedy recovery. Naqvi from Sahibabad graduated from Xavier School of Management in 2016. For the past one month, he has been running around wearing PPE kits almost daily providing people with COVID-related medicines, facilitating oxygen cylinders, and helping with doctor’s consultation with limited resources. His reason and drive to risk his life in this raging pandemic — the unknown people who had helped his brother three years ago. Naqvi’s brother Mannu was 18 when he died of blood cancer in a city hospital in 2018. ‘Paying back’ “In the last nine days of my brother’s life, I managed 19 donations of platelets, white blood cells, and plasma as he required. Out of those 19, I only knew eight people. The rest were complete strangers, who had helped us. I remember getting a call from a man in Hyderabad, who was ready to fly to Delhi to help us. This is a sort of payback for me,” he said. Naqvi and a few of his friends made a WhatsApp group — GTY (Get Together Youth) — where requirements are shared on social media. “We have essentially been helping two kinds of people — those who can’t afford and those who don’t have resources — for instance those whose children are not in India and they need help,” he added. Oxygen cylinders Currently, this group is in possession of five oxygen cylinders — one of 70 litres, another of 20 litres and three of 10 litres each — all these been in circulation for a month. “We had bought it cheaper earlier and one of my cousins run an HVAC [Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning] business with whose help we get the 70-litre cylinder re-filled. For the rest, we are providing empty oxygen and people are getting them filled,” he said. About 1,000 patients have received online consultation by Dr. Abbas and his circle of doctor friends. “But it’s very tough to satisfy patients’ families and attendants online because so many of them start asking questions. But we understand because everyone is scared,” he added. He said they deliver medicines at the patients’ homes in their own vehicles but only if they are shown a valid prescription. “Initially, we were also providing Remdisivir vials because one of my cousins is a distributor of the drug. But we stopped doing so after the government said it will only be given to hospitals. Most importantly, a few people who took from us further sold it at exorbitant prices, which became a primary reason for us to stop,” he said. Talking about how Naqvi and his small group helped him, Huzair Raza, a resident of Sahibabad, said he and his wife both tested positive for COVID 19 in mid-April and they have daughters aged 12 and 6 to take care of. “These guys helped us with all the meals for us and our daughters. They even provided us with coconut water and medicines whenever required. I will always be grateful to them,” he said. While helping those in need, Naqvi has not stepped inside his parents’ room for the last month. He said they scold him, but he will continue his contribution till the second wave lasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-inspired-for-covid-work-by-help-received-in-brothers-cancer-treatment/article34531741.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Paramedics held for black marketing of oxygen||Two paramedics with the CATS Ambulance service have been arrested for their alleged involvement in black marketing of oxygen cylinders, the police said on Monday. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said the accused have been identified as Pawan (21) and Vipin Nagar. The accused were selling oxygen cylinders that were being issued for ambulances for transporting critically ill-patients, the police said. On May 6, the police received a complaint by a woman at Ambedkar Nagar police station about oxygen cylinders being sold at exorbitant prices. In her complaint, she said a man posted a mobile number with a message on social media about supplying oxygen cylinders to COVID patients and when she contacted him, the accused demandedRs. 90,000 for a 50-litre oxygen cylinder. A case was then registered. During probe, Pawan was apprehended with the help of technical and human surveillance. Pawan revealed that he is working as paramedics with CATS ambulance services for the last two years. On scanning his mobile phone, it was revealed that he was charging Rs. 40,000 for 15-litre cylinder and Rs. 90,000 for 50-litre cylinders. Pawan managed to get his number publicised on Instagram for supplying these cylinders. Pawan was being helped by his associates — Vipin Nagar and Rohit Nagar — who are also paramedics and pilot in different “CATS” station in arranging oxygen cylinders. Efforts are on to nab Rohit, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/paramedics-held-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen/article34531739.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Did Hussain get oxygen from refillers?’||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the State government to clarify whether AAP MLA Imran Hussain was supplied any oxygen through refillers, who were given the gas for individuals in homecare, hospitals and ambulances. An HC Bench asked Mr. Hussain to submit the documents which prove that he procured the oxygen from Faridabad as claimed by him. The court directions came after Mr. Hussain said he procured the gas from outside Delhi while the cylinders were rented from the city and he has the receipts to prove it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/did-hussain-get-oxygen-from-refillers/article34531746.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Act on illegal sale of COVID medicines: HC to Centre, Delhi||The High Court on Monday asked the Centre and Delhi government to act on black marketing and hoarding of medicines and medical equipment like oxygen concentrators during the pandemic without waiting for court orders. An HC Bench sought response from the Centre and Delhi government on a plea, which also sought setting up of fast-track courts to deal exclusively with these cases. The plea contended that in absence of a notification declaring medicines and equipment meant for COVID as essential commodities, these are being hoarded and black marketed. The court also directed the government to fix the prices of mortuary services for COVID patients. It directed the Delhi government to submit a status report with regard to the seizure of black-marketed equipment and medicines and orders passed by the SDMs for release of the same. The court also ordered the city government to respond to another plea against its notification reserving rooms in four hotels linked with two hospitals for the treatment of officials of various public authorities and their families. The court also directed the Centre, Delhi government to take steps to ensure transparent allocation and distribution of Tocilizumab doses to all States, UTs received by tonight and by May 15 to be immediately administered to paitents in dire need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/act-on-illegal-sale-of-covid-medicines-hc-to-centre-delhi/article34531737.ece
11 May 2021||Mumbai,||Survey finds majority in favour of continuing lockdown restrictions||A survey with more than 18,000 responses from citizens residing in 30 districts of Maharashtra shows that the majority are in favour of continuing lockdown restrictions, but with permission for home deliveries to minimise consumer inconvenience and business disruption, not only of essentials but of other goods as well. The restrictions are set to end May 14 mid-night and the government is likely to announce a new set. The survey was conducted online by LocalCircles, one of the leading community social media platforms that enables citizens and small businesses to escalate issues for policy and enforcement interventions and enables the government to make policies that are citizen and small business centric. To understand the pulse of the residents of Maharashtra about the best approach for containment and restarting economic activity, the survey has been presented to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. It emphasised on a mechanism where stores are permitted to operate in home delivery mode with no customer walk-ins allowed and orders only placed via phone, whatsapp or websites. As per the survey, an overwhelming 84% favoured continuing with the restrictions, with 43% saying, “permit all stores/business to open for home deliveries only and continue lockdown till May 31” and 41% saying “continue with existing lockdown/restriction till May 31”. The survey asked residents about the kind of services they think that should be permitted. While 40% said “home delivery of items like grocery & medicines”, 31% said “home delivery of all goods”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/survey-finds-majority-in-favour-of-continuing-lockdown-restrictions/article34531442.ece
11 May 2021||Mumbai,||NITI Aayog CEO hails Mumbai model||Days after former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis accused the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) of hiding the actual number of deaths of novel coronavirus patients in the city, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Monday praised the civic body for the Mumbai model of COVID-19 management. Mr. Kant tweeted, “Centralized bed allotment, anticipating oxygen storage facilities, common allotment of beds even in pvt hospitals, dashboards for monitoring, war rooms for patient follow up. Inspirational Mumbai model of Covid Mngmnt. Congrats @mybmc commissioner Chahal & his Gr8 team.” The Congress was quick to react. “Mr. Fadnavis had to hear the truth from the horse’s mouth. After the Prime Minister, now the NITI Aayog CEO too has told him the truth. This is the reality that he should realise,” Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said. Last week, Mr. Fadnavis wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that the BMC was suppressing the actual fatality figure by putting a number of deaths in the category of ‘death due to other reason’ than COVID-19. The civic body strongly objected to the allegations and said it followed the directives issued by the WHO and ICMR. “The BMC has not fixed the criteria for categorising deaths into those due to COVID-19 and those due to other reasons. Those are fixed by the Central government and ICMR,” the civic body said. It further said that informing about co-morbidities of a dead person did not mean their reason for death was being suppressed. It also said that the civic body had been following the ICMR’s directions of 70:30 testing ratio in which 70% were RT-PCR while the rest were antigen tests. A day after the letter was sent, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the State government for its effective fight against the pandemic. On Sunday, at a meeting of BJP workers, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari advised Mr. Fadnavis and other State BJP workers to avoid politics in the times of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/niti-aayog-ceo-hails-mumbai-model/article34531438.ece
11 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC gears up for third wave of virus||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has begun preparations for the possible third wave of COVID-19, with a special focus on children. NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar on Sunday held a meeting with doctors from the civic body’s COVID-19 task force and paediatricians of the Navi Mumbai unit of the All India Paediatricians’ Association. It was suggested at the meeting that adequate oxygen beds, ICU beds, and paediatric ventilators should be provided for the treatment of children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nmmc-gears-up-for-third-wave-of-virus/article34531439.ece
11 May 2021||Pune,||With 61,607 recoveries, State’s active cases dip below 6 lakh||Maharashtra reported another bout of robust recoveries on Monday, with 61,607 patients being discharged as opposed to a comparatively low surge of 37,236 new COVID-19 cases with the State’s active case tally dipping significantly to 5,90,818. As many as 549 deaths — 302 of which occurred in the last 48 hours — pushed the death toll to 76,398. As per the State Health Department, 113 of these fatalities occurred in the last week and the remaining 134 were from an earlier period. However, the low case spike has to be viewed in the context of a decline in testing, with less than 2 lakh tests in the last 24 hours against the daily average of 2.70 lakh tests. Nevertheless, the steady plateauing of cases and the daily dip in the case surge, which apparently reflected the effectiveness of lockdown-like restrictions, was likely to lead the Maharashtra government to extend them till May 31, sources said. Maharashtra’s total cases have reached 51,38,973 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 44,69,425 with the recovery rate going up to 86.97%. “Of a total 2,96,31,127 laboratory samples tested thus far, 51,38,973 (with the average case positivity rising incrementally to 17.34%) have returned positive with 1.93 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had incrementally declined to 1.49%. Pune district reported over 4,500 new cases to take its total case tally to 9,30,809. As per the State Health Department figures, 10 deaths were reported as the fatality count climbed to 10,059. According to district authorities, the active case tally has dipped to 96,500 while the death toll has crossed 14,500. Mumbai recorded 1,782 new cases to take its total tally to 6,77,412 while the active count has declined to 47,054. As many as 74 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 13,855. Nagpur district in Vidarbha added more than 2,500 cases as its total cases touched 4,66,959 of whom 56,458 are active. Twenty-five deaths pushed the toll to 5,649. Solapur registered 22 deaths and more than 1,300 cases as its fatality toll rose to 2,997 and the total cases reached 1,28,394 of whom 23,028 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/with-61607-recoveries-states-active-cases-dip-below-6-lakh/article34531441.ece
11 May 2021||Kabul,||Taliban, Afghan forces declare Id truce||The Taliban and Afghan government on Monday declared a three-day ceasefire for this week’s Id-ul-Fitr holiday, following a sharp spike in violence as Washington goes about withdrawing its remaining troops from Afghanistan. Violence has soared since May 1 — the deadline missed by the U.S. to withdraw the last of its troops — and while the Taliban have avoided engaging American forces, attacks against government and civilian targets have not stopped. In the latest, the Interior Ministry said on Monday that at least 11 people were killed by a bomb that struck a bus overnight in southeastern Zabul province. That followed Saturday’s carnage outside a school in the capital Kabul when a series of bombs killed at least 50 people and wounded more than 100 — most of them young girls. Early Monday, the Taliban instructed their fighters “to halt all offensive operations against the enemy countrywide from the first till the third day of Id-ul-Fitr”. That was matched later in the day by Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, who went further by urging the Taliban to announce a permanent truce to end the bloody war. Gen. Bajwa’s visit Id-ul-Fitr marks the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramzan, and the holiday begins according to the sighting of the new moon. The Taliban and government have declared similar ceasefires in the past to mark Islamic holidays. The ceasefire announcements came as Pakistan’s military chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa visited Kabul and met top officials including Mr. Ghani, according to a statement. Pakistan would always support an “Afghan led-Afghan owned” peace process, Gen. Bajwa said at his meeting with Ghani. He was also accompanied by Pakistan’s spy chief Lieutenant General Faiz Haimd. Pakistan is a key regional player in Afghanistan’s peace process, and Afghan officials have often accused Islamabad of arming and sheltering the Taliban. On Saturday, a series of bombs detonated outside a girls’ school in Dasht-e-Barchi, a suburb of Kabul largely populated by the Shia Hazara community which is often targeted by extremist Sunni Islamist militants. It was the deadliest attack in more than a year and came as residents were shopping ahead of the Id holiday. On Sunday, on a desolate hilltop cemetery, bodies in small wooden coffins were lowered into graves, one by one, by mourners still in shock. Political analyst Fawad Kochi said the ceasefire was a way for the Taliban leadership to give its forces a brief respite from fighting that has intensified since the U.S. troop withdrawal formally commenced on May 1. “The government will try all possible channels to extend the ceasefire but the Taliban will go back to the battlefield right after Id-ul-Fitr,” he said. “The Taliban know that a prolonged ceasefire will split them and kill their momentum. They will never want that.” The Taliban insist they have not carried out attacks in Kabul since February last year when they signed the deal with Washington that paved the way for peace talks and withdrawal of the remaining US troops. But they have clashed daily with Afghan forces in the rugged countryside. The U.S. was supposed to have pulled all forces out by May 1, but Washington pushed back the date to September 11 — a move that angered the insurgents. Taliban leader Haibatullah Akhundzada reiterated in a message released ahead of Id that any delay in withdrawing the troops was a “violation” of that deal. “If America again fails to live up to its commitments, then the world must bear witness and hold America accountable for all the consequences,” he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-afghan-forces-declare-id-truce/article34531172.ece
11 May 2021||Kathmandu,||Nepal PM loses vote of confidence||Nepal’s Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli lost a confidence vote on Monday, triggering fresh political uncertainty just as the Himalayan nation reels from the pandemic. Mr. Oli, 69, decided to seek a vote of confidence following months of feuding within his ruling communist party and coalition partners. “If you want a stable Parliament you should vote for the continuity of this government,” he said in his address to the legislature before the vote. New candidate But the former political prisoner was able to secure only 93 votes in the Parliament instead of the 136 needed. More than 120 parliamentarians voted against and nearly two dozen leaders from Mr. Oli’s own party skipped the process. According to procedure, the President will now call for parties to propose a new candidate, backed by a majority. Nepal has been roiled by months of turmoil after Mr. Oli dissolved Parliament in December, accusing members of his Nepal Communist Party (NCP) of being uncooperative. The NCP was formed in 2018 by a merger between Mr. Oli’s Communist Party CPN-UML and the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre) of former rebel leader Pushpa Kamal Dahal. Two months later, the Supreme Court reinstated Parliament. Another ruling broke the merger and split the ruling party into two. Mr. Oli has faced fierce criticism over his handling of the pandemic as the second wave sweeps over the country, with half of people tested now returning positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepal-pm-loses-vote-of-confidence/article34531174.ece
11 May 2021||Jerusalem,||Over 300 Palestinians hurt in Jerusalem holy site clashes||Israeli police firing tear gas, stun grenades and rubber bullets clashed with stone-throwing Palestinians at a flashpoint Jerusalem holy site on Monday, the latest in a series of confrontations that threatened to push the contested city toward wider conflict. In an apparent attempt to avoid further confrontation, Israeli authorities changed the planned route of a march by ultranationalist Jews through the Muslim Quarter of the Old City. The marchers were ordered to avoid the area and sent on a different route circumventing the Muslim Quarter on their way to the Western Wall, the holiest site where Jews can pray. But tensions remained high after Monday morning's violence. More than a dozen tear gas canisters and stun grenades landed in the Al-Aqsa mosque, located in a compound sacred to both Jews and Muslims, said an Associated Press photographer at the scene. Smoke rose in front of the mosque and the iconic golden-domed shrine on the site, and rocks littered the surrounding plaza. Inside one area of the compound, shoes and debris lay scattered over ornate carpets. More than 305 Palestinians were hurt, including 228 who went to hospitals and clinics for treatment, according to the Palestinian Red Crescent. Seven of the injured were in serious condition. Police said 21 officers were hurt, including three who were hospitalized. Monday’s confrontation was the latest after weeks of mounting tensions between Palestinians and Israeli troops in the Old City of Jerusalem, the emotional centre of their conflict. The clashes have come during the Muslim holy month of Ramzan, already a time of heightened religious sensitivities. Eviction plan Most recently, the tensions have been fuelled by an eviction plan in an Arab neighbourhood of east Jerusalem where Israeli settlers have waged a lengthy legal battle to take over properties. Hundreds of Palestinians and about two dozen police officers have been hurt over the past few days in clashes at the sacred compound, which is known to Jews as the Temple Mount and to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary. The compound is Islam’s third-holiest site and considered Judaism’s holiest. At some point, about 400 people, both young protesters and older worshippers, were inside the carpeted Al-Aqsa Mosque. Police fired tear gas and stun grenades into the mosque. Police said protesters hurled stones at officers and onto an adjoining roadway near the Western Wall, where thousands of Israeli Jews had gathered to pray. Growing criticism After several days of Jerusalem confrontations, Israel has come under growing international criticism for its heavy-handed actions at the site, particularly during Ramzan. The UN Security Council scheduled closed consultations on the situation on Monday. Late Sunday, the U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan spoke to his Israeli counterpart, Meir Ben-Shabbat. A White House statement said that Mr. Sullivan called on Israel to “pursue appropriate measures to ensure calm”. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pushed back against the criticism on Monday, describing Israel’s actions in Jerusalem as a law-and-order issue. Mr. Netanyahu said Israel is determined to ensure the rights of worship for all and that this “requires from time to time stand up and stand strong as police and our security forces are doing now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/over-300-palestinians-hurt-in-jerusalem-holy-site-clashes/article34531170.ece
11 May 2021||Tehran,||Iran confirms that it is in talks with Saudi Arabia||Iran’s Foreign Ministry on Monday for the first time confirmed the Islamic republic is holding talks with regional rival Saudi Arabia, but said it is “too soon” to discuss the results. Media reports, later confirmed by diplomatic and Iraqi government sources, revealed that Iranian and Saudi officials met in Baghdad in April, their first high-level meeting since Riyadh cut diplomatic ties with Tehran in 2016. “The purpose of the talks was both bilateral and regional,” Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh told reporters. “But let us wait and see the results of these talks... it might still be too soon to talk about the details of the negotiations,” he added, noting that Iran has “always welcomed such talks at any level and in any shape”. The neighbouring countries cut ties in 2016 after Iranian protestors attacked Saudi diplomatic missions following the kingdom’s execution of a revered Shiite cleric. The talks in Baghdad, facilitated by Iraqi PM Mustafa al-Kadhemi, remained secret until the Financial Times reported that a first meeting was held on April 9. An Iraqi government official confirmed the talks to AFP, while a Western diplomat said he had been “briefed in advance” about the effort to “broker a better relationship and decrease tensions”. Iran on April 29 welcomed a “change of tone” from the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman towards it after he called for a “good and special relationship” with Tehran. The regional rivals have backed opposite sides of several regional conflicts, from Syria to Yemen, where a Saudi-led coalition is fighting the Houthi rebels. Iran backs the Houthis, who are battling the Saudi-led military that intervened in Yemen’s war in 2015. “De-escalation and (establishing) ties between two great Islamic countries in the region is to the benefit of both nations,” Mr. Khatibzadeh said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-confirms-that-it-is-in-talks-with-saudi-arabia/article34531178.ece
11 May 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan government to set new rules to meet FATF requirements||Pakistan, keen to exit from the grey list of the FATF, is set to introduce new rules relating to anti-money laundering cases and change the prosecution process to meet its remaining tough conditions, a media report said on Monday. Pakistan was put on the grey list by the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the global watchdog for money laundering and terror financing in June 2018 and the country has been struggling to come out of it.  The Dawn newspaper reported that the changes being made also include the transfer of investigations and prosecution of anti-money laundering (AML) cases from police, provincial anti-corruption establishments (ACEs) and other similar agencies to specialised agencies.  Outstanding issues This is part of two sets of rules, including the AML (Forfeited Properties Management) Rules 2021 and the AML (Referral) Rules 2021 under the “National Policy Statement on Follow the Money” approved by the federal Cabinet meeting a few days ago, the report said. These rules and related notifications for certain changes in the existing schedule of Anti-Money Laundering Act 2010 (AMLA) would come into force immediately, to be followed by the appointment of administrators and special public prosecutors for implementation. Based on these measures, the FATF would conclude if Pakistan has complied with three outstanding benchmarks, out of 27, that blocked its exit from the grey list in February this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-government-to-set-new-rules-to-meet-fatf-requirements/article34531183.ece
11 May 2021||Berlin,||German churches bless gay couples||Catholic churches around Germany were offering blessings for gay couples on Monday in a protest against the Vatican’s refusal to approve same-sex partnerships. More than 100 churches have signed up to host services under the motto “love wins” on or around May 10 in the scheme initiated by priests, deacons and volunteers. “We raise our voices and say: We will continue to stand by people who commit themselves to a binding partnership and bless their relationship,” said a statement on the initiative’s website. The Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF), the powerful Vatican office responsible for defending church doctrine, ruled in March that same-sex unions could not be blessed despite their “positive elements”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/german-churches-bless-gay-couples/article34531177.ece
11 May 2021||London,||Johnson faces probe over luxury holiday||Britain’s parliamentary standards watchdog confirmed on Monday it is investigating Prime Minister Boris Johnson over how he paid for a luxury Caribbean holiday, the latest of multiple probes into his conduct.  In the register of MPs’ interests, he claimed the £15,000 trip was provided by David Ross, a businessman and donor to his ruling Conservative party. However, there was confusion after Mr. Ross initially denied handing over any money, and later clarified that it was a “benefit in kind”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-faces-probe-over-luxury-holiday/article34531184.ece
11 May 2021||Paris,||New military letter warns Macron over ‘survival’ of France||A group of serving French soldiers has written an open letter warning President Emmanuel Macron that the survival of France is at stake after his “concessions” to Islamism, weeks after a similar message from elements in the military rocked the political elite. The letter was posted on the website of Valeurs Actuelles, a rightwing magazine.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-military-letter-warns-macron-over-survival-of-france/article34531181.ece
11 May 2021||Kano,||Gunmen kidnap devotees from mosque in Nigeria||Miscreants on Monday kidnapped 10 worshippers from a mosque near Nigeria’s northwestern border with Niger, although security forces managed to rescue dozens of others, police said. Northwest and central Nigeria have increasingly become a hub for criminals who raid villages, killing or abducting residents for ransom.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gunmen-kidnap-devotees-from-mosque-in-nigeria/article34531182.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Decoding inequality in a digital world||Virginia Eubanks’ widely acclaimed book, Automating Inequality , alerted us to the ways that automated decision-making tools exacerbated inequalities, especially by raising the barrier for people to receive services they are entitled to. The novel coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the use of digital technologies in India, even for essential services such as health and education, where access to them might be poor. Economic inequality has increased: people whose jobs and salaries are protected, face no economic fallout. The super-rich have even become richer (the net worth of Adani has increased; https://bloom.bg/3bhlh3B). The bulk of the Indian population, however, is suffering a huge economic setback. Several surveys conducted over the past 12 months suggest widespread job losses and income shocks among those who did not lose jobs. Worse than the immediate economic setback is that well-recognised channels of economic and social mobility — education and health — are getting rejigged in ways that make access more inequitable in an already unequal society. The switch in learning For a few, the switch to online education has been seamless. Notwithstanding the Education Minister’s statement in Parliament that no one had been deprived of education because of online learning (https://bit.ly/3vT578y), at least two young students took their own lives because they could not cope — a college student studying in Delhi and a 16-year-old in Goa whose family could not afford to repair the phone he used. According to National Sample Survey data from 2017, only 6% rural households and 25% urban households have a computer. Access to Internet facilities is not universal either: 17% in rural areas and 42% in urban areas (https://bit.ly/2RIKeOp). Sure, smartphones with data will have improved access over the past four years, yet a significant number of the most vulnerable are struggling. Surveys by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), the Azim Premji Foundation, ASER and Oxfam suggest that between 27% and 60% could not access online classes for a range of reasons: lack of devices, shared devices, inability to buy “data packs”, etc. Further, lack of stable connectivity jeopardises their evaluations (imagine the Internet going off for two minutes during a timed exam). Besides this, many lack a learning environment at home: a quiet space to study is a luxury for many. For instance, 25% Indians lived in single-room dwellings in 2017-19. If between two and four people share a single room, how can a child study? For girls, there is the additional expectation that they will contribute to domestic chores if they are at home. Peer learning has also suffered. When students who did not study in English-medium schools come to colleges where English is the medium of instruction, they struggled. Yet, surrounded by English speakers, however falteringly, many managed to pick up the language. Such students have been robbed of this opportunity due to online education. While we have kept a semblance of uninterrupted education, the fact is that the privileged are getting ahead not necessarily because they are smarter, but because of the privileges they enjoy. Need a bed? Have an app Something similar is happening with health care. India’s abysmally low public spending on health (barely 1% of GDP) bears repetition. Partly as a result, the share of ‘out of pocket’ (OOP) health expenditure (of total health spending) in India was over 60% in 2018. Even in a highly privatised health system such as the United States, OOP was merely 10% (https://bit.ly/3xZh2mZ). Moreover, the private health sector in India is poorly regulated in practice. Both put the poor at a disadvantage in accessing good health care. Right now, the focus is on the shortage of essentials: drugs, hospital beds, oxygen, vaccines. In several instances, developing an app is being seen as a solution for allocation of various health services. It is assumed that these will work because of people’s experience with platforms such as Zomato/Swiggy and Uber/Ola. We forget that those work reasonably well because restaurants/food and taxis/drivers are available for these platforms to allocate effectively. Patients are being charged whatever hospitals like, and a black market has developed for scarce services (such as oxygen). The sensible response to such corrupt practices would be to clamp down on the handful who indulge in them. Instead, those in power are looking for digital options such as making Aadhaar mandatory. Digital “solutions” create additional bureaucracy for all sick persons in search of these services without disciplining the culprits. Along with paper work, patients will have to navigate digi-work. Platform- and app-based solutions can exclude the poor entirely, or squeeze their access to scarce health services further. In other spheres (e.g., vaccination) too, digital technologies are creating extra hurdles. The use of CoWIN to book a slot makes it that much harder for those without phones, computers and the Internet. There are reports of techies hogging slots, because they know how to “work” the app. The website is only available in English. Online sharks It is also alarming if the pandemic is being used to create an infrastructure for future exploitation of people’s data. The digital health ID project is being pushed during the pandemic when its merits cannot be adequately debated. Electronic and interoperable health records are the purported benefits. For patients, interoperability (i.e., you do not have to lug your x-rays, past medication and investigations) can be achieved by decentralising digital storage (say, on smart cards) as France and Taiwan have done. Yet, the Indian government is intent on creating a centralised database. Given that we lack a data privacy law in India, it is very likely that our health records will end up with private entities without our consent, even weaponised against us (e.g., private insurance companies may use it to deny poor people an insurance policy or charge a higher premium). There are worries that the government is using the vaccination drive to populate the digital health ID database (for instance, when people use Aadhaar to register on CoWIN). No one is asking these questions because everyone is desperate to get vaccinated. The government is taking advantage of this desperation. The point is simple: unless health expenditure on basic health services (ward staff, nurses, doctors, laboratory technicians, medicines, beds, oxygen, ventilators) is increased, apps such as Aarogya Setu, Aadhaar and digital health IDs can improve little. Unless laws against medical malpractices are enforced strictly, digital solutions will obfuscate and distract us from the real problem. We need political, not technocratic, solutions. More than 10 years ago, we failed to heed warnings (that have subsequently come true) about exclusion from welfare due to Aadhaar. Today, there is greater understanding that the harms from Aadhaar and its cousins fall disproportionately on the vulnerable. Hopefully, the pandemic will teach us to be more discerning about which digital technologies we embrace. Reetika Khera is Associate Professor (Economics) at the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/decoding-inequality-in-a-digital-world/article34531155.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||For the victors, the vanquished and the also-rans||The Assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are over, the results are out and governments are in place. And there are lessons for the victors, the vanquished and the also-rans. Calling All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mamata Banerjee a Bengal tigress as she leads West Bengal for the third time is no exaggeration. An increased steadfastness despite the odds, a rare self-possession when things seemed to fall apart when allies and friends were deserting you, relying on one’s own counsel when at the crossroads, possessing a raw courage combined with perseverance and, above all, being fearless are all characteristics of valour. Ms. Banerjee showed all those traits in abundance, leading from the front. A case for unity Among the many lessons, there are two overriding common messages: first, that arrogance and hubris will destroy you whether you are dealing with a virulent virus or dealing with people. Second, humanity must unite to conquer the virus. To build a happy and prosperous nation, politicians and people must come together, rising above caste, creed, gender and blinkered ideologies and pursue inclusive politics. Governance so far The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was trounced in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala but it registered wins in Assam and Puducherry. It increased its seat tally in West Bengal but seen in the blazing light of Ms. Banerjee’s crushing victory, any claim by the BJP to accomplishments are invisible and immaterial. The entire focus of the world and the media was rightly on West Bengal. Many feared that a win for the BJP here would have emboldened the party leadership to pursue more vigorously its bulldozing methods of majoritarian politics, which was becoming increasingly divisive along ideological and communal lines. Enforcing its own ‘Hindutva’ ideology which is antithetical to the oceanic all-embracing core Hindu philosophy, pursuing a brand of jingoistic narrow nationalism that considered anyone who disagreed as anti-national, exhibiting utter disregard for academic and press freedoms and a contempt for science while wallowing in the glories of our past accomplishments in mythology, diminishing the autonomy of institutions and investigating agencies and using them to intimidate critics and political opponents, and resorting to crude moral policing that coerced people to adhere to its ideology are the factors that led to the gross vulgarisation and degradation of the polity and society which was also scarred by violence and vigilante justice. The real threat to India’s vibrant democracy, its rich variegated culture and diversity were the crude attempts to homogenise it into a depressing monochrome. Not inclusive In its relentless pursuit of such politics, the party leadership, in its arrogance and hubris and blinded by power, did not realise that it was alienating a large population of its voter base, voters from across non-traditional vote banks who had switched to the BJP over the years after being disillusioned by the venal politics of the Opposition parties, both at the Centre and in the States. The politics of the BJP did not pave the way for an inclusive development model. It failed to recognise that no other model can deliver equitable growth. People eventually tire of politics that is always on the boil and which is not accommodating and reconciliatory. In the end, they want harmony, peace and freedom to pursue their faiths, professions and their individual proclivities with freedom. If there is constant conflict and strife between various sections of society, no business, big or small, will thrive. Considering all these, the Bengal elections in particular were a watershed moment for the party and the country. Advice for the TMC leader However, in Ms. Banerjee’s massive victory, there is also a lesson from her defeat — a cautionary tale that should bring her down to earth. The BJP has been steadily breaching her citadel which began during the parliamentary elections in 2019. And she ought to be reminded that she has been no less autocratic than the BJP. She single-handedly put an end to Left rule of over three decades. In the process, Ms. Banerjee welcomed many lumpen elements into the TMC’s fold and the violence continued under her patronage. She was accused of nepotism within the family and favouritism in the party and for rewarding loyalty over honesty or competence. She turned a blind eye to widespread corruption and scams. Now that she has won the mandate for a third term, she must show maturity and sagacity. She must administer through wide consultations and deliver on her promises. She can be reminded that minority appeasement vote bank politics can boomerang and give rise to a majoritarian backlash. She must not undermine and misuse the institutions and the agencies of the state against her opponents and critics, a charge she often makes against the BJP. The BJP has now won 77 seats in the State which is no mean achievement. The venom and the ugliness of this election must be put behind and Ms. Banerjee must work with the Opposition. If she does not heed the writing on the wall, the BJP is sure to breach the palace gates in the next elections. In the other States The same lessons apply to Kerala and Tamil Nadu too, with Pinarayi Vijayan winning a second consecutive term and M.K. Stalin making his debut as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. The past tenures of the Left Democratic Front and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam have not been free of controversies and scandals, high-handedness and strong-arm tactics. A look at the Assam vote too which, under the BJP, has been riven along communal and ethnic lines and divided on citizenship and registration rules; its citizens have had a harrowing experience. The Bengal defeat will hopefully teach the BJP that laws and rules must unite communities and the nation. A few last words to the also-rans, especially Rahul Gandhi of the Congress party. He should be aware of what General Douglas MacArthur said: “It is fatal to enter any war without the will to win it.”  Captain G.R. Gopinath is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-the-victors-the-vanquished-and-the-also-rans/article34531158.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||A national health service in India||“When we fall sick, we die.” The villager who said that to a student of mine may have got unpleasantly close to the truth about the condition of healthcare in India. The current surge in COVID-19 infections has exposed problems amounting to near-chaos throughout Indian healthcare, even if the pandemic has also brought to light Herculean attempts by medical staff, patients’ families, and governments to try and cope with what has been called a tsunami, one which is rapidly getting worse. While those involved in the clinical response are clearly doing their often-desperate best — care staff are at high risk of contracting COVID-19 — the Central and State governments are now coordinating measures within and across their respective jurisdictions. For example, the railways are running special trains carrying oxygen supplies, and the military is also involved in supply chains. The Karnataka government has ordered private hospitals above a certain size to reserve 75% of their beds for COVID-19 patients who will be paid for under a public scheme. Other States have taken similar measures. The Supreme Court has, suo motu , called for a national plan to deliver oxygen and vaccines. The responses to the worsening COVID-19 crisis are, nevertheless, not free of tensions. Some private healthcare providers have objected to public authorities’ orders on widened patient access, and the Supreme Court’s call for a national supply plan has been publicly criticised in the political sphere. Some of the problems have occurred on previous occasions. At least one private hospital chain has lost a court action over its failure to treat a government-specified quota of poorer patients; the quota was a condition of help with land allocation to build a hospital. System under strain Yet the current crisis may well redirect national attention to what is only barely recognisable as a system of healthcare. India’s fragmented, often corrupt, urban-centred, elite-focused and wretchedly underfunded agglomeration of clinics, hospitals, and variably functional primary health centres can look like no more than an accidental collection of institutions, staff, and services. India’s public spending on health is set to double in the 2021-22 financial year, but that is from a figure that has long been only a little over 1% of GDP. In certain rural areas, the doctor-population ratio is over 1:40,000. India’s healthcare providers, however, have the task of serving 1.4 billion people, for the overwhelming majority of whom sickness or serious injury of any kind is a matter of lifelong dread. Medical expenses constitute the major reason for personal debt in India, whether the causes are episodic afflictions or, for example, those caused by environmental conditions which none can escape, such as air pollution (which the journal Lancet Planetary Health says this accounted for 1.7 million deaths in India in 2019; the annual business cost of air pollution is currently estimated at $95 billion, which is about 3% of India's GDP). An idea whose time has come In effect, COVID-19 may bring about serious consideration of an Indian national health service. National public discussion of that would be almost unprecedented in India, but the idea itself is not new. In 1946, the civil servant Sir Joseph Bhore submitted to the then government a detailed proposal for a national health service broadly modelled on the British National Health Service or NHS, which was on the way towards legislative approval in Britain. Bhore went further by recommending that preventive and curative medicine be integrated at all levels. The British plan had been drafted in the 1930s, as problems worsened in healthcare services. The fact of the Second World War, in the darkest hours of which a plan was prepared to transform Britain into a post-war social democracy with a comprehensive welfare state and a universal free public health service supporting a mixed economy, may therefore have been catalytic rather than decisive in the creation of the NHS. The result is a mighty achievement in public policy, politics, and the provision of top-class universal healthcare, including training, research, and changing engagement with the public as society changes. The service is funded entirely from general taxation. The budget includes payment to general practitioners, most of whom remain private providers but are paid by the state for treating NHS patients. Items listed in general practitioners’ prescriptions incur no charges in the devolved regions of Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland, and in practice only a proportion of patients in England have to pay for prescription items. All hospital treatment and medicines are free, as are outpatient and follow-up appointments. The British public share the costs through their taxes, and almost without exception receive treatment solely according to their clinical needs. With about 1.1 million staff, the NHS is the largest employer in the U.K. Its current budget is about 7.6% of GDP, but despite its size and scale, it provides highly localised access to care. Problems in the NHS Of course, problems have arisen. Among them are largely unintended inequalities in the time and attention given to patients of different social classes (this discovery resulted in substantial changes), huge and frequent reorganisations imposed by Central government, and often ideologically driven underfunding. Nevertheless, many senior hospital consultants who were opposed to a public health service when the NHS started have declared unreserved support for it in at least one national conference resolution. An authority on the NHS has said that it is the most loved and trusted institution in the country and is held in even higher regard than the monarchy. India now faces a very serious health crisis, possibly the worst since Independence. By all accounts, several areas of the Indian healthcare provision are under severe strain. The precise structure envisaged by Bhore may need some adaptation for today’s society and conditions but dealing effectively with the pandemic may itself require the urgent creation of an Indian National Health Service. Arvind Sivaramakrishnan is a former Visiting Professor in the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences at IIT Madras||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-national-health-service-in-india/article34531163.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The impact of vaccination||Pandemics happen in waves. During the last century, this was the case with the Spanish flu. The first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in India was managed through lockdowns and improvements in medical infrastructure for diagnosis and treatment. Now there is a vicious second wave of infections. This is related to the easing of lockdown restrictions and a large number of people who have remained uninfected until now returning to their normal lifestyle. In addition, mutant strains of the virus are contributing to the spread. This has impacted a large number of States including Tamil Nadu. As in the case of any infectious disease, vaccination is the only way to reduce infection and control this pandemic. That effective vaccines became available within a year since the beginning of the pandemic is an incredible achievement. In India, too, vaccination against the virus is being offered. Vaccination with either Covishield or Covaxin was available from January 16 of this year. Initially, these vaccines were offered to front-line staff including doctors, nurses, technicians and hospital staff. From March 1, people over 60 years of age and also those over 45 years with co-morbidities became eligible for vaccination. Further, vaccination was expanded to cover all those above 45 years from April 1, 2021 and all those above 18 years from May 1. A positive effect In large trials, administration of Covishield reduced significantly the number of people who were infected compared to control. However, not everyone is convinced of the efficacy or necessity of the available vaccines. There are many reasons for this reluctance to get vaccinated. At a public health level, the negative side effects of vaccinating 100 million Indians remain low compared to the overall benefits of vaccination. Analysis of the available data from November 2020 and the second wave in Tamil Nadu suggest that the vaccination of people over 60 years of age has already started showing a positive effect. The proportion of new COVID-19 positive patients in this age group has fallen since vaccination started. In comparison, the number of positive cases among those in the age group below 60 years shows an increase. This is illustrated in the accompanying graphs for Tamil Nadu and Chennai. The first graph shows the data for daily infections for the whole of Tamil Nadu according to each age group and the second shows the number of active patients for Chennai (according to available data). The Y axis on the left shows the proportion of daily infections or active cases while that on the right shows the numbers vaccinated. Numbers that bode well An analysis of the absolute numbers shows an increase in cases across all age groups. However, the percentage of infected people over 60 years of age shows a definite decrease. At present, in Tamil Nadu only 16% of those above 60 years and 4% of those below 60 years (projected population in 2021) have been vaccinated (one dose). However, there is a 7% decrease in  infections  among those above 60 years of age. These results strongly suggest the positive impact of vaccination. Similar reduction can be expected in the number of deaths among those above 60 years of age. However, analysis of death data is not meaningful at this stage owing to large scatter in reported deaths. This bodes well for the future. Increasing the population which can be vaccinated is a definitive way to control the pandemic. The government has now allowed vaccination of all people above 18 years, a good step forward. However, educating the public about the benefits of vaccination and explaining that major side effects are rare will be important to ensure acceptance. Vaccinating a large number of people will take time and effort but is necessary to prevent further waves of infection and the possible emergence of new mutant strains. While the vaccination programme will help in reducing the effects of the second wave, the only way to contain it quickly is an increased adherence to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. T.S. Ganesan is Professor, Medical Oncology and Clinical Research, Cancer Institute (WIA), Chennai; R. Rajaraman is Professor, Homi Bhabha National Institute, Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research, Kalpakkam; and Dr. R. Shankar is Honorary Professor, The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-impact-of-vaccination/article34531166.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Fixing the vaccine crunch||The unprecedented rise in COVID-19 cases has changed vaccine hesitancy to vaccine advocacy. Even as the government has allowed those aged 18 and above to get vaccinated, the availability of vaccines has become an issue. Many extraneous issues such as Centre-State relations have clouded the picture. Given the rise in cases and deaths, COVID-appropriate behaviour has to be strictly implemented from now on and vaccination has to take place on a war footing. Production capacity The main issue is of volume of vaccines. Bharat Biotech (BB) was making about 8-10 million doses of Covaxin a month. Serum Institute of India (SII) makes about 70 million doses of Covishield a month. We need about 1,500 million doses (two doses per person) to vaccinate the target population. India has covered about 10% of the target population. BB is expanding its capacity and hopes to reach a target of 50-60 million doses a month in four months. SII has stated that it will push production to 100 million doses a month. Sputnik may chip in with 50 million doses a month in about four months. Besides these, three vaccine candidates look promising. The DNA vaccine (for spike protein) by Zydus Cadila, the recombinant spike protein (Biological E), and self-amplifying messenger RNA (Sa-mRNA for spike protein) by Gennova can reach field application in four months. All the three may need emergency approval from the DCGI. With the availability of five approved vaccines, with some outside help perhaps, and with an aggressive timeline, India should be able to vaccinate the target population in six months from now. What are the riders and imponderables? Despite the unfolding tragedy, there are some major outcomes. The DNA vaccine, if successful, will be the first DNA vaccine that goes into human application for any disease. The 10,000L bioreactor for mammalian cell expansion, to be commissioned by BB, will be largest by global standards. But it is not easy to scale up the micro-carrier technology used by BB. Sa-mRNA, being developed by Gennova, is the first of its kind (uniquely, stable between 2-8°C), even for a mRNA vaccine, already commercialised by Moderna and Pfizer (require -20 and -70°C for stability). Sa-mRNA can amplify itself and so a lower dose may be adequate. In the context of ‘variants’, mRNA vaccines provide the greatest flexibility to tweak and make a new vaccine in the shortest time. Interestingly, the five vaccines would represent five different platforms and eventually need not be confined to a single company for production. Several research publications have shown that vaccines produced using different platforms are all effective in preventing severity of disease and hospitalisation, although infection may still happen. The way forward It is possible that when 60% of the target population is reached in terms of vaccination (in addition to the infected and recovered individuals), herd immunity may kick in and cases may go down drastically. But people and the system may once again get complacent and a third wave may become a reality. We also do not know how long the antibody-mediated protection lasts. We need to look into T-Cell memory and its role in long-term protection. The issue of vaccinating children will become a priority, since, being asymptomatic, they are the largest carriers to spread the disease. This would call for independent trials based on age groups. A few other public sector units have also been supported for capacity building and can become major vaccine manufacturing centres over time. Viral variants will evolve, especially under vaccine pressure, and pose challenges to vaccine efficacy. Constant tweaking may be needed or a new vaccine strain may be added each year. Vaccines produced using different platforms may be priced differently and it is possible that we may have a poor man’s vaccine and a rich man’s vaccine since the government may not subsidise the cost forever. One hopes that these efforts will also prepare India for a future pandemic. G. Padmanaban, former Director, IISc, is Senior Science Innovation Adviser, Department of Biotechnology, Govt. of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fixing-the-vaccine-crunch/article34531167.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccine skirmishes||The Biden administration’s announcement that it would support a waiver on intellectual property rights (IPR) for the production of COVID-19 vaccines appeared to catch the world off-guard, on both sides of the argument. The original proposal for the relaxation of TRIPS for such vaccines in the context of the ongoing pandemic was drafted at the WTO by India and South Africa last year. Months before it was tabled, during the 2020 U.S. presidential election, erstwhile candidate Joe Biden vowed that should he win, he would “absolutely positively” commit to sharing vaccine technology with countries that needed it, perhaps anticipating the deep chasm of inequality in vaccine access. Now that his administration has proclaimed its intent to fulfil that promise, it must come as a bitter realisation that what sounds like a well-intentioned, pro-developing-countries policy stance has been rebuffed by major EU nations and met with counter-suggestions that might make even the most liberal U.S. Democrats uncomfortable. The first pushback salvo came from Germany which said that it would create “severe complications” for the production of vaccines, echoing the view of major pharma corporations. While French President Emmanuel Macron had appeared relatively less hostile to considering the proposal earlier, he lashed out at the “Anglo-Saxons” for impeding vaccine availability globally by blocking the export of ingredients. There are merits to the argument that an IPR waiver, even if it were to become a reality, may not entirely resolve the vaccine deficit issue in countries suffering the worst of the pandemic now. First, the grant of a waiver would have to be accompanied by a “tech transfer” that provides generic pharmaceutical manufacturers with the requisite trained personnel, raw materials and hi-tech equipment and production know-how. Second, there must be a scientifically convincing answer to the question of how any vaccine then produced by these generic manufacturers — in all likelihood, years from now — would pass the tests of safety, immunogenicity and protective efficacy. Third, the impact on global supply chains for vaccine production should be examined so major disruptions might be avoided. Finally, alternative options to urgently address vaccine shortfalls should be considered, including developed nations sharing a significantly greater part of their vaccine stockpiles, particularly in cases where the latter exceed projected domestic need. Indeed, there is speculation that the intention behind Mr. Biden’s waiver proclamation might be in favour of the last outcome, essentially a tactic to persuade pharmaceutical companies to accept less painful measures including sharing some of their technology willingly, agreeing to joint ventures to increase global production expeditiously, and simply produce more doses at affordable prices to donate directly to where the need is most severe, especially India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vaccine-skirmishes/article34531150.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||On the edge||The ongoing violence in Jerusalem is a culmination of the tensions building up since the start of Ramzan in mid-April. When Israeli police set up barricades at the Damascus Gate, a main entrance to the occupied Old City, preventing Palestinians from gathering there, it led to clashes. Last week, close to a scheduled Israeli Supreme Court hearing on the eviction of Palestinian families in an Arab neighbourhood of Jerusalem, tensions escalated. Israeli police entered the Haram al-Sharif compound (Noble Sanctuary), which houses the Al-Aqsa mosque, Islam’s third holiest site, to disperse the protesters, injuring hundreds of Palestinians. A Jewish settlement agency has issued eviction notices to Palestinian families in Sheikh Jarrah, claiming that their houses sit on land purchased by Jewish agencies in the late 19th century (when historic Palestine was a part of the Ottoman Empire). Arab families have been living in Sheikh Jarrah for generations. The Israeli Supreme Court postponed the hearing on Monday on the advice of the government. Despite the volatile situation, the Israeli authorities gave permission to the annual Jerusalem Day Flag March, traditionally taken out by Zionist youth through the Muslim Quarter of East Jerusalem to mark the city’s capture by the Israelis. More violence broke out ahead of the march on Monday morning. Jerusalem has been at the heart of the Israel-Palestine conflict. Israel, which captured the western part of the city in the 1948 first Arab-Israel war and the eastern half in the 1967 Six-Day War, claims sovereignty over the whole city whereas the Palestinians say East Jerusalem should be the capital of their future state. Most countries have not recognised Israel’s claim over the city and are of the view that its status should be resolved as part of a final Israel-Palestine settlement. Israel’s tactic till now has been to hold on to the status quo through force. A peace process is non-existent and the Palestinians are divided and weak. With carte blanche from the Trump administration, Israel expanded its settlements and extended repression of the Palestinians in the occupied territories. The move to evict Palestinians from East Jerusalem is seen as an attempt to forcibly expand Jewish settlements in the Arab neighbourhoods of the Old City. Israel’s actions have triggered condemnations from across the world, but it is unlikely to mend its ways. The international community, which largely overlooked Israel’s violent repression of Palestinians, should pressure Tel Aviv to at least treat the Palestinians with dignity, if not to ease the yoke of the occupation. U.S. President Joe Biden has said that America’s commitment to human rights would be at the centre of his foreign policy. In West Asia, he faces a reality check.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-the-edge/article34531151.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Unemployment (From an editorial)||With the ever-increasing stress of over-population, under-production and the displacement of manual labour by machinery, we are being gradually faced with the problem of unemployment in an acute form. No country in the world seems to be free from its virulent manifestations, in some form or other, and the recent intensity in the agitations among the masses all the world over is partly due to this malady. Capitalist industrialism, although it has tended, on the one hand, to organise and increase production by exploiting the material resources of the world — even sometimes at the cost of the natural freedom and justice due to many millions of human beings, belonging to less aggressive and more contented nationalities — has also, on the other, created extremes in the human scale and widened the gulf between them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unemployment-from-an-editorial/article34531159.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Thant urged to secure Mujib’s release||Mr. Abdus Salam Azad, Special Envoy of the Government of Bangla Desh, to-day [Somewhere in Bangla Desh, May 10] appealed to the U.N. Secretary-General, U Thant, and world powers to secure the release of Sheikh Mujibur Rehman so that his life could be saved. “We are afraid our leader is being tortured by the West Pakistani Army,” he said. He hoped that the U.N. Security Council would allow a representative of Bangla Desh to present their case before the world body. “We, in the name of humanity, expect that the people of the world will extend their full support to the freedom struggle of the suffering masses of Bangla Desh,” he said. Mr. Azad described the propaganda by the West Pakistani military regime that India was interfering in the internal affairs of Pakistan as a “tissue of lies.” He told PTI in an interview that it was the West Pakistan Air Force, Army and Navy which were strafing, bombing and shelling the population in Bangla Desh. They were on the rampage in various parts of Bangla Desh. He said the people of Bangla Desh were forced to take shelter in India as it was the only country bordering Bangla Desh. “We are really grateful to the people and the Government of India for their not driving our people back into the clutches of the West Pakistani butchers and plunderers and for accepting the evacuees with all sympathy and cordiality,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/thant-urged-to-secure-mujibs-release/article34531160.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Retail auto sales slip 28% over March; May to see muted run’||With almost all the States resorting to either a partial or a full lockdown amid the second wave of the pandemic, total retail vehicle registrations declined 28% to about 11.85 lakh units in the last month compared with March, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) said on Monday. For the full year ended March 31, vehicle sales fell almost 30% to 1.52 crore units. Annual vehicle registrations were below FY13 levels, that is, their lowest in eight years. The automotive dealers’ body added that the second wave of COVID-19 has not only hit urban markets but also unsettled the rural segment, which was relatively insulated the first time around. Hence, recovery is expected to take longer than that following the first wave. As per FADA’s data, retail sales of passenger vehicles (PVs) declined 25.3% month-on-month to 2.79 lakh units, while two-wheeler sales fell 27.6% to about 11.95 lakh units. Commercial vehicles fell 23.7% to 67,372 units. Sales of tractors also declined 44.6% to 69,082 units. All comparisons have been made month-on-month as April 2020 saw zero registrations due to the nationwide lockdown. For the year ended March, all vehicle segments witnessed a decline, except for tractors, which grew 16.1% to 6.44 lakh units. FADA said the first nine days of May had seen ‘extremely lean’ sales due to lockdowns in a majority of the States. Even where dealerships were open, walk-ins had dropped to 30% and buyers were delaying decisions. The apex entity expects May to remain “sluggish”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-auto-sales-slip-28-over-march-may-to-see-muted-run/article34531139.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Slow vaccination pace puts India at risk of more waves’||Fitch Ratings has warned that India’s slow pace of vaccination means that the country could remain vulnerable to further waves of COVID-19 even once the current surge subsides. Just 9.4% of the population had received at least one vaccine dose as of May 5, it pointed out. Last month, the firm had said that the second pandemic wave in the country could ‘delay’ but not ‘derail’ the economic recovery. However, it has now expressed concerns about the adverse implications of a longer disruption. “We expect the shock to economic activity from the latest wave of the pandemic in India to be less severe than in 2020, even though caseloads and fatalities are much higher. The authorities are implementing lockdowns more narrowly, and companies and individuals have adjusted behaviour in ways that cushion the effects,” Fitch said in a note on Monday. “Nonetheless, indicators show activity dropped in April-May, which is likely to delay the country’s recovery, and the number of newly recorded cases remains extremely high. There is a risk that disruption could persist longer and spread further than our baseline case assumes, particularly if lockdowns are introduced in more regions, or nationwide,” it added. The latest COVID-19 infections’ wave would add to risks for financial institutions by sapping near-term momentum from the economic recovery and, the central bank’s relief measures announced last Wednesday would postpone the recognition of risky assets, the firm said. It had forecast 12.8% GDP growth in FY22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/slow-vaccination-pace-puts-india-at-risk-of-more-waves/article34531145.ece
11 May 2021||MUMBAI,||SEBI’s sustainability reporting norms mandate ESG overview||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on Monday issued a circular notifying new disclosure norms on sustainability related reporting for the top 1,000 listed companies by market cap by FY23. Such a reporting will now be under a new business responsibility and sustainability report (BRSR) format. The decision was first made at SEBI’s board meeting on March 25. “The BRSR is a notable departure from the existing business responsibility report and a significant step towards bringing sustainability reporting at par with financial reporting,” SEBI said in the circular. Now, the companies will need to provide an overview of their material environmental, social, governance risks and opportunities and approach to mitigate or adapt to the risks along with financial implications. The social-related disclosures will cover the workforce, value chain, communities and consumers. Companies will have to disclose the gender and social diversity of employees, including measures for differently-abled employees and workers, occupational health and safety and trainings. On the community front, companies need to make disclosures on social impact assessments (SIA), rehabilitation and resettlement and corporate social responsibility. For consumers, they have to make disclosures on product labelling, product recall and complaints in respect of data privacy and cybersecurity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebis-sustainability-reporting-norms-mandate-esg-overview/article34531130.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Growth may slip to 8.2% if wave peaks in June’||India’s growth this year could slip to 8.2% if COVID-19 cases continue to rise till the end of June, rating agency Crisil said as economic risks from the second wave escalate. The agency, which had estimated 11% growth for FY22, said that its ‘base case’ will hold true only if the surge in COVID-19 cases and lockdowns across the country peak by mid-May and ‘risks are firmly tilted to the downside’ at this point. In a moderate risk scenario, if cases and lockdowns peak by May-end, Crisil expects growth to be 9.8% for the year. Industry’s revenue growth projections of 15% for the year will hold even in this scenario, it said. But growth could be as low as 8.2% in a severe downside scenario, with industry revenue growth likely to be significantly lower at 10%-12%, it said in a report. While the economy was expected to return to pre-pandemic levels by September, Crisil now expects the catch-up to be pushed beyond the September quarter in both the moderate and severe scenarios. Though the lockdowns are less restrictive than last year, the agency pointed out they are expanding. Moreover, caseloads spreading to rural areas where healthcare infrastructure is weak are a worry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/growth-may-slip-to-82-if-wave-peaks-in-june/article34531137.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||IP waiver will not boost vaccine production: OPPI||The Organisation of Pharmaceutical Producers of India (OPPI) on Monday said waiving intellectual property rights will not lead to increased production of COVID-19 vaccines, as it is not the barrier to their adequate availability in India. A proposal moved by India and South Africa before the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to temporarily suspend trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights for the COVID-19 vaccines to increase their access amid the pandemic has gained support across a number of countries, including the U.S. Vaccine manufacturing is a complex process and scaling up capacities involves the transfer of critical know-how, it added. This can only be optimally achieved when vaccine manufacturers are able to scale up capacities at their production sites and/or through licensing agreements with other manufacturers, along with supply agreements with governments to make required quantities deployed rapidly and reliably, OPPI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ip-waiver-will-not-boost-vaccine-production-oppi/article34531142.ece
11 May 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Small finance banks may lend Rs. 3,000 cr. to MFIs’||RBI’s move to allow small finance banks (SFBs) to classify loans to small microfinance institutions (MFIs) (with a loan book of sub-Rs. 500 crore) as priority sector advances will lead to an incremental funding of up to Rs. 3,000 crore to the MFIs, as per Acuite Ratings. “While scheduled commercial banks have funded large MFIs, they have been reluctant to sanction loans to those smaller in size,” it said in a report. “However, SFBs understand the small MFI segment in a better way since the majority of the SFBs have started their operations as a small MFI,” it said. “We expect that this measure will lead to an incremental funding to the sub-Rs. 500 crore MFI segment to an extent of Rs. 2000-Rs. 3000 crore over FY22 and therefore, provide support to the liquidity position of these players,” it added. “Further, the cost of the incremental borrowings is expected to be less as SFBs will be able to access SLTRO funds at a repo rate of 4% and up to a tenure of three years. Consequently, the profitability pressures in the small MFI segment may also get partly offset,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/small-finance-banks-may-lend-rs-3000-cr-to-mfis/article34531134.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI:,||IndiGo to raise up to Rs. 3,000 crore||Budget carrier IndiGo will raise up to Rs. 3,000 crore through a qualified institutional placement (QIP), the company said in a filing. The decision was taken by the board of directors of the parent company, InterGlobe Aviation Ltd. The airline was contemplating this move last year as well, but decided to opt for sale-and-lease back (that allows airlines to sell its planes to a lessor, and then take them back on lease) to raise funds.  The decision to raise funds comes at a time when revival of travel demand is in doubt following the second wave of COVID-19. The airline had reported its fourth straight quarterly loss of Rs. 620 crore for December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indigo-to-raise-up-to-rs-3000-crore/article34531136.ece
11 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Kattoor is RBI Executive Director||The Reserve Bank of India has appointed Jose J. Kattoor as Executive Director (ED), the central bank said in a statement on Monday. Prior to being promoted, he was heading Bengaluru Regional Office of the Reserve Bank as Regional Director for Karnataka. He will look after human resource management, corporate strategy and the budget and Rajbhasha departments. Mr. Kattoor has, over a span of three decades, served in areas including communications, human resource management, financial inclusion, supervision and currency management in the Reserve Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kattoor-is-rbi-executive-director/article34531143.ece
11 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Blackstone buys Embassy arm for Rs. 5,250 crore||Blackstone on Monday announced that funds managed by Blackstone Real Estate have acquired Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and Embassy Group for Rs. 5,250 crore, in one of India’s largest logistics transactions. Embassy Industrial Parks comprises 10.6 million square feet of modern Grade A logistics and warehousing assets located across major industrial hubs in India. These are leased to leading e-commerce and retail players. Logistics is one of Blackstone’s core investment themes globally. Since 2010, Blackstone has acquired more than 1.2 billion square feet of logistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/blackstone-buys-embassy-arm-for-rs-5250-crore/article34531132.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Chola MS General Insurance settles COVID-19 claims worth over Rs 140 cr in FY21||Chola MS General Insurance Company (Chola MS) on Monday said it had settled COVID-19-related claims worth over Rs. 140 crore in FY21. The firm posted gross written premium of Rs. 4,388 crore. “During the year, COVID-19-related health claims of over Rs. 140 crore rendered the combined ratio higher at 107.28%. Profit before tax grew 47% to Rs. 374 crore,” it said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chola-ms-general-insurance-settles-covid-19-claims-worth-over-rs-140-cr-in-fy21/article34531131.ece
11 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Vayana Network to scale up its overseas supply chain finance business||Vayana Network, a supply chain finance (SCF) platform, said after enabling over $6 billion (Rs. 45,000 crore) in trade finance for 300 supply chains, it would expand its services for Indian MSMEs to grow their global trade.   Vayana had created partnerships with leading financiers in key global markets to create easy financing options for Indian and Asian businesses, said Ram Iyer, founder and CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vayana-network-to-scale-up-its-overseas-supply-chain-finance-business/article34531135.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Snapdeal creates platform to connect patients with plasma donors||E-commerce firm Snapdeal unveiled a platform for connecting COVID-19 patients with plasma donors. ‘Sanjeevani’ is accessible via website as well as mobile application. Patients and donors can register themselves with their mobile numbers/email ids. Snapdeal’s algorithm will connect patients with potential donors, the company said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/snapdeal-creates-platform-to-connect-patients-with-plasma-donors/article34531140.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Vistara to fly to Tokyo from June 16||Tata Group and Singapore Airlines joint venture Vistara on May 10 announced the unveiling of flight services to Tokyo starting June 16. The airline said it would fly once a week between New Delhi and Tokyo (Haneda) under India’s travel bubble agreement with Japan. The airline will use its Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner with its economy, premium economy and business classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vistara-to-fly-to-tokyo-from-june-16/article34531147.ece
11 May 2021||Madrid,||Real Madrid clings on for a draw||After seeing its chance to reach the top of the Spanish league slip away, defending champion Real Madrid turned its anger toward the officials. Madrid blasted the referee and VAR after Sunday’s 2-2 draw against Sevilla, which kept the club from taking the lead with three rounds to go. The result benefited first place Atletico Madrid, which stayed two points in front of both second-place Madrid and Barcelona. Real’s complaints came after video review turned a penalty kick for the hosts into one for Sevilla with the game at 1-1 in the second half. The referee had called a penalty for a foul on Karim Benzema in the 74th minute, but VAR went back to find a controversial handball by Madrid defender Éder Militao a few seconds earlier in the other area. Madrid coach Zinedine Zidane couldn’t hold back against the officials. “I never speak about the referees, but today I’m angry,” said Zidane, who entered the field to question the referee after the match. “I didn’t understand anything. I’m not convinced by anything that he told me.” In Serie A, Juventus lost 3-0 at home to AC Milan and dropped to fifth to leave its chances of qualifying for the Champions League in peril, on the same weekend that Juventus insisted on forging ahead with a European Super League competition that would guarantee it a spot among elite clubs. Juventus is a point behind fourth-place Napoli. West Bromwich Albion was relegated after one season back in the Premier League after losing 3-1 at Arsenal on Sunday, ending Sam Allardyce’s proud record of never having taken a side down from England’s top division in 30 years as a manager.  The results: Premier League: Arsenal 3 (Smith Rowe 29, Pepe 35, Willian 90) bt West Brom 1 (Pereira 67); West Ham 0 lost to Everton 1 (Calvert-Lewin 24).   LaLiga: Valencia 3 (Gomez 45+1, 48, Correia 89) bt Valladolid 0; Villarreal 2 (Moises 25, Gerard 87-pen) lost to Celta Vigo 4 (Lorenzo 19, 34-pen, Mendez 45+3-pen, Solari 57); Real Madrid 2 (Marco Asensio 67, Carlos 90+4-og) drew with Sevilla 2 (Fernando 22, Rakitic 78-pen).   Bundesliga: Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Hrustic 85) drew with Mainz 1 (Onisiwo 11); Cologne 1 (Andersson 49) lost to Freiburg 4 (Petersen 18, Demirovic 20, Grifo 90+3, 90+6); Hertha Berlin 0 drew with Arminia Bielefeld 0.   Serie A: Genoa 1 (Zappacosta 85) drew with Sassuolo 2 (Raspadori 14, Berardi 66); Benevento 1 (Lapadula 16) lost to Cagliari 3 (Lykogiannis 1, Pavoletti 64, Joao Pedro 90+3); Parma 2 (Brunetta 79, Sohm 88) lost to Atalanta 5 (Malinovskyi 12, Pessina 52, Muriel 77, 86, Miranchuk 90+3); Hellas Verona 1 (Dimarco 88) drew with Torino 1 (Vojvoda 85); Roma 5 (Mayoral 47, 90, Pellegrini 70, 73, Mkhitaryan 78) bt Crotone 0; Juventus 0 lost to AC Milan 3 (Diaz 45+1, Rebic 78, Tomori 82).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-madrid-clings-on-for-a-draw/article34531323.ece
11 May 2021||MADRID,||Zverev rallies to regain title||Alexander Zverev underlined his credentials as a French Open title contender with a battling 6-7(8), 6-4, 6-3 victory over Italian Matteo Berrettini on Sunday to claim his fourth Masters 1000 crown and second Madrid Open title. Germany’s Zverev, conqueror of claycourt specialists Rafa Nadal and Dominic Thiem en route to the final, dropped his first set of the tournament. However, he fought back under a closed roof at the Manolo Santana stadium to lift his first claycourt title since 2019. Awesome feeling “I feel awesome,” Zverev said at a courtside interview. “It’s great. This is definitely a special win. I just want to enjoy it. I didn’t play too many guys who can serve like him, so it was a difficult match.” Berrettini showed no sign of nerves in his maiden ATP 1000 final and landed the first blow, taking a see-sawing opening set in a tie-break, where he initially let slip a 5-0 advantage and then saved a set point. But Zverev, champion here in 2018, hit back strongly in the second set, breaking the 25-year-old Italian in the ninth game to force a decider. With unforced errors creeping into Berrettini’s game, the Italian squandered a break point at 2-2 and then proceeded to drop his own serve as Zverev inched closer to victory. The fifth seeded German did not let up and another break confirmed the win in two hours and 40 minutes. Zverev is shifting his focus to Rome this week before continuing his pursuit of a maiden Grand Slam title at Roland Garros, where he has never been beyond the quarterfinals. “It’s difficult to switch, but Rome is also an event I like and I hope I can perform the same way,” Zverev said.  The result: Final: Alexander Zverev bt Matteo Berrettini 6-7(8), 6-4, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zverev-rallies-to-regain-title/article34531250.ece
11 May 2021||Chennai,||CSK was relatively younger and hungrier||A red-hot Ravindra Jadeja strung together a blaze of sixes in the innings’ final over. The clinical Deepak Chahar was destructive with his swing. And the cutting edge of all-rounder Sam Curran’s game was in view. After a disastrous 2020, Chennai Super Kings made a stunning turnaround in the 2021 edition of the IPL. BCCI determined The competition now stands suspended because of the alarming COVID-19 situation in the country, but the BCCI is determined to hold the remainder of the competition in either the UAE or Sri Lanka later this year. A rejuvenated CSK won five out of its seven games and was second in the table. One of its defeats was a last-ball cliff-hanger with the explosive Kieron Pollard pulling off a believe-it-or-not kind of heist for Mumbai Indians. In contrast to the ageing side of 2020, this year’s CSK was relatively younger and hungrier with clear role definitions. Critically, the side was not overly dependent on skipper M.S. Dhoni for its successes. The opener pair of Faf du Plessis and Ruturaj Gaikwad donned a key role in CSK rediscovering its ‘mojo’. The quick-thinking du Plessis of astonishing bat-speed if not footwork, was remarkably consistent at the top of the order with 320 runs at a whopping 64.00 (strike rate of 145.45). And fellow opener Ruturaj Gaikwad of footwork, timing and silken drives helped CSK build a solid platform. Moeen Ali proved an inspired signing for CSK. He maintained the momentum even as wickets fell and invariably upped the tempo surfacing at No 3.  With the grace and flow of a southpaw, he found the gaps or cleared the ropes with an effortless swing of the willow. And he chipped in with his off-spin too, supporting Jadeja, and picking wickets at crucial stages. Suresh Raina displayed flashes of form and Rayudu’s brutal onslaught on MI during his unbeaten 72 reflected his precious ability to use the crease. And then Chahar and left-armer Curran struck vital blows, finishing with eight and nine wickets. The influential Jadeja was the Super King with the bat and the ball against RCB, castling the in-form Glenn Maxwell and AB de Villiers, the latter with an absolute beauty that spun across the bat’s face. With Dhoni pulling the strings quietly, CSK was well and truly back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-was-relatively-younger-and-hungrier/article34531364.ece
11 May 2021||ROME,||Smooth start for Sinner||Seven months ago, Jannik Sinner twice had chances to accomplish something few tennis players have been capable of: taking a set from Rafael Nadal at the French Open. The Italian teenager served for the first set at 6-5 in the Roland Garros quarterfinals and was up a break early in the second. He squandered both opportunities and was eliminated in straight sets. But Sinner, who is still 19, learned a lot on that cool October night and has since surged up the rankings and into the top 20. Sinner cruised through his first-round match at the Italian Open on Monday, beating Ugo Humbert 6-2, 6-4, to set up a rematch with Nadal. “I think at Roland Garros I had the right mentality and tomorrow (or Wednesday, when the match will likely be played) I need to do the same thing,” Sinner said. “I also know I have more weapons, that I’ve improved.” Also at the Foro Italico, Taylor Fritz beat Daniel Evans 6-3, 6-2 to set up a meeting with Djokovic, who claimed his fifth Rome title when the 2020 edition of the tournament was held in September. Swiatek moves up In the women’s section, French Open champion Iga Swiatek advanced when Alison Riske retired with a left foot injury while trailing.  Important results: First round: Men: Taylor Fritz bt Dan Evans 6-3, 6-2; Marton Fucsovics bt Yoshihito Nishioka 6-0, 6-2; Federico Delbonis bt Karen Khachanov 3-6, 6-4, 6-0; Aslan Karatsev bt Miomir Kecmanovic 7-6(2), 6-4; Kei Nishikori bt Fabio Fognini 6-3, 6-4; Stefano Travaglia bt Benoit Paire 6-4, 6-3; Jannik Sinner bt Ugo Humbert 6-2, 6-4; David Goffin bt Salvatore Caruso 6-4, 6-1; Pablo Carreno-Busta bt Laslo Djere 4-6, 6-3, 6-1.   Women: Coco Gauff bt Yulia Putintseva 7-5, 4-6, 6-4; Iga Swiatek bt Alison Riske 5-4, retd.; Amanda Anisimova bt Wang Qiang 7-5, 6-3; Anastasija Sevastova bt Jil Teichmann 3-6, 6-1, 6-3; Petra Kvitova bt Magda Linette 1-6, 6-0, 6-2; Jennifer Brady bt Zhang Shuai 6-1, 6-4; Ekaterina Alexandrova bt Marta Kostyuk 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smooth-start-for-sinner/article34531254.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arjun Erigaisi has the last laugh||Staying incredibly calm under tremendous pressure, Arjun Erigaisi stunned top seed B. Adhiban 3.5-2.5 to emerge as the surprise winner of the online Indian Qualifiers for the Champions Chess Tour on Monday. With the finalists having already qualified, the interest on the final day was limited to the identity of the champion. Aravindh Chithambaram defeated D. Gukesh 2.5-0.5, after winning the second and third games, to finish third. Having started his campaign in the 16-player field by knocking out highly-rated Nihal Sarin, Arjun collected the winner’s share of $1500. Defensive skill Underdog Arjun, who had his chances in the second game, went on to keep the score at 2-2 after four rapid games. In the first five-minute blitz game, Adhiban held a huge advantage before Arjun’s defensive skills proved decisive. Adhiban, playing white, had Arjun on the ropes after rolling out his kingside pawns to put the latter’s bishop-pair temporarily out of play. The exchange of queens, followed by an oversight from Adhiban, enabled Arjun to bounce right back. In complicated positions, Arjun saw some accurate continuations and punished Adhiban to pull off what turned out to be a title-deciding victory. In the second blitz game, where Adhiban faced a must-win situation, Arjun played white and stayed in control. A desperate Adhiban held no real chance of levelling the match-score in a game that eventually ended in a copybook stalemate on the board. The next event on the Champions Chess Tour will be from May 23 to 31 and offers $220,000 in prize-money.  The results: Final: Arjun Erigaisi bt B. Adhiban 3.5-2.5 (Arjun won blitz mini-match 1.5-0.5). Third place: Aravindh Chithambaram bt D. Gukesh 2.5-0.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-erigaisi-has-the-last-laugh/article34531244.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Abhishek all fired up to do well in Tokyo||From obscurity to World No.1 in air pistol, it has been a quick progress for Abhishek Verma. The 31-year-old, who practises as a lawyer at the Punjab and Haryana High Court, had a meteoric rise after winning the Asian Games bronze in Palembang on his international debut in 2018. From starting to shoot as a hobby in 2015, Abhishek is all set to strike a medal in the Tokyo Olympics. “When I won at the Asian Games, I felt that I can do something for the country in shooting. Later in 2019, when I won gold in the Beijing and Rio World Cups, I started believing that I can do that in the Olympics,” said Abhishek in a media interaction arranged by the Sports Authority of India (SAI). In his maiden World Championship in Changwon, Korea, after the Asian Games, Abhishek made the final. In the World Cups Finals in 2019, he was fifth in Putian, China. Returning to international competition after the pandemic, Abhishek was in good form at the World Cup in Delhi, winning an individual bronze while compatriot Saurabh Chaudhary took the silver. Between the two, they had swept all the four gold medals in the World Cups in 2019.  “Age is no factor in shooting. Saurabh is 18 and doing so well. I give my example to people who ask me on the social media. I started when I was 27, and because of hard work, I am in the Indian team. You have to give it 100%,” said Abhishek. Well prepared “Abroad, food could be a problem. I have kept myself ready. I have got dumbbells to simulate dry firing during quarantine. For COVID, I have got mask and sanitiser. I have two pistols ready, well serviced,” said Abhishek, expressing his readiness for the final stretch of preparation in Croatia before the Tokyo Games. Abhishek is yet to feel the pressure associated with a big event like the Olympics. “I think we will get to feel it only when we go to Tokyo and be in the athletes village”.  The World No. 1 won a bronze at the last Asian Games. He also claimed two WC gold medals in 2019||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhishek-all-fired-up-to-do-well-in-tokyo/article34531253.ece
11 May 2021||Harare,||Pakistan wraps it up in quick time||Pakistan quickly took the one wicket it needed on Monday for another innings victory over struggling Zimbabwe in the second Test and a 2-0 series sweep. It took only five overs on day four for Shaheen Afridi to end it by having Luke Jongwe caught behind by wicketkeeper Mohammad Rizwan for 37. Pakistan won by an innings and 147 runs at the Harare Sports Club to go with the innings and 116-run win in the first Test played at the same venue. The visitors also rewrote history with Afridi’s five for 52 making him the third Pakistan bowler in the Test to take a five-wicket haul. He and Nauman Ali (five for 86) took five each in the second innings after Hasan Ali’s five in the first.  The scores: Pakistan 510/8 decl. bt Zimbabwe 132 & 231 in 68 overs (R. Chakabva 80, B. Taylor 49, Shaheen Afridi 5/52, Nau man Ali 5/86). MoM: Abid Ali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-wraps-it-up-in-quick-time/article34531267.ece
11 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Football stalwart Franco no more||Former India footballer Fortunato Franco passed away in Goa on Monday. He was 84. Franco was an integral part of India’s 1962 Jakarta Asian Games gold medal winning team, where India defeated South Korea 2-1 in the final. Franco was also a member of the team in the 1960 Rome Olympics, and the squad which finished second in the 1962 Asian Cup. Franco, who made his international debut against Pakistan in the Asian Cup qualifiers in Ernakulam (1959), earned 26 India caps. On the national circuit, Franco captained Maharashtra in the Santosh Trophy from 1959 to 1966. He led Maharashtra to the Santosh Trophy title in the 1963-64 season. At the club level, he represented Tata Sports Club with distinction. “It is devastating to hear that Mr. Fortunato Franco is no more. He was a member of Indian football’s golden generation, who played a stellar role in helping India win the gold medal in the 1962 Asian Games. His contribution to Indian football can never be forgotten. I share the grief,” Praful Patel, All India Football Federation (AIFF) president stated in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/football-stalwart-franco-no-more/article34531320.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Glowing tributes paid to Franco||Former Olympian S.A. Hakim paid glowing tributes to his former teammate Fortunato Franco, who passed away on Monday. Hakeem, son of the legendary coach S.A. Rahim and who played in the 1960 Olympics in which Franco was also a member, said Franco was one of the finest mid-fielders the country had ever seen. “It is sad that one of the last links of that golden era of Indian football is no more. That he held his own place despite being a contemporary of such greats like P.K. Banerjee, Chuni Goswami, T. Balaram, Jarnail Singh showed his class,” Hakim told The Hindu . “Apart from being an outstanding player, Franco was a perfect gentleman and was one of the favourites of my father for his skills, integrity and team spirit,” Hakim said. “Obviously, the highpoint of his career was being a member of the gold-medal winning Indian team in the 1982 Asian Games. He truly deserved the Arjuna Award but unfortunately was never considered for it,” said Hakim. Straight forward “He was a very straight forward person and maybe that is why he was not liked by many,” he added. Former India captain Shabbir Ali also expressed his condolences. He recalled his association with Franco, who was his coach when he was with the Tata Sports Club in ‘70s. Another former India captain Victor Amalraj also joined in the condolences, stating that Franco belonged to the era which saw Indian football dominate. “The few times I met him, I found him to be very affable and one of those who shared his thoughts on the game,” Amalraj said.  He truly deserved the Arjuna Award but unfortunately was never considered for it S.A. Hakim   The few times I met him, I found him to be very affable and one of those who shared his thoughts on the game VictorAmalraj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/glowing-tributes-paid-to-franco/article34531750.ece
11 May 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Anthony Davis on a roll as Lakers shade Suns||Anthony Davis had 42 points and 12 rebounds and Los Angeles Lakers made 13 shots from 3-point range to overwhelm the Phoenix Suns in a 123-110 win on Sunday night here. Lakers avoided the three-game season sweep by Phoenix and remained one game behind the Portland Trail Blazers for the No. 6 spot in the Western Conference standings with four games left. The top six teams avoid the play-in tournament to reach the playoffs. Los Angeles, which lost eight of its previous 10 games, was without LeBron James, Kyle Kuzma and Dennis Schroder. After being out six weeks because of an ankle injury, James has missed the last four games with the same injury. Jimmy Butler finished strong with 22 of his 26 points in the second half as Miami strengthened its hold on the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference with a 130-124 win over host Boston. Derrick Rose contributed 25 points and eight assists off the bench and Reggie Bullock finished with 24 points on 5-for-12 shooting from behind the arc as visiting New York defeated Los Angeles.  The results: Miami 130 bt Boston 124; New York 106 bt LA Clippers 100; Dallas 124 bt Cleveland 97; New Orleans 112 bt Charlotte 110; Minnesota 128 bt Orlando 96; Chicago 108 bt Detroit 96; LA Lakers 123 bt Phoenix 110; Sacramento 126 bt Oklahoma City 98 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anthony-davis-on-a-roll-as-lakers-shade-suns/article34531308.ece
11 May 2021||Montmelo (Spain),||Hamilton hopes to have ‘clear picture of future’ by summer||Lewis Hamilton hopes to have a “clear picture” of his future with Mercedes in 2022 by the mid-summer break after feverish speculation over his contract “ruined the winter”. Hamilton reminded the paddock of his value on Sunday when he claimed his 98th career victory and fifth in a row at the Spanish Grand Prix. “Contract wise, we’d never want to be in the position that we were in January-February, it ruined my whole winter,” said Hamilton. “I am sure it wasn’t helpful for Toto (Mercedes boss, Toto Wolff) in terms of being able to be off and relaxed. It felt like we didn't have much of a break.” Hamilton’s current one-year extension until the end of 2021 was announced in February. Starting conversations “Naturally you don’t have to rush anything but I think we have to be sensible and start conversations,” he added. “They are very complex, it’s never a super simple procedure and so hopefully soon we can start, as long as it doesn’t interfere with the job — we still have 19 races to go. “But it would be great to get something in place before the break and have a clear picture of the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-hopes-to-have-clear-picture-of-future-by-summer/article34531324.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Coach Baig returns after a tough but rewarding stint||Life has not been easy over the last two months for chief national rowing coach Dronacharya Ismail Baig. He had to guide his trainees in tough conditions in Tokyo, while back home in Hyderabad, his wife and younger daughter were battling the pandemic. But Baig overcame these challenges, which he describes as some of the toughest in his career, and ensured the rowers qualified for an Olympics under his mentorship for the sixth time since the 2000 edition. Arjun Lal Jat (Rajasthan) and Arvind Singh (Uttar Pradesh) made the cut for this year's Tokyo Olympics in double scull after finishing second in the final race of the Asia/Oceania Continental qualifying regatta in Tokyo. “Both Arjun and Arvind have been with me since 2018. They were in the reserves for the Asiad that year and won a silver in the Asian meet the next year,” said Baig. Missed opportunity The chief coach rued the missed opportunity for Jakar Khan. Khan finished fourth in men’s single sculls, but each country gets only one qualifying quota in any one category. “Well, the qualifying event was held at the same venue where the Olympics competition is scheduled in the heart of Tokyo,” he said in a chat with The Hindu on his return home. “Honestly, with the kind of strict protocols in place, we were worried more about getting a fever than about the qualification itself. “Such was the tension for all of us as our temperatures were checked eight times every day and we had to report our location for verification via an app,” he explained. “I can tell you one thing. If the Olympics are held with the same protocols in place in the wake of the pandemic, the aura and the atmosphere usually associated with the Games will not be there for sure,” he said. Worth it “In hindsight, I feel that training in the bio-bubble at the Army Rowing Node in Pune since last September was worth it, with this qualification of Arjun and Arvind,” he said, relieved that the rowers made the cut and his family members are healthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coach-baig-returns-after-a-tough-but-rewarding-stint/article34531317.ece
11 May 2021||LONDON,||IPL stars won’t be ‘forced’ into action, says Giles||England team director Ashley Giles says England has no plans to “rush” its Indian Premier League stars back for next month’s Test series against New Zealand and could introduce new faces to cope with a packed schedule. Among those currently serving quarantine periods are Jos Buttler, Chris Woakes and Sam Curran, all of whom have Test contracts with England. They could be available for County Championship matches starting on May 20 before joining the England “bubble” ahead of the first Test against New Zealand at Lord’s, which begins on June 2. “All these guys have had a number of spells in quarantine and bubbles. We need to look after them, with the amount of cricket they’ve got coming up. We’re not going to rush or force them back into cricket,” said Giles. “Chris Silverwood will work with them, as will our medical teams on what’s best for their progress.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-stars-wont-be-forced-into-action-says-giles/article34531245.ece
11 May 2021||Kingston,||West Indies players back home||All the Caribbean players who participated in the IPL have reached home following concerted efforts by the BCCI and their respective franchises, Cricket West Indies CEO Johnny Grave said. The IPL had to be postponed on May 4 after multiple COVID-19 cases came to light inside the tournament’s bio-bubble, which wasn’t as foolproof as the last edition in the UAE. Top West Indies players Kieron Pollard, Jason Holder, Sunil Narine, Andre Russell, Dwayne Bravo, Nicholas Pooran, Shimron Hetmyer, and Fabien Allen were part of the league. “Our IPL players, along with the West Indians who were part of the TV production, are now safely back in the Caribbean. “We are grateful to the BCCI and IPL Franchises for arranging their safe travel back to the Caribbean so quickly,” Cricket West Indies tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-players-back-home/article34531248.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Shafali set to play for Birmingham Phoenix||Shafali Verma is set to play for Birmingham Phoenix in the inaugural edition of The Hundred and might also turn up for a Sydney franchise in the Women’s Big bash League later in the year. The 17-year-old, who is the World No. 1 in ICC women’s T20I rankings, will join her skipper Harmanpreet Kaur, vice-captain Smriti Mandhana, Jemimah Rodrigues and Deepti Sharma in the 100-ball tournament involving eight men’s and women’s teams. “Shafali was approached by Birmingham franchise and the deal is about to be closed. She will be replacing New Zealand’s Sophie Devine in the team,” a BCCI source said. “She is also in talks with the Sydney franchise to play in the women’s Big Bash,” the source added. While The Hundred, which was postponed last year due to COVID-19, is scheduled to start on July 21 with the women’s match between the Oval Invincibles and Manchester Originals in London, the women’s Big Bash League is slated later in the year. In another development in women’s cricket, the head coach of Indian team will be picked this week by the Madan Lal-led Cricket Advisory Committee. As many as 35 applicants, including incumbent W.V. Raman and five female coaches, have applied for the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shafali-set-to-play-for-birmingham-phoenix/article34531256.ece
11 May 2021||Dubai,||Babar, Healy voted ICC players of the month||Pakistan skipper Babar Azam and Australia women's wicketkeeper Alyssa Healy were on Monday declared the ICC players of the month for their stellar performances during the month of April. Azam won the award for his consistent and outstanding performances across all formats in the recently concluded series against South Africa and was chosen as the April winner by fans and the ICC voting academy. From the Southern Stars, Healy was deservingly chosen for her dominant show against all types of bowling in the recent series against New Zealand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/babar-healy-voted-icc-players-of-the-month/article34531261.ece
11 May 2021||ROME,||Gravina fires off a warning to Juventus||Juventus will be kicked out of Serie A if it doesn’t withdraw from the European Super League, Italian football federation president Gabriele Gravina said on Monday. While AC Milan and Inter Milan backed out of the ill-fated bid to form a breakaway competition, Juventus remains the lone holdout in Italy. “The rules are clear. If Juventus is still part of the Super League when it enters next season, it can’t participate in Serie A,” Gravina told Naples radio station Kiss Kiss . “I would be sorry for the fans but rules are rules and they apply to everyone.” Real Madrid and Barcelona are also still grasping onto the project, despite the risk of being banned from the Champions League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gravina-fires-off-a-warning-to-juventus/article34531306.ece
11 May 2021||Lonato (Italy),||Gurjoat misses skeet final||Gurjoat Khangura shot 120 out of 125 but missed the skeet final by three points in the shotgun World Cup here on Monday.  Gurjoat had a series of 25, 25, 24, 24 and 22. He spoilt his chances in the last round, after having been 74 out of 75 overnight, in a field of 112 shooters. Asian champion Angad Vir Singh Bajwa had a series of 24, 23, 24, 24 and 23 that placed him 50th. Gurjoat was 34th. Tammaro Cassandro of Italy topped the qualification with a perfect 125.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gurjoat-misses-skeet-final/article34531251.ece
11 May 2021||TOKYO,||IOC president Bach cancels Japan visit||IOC president Thomas Bach has cancelled a trip to Japan because of surging cases of COVID-19 in the country, the Tokyo Olympic organising committee said Monday in a statement. Bach was to visit Hiroshima next Monday, see the torch relay and then probably travel to Tokyo. The statement also said Bach’s visit would be made “as soon a possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ioc-president-bach-cancels-japan-visit/article34531258.ece
11 May 2021||Dubai,||Gunawardene cleared of corruption charges||An independent anti-corruption tribunal of the ICC on Monday cleared former Sri Lanka player Avishka Gunawardene of corruption charges, allowing him to resume participation in cricket-related activities with immediate effect. Gunawardene was facing two charges under the Emirates Cricket Board’s Anti-Corruption Code. The tribunal upheld one charge (2.4.6) against Sri Lanka’s Nuwan Zoysa but dismissed the other three charges. “The detailed decision will be announced to the parties in due course and remains subject to appeal,” an ICC released said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gunawardene-cleared-of-corruption-charges/article34531265.ece
11 May 2021||Zurich,||FIFA confirms concussion spotters at World Cup||FIFA is introducing concussion spotters at the 2022 Qatar World Cup to help with the treatment of head injuries and “to make the game a lot safer”. Experts will monitor from seats in the stands to identify possible brain injuries that may have been missed, team doctors will also have instant access to video replays. IFA’s new medical director, Andrew Massey, confirmed the decision on Thursday. “You need to treat them acutely, first of all, to make sure that they’re safe and then you need to remove them,” said Massey. “So all FIFA competitions will have these video replays, all FIFA competitions will have concussion spotters in the stand that will go through all of these, that can relay the information to the team benches if that is needed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fifa-confirms-concussion-spotters-at-world-cup/article34531318.ece
11 May 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Mathiazhagan and Adnan clinch titles||Mathiazhagan of Puducherry and Adnan Fayas won the Open and the juniors category titles respectively in the 180th Brilliant Trophy open online chess tournament on Monday. Mathiazhagan scored 10.5 points from 12 rounds to emerge winner while Fayas who tied with Akash Kumar and Rounak Jakhotia for the top place with 10.5 points from 12 rounds was declared winner by virtue of tie-break rule.  Final placings: Open category: 1. Mathiazhagan, 2. Vrashank Chauhan, 3. Ayush Jain, 4. Parth Sehra, 5. P. Uma Harsha, 6. Chidvilas Sai, 7. Suresh Duvvala, 8. G. Kesavan, 9. Sreehith Reddy and 10. Sriram Adarsh.   Age groups: Boys: U-15: 1. I. Akash Kumar, 2. Biswajith Krishna. U-13: 1. Rounak Jakhotia, 2. D. Druvesh. U-11: 1. Shreyan Bag, 2. M. Vamshi. U-9: 1. L. Kavish Aryan, 2. Balanandan Ayyappan. U-7: 1. A. Ashwath Kaushik, 2. B. Aarush.   Girls: U-15: 1. Swaralakshmi S. Nair, 2. G. Sharishma. U-13: 1. P. Sethu Srivalli, 2. B. Dhanu Sri. U-11: Shivamshika, 2. K. Deethya Sai. U-9: 1. Y. Harika, 2. Pujitaa Mynam. U-7: 1. G. Sri Lakshmi, 2. A. Abhishek.   Best veterans: Men: P.V. Satyanarayana. Women: Sharanya .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mathiazhagan-and-adnan-clinch-titles/article34531749.ece
11 May 2021||Tenerife (Spain),||Gaganjeet Bhullar finishes tied 38th, Chawrasia ends tied 61st||Gaganjeet Bhullar carded 66 in his final round to finish tied 38th while S.S.P. Chawrasia could only manage a below-par 61st position at the 2021 Canary Islands golf Championship. The 21-year-old South African Garrick Higgo powered to a second win in three weeks. Shubhankar Sharma (round of 74) was tied 69th and Ajeetesh Sandhu (69) ended on tied 71st. Shiv Kapur missed the cut.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gaganjeet-bhullar-finishes-tied-38th-chawrasia-ends-tied-61st/article34531321.ece
11 May 2021||Rome,||Serena hints she could miss Olympics||Serena Williams remains uncommitted about whether she will play in the Olympics, especially if it means time away from her three-year-old daughter Olympia. “I haven’t spent 24 hours without her (Olympia) so that kind of answers the question itself,” said the American, who has won four Olympic gold medals, a record she shares with her sister Venus. “I haven't really thought much about Tokyo, because it was supposed to be last year,” she said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/serena-hints-she-could-miss-olympics/article34531315.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 09:27 IST,||Sudoku - May 11, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-11-2021/article34531987.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The write choice||What do professional women want? A high-flying career, striking a balance between work and home, or be a homemaker? “Only a woman has to choose what she wants and set specific goals to work towards it,” says Aparna Devagiri who herself set a goal: to launch a workbook The Professional Woman’s Handbook Navigating Choices for Success (Author’s Channel) and released it in March. Bengaluru-based Aparna made a career shift four years ago; she quit a corporate job and turned entrepreneur. She also wanted to use the tools she had picked up, to become a coach and make it accessible through a book.  The Professional... is divided into three parts — eight real life stories (names changed) of multi-tasking professional women. “While pursuing success, women have to constantly deal with joy, guilt and the pain of the choices they make. They never think of where they want to go, their goals and priorities,” she points out. Aparna has also drawn elements from her own life of dealing with body shaming. “I still remember the day when I was holding my stomach in, trying not to look fat. That issue of body image has stayed with me all through my life,” she shares, adding how women tend to belittle themselves due to such issues. The second part has a toolkit with tips to prioritise, be visible, make yourself heard and how to manage guilt. The third part has Aparna’s take on today’s workplace for women. Here she addresses issues like sexism and its impact on work post the #MeToo movement. “I realise a lot of young women just assume this is how it is. One can't deny the existence of the problem but a woman needs to be watchful,” she adds. Aparna ensures the book has a conversational tone without being preachy. “It offers guidance, suggests options and asks a lot of questions to make readers think and analyse what success means to them. I also encourage women to have goals to know what they want in life. Once they have defined the future, they can choose what they want to do in order to get there,” elaborates Aparna. Through her venture, Tomoe Consulting, she conducts leadership workshops and mentors women entrepreneurs.  The Professional Woman’s Handbook: Navigating Choices for Success||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-write-choice/article34531418.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Life is ‘perfect ok’||Ashwin Bhaskar started his YouTube channel in 2012. It was just another channel with original songs, covers and mash-ups until two weeks ago. But, now, Ashwin, an audio engineer, composer, singer, songwriter and music producer, is in the news because of ‘Perfect OK’, “a dialogue with beat” video. He has mixed beats with the dialogues from a video by K.P. Naisal, an autorickshaw driver in Kozhikode. In October 2020, when Naisal’s friend was down with COVID-19, Naisal had sent him a video via WhatsApp to cheer him up. Naisal tells him about the facilities, especially the food, provided for COVID-19 patients at quarantine centre. The hilarious clip went viral after Naisal inadvertently forwarded it to a WhatsApp group. The highlight of the video were some English words he used to pep up his conversation —‘Perfect ok...and it is… two and the tan and the con and the back….’ Ashwin mixed beats with this part of the video. “There are a few ‘dialogue with beat’ videos on my channel and some subscribers suggested that to take up Naisal’s dialogues for a number. I gave it a try, but never expected it to become so popular,” says Ashwin, a resident of Thenhipalam in Malappuram. Videos of musician Mayur Jumani inspired him to do the ‘dialogue-with-beat’ series of videos. The first video he did has a scene from Chronic Bachelor with Innocent and Harisree Ashokan. Other videos have Innocent’s dialogues from Vietnam Colony, Kilukkam and Kalyanaraman . “It was not a conscious decision. I make a beat and look for dialogues that would fit into it. It was a coincidence that his dialogues turned out to be perfect for this particular one. I have a lot of fun doing these videos,” says Ashwin. Among other similar videos are those with dialogues by Tik-Tok/YouTube stars such as Pala Saji and Dasettan Kozhikode. “People who follow my videos come up with suggestions. Otherwise I wouldn’t have known about them,” he says. Ashwin uses Logic Pro software to make these videos. Ashwin met Naisal in person for a channel’s interview after the video went viral. “He is full of life and is positive. Our lives have changed after the video was uploaded. People are checking out my previous works and that is encouraging,” he adds. Ashwin stresses that dialogue videos are something he does “to entertain people” and his aim is to create original songs. He has already composed three songs —‘Story of my life’, ‘Reality’, and ‘Let me be alone’. He has also collaborated with a couple of indie musicians from outside Kerala whom he had met on YouTube. A fan of Ed Sheeran, Myles Kennedy, Lauv and Post Malone, Ashwin aims at becoming an independent artist of international repute some day. A self-taught musician with no background in music, Ashwin says that he started taking music seriously when he was in school. “A friend introduced me to audio engineering. I began listening to English songs, started making beats, launched my channel and even composed a song.” After finishing his Engineering, he did a diploma in Audio Engineering from A.R. Rahman’s KM Music Conservatory in Chennai. “Subsequently, I decided to dedicate more time to my YouTube channel expecting I can build a huge subscriber base in a few months. But that didn’t happen. I had almost decided to give it up. That’s when I posted a cover of American pop rock band Maroon 5’s song, ‘Memories’ on my channel. They noticed my version and uploaded a portion of it on their official channel. That was a huge boost for me and I decided to keep going. Now ‘Perfect OK’ has given my career a new lease of life,” says Ashwin.  ‘Perfect OK’ has given my career a new lease of life||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/life-is-perfect-ok/article34531415.ece
11 May 2021||May 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Welcome to my world||It started off as a concert film and grew into something else. The Boy From Medellín , about reggaeton singer J. Balvin’s preparation for his 2019 homecoming concert grew into a introspection on social media, art and activism and mental health. Speaking over video call, director Matthew Heineman says, “The film was supposed to be a lead-up to the biggest show of his (Balvin’s) life in Medellín. Little did we know that when we landed in Medellín, the country was going through massive protests. The film became a meditation on the role of an artiste and his role in society. That is what happens with documentaries. I believe if you end up with the story you started with, then you weren’t listening along the way.” At first sight Heineman met Balvin after a show in Madison Square Garden. “The minute I met him, I knew that he would be an interesting subject to follow. I like to make intimate, character-driven films.” The award-winning director was pleasantly surprised at how open Balvin was. “He was struggling with anxiety and depression. We spoke a lot about mental health. It is something that I have dealt with and so I think that is one of the reasons we connected. I have a huge amount of admiration for Jose [Balvin’s given name] using his platform to de-stigmatise mental health.” Scaled up Having made his feature film debut with A Private War , Heineman admits the scale of the documentary was large. “I had never shot a 50,000 person concert before with 12 cameras. It was a new and fun experience for me.” While most of us might know Medellín from Pablo Escobar and Narcos , Heineman wanted to highlight Balvin’s efforts to change that view. “Medellín is where Jose grew up. It made him who he is. He spent a lot of his time trying to change the perception of Medellín. Bringing the city alive, the colours, the energy was hugely important to me.” In their shoes Shooting the film made Heineman aware of the weight of celebrity. “I have no interest in being famous. I am happy being behind the camera. I think the goal of all my films, whether it is following cocaine in Mexico ( Cartel Land ), or a group of activists fighting ISIS in Syria ( City of Ghosts ), or female journalists ( A Private War ), is to allow audiences to get transported into another world.” The role of social media is a major theme in the film. It is a double-edged sword for Balvin — a way to connect with his fans as well as leave him vulnerable to attack from trolls. “These themes came up during the course of the film. The dichotomy between the public face of J. Balvin and Jose is not only a source of conflict within himself but also publicly. He is Jose, but he has to project J Balvin often when he is performing in public. Exploring that dichotomy became a big part of the film.” The pandemic has taught us to look inwards, Heineman says. “That is a lot of what the film is about. Yes, Jose is an extremely famous person, but he is also a human being. I think my goal was to help people relate to that human being.”  The Boy from Medellín is currently streaming on Amazon Prime Video   Mental illness is also a pandemic Not performing because of the pandemic has been super difficult for J. Balvin. “You need that dose of dopamine and joy from performing live.” The ‘Ginza’ singer, who has spoken publicly about his struggles with depression and anxiety, says mental illness is also a pandemic. “Many people suffer from it but are afraid to speak about it. It is like COVID-19. In the beginning when someone said, ‘I have COVID’, people would run away but in the end, most of us ended up infected. (Balvin was diagnosed with the disease in August 2020).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/welcome-to-my-world/article34531413.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||12,651 fresh cases take city’s tally to 13,36,218||Delhi reported 319 COVID-19-related deaths in a period of 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 19,663, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Also, 12,651 new cases were reported, pushing the total cases to 13,36,218. A total of 66,234 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. The test positivity rate was 19.10%. This means that about 19 out of 100 people taking the test are now positive. There was a sharp rise in positivity from 3.5% on April 1 to 36.2% on April 22. But since then, it has stayed below it. A decrease in positivity is a good sign, as per experts. Of the total cases, 12,31,297 people have recovered and there are 85,258 active cases. Low vaccine stock Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that Delhi has Covaxin stock for just one day and Covishield stock for three to four days. “We have an extreme shortage of vaccines. For Covaxin, we have stock left for only one day, and for Covishield, only three-four days’ stock is available,” Mr. Jain said. Mr. Jain said that there is a ray of hope now. “In the past few days, not only is the positivity rate decreasing, but also a downfall in the number of cases is also being observed, which seems to be reducing to half. There was a time when Delhi recorded approximately 28,000 cases. This has fallen to around 13,000,” Mr. Jain said. Mr. Jain said that we cannot afford to relax right now and need to be careful. “We hope we would receive sufficient oxygen from the Centre, and while we did receive nearly 730 MT a few days ago, we hope the Centre will continue to provide Delhi with oxygen in adequate quantities,” he added. Also, a captive PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) oxygen plant, which ensures a dedicated oxygen supply to up to 115 beds, started operating in the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital on Monday. In a related development, the AAP alleged that the BJP-governed municipal corporations are putting lives of people in danger. “Civic bodies are disposing COVID-19 infected garbage into empty plot,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/12651-fresh-cases-take-citys-tally-to-1336218/article34531432.ece
11 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Strict lockdown starts in Rajasthan||A strict 15-day-long COVID-19 lockdown started in Rajasthan on Monday, with the closure of markets, vehicular traffic and religious places and the ban on wedding ceremonies. While the State government claimed the lockdown would help break the chain of virus infection, the Opposition BJP alleged mismanagement and waste of crucial resources. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot addressed a virtual meeting on the infection spreading in the rural areas and issued an appeal to the people to follow the guideline with “sincerity and responsibility”. MLAs, Zila Pramukhs and elected representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions attended the marathon meeting. Mr. Gehlot tweeted the lockdown guidelines, while pointing out that restrictions would remain in force till 5 a.m. on May 24. Under the complete lockdown, movement from one village or district to another will be prohibited, except for medical emergencies, and those coming from outside the State will be required to produce a negative RT-PCR test report of the last 72 hours. The works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) will remain suspended in view of the infection spreading fast in the villages. To prevent migration However, the workers will be permitted in factories and at construction sites in order to prevent their migration. Special buses will be operated for them. Mr. Gehlot said the government officials would ensure strict compliance with the lockdown guideline from day one and take strict action against the violators. “The virus is spreading to the small towns and villages... deaths from COVID-19 are very worrying and distressing,” he said and instructed the police forces to conduct flag march for generating awareness. Rashtriya Loktanktrik Party chief and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal has demanded the appointment of a separate medical task force for the rural areas to carry out micro-planning, coordination and management of resources in the villages and hamlets. He said the task force should look after screening, tests, treatment and admission of COVID-19 patients in the dedicated health facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/strict-lockdown-starts-in-rajasthan/article34531429.ece
11 May 2021||Srinagar,||Tragedy averted in Srinagar hospital||A major tragedy was averted in Srinagar on Monday when a government-run hospital, the Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial (JLNM), developed a snag in its oxygen plant, sending oxygen levels of around 100 COVID-19 patients plummeting to “dangerously low” levels. An attendant said his father, admitted with bilateral pneumonia at the JLNM hospital, was left gasping for oxygen for around 20 minutes. “My father is on a high-flow oxygen supply. Suddenly, the monitor was showing an oxygen saturation level of less than 50 and was continuously dipping,” he said on the condition of anonymity. The snag in the oxygen plant was detected at around 11 a.m. and set off a furore with attendants banging on the doors of the hospital administrators, according to eyewitnesses. According to the hospital records, over 100 COVID-19 patients admitted in the hospital are on the high and low flow oxygen supply, with around four patients in the ICUs. “The situation of the ICU patients was much worse than the wards. They were all on the brink. We thought we would lose them,” another attendant said. Dr Bilquis Shah, COVID-19 nodal officer of the JLNM hospital, said the snag was rectified in “the nick of time”. “The snag did not last for 20 minutes. It would have proven catastrophic if it was prolonged, as most COVID-19 patients are oxygen dependent. It may have been for around five minutes. We were able to stabilise all patients eventually,” Dr. Shah told The Hindu . She said the hospital administration has flagged a few issues regarding the maintenance of the oxygen plant “to avoid any such situation in the future”. The failure of the oxygen plant also saw the intervention of the Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, and the Divisional Commissioner's offices, after chaos at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tragedy-averted-in-srinagar-hospital/article34531423.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||COVID centre at gurdwara now functional||A 300-bed COVID Care Centre began functioning at Rakab Ganj Gurdwara in central Delhi on Monday afternoon and 24 people were admitted till 6 p.m., according to authorities. Only people with an oxygen level (SPO2) of 85 and above can get admitted, which implies that serious patients will not be admitted. The treatment is free and there is no admission fee. Resultantly, there was no crowd at the centre and serious patients were being referred to Lok Nayak Hospital. 300 beds functional “Currently, we have made 300 of the 400 beds functional. The rest will be made available in the next 3-4 days,” said Nem Singh Premi, Chairman of IHRO, which has also helped in providing healthcare workers, many of who are working voluntarily. About 200 healthcare workers, including 50 doctors, will be working in three shifts once the occupancy increases. A family that came to admit a woman had to wait for more than an hour, but could not be admitted as the patient’s SPO2 level was below 80. “We had told them initially itself that her oxygen level is low and we can’t take her, but they kept waiting,” said Ranjit Verma, who was in-charge during the afternoon shift. The family finally left for Lok Nayak Hospital. However, the process was smooth. Shekhar Sehrawat (20), who came to admit his father, said: “They only asked for the Aadhaar card and did not take any money.” Health Minister Satyendar Jain visited the centre, set up by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee along with International Human Rights Organisation (IHRO) and the Delhi government, on Monday morning and said the government had chipped in with medical equipment. Support system “All support will be given and facilitated by the Delhi government. The centre has been attached with Lok Nayak Hospital. In case any patient develops critical symptoms, he or she will be shifted to the hospital [Lok Nayak]. The Delhi govt. has taken care of the medical facilities and equipment. Other than that, all facilities were set up by the DSGMC itself. We do have ample number of beds and in case a patient who is admitted here gets severe, they will be shifted to the ICU ward of hospital,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-centre-at-gurdwara-now-functional/article34531435.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Scaling up facilities to deal with 3rd wave: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the government was scaling up infrastructure to deal with the third wave of the pandemic and putting arrangements in place to deal with even 30,000 daily cases. He said the people of Delhi need not worry even as he said he hoped the peak of the second wave has passed. Mr. Kejriwal made the comments while he and Health Minister Satyendar Jain were inspecting an upcoming COVID Care Centre at the Ramlila Ground near GTB Hospital. The Chief Minister said 500 ICU beds will be ready for use at the facility by Tuesday and 500 ICU beds would be available at the Ramlila Ground near Lok Nayak Hospital over the coming days. The Chief Minister said he hoped these 1,000 operational ICU beds will meet the needs of Delhi. The Delhi government was also increasing the number of oxygen beds and by Monday evening, expected to receive 1,000 oxygen cylinders. Additional oxygen cylinders were expected to arrive over the coming three to four days, he said. “We are creating new oxygen beds across the city, and hope that Delhi will no longer see any shortage. Oxygen tanks have been installed outside and are to expend 22MT oxygen, which is expected to reduce the scarcity of oxygen,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “We should certainly prepare for the third wave, for which we will have to further expand our infrastructure. Delhi witnessed a wave in November when 8,500 cases emerged. With this wave, we touched a maximum of 28,000 cases, which brought our entire infrastructure under duress,” the Chief Minister said. Ready to deal 30K cases However, the Chief Minister said the scale at which the government was preparing its infrastructure, it would be ready to deal with a situation where even 30,000 cases emerged on a daily basis. Mr. Kejriwal said the government, at its end, wanted preparations in place should the cases suddenly begin to increase from tomorrow. “Nobody can predict anything. If the cases begin to increase, we are prepared and the people need not be worried,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scaling-up-facilities-to-deal-with-3rd-wave-cm/article34531433.ece
11 May 2021||New Delhi,||Centre gave permission for only 3.5 lakh vaccine doses in May: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the Delhi government had sought 1.34 crore doses of vaccine from companies for people in the 18-44 age group, but the Central government allowed only 3.5 lakh doses in May. The Minister said that the BJP government was engaging in the politics of “lies and deception”. He also shared letters by the government to the companies and attacked the Central government for selling vaccines to other countries. In a letter written to Bharat Biotech on April 26, the Delhi government said they are “planning to procure 67 lakh doses of Covaxin and in another letter to Serum Institute of India, they asked for 67 lakh doses of Covishield. “For this purpose, the terms and conditions of delivery and payment along with the schedule of supplies, spread over three months, may please be intimated,” both letters said.  A letter by the Central government to the Delhi government on April 29 read, “2,67,690 number of Covishield vaccine doses... are likely to be available for your State, under the “other than Government of India Channel” in the month of May 2021 [sic]." Another letter from the Centre on the same date said that 92,840 doses of Covaxin vaccine doses are likely in May 2021. BJP hits out Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana alleged: “The letters they have shared today [Monday] trying to defame the Centre are a self-goal. They clearly state that the Delhi government, till as late as April 26, has yet to place orders with the manufacturers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-gave-permission-for-only-35-lakh-vaccine-doses-in-may-sisodia/article34531436.ece
11 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt.’s claims of containing pandemic draw flak from Oppn.||The ruling Biju Janata Dal’s assertion of containing the pandemic under the leadership of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has drawn flak from the Opposition parties who allege the State government is fudging the numbers. “Leading the fight against the pandemic, Odisha under the leadership of CM Patnaik has not only contained it but also come forward to help other States by providing medical oxygen,” the BJD said taking to social media. The Congress criticised the ruling party saying it was too early to announce victory when cases in rural areas were exploding and the government has almost stopped testing people there. “It is true that the State government has extended support to other States by supplying medical oxygen produced by various Central public sector units and private industries. But I am concerned about the rapidly rising cases,” said senior party leader Panchanan Kanungo. “Experts also doubted the veracity of the figures of positive cases and deaths put out by the government on daily basis. Our workers on ground have been informing us that the government is trying to suppress the actual number to keep its image clean,” said Mr. Kanungo. The BJP was more scathing in its attack. “The Naveen Patnaik government is very conscious about its image. It can go to any extent to protect it. Deaths are taking place all across the State. It is a matter of concern that the government is not acknowledging them,” said Nauri Naik, BJP MLA of Rengali in Sambalpur. Real picture “The real picture would emerge if an independent agency would carry out tests and make the result public on real time basis. Our information is majority of people in villages have been infected and the government is not in a position to provide hospital facilities to them,” said Mr. Naik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govts-claims-of-containing-pandemic-draw-flak-from-oppn/article34531422.ece
11 May 2021||Jhajjar,||Won’t spare those held for Tikri rape, says Vij||A day after the police booked six people in connection with the alleged rape of a West Bengal woman who had come to join the farmers’ stir at Delhi’s Tikri border, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said the culprits won’t be spared. The 25-year-old woman was gang-raped allegedly by two men who had come to the protest site with her from West Bengal last month. She had died on April 30 after she was admitted to a Jhajjar hospital following COVID-like symptoms. The police have booked six people, including the two prime accused, in the case following a complaint from the woman’s father. Mr. Vij told reporters in Ambala that the culprits won’t be spared. “Action as per law will be taken against those found involved in the case,” he said. The woman’s father said his daughter told him to ensure that the key accused are punished. The complainant alleged his daughter was also molested on the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wont-spare-those-held-for-tikri-rape-says-vij/article34531424.ece
11 May 2021||Jodhpur,||Asaram seeks bail for ‘ayurvedic treatment’||Self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, who is serving life term at a jail here for raping a teenage girl, has sought bail from the Rajasthan High Court for “ayurvedic treatment” in Haridwar after testing COVID-19 positive. Last Wednesday, after he tested positive and complained of breathlessness, Asaram was shifted to the MG Hospital from the Jodhpur Central Jail, and later on Friday, to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Jodhpur. A two-Judge Bench of Justices Sandeep Mehta and Devendra Kachhawaha, after hearing the petition, directed that the AIIMS to submit his medical report in the court. The court has listed the matter for next hearing on May 13. Asaram’s counsel Pradeep Choudhary said the court was on Monday hearing an application moved by him for suspension of sentence and interim bail. The application was moved in the High Court some time ago, he said. Mr. Choudhary told the court that Asaram is suffering from many diseases and recently contracted COVID-19. He has been admitted to the AIIMS-Jodhpur for the treatment, the counsel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/asaram-seeks-bail-for-ayurvedic-treatment/article34531425.ece
11 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Chandigarh extends restrictions as cases rise||Amid rising number of COVID-19 cases, the Chandigarh administration on Monday decided to extend the ongoing restrictions under ‘corona curfew’ by another one week, which will now continue till May 18. According to an official statement the non-essential shops would remain closed. The night curfew from 6 p.m. to 5 a.m. will be implemented. “Day time movement will be allowed. However, the residents are advised to avoid non-essential travel. Crowded places like Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden, museums, libraries will remain closed,” said the statement. The decisions were taken in a meeting presided over by the UT Administrator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chandigarh-extends-restrictions-as-cases-rise/article34531426.ece
11 May 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. govt. gears up for third COVID-19 wave||The Madhya Pradesh government will set up 360 ICU beds for children in hospitals across the State as part of its preparations for the third wave of COVID-19, Medical Education Minister Vishwas Kailash Sarang said on Monday. Health experts recently warned of a third wave of the coronavirus infection in the country, which could also affect children. On Sunday, Mr. Sarang held a meeting via videoconference with the deans and hospital superintendents of various government medical colleges and other senior officials to review the preparations to be made to tackle the third wave. “We deliberated on provisions to be made for dealing with the possible third wave of COVID-19 and since it could affect children, we will be setting up 360 ICU beds for kids in various medical colleges of the State,” Mr. Sarang told PTI. As part of the plan, a 50-bed dedicated ICU for children will be set up in Bhopal’s Hamidia Hospital, which is associated with the Government Gandhi Medical College, he said. He also directed officials to make available sufficient stock of medicines, injections and consumables in these ICUs. He also said 1,000 oxygen concentrators will be made available in 13 government medical colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mp-govt-gears-up-for-third-covid-19-wave/article34531427.ece
11 May 2021||Latehar (Jharkhand),||Extremist held in Latehar||The leader of an extremist group, carrying a reward of Rs. 1 lakh on his head, was arrested by the police here, an official said. Area Commander of banned outfit Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee Rakesh Sao was arrested by the police here, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Balumath Area, Ajit Kumar said. Sao was wanted in eight criminal cases in several police stations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/extremist-held-in-latehar/article34531421.ece
11 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shinjini- DRAA||The Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan (DRRAA) has said that despite lockdown extensions, no ration was being distributed at ration shops, as on May 10. Anjali Bharadwaj of the DRRAA in a tweet said, “Repeated lockdown extensions being announced but no ration being distributed for those facing hunger.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shinjini-draa/article34531437.ece
