12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Cases rising in 15 States; positivity rate at 21%’||The national COVID-19 positivity rate stood at 21% and 310 of the 734 districts had reported positivity greater than or equal to the national average, Balram Bhargava, Director-General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said on Tuesday. At the Health Ministry briefing, Dr. Bhargava said the country now had the RTPCR testing capacity of about 16 lakh a day and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) capacity of about 17 lakh a day. Stating that a total of 19,45,299 tests were conducted on April 30, the highest ever in the world, he said the 30-crore landmark was achieved by May 7. Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha, Punjab, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh have shown continued increasing trend in daily new COVID-19 cases. On the other hand, 18 States and Union Territories have recorded continued plateauing or a decrease in cases. Indicating a change in policy, the ICMR chief said since the infection was spreading fast during the second wave, RT-PCR tests had been rationalised and RAT (Rapid Antigen Testing) increased for early detection, isolation and home care. He said multiple 24x7 RAT booths were to be set up in cities, towns and villages. Advocating aggressive RAT usage in rural and remote areas, Dr. Bhargava said these tests would be allowed at all the government and private health care facilities. RAT booths would have to be set up in schools, colleges, residents' welfare association offices and other places, in cooperation with local communities. The government would also encourage public-private partnership models. Health Ministry spokesperson Lav Agarwal said an early declining trend had been noticed in the past couple of days, with the number of new cases coming down from about 4.14 lakh on May 7 to 4.03 lakh cases on May 9, and from 3.66 lakh to 3.29 lakh in the past 24 hours. There were about 37 lakh active cases, while over 1.90 crore patients had recovered so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-rising-in-15-states-positivity-rate-at-21/article34538602.ece
12 May 2021||Patna,||71 bodies retrieved from Ganga||A day after several bodies believed to be of COVID-19 victims washed up along the banks of the Ganga at Mahadeo ghat in Chausa, Bihar, 71 of them were retrieved and buried by the Buxar district administration after post-mortem examination on Tuesday. “We retrieved 71 bodies and disposed of them after post-mortem. DNA samples have been preserved. The district administration is on alert to prevent such incidents in future. Officials have been directed to be vigilant and patrol the banks of the river,” the administration said in a release. The administration said there was “sufficient firewood at the Chausa cremation ground for funerals”. Villagers alleged that the high cost of firewood had made many families discard the remains in the river. Earlier, Superintendent of Police, Buxar, Neeraj Kumar Singh told The Hindu that the post-mortem was done at the ghat itself as the bodies were in a highly decomposed state. Ram Ashray Yadav, who sells firewood for cremations at the Mahadeo ghat, said the bodies “were buried in a large pit on the bank of the river”. “The district administration has made arrangements for a generator for power supply at the ghat and deputed an official here. Officials were working till late on Monday night only with the help of torches and light from mobile phones,” Mr. Yadav told The Hindu over the phone. He said there were no more bodies at the ghat. “The dead bodies were bloated. They seemed to be in the water for at least 5-7 days. It needs to be investigated from where they’ve come. They could be from Varanasi or Allahabad of UP”, senior official of the district K K Upadhayay had told media persons. Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat termed the incident of corpses found floating in the Ganga as unfortunate, and asked the States concerned to take immediate cognisance. “This is certainly an issue of investigation. The Modi government is committed to Mother Ganga’s purity and free flow,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/71-bodies-retrieved-from-ganga/article34538600.ece
12 May 2021||Kolkata,||Class X board examination deferred in West Bengal||West Bengal on Tuesday registered a record 20,136 new COVID-19 infections in the past 24 hours and 132 deaths. This is the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic that the number of daily infections has crossed 20,000. The State tested 68,142 samples in the past 24 hours and North 24 Parganas and Kolkata recorded maximum number of new cases. North 24 Parganas registered 3,998 new cases and Kolkata 3,973 cases. In Kolkata, 37 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours while North 24 Parganas recorded 39 deaths. The number of active cases in the State has risen to 1,27,673.  Difficult for students Meanwhile, the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education has postponed the Class X Board examinations scheduled to begin on June 1. About 12 lakh students in the State were scheduled to sit for the exam. Board officials said restrictions on the movement of transport and local trains made it impossible to hold the exam from June 1. A decision on whether it would be held or cancelled will be taken later by the State government. The Class X exams by Central Board of Secondary Education and Council of Indian School Certificate Examination have already been deferred or cancelled. Meanwhile, as the number of COVID cases rise, hospitals in the State are overwhelmed with patients. Family members of a few patients at the State-run Vidyasagar Hospital in southern parts of the city said that non-availability of oxygen was the main reason for the deaths. A few private health facilities in the city had to rely on State-run institutions for oxygen support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/class-x-board-examination-deferred-in-west-bengal/article34538764.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Lockdown in State from 10 a.m. today||The State government has imposed a lockdown from 10 a.m. to 6 a.m. from Wednesday onwards, up to May 22 in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. A four-hour relaxation from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. is being allowed to enable people to attend to their requirements. All shops will be open during the four-hour relaxation. Cinema halls, clubs, gyms, swimming pools, amusement parks and sports stadia will remain closed. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet presided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday. A release later said the 20-hour lockdown will be implemented strictly and reviewed on May 20 when the Cabinet will meet again to discuss the possibilities of extension. The Cabinet ordered the Director General of Police to adopt strict measures to implement lockdown adhering to COVID norms and permitted exemptions. It was also decided at the Cabinet meeting to invite global tenders for procurement of COVID vaccine. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar was mandated to ensure adequate Remdesivir injections, oxygen and other COVID drugs in government and private hospitals. There should not be any kind of shortage. The Chief Minister ordered review of COVID situation on a daily basis at district level by committees headed by Ministers from the concerned district. Collectors, District Medical and Health Officers, Superintendents of district headquarters hospital and drug inspectors will be members of the panels. The Cabinet approved a State level task force headed by Minister K.T. Rama Rao to ensure speedy procurement and supply to hospitals of drugs and vaccines daily. The task force will have as members Principal Secretaries Jayesh Ranjan, Vikas Raj and Sandeep Sultania and Officer on Special Duty in CMO Rajasekhara Reddy. The Chief Minister spoke over phone in the midst of the Cabinet meeting with Remdesivir injection manufacturers seeking adequate supplies to the State. The sectors exempt from lockdown are : Agriculture: Works related to agricultural produce and allied services, agricultural machinery, rice mills and related transport, supply of rice to Food Corporation of India, fertilizer and seed shops and seed production facilities. Medical and health: Pharmaceutical companies, companies producing medical equipment, medical distributors, medical shops, all types of health care services, government and private hospitals and their employees and other staff who will be provided passes and permits for their vehicles. Drinking water and sanitation will be maintained in urban and rural areas without hindrance. Power generation and distribution systems and their allied sectors will also function as usual. There will be no interruption to movement of vehicles on national highways where the petrol bunks will be open. The activities of cold storage, warehouses, print and electronic media will be exempt from lockdown. Works of employment guarantee will go on uninterrupted. Government offices will function with 33 per cent attendance. Banks and ATMs will function like in lockdown last year. Marriages will be allowed with prior permission for gatherings of only 40. A maximum of 20 persons will be allowed to participate in funerals. Check-posts will be set up all around Telangana and inter-State borders. RTC, metro and all other public transport will be available from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. Ration shops will be open during that period. There will be no hindrance to supply of cooking gas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-in-state-from-10-am-today/article34539027.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Amid surge, demand for air ambulances soars||Last week, a Beechcraft King Air C 90 air ambulance from Bagdogra lost its right wheel while taking off from Nagpur after refuelling. The aircraft was carrying a COVID-19 patient for treatment in Mumbai. The pilot was alerted, but he kept flying to burn fuel before coming in to land. After hovering over Mumbai, he finally made a belly-landing without any casualties. The incident highlights the multiple risks taken by the crew of air ambulances as demand for the services has surged amid the second wave of the pandemic. Families resourceful enough to charter these services do so to cut through the tardiness of the COVID-19 response. Transporting critically ill patients is a difficult operation at the best of situations but transporting COVID patients needing urgent care raises additional challenges, the most important being isolating the patients and the crew. This in turn has pushed up costs. The shifting of a COVID-19 patient from Delhi to Chennai would cost not less than Rs. 20 lakh, according to an operator. A Mumbai-Hyderabad flight can set one back by between Rs. 6 lakh and Rs. 25 lakh depending on where the aircraft is and the medical staff and equipment on board. Despite the costs, aggregators and operators say the demand for air transportation of patients has increased 10-fold and yet many patients are being turned away as only a limited number of these air ambulances are equipped with isolation pods — mandated by the Union Health Ministry for ferrying COVID-19 patients. Evacuating patients in an isolation pod, a collapsible personal capsule with oxygen supply, also ensures the safety of the crew. “Where we used to receive one or two enquiries for medical transportation, we now receive as many as 20 requests per day. A majority of them have to be rejected because availability of aircraft is an issue. Our machines are being overused and there is a waiting period of at least two or three days,” Sachit Wadhwa, co-founder of BookMyCharters, says. Data with the Directorate General of Civil Aviation show only 18 companies are authorised to operate air ambulances with 26 aircraft cleared for medical transportation. “Those transporting COVID passengers have to abide by the guidelines of the Health Ministry and of the States of origin and departure,” a DGCA official said. Hyderabad followed by Chennai and Mumbai are the most sought after medical hubs for these patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-surge-demand-for-air-ambulances-soars/article34538594.ece
12 May 2021||GUNTUR,||Ruia deaths: Chief Minister announces Rs. 10 lakh ex gratia||Expressing shock over the death of 11 patients at Ruia Hospital, Tirupati, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered that an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh be paid to the kin of the patients who died reportedly owing to inadequate supply of oxygen. During the weekly Spandana review with Collectors, Mr. Jagan said in an emotional tone, “These are difficult times and even on Monday, we had to air lift six empty oxygen tankers to Odisha and get them filled and get them back to Gannavaram. These are the times we are living in and even while we are putting consolidated efforts, some things are not in our hands. These are testing times and I request the Collectors not to get disheartened and be more vigilant and be humane. We should address these issues in much more sympathetic manner.” “Of the targeted 172 crore doses across the country, we have barely managed to vaccinate 17 crore. This is the scenario we are facing and it is unfortunate that the Opposition had chosen to criticise our government over vaccination when they knew that the whole vaccination is controlled by the Central government,” Mr. Jagan said. Hitting out strongly against the Opposition and a section of the media, the Chief Minister said that it was unfortunate that opposition had chosen to criticise the government. “Everyone knew we have spent over Rs. 85,000 crore on welfare alone . Can’t we spend just Rs. 1,600 crore to buy vaccine? Is not unfair on the Opposition parties to target us? I can proudly say that we are best among States providing quality medical treatment to COVID patients,” Mr. Jagan said asking the Collectors to focus on improving the quality of 104 services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ruia-deaths-chief-minister-announces-rs-10-lakh-ex-gratia/article34538592.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s death count crosses 20K||Delhi crossed the grim milestone of 20,000 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday with 347 fatalities being reported over the past 24 hours. Of these, 5,000 deaths were reported in the past two weeks alone. It took 161 days to reach the first 5,000 deaths in the Capital. Just 83 days later, the toll crossed 10,000. After this, the number of new cases and deaths started dipping. It took another 135 days for the toll to reach 15,000. After a peak in November 2020, daily infections and deaths dipped steadily till March 2021. On February 9, no COVID-related death was reported in the city for the first time since June 2020. The city started registering a spike in cases and deaths towards the end of March. By mid-April, the city was frequently reporting over 300 deaths daily, which rose to 400 in May. The latest COVID surge saw the city’s health infrastructure buckle under the record number of deaths and infections. Over the past 15 days, the test positivity rate (TPR) and number of new cases has dipped slightly. The number of fatalities has also come down. The BJP has alleged that the actual number of deaths in the city is far higher than the official figures, but this has been denied by the Delhi government. As per Tuesday’s health bulletin, the city reported 12,481 new cases, taking the tally to 13,48,699. The death toll stood at 20,010. A total of 70,276 tests were conducted in a single day and the TPR was 17.76%, down from 19.1% on Monday. The TPR had shot up from 3.5% on April 1 to 36.2% on April 22. Since then, it has been steadily falling. There are 83,809 active cases in the city. Of the total 23.221 beds, 18.02% were vacant, but only 60 ICU beds were available, as on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhis-death-count-crosses-20k/article34539005.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||State records highest ever daily toll of 108||The State reported 108 new deaths, the highest single-day toll since the beginning of the pandemic, in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. During the same period, 20,345 new infections were reported taking the tally to 13,22,934 as cumulative tallies of two districts crossed one lakh. The death toll reached 8,899 and the death rate was at 0.67%. The number of active cases was close to two lakh as it reached 1,95,102 after 14,502 patients have recovered in the past day. So far the number of recoveries was 11,18,933 and the recovery rate remains at 84.58%. The positivity rate of the 86,878 samples tested in the past day was 23.42% and the overall positivity rate of 1.75 crore samples tested was 7.55%. The daily positivity rate of the past three days was more than 20%. Chittoor district whose death toll was highest among the districts at 1,033 reported 18 deaths in the past day. It was followed by Visakhapatnam which reported 12 new deaths and East Godavari, Guntur and Vizianagaram which reported 10 new deaths each. Prakasam reported nine deaths while Nellore reported eight and Krishna reported seven deaths. Srikakulam reported six deaths and West Godavari, Anantapur and Kurnool reported five deaths each. Kadapa reported three deaths. Chittoor also reported the highest single-day tally of 2,426 infections in the past day. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (2,371), Anantapur (1,992), Guntur (1,919), Kadapa (1,902), Nellore (1,673), West Godavari (1,549), East Godavari (1,527), Srikakulam (1,457), Prakasam (1,103), Krishna (948), Vizianagaram (744) and Kurnool (707). Cumulative infection tallies of Visakhapatnam and Anantapur crossed the one-lakh mark as they witnessed a rapid surge in the past few weeks. So far, six districts have more than one lakh infections and two districts are close to it. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,67,072), Chittoor (1,43,906), Guntur (1,24,016), West Godavari (1,12,360), Visakhapatnam (1,01,808), Anantapur (1,01,408), Nellore (96,002), Kurnool (94,353), Srikakulam (88,111), Prakasam (84,737), Kadapa (75,040),Krishna (71,572) and Vizianagaram (59,654).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-highest-ever-daily-toll-of-108/article34538590.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,||223 take oath as MLAs; two Ministers absent||A total of 223 of the 234 newly elected members took oath as members of the 16th Tamil Nadu Assembly on Tuesday. Ten members, including Ministers M. Mathiventhan and S.S. Sivasankar, could not take oath due to personal/medical reasons. Soon after Pro-tem Speaker K. Pitchandi (who took oath on Monday) started the first session, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and his Ministers, Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami, former Speaker P. Dhanapal, former Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman and the floor leaders of various parties submitted their election certificates to the Assembly Secretary. Among the first-time MLAs were Udhayanidhi Stalin, T. Ramachandran and Thirumagan Evera, sons of Mr. Stalin, Congress MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar and Congress leader E.V.K.S. Elangovan, respectively. AIADMK member K.P. Munusamy, who resigned as member of the Rajya Sabha on Monday in view of his election to the Assembly from Veppanahalli, took the oath. This is the first time since Independence that the Assembly would not have a nominated member from the Anglo-Indian community. A Constitutional amendment made by the Union government discontinued the representation for the community in the Lok Sabha and all Assemblies. All the new MLAs, officials and reporters wore masks. Hand sanitizer was used frequently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/223-take-oath-as-mlas-two-ministers-absent/article34538680.ece
12 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||25 decomposed bodies wash up in Ghazipur||At least two dozen bodies in a decomposed condition were found floating in the Ganga in Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, the police said. Given the large number of bodies, the police are probing if they are of COVID-19 victims but have so far not been able to either identify the deceased or trace the source. Jamania DSP Hitendra Krishna told The Hindu that 23 to 25 bodies in “semi-decomposed” state were found floating near the banks of the Ganga in Gahmar circle of the district .  The bodies were retrieved and disposed of on the banks of the river, he said, estimating that the deaths could have occurred around 10 to 15 days ago. Mr. Krishna said police were unable to identify the bodies or trace their source. However, he said it was found that they did not have a local source and could have flown down from other districts.” We spoke to the locals and found out that they had performed the final rites of all the bodies that were brought to the ghats. The local Muslims too had buried their dead,” he said. Mr. Krishna said he had never seen so many bodies floating like this in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-decomposed-bodies-wash-up-in-ghazipur/article34538603.ece
12 May 2021||GAZA CITY,||26 killed as Israel targets Gaza with air strikes||Israel unleashed new air strikes on Gaza early on Tuesday, hitting a pair of high-rise buildings believed to be housing militants, as Hamas and other armed groups bombarded southern Israel with hundreds of rockets. The escalation was sparked by weeks of tensions in contested Jerusalem. Since sundown on Monday, 26 Palestinians — including nine children and a woman — were killed in Gaza, most by air strikes, Gaza health officials said. The Israeli military said at least 16 of the dead were militants. During the same period, Gaza militants fired hundreds of rockets toward Israel, killing two Israeli civilians and wounding 10 others. In a further sign of rising tensions, Israel signalled it is widening its military campaign. The military said it is sending troop reinforcements to the Gaza border and the Defence Minister ordered the mobilisation of 5,000 reserve soldiers. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said “it was decided that both the might of the attacks and the frequency of the attacks will be increased”. But, in a potentially positive sign, Egyptian and Palestinian officials said Egypt was working on brokering a cease-fire. The barrage of rockets and air strikes was preceded by hours of clashes between Palestinians and Israeli security forces, including dramatic confrontations at Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa Mosque compound, a sacred site to both Jews and Muslims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/26-killed-as-israel-targets-gaza-with-air-strikes/article34538604.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Moody’s lowers India’s growth projection to 9.3%||Moody’s Investors Service on Tuesday sharply scaled down this year’s growth projection for India to 9.3% from its earlier estimate of 13.7%, citing “the negative impact of the second wave” of the COVID-19 pandemic. It warned that the spread of the coronavirus as well as the rate of vaccinations will have a direct impact on economic outcomes. “The credit profile of India is increasingly constrained by obstacles to economic growth, a high debt burden and weak financial system. Policymaking institutions have struggled to tackle and contain these risks, exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic,” the global rating agency said in a credit opinion note. “Shortage of vaccines and logistical difficulties in reaching a large rural population [about two-thirds of the population] complicate the vaccine roll-out,” it pointed out, noting that only around 10% of the country’s population had received at least one dose of the vaccine by early May. The severe second wave of COVID-19 infections will slow the near-term economic recovery and could weigh on longer-term growth dynamics, Moody’s said. “As of now, we expect the negative impact on economic output to be limited to the April to June quarter, followed by a strong rebound in the second half of the year,” it said, adding that spending will have to be redirected towards healthcare and virus response relative to what the government had budgeted in February. Factoring in fresh pandemic-related spending, the agency expects a wider general government fiscal deficit of about 11.8% of GDP in 2021-22, instead of its previous estimate of 10.8%. “We expect the combined impact of slower growth and wider deficit to drive the general debt burden to 90% of GDP in 2021-22, gradually rising to 92% in 2022-23,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/moodys-lowers-indias-growth-projection-to-93/article34538605.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Relief on wheels||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/relief-on-wheels/article34538641.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Sachin Vaze dismissed from service||Suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren, was on Tuesday dismissed from police service, an official said. The order terminating Mr. Vaze was issued by Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, said a spokesperson of the city police. A 1990-batch officer of the Maharashtra cadre, Mr. Vaze, was suspended after his arrest by the NIA on March 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sachin-vaze-dismissed-from-service/article34539083.ece
12 May 2021||MANGALURU,||Two more ships land with oxygen||Two Indian Navy vessels — INS Kochi and INS Tabar — carrying liquid oxygen and high flow oxygen concentrators from Kuwait landed at New Mangalore Port here on Tuesday. According to a press release from New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT), INS Kochi brought three 20-tonne liquid oxygen containers, 40 pallets of one-tonne oxygen cylinders and two 10-litre high flow oxygen concentrators, while INS Tabar brought two 20-tonne containers of liquid oxygen and 30 pallets of one-tonne oxygen cylinders. This consignment is the second tranche of medical aid donated by the Kuwait Government to the Indian Red Cross Society, the release said. The two vessels sailed out of Shuwaikh Port, Kuwait, on May 6. Highest priority was given for berthing these vessels at the port on Tuesday and all facilities were provided for handling the cargo. These two vessels are among the four naval vessels that have arrived at the port as part of the Indian Navy’s Samudra Setu-II operation to bring relief material from different countries. As directed by the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways, NMPT was handling the consignment at zero cost, the release said. NMPT Chairman A.V. Ramana, Deputy Chairman K.G. Nath and senior officers of the the port, Indian Navy, Coast Guard, Customs and Dakshina Kannada district administration were present when the cargo was unloaded. The State government and the district administration will decide on the further distribution of oxygen tanks, cylinders and the concentrators, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-more-ships-land-with-oxygen/article34538726.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Hospital staff can collect drug: Minister||Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian has said that for COVID-19 patients who have no attenders or family members at hand, hospitals can send their staff members with documents to collect Remdesivir from the counters set up by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. Counters to sell the drug for the patients admitted to private hospitals have been opened at the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital in Chennai, and in Madurai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi. These counters continue to witness serpentine queues as relatives come from far and wide and wait for long hours. The demand has been on the rise. Replying to a post on Twitter that drew attention to instances of an entire family having been hospitalised for COVID-19 and left with no attenders to collect the drug, Mr. Subramanian replied, “For patients who do not have attenders or family members who can collect Remdesivir at the government sale counters, the hospitals where such patients are admitted can send their staff with the relevant documents to collect the drug.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospital-staff-can-collect-drug-minister/article34538686.ece
12 May 2021||MANGALURU,||Certificate must to enter Goa||The Goa Government on Tuesday issued an order stating that any person entering Goa must possess a COVID-19 (RT-PCR) negative certificate. This certificate should have been obtained 72 hours before the time they seek entry to the State. According to a press release, residents of Goa and those entering that State for work are exempted from producing the certificate. While Goa residents should produce proof of residence, those coming on work should produce work identity proof or letter from their employer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/certificate-must-to-enter-goa/article34538725.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi/Kolkata,||Security for BJP MLAs irks Trinamool||The Trinamool Congress has described the decision of the Union Home Ministry to accord Central security cover to the 61 newly elected BJP legislators in West Bengal as “arbitrary and infringement in the law and order situation of the State”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/security-for-bjp-mlas-irks-trinamool/article34538765.ece
12 May 2021||Patna,||Pappu Yadav held for lockdown violation||Former MP from Madhepura and Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav was arrested on Tuesday for alleged violation of lockdown norms and taken to the Gandhi Maidan police station. An FIR was lodged against him for flouting lockdown norms while visiting a COVID-19 ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pappu-yadav-held-for-lockdown-violation/article34538766.ece
12 May 2021||Agartala,||7 men who fled a COVID care centre detained||Tripura police on Tuesday detained seven of 25 men who fled from a COVID Care Centre (CCC) at Ambassa in Dhalai district on Monday. The men were employed in mobile tower construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-men-who-fled-a-covid-care-centre-detained/article34538767.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Maratha quota: Uddhav writes to President||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday submitted a letter to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for President Ram Nath Kovind urging him to step in to ensure reservation for Maratha community. Mr. Thackeray also wrote to PM Narendra Modi seeking his intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maratha-quota-uddhav-writes-to-president/article34539087.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,||HC: Evolve road map to vaccinate all above 45||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to submit a road map on how it will vaccinate all eligible citizens above 45 years while orally observing that the State appears to have begun vaccination without planning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-evolve-road-map-to-vaccinate-all-above-45/article34538643.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Power failure leaves patients on the edge||A 90-minute power failure in some areas of ward number 66 on Monday put the lives of over 20 COVID-19 patients at risk. These patients were using oxygen concentrators. Without backup, families of most patients went through anxious moments till power was restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-failure-leaves-patients-on-the-edge/article34538644.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,||State Budget numbers likely to be revised||With the second wave having an unprecedented impact on public finances, the State Budget numbers are likely to undergo revisions for the second consecutive year as more funds will have to be set aside for expenditure in health sector and subsidised distribution of food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-budget-numbers-likely-to-be-revised/article34538645.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Plea against Central Vista a bid to stall the project’||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that the Public Interest Litigation seeking a stay on the construction of Central Vista in New Delhi amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic was just another attempt to stall the project, which has been facing such attempts from the beginning on one pretext or the other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-against-central-vista-a-bid-to-stall-the-project/article34539007.ece
12 May 2021||new delhi,||Let more firms make vaccine, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested the Centre to allow more companies in India to manufacture COVID-19 vaccines by directing the two firms currently engaged in manufacturing them to share the formula with others. In a letter to PM Narendra Modi, Mr. Kejriwal also sought a national policy to vaccinate every one in a few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/let-more-firms-make-vaccine-says-kejriwal/article34539008.ece
12 May 2021||Chennai,||T.N. reports 29,272 new cases, 298 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday recorded 298 deaths due to COVID-19, of which 92 were in Chennai. The State also added 29,272 new cases, with Chennai recording 7,466 cases, followed by Coimbatore (2,650) and Chengalpattu (2,419).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-29272-new-cases-298-deaths/article34538682.ece
12 May 2021||Chennai,||Doctors see surge in mucormycosis cases||Doctors in Chennai have begun to see cases of the very aggressive, invasive fungal condition of mucormycosis in patients cured of COVID-19. Mucormycosis is a serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-see-surge-in-mucormycosis-cases/article34538683.ece
12 May 2021||Chennai,||PWD to add 12,900 oxygen beds soon||As the demand grows, the Public Works Department (PWD) is expediting the work on providing 12,900 additional oxygen beds across Tamil Nadu. It has so far provided 6,650 beds equipped with oxygen support to many hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pwd-to-add-12900-oxygen-beds-soon/article34538685.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to divert doses meant for 18+||Facing an acute shortage of COVID-19 vaccines the Maharashtra government will now use doses it purchased for the 18-44 age group towards the second dose for those above 45 years, State a Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-to-divert-doses-meant-for-18/article34539085.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Hany Babu denied follow-up for eye infection: family||Professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case and is lodged at the Taloja Central Jail, has an acute eye infection which had spread to his cheek, ear, and forehead and could pose a significant risk to his life if it spread to the brain, his family claimed on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hany-babu-denied-follow-up-for-eye-infection-family/article34539086.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘PIL plea against Central Vista another bid to stall project’||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that the PIL petition seeking a stay on the construction of Central Vista in New Delhi amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic was just another attempt to stall the project which has been facing such attempts from the beginning on one pretext or another. The “intentions and motive” behind filing of the plea are evident from the fact that the instant project has been singled out by the petitioners despite several other agencies, including Delhi Metro, carrying out construction activities across the national capital, the Centre has alleged. “The very fact that out of all these construction activities going on simultaneously for different projects by different agencies, the petitioner has chosen to be a public spirited citizen only with regard to one project only speaks volumes about his intentions and motive behind filing the present petition,” the Centre’s affidavit has contended. Since the affidavit was not yet on record, a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh listed the matter for hearing on May 12. The court also allowed the early hearing application moved by the petitioners — Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary film maker — who have contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, it can be put on hold for now during the pandemic. In the affidavit filed in the court on May 10, the Central government has said that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority has permitted construction activities, during the prevailing curfew, where the labourers are residing on-site. It has said the workers were engaged well before the imposition of curfew on April 19. “It is submitted that in the meantime, a COVID compliant facility was installed at the worksite itself, to accommodate the 250 workers who had expressed their willingness to stay put and continue the aforesaid work. “The facility provides for strict implementation of COVID protocol and also adherence to COVID appropriate behaviour,” the government has said in its affidavit. It has also said that the contractor has provided health insurance to all workers against COVID-19 and a separate facility for conducting the RT-PCR test, isolation and medical aid has also been set up at the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pil-plea-against-central-vista-another-bid-to-stall-project/article34538517.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Nadda’s letter is full of arrogance: Congress||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J.P. Nadda’s letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi is a display of ‘arrogance’ by the Narendra Modi government but the principal Opposition party will continue to offer its constructive suggestions, the Congress said on Tuesday. Mr. Nadda’s letter, in which he accused the Congress of ‘misleading’ the people on COVID-19, came on a day when the Congress launched an online SpeakUp campaign to press for uninterrupted oxygen supply and free vaccination. “Instead of writing an ill-informed letter to the Congress president, BJP president Mr. Nadda may read the guest column in the New York Times on May 6, 2021. The authors are not Congress members. Their names may ring a bell in Mr. Nadda: Dr. Abhijit Banerjee and Dr. Esther Duflo, Nobel Prize winners,” former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram tweeted. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken pointed out that the journals such as Lancet and Nature had detailed how the government had mishandled the pandemic. He said even the Indian Medical Association had been critical of the government’s approach. “So, when the BJP accuses the Congress of politicising, are they also accusing Lancet or Nature ? Are they similarly accusing IMA that is an association of corona warriors with about 3.27 lakh members,” Mr. Maken asked. “Unfortunately, Mr. Nadda’s reply is full of arrogance. It does not behove of him to write like this.” He said Congress leaders have been in touch with top global experts to discuss the situation and based on their discussions, they had been offering suggestions to the Modi government. “We [Congress] have got vast administrative experience and using that vast administrative experience, contacts with world’s experts and scientists, we always come up with concrete suggestions. Why shouldn’t the government call the Opposition parties and listen to what we have to offer.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naddas-letter-is-full-of-arrogance-congress/article34538528.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Queries raised on DRDO’s COVID drug||A drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for “emergency use” in those with moderate to severe COVID , but independent experts say that from the information so far available, the drug's utility in COVID care has not been established. The lack of published data on its performance in human trials, opaqueness on whether the phase-3 trial objectively evaluated the benefit from, or lack of it, of the drug and the drug's history — of being an unapproved anti-cancer drug and therefore potentially able to harm healthy cells — some of the concerns contributing to the uncertainty, experts told The Hindu . 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose drug has historically been extensively tested for treating cancer but is so far an unapproved drug. The Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a lab of the DRDO, in collaboration with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL), Hyderabad, too has been studying this drug, in the context of radiation therapy for cancer. Medical mechanism The drug had been tested in trials and was given to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories in 2014 as part of a collaboration, according to Dr. Sudhir Chandna, Additional Director, INMAS, DRDO. The basic mechanism of the drug involves inhibiting glycolysis, or one of the ways in which cells break down glucose for energy. This approach while used to starve and kill cancer cells, could in theory work in inhibiting virus cells too, that were almost entirely dependent on glycolysis for replication. Tests at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, last year indicated that the drug demonstrably killed virus cells after which it progressed to trials in people. Dr Reddy's in its application to the SEC for Phase-2 trials in June 2020, noted that while the drug was yet unapproved, it had been tried in 218 clinical trials so far as an anti-cancer drug. Announcing the success of the drug, a press statement from from the DRDO said: “Clinical trial results have shown that this molecule helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. Higher proportion of patients treated with 2-DG showed RT-PCR negative conversion in COVID patients.” “Cancer cells depend heavily on glucose for their survival and hence by tagging them with 2DG we can restrict cancer cell growth. Similarly, it can also affect high glucose utilising normal cells like brain cells (neurons) and could cause brain related side effects,” Dr. Cyriac Abby Philips, who specialised in Hepatology and Liver Transplant Medicine, at Rajagiri Hospital in Kerala said in an email.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/queries-raised-on-drdos-covid-drug/article34538538.ece
12 May 2021||UNNAO,||Fear of COVID haunts rural U.P.||As per the official figures, the number of daily cases of COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh has started declining. However, in its villages there is a growing sense of alarm due to a spurt in not only positive cases and deaths, but also in the number of people showing symptoms of the disease. Unnao district recorded 93 deaths officially on April 10 which rose to 168 on May 11. The district has 1,986 active cases. However, as one travels through its villages, testimonies suggest that the figures could be much higher as not even all symptomatic cases are being tested. While inadequate medical infrastructure acts as a deterrent, there is also a reluctance among the people to get tested. The case of retired bank cashier, Lalta Prasad, is typical. He first displayed symptoms of COVID-19 on April 24. After getting medicines from a quack in his village Sairpur, his fever subsided but he continued to suffer from cough. He assumed he would recover as the symptoms were mild. However, his condition started to deteriorate and he developed a pain in the chest. On May 1, he tested positive for COVID-19. After a struggle, he was admitted to a private hospital. Prasad initially showed signs of recovery but on the fourth day of admission, tests showed his lungs had suffered damage of up to 95%, his son-in-law Pradeep said. On May 8, Prasad died, much to the consternation of the family who believed that villages were far safer than urban centres. The family believes Prasad was infected during the campaigning for the recent panchayat polls which drew huge crowd, Mr. Pradeep said. Mr. Pradeep has tested negative but he is worried for others in Sairpur. Nobody from the administration has come to their house to take samples of those his father-in-law may have come in contact with, he said, adding that their house and neighbourhood were not sanitised despite his requests. In Faridipur, farmer Kanhaiya Singh, 38, has for the past week been in self-isolation in a tiny room crammed with medical equipment, including a nebulizer, and other essentials. He has not been tested for COVID but CT scan reports show lung damage. Mr. Singh got fever soon after two visits to Lucknow to buy medicines for his mother. He relied on a local chemist and purchased medicine to combat the fever. It provided him temporary relief. Mr Singh does not trust the facilities in Unnao and is avoiding sending a sample for RT-PCR test. “I don’t trust their reports. Some people who did not even go for a test were sent positive reports,” he said. Officials at the Hasanganj Community Health Centre say since April, the number of patients turning up for testing from villages on their own has shot up. They attribute it to fears after the panchayat elections and increased awareness. Chief Medical Officer Unnao Ashutosh Kumar did not provide a clear picture of the magnitude of the rural situation even though he admitted that positive cases were being reported from the villages too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fear-of-covid-haunts-rural-up/article34538508.ece
12 May 2021||Srinagar,||Three militants killed in Anantnag||Three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants were killed in a pre-dawn operation of the security forces in south Kashmir’s Anantnag on Tuesday. “Around 4 a.m., three terrorists were hiding in a residential house at Sheikhpora village, Vailoo area of Kokernag. During the search operation, the trapped terrorists were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately, resulting in an encounter. They were killed in the encounter,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said. He said the operation was halted for some time to rescue all civilians trapped near the encounter site. The police identified the slain militants as Ilyas Ahmad Dar alias Sameer from Danwathpora in Kokernag, Ubaid Shafi alias Abdullah from Batamaloo in Srinagar and Aqib Ahmad Lone alias Sahil from Khandaypora in Kulgam. “Arms and ammunition including one AK-47 rifle, two pistols and incriminating materials were recovered from the site of encounter,” the police said. The police said the last rites of the slain terrorists would be performed after conducting medico-legal formalities and the nearest family members would be allowed to participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-militants-killed-in-anantnag/article34538510.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cut in GST can make vaccines cheaper, say experts||An array of measures, including reduction in GST (Goods and Services Tax) rates, zero GST rate on critical raw materials, permitting GST-free imports as well as direct cash incentives to producers, can be used by the Central government to make COVID-19 vaccines and other critical supplies cheaper, say tax experts. At present, GST is levied at the rate of 5% on vaccines and 12% on COVID-19 drugs and oxygen concentrators for domestic supplies and commercial imports. For oxygen concentrators imported for personal use, the government has reduced GST rate from 28% to 12% and waived Customs duties. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday launched a staunch defence of the GST levies on COVID-19 relief supplies after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi mooting an exemption from these taxes amid the pandemic’s escalating second wave. The Finance Minister had said that exemption to vaccine from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer. “If the government is exploring free vaccination to all the citizens, then the consumer of such vaccine will be the government. Thus, no matter at what rate it is taxed, it may not directly impact the pocket of common man. It would be more of a revenue sharing issue between the Centre and the States,” notes Siddharth Surana, adviser at tax consultancy RSM India. Under the present policy, the Centre is providing free vaccines to those above 45 years, while the States and individuals have been asked to foot the bill for the rest. Tax implications matter not just for vaccines, but also other critical drugs and equipment. A taxation expert, on condition of anonymity, says reducing the GST on final products as well as raw materials, or zero-rating supplies, will be a better option than an outright GST exemption. Saket Patawari, executive director (indirect tax) at advisory firm Nexdigm, observes that the government could take measures to slash costs, including a possible special incentive scheme to refund taxes, outside the ambit of the GST law. “A concessional GST rate of 1% can be levied for COVID-19 vaccines. Suppliers would be allowed GST credit benefit, which could be claimed as refund under an ‘inverted duty structure refund’, typically claimed by pharmaceutical companies,” Mr. Patawari states. Alternatively, the entire COVID-19-related supply chains can be taxed at 5%, he suggests. The tax expert quoted earlier asserts that reducing GST rates of raw materials could minimise the input tax credit issues and other options could also be considered to cut prices of COVID-19 supplies. Experts have also called for easing of imports of critical medical equipment and materials by exempting them from Integrated GST, by putting end-use conditions in certain cases, if needed, to ensure they are not misused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cut-in-gst-can-make-vaccines-cheaper-say-experts/article34538515.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP leaders worry over party image||The second wave of the pandemic has left even the well- connected high and dry when it comes to accessing healthcare resources, a fact that has been highlighted by the death of four BJP MLAs in Uttar Pradesh alone, a letter from Union Minister Santosh Gangwar to U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath about the lack of resources in his constituency of Bareilly and the helplessness being expressed even within BJP circles in dealing with public distress. The effect of all this not just in terms of what it means for the progress of the pandemic through the country but also for the reputation of Brand Modi is very much on the minds of BJP leaders. On Tuesday, party president J.P. Nadda wrote a four-page rebuttal to Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s speech at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting held the previous day. In this, he accused her and her party of being “duplicitous and petty” and “creating a false panic in the fight against COVID-19”. The tone of the letter was to emphasise that the Opposition and the Chief Ministers of the Opposition-ruled States have steadily opposed prescriptions to control the pandemic and blamed Mr. Modi as it went out of hand. BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya bemoaned the fact that while fatalities were being talked about, recovery rates were not being highlighted. The RSS, the ideological mothership of the BJP, also announced, via its COVID Response Team (CRT) the launch of a campaign entitled “Hum Jeetenge” (we will win) also called “Positivity Unlimited” to counter ‘negativity’ around the fight against COVID-19. The campaign will include an address by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat likely in the second week of May and daily lectures (online) by eminent achievers from across the country. A promotional title/poster from the event showcased Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Jaggi Vasudev, Azim Premji of Wipro and danseuse and MP Sonal Mansingh. Senior party leaders who spoke to The Hindu , however, admitted that while oppositional politics was a factor for them, the lack of anticipation of the second wave has made much of the defence pretty hard going. “The winding up of additional capacity in Delhi in February, as cases were rising in Maharashtra and Kerala, demonstrated a lack of anticipation,” said a senior BJP leader. A Central Minister admitted that the middle class had been badly hit this time, with “no one’s contacts or influence” was enough to get medical help. Delhi RSS leader Rajiv Tuli’s plaintive tweet stating that the Delhi BJP was absent from the scene was indicative of the fact. “Health is a State subject but the Central government should have been more alert to the second wave,” he said. The acceptance of foreign aid has hit the ‘aatmanirbhar’ plank of Mr. Modi badly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-leaders-worry-over-party-image/article34538525.ece
12 May 2021||Patna,||Pappu Yadav arrested on lockdown violation charge||Former MP from Madhepura and Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav was arrested on Tuesday for alleged violation of lockdown norms and brought to the Gandhi Maidan police station in Patna. An FIR was lodged against him at Patna’s Pirbahore Police Station for allegedly flouting the lockdown norms while visiting the COVID-19 ward at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). He was taken into custody from his house and brought to the Gandhi Maidan Police station. Recently, an FIR was lodged against him at the Amnour police station of Saran district after he flagged an issue of allegedly over 30 ambulances lying idle on a premises allegedly owned by BJP MP from Saran Rajiv Pratap Rudy. Mr. Yadav, of late, has been visiting hospitals, cremation grounds and pharmacists to raise the alleged lack of government preparedness for COVID-19 patients. He has also been helping anxious relatives of COVID-19 patients with oxygen cylinders and other required necessities. “I’m taken to Patna’s Gandhi Maidan police station after being arrested”, tweeted Pappu Yadav soon after he was taken into custody. He posted another tweet in Hindi to say, “If confrontation with a situation to keep one’s own life at stake during Corona time is a crime, then, yes, I’m a criminal. PM sahab , CM sahab , I’ll not stop even if hanged or sent to jail. I’ll save people, will keep exposing dishonesty”. Takes on PM, CM Further, in a series of tweets, he took on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The government has axed its feet with [my] arrest in the name of violation of lockdown. If common people wake up, it will cost heavy to you Modi-Nitish”, he said in one. “Nitish ji pranam [greetings]. [You] do not test patience. Otherwise, if people take system in their own hands, then your administration would forget all your lockdown protocol. I had an operation a month ago and even then putting my life at risk, I’ve been saving lives. My Covid test was done just now and it was negative. You want to kill me by making me positive,” he said in another. In a Hindi tweet, he said, “the governments should make preparations to fight against the third wave of Corona but they are fighting against Pappu Yadav. Please do not compete with me in helping people, saving their lives and doing services to them. Why you’re wasting time in implicating and sending me to jail? Looking for issues all across the state to implicate me to guard their failure”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pappu-yadav-arrested-on-lockdown-violation-charge/article34538520.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,||In Tamil Nadu, religious institutions step in to provide COVID-19 relief||Pontiffs and volunteers of various religious institutions are leading the COVID-19 relief works in several districts in Tamil Nadu. Helping families in distress during the second wave, they have been opening quarantine centres, distributing provision kits, masks, funding vaccines and paying salaries in full. The Dharumapuram Aadheenam’s 27th pontiff Masilamani Desika Gnanasambanda Paramacharya Swamigal, who wanted to create awareness among the public, took the second dose of the coronavirus vaccine at a local hospital. Math spokesperson Pannai C. Siva said the first round of vaccination for all staff and volunteers was arranged on the Math premises. Last year they had given jobs to a thousand men to renovate the buildings belonging to the Aadheenam, he added. Fee waiver At the Mayilam Bommapuram Aadheenam, the Sivagnanam Palaya Swamigal has distributed rice and provisions to residents of Bommiarpalayam and the tribal communities of Irulas and Narikuravas near Mayilam. Math spokesperson S. Thirunavukkarasu said they had not insisted upon students of two colleges being run by the Math to pay their fees with the result that hardly anybody paid the fees. “The pontiff said they were from poor families and cannot afford to pay fees. Despite the fact that there is no income from the fees, the Math has paid the salaries of 150 persons fully all these months,” he said. The Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam has converted the 30-bed Sankara Multi Speciality Hospital into a COVID-19 care facility. “We are at present treating patients with mild symptoms and waiting for uninterrupted oxygen facility to provide full-fledged services,” said a Math spokesperson. To ensure functioning of the hospital’s outpatient facility, the Math has given one of its buildings to the hospital. A quarantine facility has also been set up at the Sri Chandrasekharendra Saraswathi Viswa Mahavidyalaya University, which is also waiting for oxygen. The Jayendra Saraswati Ayurveda College is giving medicines at subsidised rates to increase immunity. It has also asked devotees to raise funds to sponsor the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The Hindu Mission Hospital and the Kamakoti Child’s Trust hospital too are providing treatment. Kanchi Sankaracharya Sri Vijayendra Saraswati has asked health services connected with the Math to provide treatment for COVID-19 patients in the best possible way, said a Mutt spokesperson. The Archdiocese of Madras-Mylapore has set up three groups to help COVID-19 patients. Episcopal Vicar of the Archdiocese Father Vincent Chinnadurai said they had formed three teams, one was a data team that kept tab of hospital beds, arranges ambulances and oxygen cylinders. The second team collected and distributed food to those in need and the third one ensured proper burials. “Secretary of the Youth Commission Fr. Ronald Richard is co-ordinating these services. Seven youngsters have volunteered for this and they stay at the Santhome school under quarantine. Four young priests have also come forward to perform services at the cemetery,” he said. Quarantine centre The Masjid Javeed at 3rd Avenue in Anna Nagar has opened a quarantine centre for persons who are COVID-19 negative and need a place to stay for a few days. “It has been two days now and people keep asking us if we can take in COVID-19 positive persons, which we can’t,” said Mosque Committee secretary M. Mohammed Yousuf. Volunteers of the medical wing of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam continue offering burial or cremation assistance. They have lent a helping hand with over 2,100 cases of different faiths so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-tamil-nadu-religious-institutions-step-in-to-provide-covid-19-relief/article34538543.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi/Kolkata,||Security for BJP MLAs irks Trinamool||The Trinamool Congress has described the decision of the Union Home Ministry to accord Central security cover to the 61 newly elected BJP legislators in West Bengal as “arbitrary and infringement in the law and order situation of the State”. Trinamool spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the BJP was not only providing Central security to its elected MLAs but also to some candidates who got defeated in the recent Assembly polls. “The State government does provide security to MLAs, depending on the threat perception. What makes the BJP MLAs superior to the other elected MLAs that they are being treated differently. The allocation of Central security to these MLAs is arbitrary, infringement of the law and order situation, which is a State subject and colossal waste of resources,” Mr. Roy, who is also a Rajya Sabha member, stated. All Central decisions like sending a team to the State and giving security to BJP MLAs reflected that the BJP was “unable to accept the mandate of people”. “The people of West Bengal have given a clear mandate and by interfering in the State’s functioning, the BJP leadership is once again bringing out their fascist tendencies out in public domain,” he said. ‘Against Constitution’ Vappala Balachandran, former Special Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, noted that the decision of the Centre was against the seventh schedule of the Constitution as law and order is a State subject. “Under what provision of CrPC, the Central security personnel will be allowed to carry arms? This is a totally wrong decision without any rhyme or reason. Did the MLAs approach the local police first for protection? The Central police can enter the State only when the local police or the magistrate requests their presence, during elections it is different… this has been done only to show the might of the Centre,” Mr. Balachandran said. The Ministry has asked the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to accord protection to the 61 BJP MLAs. They have been accorded ‘X’ category security — three security personnel round the clock. A CISF official said they were not aware why the Ministry had issued such an order. “We have to mobilise 180 personnel who will be put on such duties, we are following the book, in all there are 65 BJP MLAs the CISF is protecting,” he stated. Before the elections, they were providing security to four BJP leaders who have now been sworn in as MLAs. The Ministry spokesperson refused to comment as the matter pertains to security of individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-for-bjp-mlas-irks-trinamool/article34538531.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM Modi’s G7 visit cancelled due to COVID-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not attend the G7 summit in the United Kingdom next month, the Ministry of External Affairs announced on Tuesday. “While appreciating the invitation to the Prime Minister by U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson to attend the G7 Summit as a Special Invitee, given the prevailing COVID situation, it has been decided that the Prime Minister will not attend the summit in person,” said spokesperson Arindam Bagchi. Jaishankar’s visit The announcement came days after External Affairs Minister Jaishankar returned from London where he had gone to participate in a ministerial meeting of the G7. However, the entire delegation was ultimately quarantined after two of the officials with the Minister were found to be COVID-19 positive. The visit to Cornwall, U.K., for the summit was scheduled to be the first major trip to the west by Prime Minister Modi who has not travelled beyond South Asia in recent months. His last visit was to Bangladesh in March to mark the half-century of its independence. Mr. Modi also cancelled his visit to Portugal for the E.U.-India Leaders Meeting held virtually on May 8. Earlier, Prime Minister Boris Johnson cancelled his trip to India because of the COVID-19 situation here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-modis-g7-visit-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-crisis/article34538522.ece
12 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||NIA court grants Akhil Gogoi permission to take oath as MLA||A special court of the National Investigation Agency on Tuesday granted permission to jailed Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi to take oath as an MLA in the 126-member Assam Assembly. Mr. Gogoi had won the Sibsagar seat by defeating Surabhi Rajkonwari of the BJP by 11,875 votes. He will be allowed to take oath under adequate security. Mr. Gogoi has been in jail since December 2019 on charges of sedition and inciting violence during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Assam. Earlier in the day, he wrote a letter to Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma with 11 suggestions to handle the COVID-19 crisis. The suggestions include free vaccination to all citizens above and below 45 years of age and free treatment or hospital care for all those testing positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-court-grants-akhil-gogoi-permission-to-take-oath-as-mla/article34538523.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.S. in touch with Indian vaccine makers||The United States has been in contact with the Serum Institute of India and other vaccine manufacturers to boost production of vaccines against COVID-19, said the U.S. envoy to India on Tuesday. Addressing a virtual press meet, Charge d’Affaires Ambassador Daniel B Smith described the second wave in India as a development that has “global implications” and expressed continued support from the Biden administration which has committed $100 million in assistance. “We are watching carefully the production levels at the SII and elsewhere. We have been in close touch with the SII to try to determine what raw materials we could provide, and assistance that we can provide to help boost production,” said Mr. Smith. “The U.S. has also diverted enough of Oxford AstraZeneca manufacturing supplies from its own pre-existing orders to produce over 20 million vaccine doses in India.” The U.S., he said, will not use the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine as of now as it has “three vaccines available and the Biden administration has determined that that is sufficient for our needs”. However, he said the policy regarding the extra Oxford AstraZeneca doses is yet to be finalised. Mr. Smith’s comments came weeks after SII’s Adar Poonawalla urged the Biden administration for “raw materials” for production of vaccines. On April 16, Mr. Poonawalla had made a social media appeal to the U.S. President, stating, “I humbly request you to lift the embargo of raw material exports out of the U.S. so that vaccine production can ramp up. Your administration has the details.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-in-touch-with-indian-vaccine-makers/article34538540.ece
12 May 2021||Chennai,||3.15 lakh fresh cases, 3,588 deaths reported||India recorded 3,15,600 new COVID-19 cases until 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday. As many as 3,588 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 2,33,07,639 cases and 2,53,615 deaths. Maharashtra reported 40,956 infections, followed by Karnataka (39,510) and Kerala (37,290). Maharashtra also recorded 793 casualties, followed by Karnataka (480) and Delhi (347). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Over 18.5 lakh samples were tested on Monday (the results for which were made available on Tuesday), which is 3.75 lakh more than the number of tests conducted on Sunday. It is also 1.86 lakh tests more than those conducted the previous Monday (May 3). After crossing the 19 lakh mark on May 5, daily tests in India have stayed around the 18.5 lakh mark. The country’s daily average tests positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to increase. As on May 10, it stood at 22.3%. It was 10.3% a month before. Over 25.03 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Tuesday, which is 17.66 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. It is also 7.69 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the same period, one week ago. However, the daily vaccination rate in the country has declined significantly between May 1-10 compared to April 21-30. In the first 10 days of May, around 17.72 lakh doses were administered daily in the country on average which is lesser than 24.87 lakh average daily doses given in the last 10 days of April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/315-lakh-fresh-cases-3588-deaths-reported/article34538545.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Maratha quota: Uddhav writes to President||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday submitted a letter to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for President Ram Nath Kovind urging him to step in to ensure reservation for Maratha community. Mr. Thackeray also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention. “A letter requesting the President to look into the matter of Maratha reservation in view of the Supreme Court verdict was given to Bhagat Singh Koshyari. We have also written to the Prime Minister and will soon be meeting him requesting the Centre’s intervention,” said Mr. Thackeray after his interaction with Mr. Koshyari. The Supreme Court on May 5, struck down the Maratha reservation saying the State has no authority to accord Socially and Economically Backward status to Maratha community after 102nd Constitutional Amendment. The letter to Mr. Modi requested steps be taken earliest to grant reservation to Maratha community. The letter, explaining the history of Maratha reservation laws and verdicts by the Bombay High Court and Supreme Court, said, “The majority (Supreme Court Bench) has held that, in view of aforesaid 102nd Constitutional Amendment, all the States are denuded of their power, authority and jurisdiction to identify any community that falls in the category of SEBC.” Mr. Thackeray’s letter maintained that Maharashtra is of the view that despite 102nd Constitutional Amendment, it continues to have power, authority and jurisdiction to identify Maratha community as the SEBC. “However, at this stage, such understanding of my State pales into insignificance, in view of the aforesaid authoritative pronouncement of law made by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” it said. The letter said that as a consequence of the verdict, it is the President, i.e. the Union Government alone, which can identify and notify the Maratha community as SEBC. “This is therefore, to earnestly request you that appropriate steps be taken, albeit in accordance with law, declared by Hon’ble Supreme Court, to identify and declare Maratha community of my State as SEBC to enable them to claim the reservation in Education and Public Employment, at least to the extent of 12% and 13%, respectively,” it said. Earlier, as announced by Ashok Chavan, Chairman of the Cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, an eight-member committee led by Dilip Bhosle, former Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court was formed on Tuesday, which will study the Supreme Court verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maratha-quota-uddhav-writes-to-president/article34538504.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||25 decomposed bodies wash up in Ghazipur||Mr. Krishna said police were unable to identify the bodies or trace their source. However, he said it was found that they did not have a local source and could have flown down from other districts. “We spoke to the locals and found out that they had performed the final rites of all the bodies that were brought to the ghats. The local Muslims too had buried their dead,” he said. While Mr. Krishna said it was difficult to ascertain if the bodies were of COVID-19 victims, he stated he had never seen so many bodies floating like this in the region. The officer said that since many deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in other cities close to the Ganga, there was a long waiting line at cremation grounds. “It is possible that in hurry some disposed off the bodies in the river like this,” he added. Balwant Singh, the newly-elected head of the village Gahmar, which is one of the largest in the country, said the administration had sprayed lime to clean the area where the bodies were found and disposed. Mr. Singh said the bodies did not belong to the village. ”The villages where the bodies are seen sticking to the banks are getting defamed,” he said. Circle officer of Saidpur said no body was in his area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-decomposed-bodies-wash-up-in-ghazipur/article34538506.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar to look at impact of AI on students, jobs||A webinar on “How AI Is Changing the Technology Perspective from Learning to Jobs Under COVID-19 and its Impact on Students” will be held as a part of the SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021 series, on May 15. The webinar series which has been launched by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) in association with The Hindu Group, spotlights science, engineering and technology courses and their relevance to the 2020s workplace. The panelists who will be speaking as a part of the webinar are Shweta Khurana, Director, APJ Global Partnerships and Initiatives, Intel, Dr. Pratyush Kumar, Assistant Professor at IIT Madras and Co- Founder of padh.ai, and Dr. R Annie Uthra, Associate Professor, School of Computing, SRM Institute of Science & Technology (SRMIST). The discussion will be moderated by Anand Venkateswaran, Steward of Metapurse Fund, who also writes about Fintech & Crypto. Q&A session The webinar will begin at 11 a.m. on May 15 and will conclude with a Q&A session with the speakers. To register for the FREE webinar, visit http://bit.ly/SRMTHE4 or scan the QR Code SRMJEE will be held in two phases. The first phase will be conducted on May 23 and 24 and the second phase on July 25 and 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-to-look-at-impact-of-ai-on-students-jobs/article34538513.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Money laundering case against Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a money laundering case against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and other unknown persons, based on a probe recently initiated by the CBI into allegations of corruption against him, according to a senior agency official. The CBI registered the case on April 21, following which it carried out searches at various places linked to Mr. Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur. The case was instituted based on the findings of a preliminary enquiry launched on the directions of the Bombay High Court on April 5. The FIR alleged an attempt to get undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty. As alleged, certain police officers had been asked to collect Rs. 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. While the CBI is pursuing the criminal angle, the ED will be unearthing the financial trail, if any. The CBI, in the FIR, has mentioned that its enquiry also revealed that Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was reinstated into the police force after being out of service for over 15 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/money-laundering-case-against-anil-deshmukh/article34538518.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Amid surge, demand for air ambulances soars||Data with the Directorate General of Civil Aviation show only 18 companies are authorised to operate air ambulances with 26 aircraft cleared for medical transportation. “Those transporting COVID passengers have to abide by the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and of the States of origin and departure,” a DGCA official said. “There are only six aircraft available in the country with isolation pods, and we have to move them from different locations across the country for our clients. So, if a patient is in Mumbai and our only available aircraft is in Delhi, then the cost of flying in from a different city will have to be borne by the clients,” Mr. Wadhwa says. Hyderabad followed by Chennai and Mumbai are the most sought after medical hubs. On April 19, an air ambulance from Bhopal landed at the Begumpet airport in Hyderabad. The patient was a 37-year-old pulmonologist, Satyendra Mishra, with extensive damage to his lungs, who had attended to multiple COVID-19 patients. The Madhya Pradesh government consulted Yashoda Hospitals in Hyderabad, and the young pulmonologist was airlifted to the southern city. After undergoing treatment, he recovered and was discharged on May 7. Apart from Dr. Mishra, Yashoda Hospitals has treated 31 patients airlifted from other States. “Three of them underwent lung transplantation,” A. Lingaiah, Director of Medical Services, Yashoda Hospitals Group, says. At least 86 patients, most of them with COVID-19, have been airlifted to major corporate hospitals in Hyderabad in the past couple of months. The patients were from West Bengal, Bihar, Delhi, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and Odisha among others.Corporate hospital representatives say the combination of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support, lung transplantation facilities and expert doctors is the reason that patients prefer Hyderabad. The patients include politicians, influential individuals and people with deep pockets — Bollywood Actor Sonu Sood helped a young girl from Nagpur, airlifting her to Hyderabad. K. Hari Prasad, president of Apollo Group of Hospitals, says that nearly 20 COVID-19 patients in advanced stage of the disease have been airlifted from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh in the past couple of months. They underwent treatment at the hospital in Jubilee Hills. Though a large chunk of the demand is for travel from small towns to big cities with better medical infrastructure, there are also enquiries for travel from metros to Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities as availability of beds in big cities has become a problem, says Rajan Mehra, CEO, Club One Air. Hospitals in Tamil Nadu are witnessing instances of COVID-19 patients being brought back from northern parts of the country. Planet-X Aerospace Services, which operates out of Coimbatore and Madurai, has airlifted patients seven times in just the past two months. Patients were brought to cities such as Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchi on isolation pod-equipped aircraft, says Wing Commander A. Satish Kumar (retd), the company’s Director and CEO. “The majority of patients we brought to Tamil Nadu was from northern States,” he says. A Bengaluru-based company says there has been a 500% increase in the demand for its services.  (With inputs from K. Shiva Shanker, Wilson Thomas, Afshan Yasmeen and Tanu Kulkarni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-surge-demand-for-air-ambulances-soars/article34538502.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Cases rising in 15 States; positivity rate at 21%’||Close to 2.50 lakh deaths (1.09% of the total cases) had been reported, he said. Mr. Agarwal said 26 States had more than 15% positivity, nine with over 25% and 10 States with 20-25% positivity. The highest of 49.6% was in Goa, followed by Puducherry with 42.8% and West Bengal with 34.4%. On day-on-day basis, the overall positivity on April 27 was 19% and since then, it had gone down to 18%. State-wise, the most number of active cases continued to be reported from Maharashtra (5,93,150), followed by Karnataka (5,71,026), Kerala (4,20,076), Uttar Pradesh (2,25,271) and Rajasthan (2,03,017). In 13 States/UTs, there were more than 1 lakh active cases; 50,000 to 1 lakh in six and less than 50,000 in 17. Mr. Agarwal said the Centre had provided about 17.01 crore vaccine doses for free to the States and the people had already got them. In collaboration with the States, 25.59 lakh doses were also given to the 18-44 age group. Sharing updates on oxygen availability, Home Ministry Additional Secretary Piyush Goyal said oxygen production in the country had risen from 5,700 MT per day in August 2020 to more than 9,000 MT per day in May. There had been seven fold increase in the supply of liquid medical oxygen, from 1,320 MT in March to 8,943 MT on May 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cases-rising-in-15-states-positivity-rate-at-21/article34538505.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Facing life with fortitude||Sastras teach people to lead virtuous lives and avoid evil behaviour. But in life many who uphold dharma and truth face difficult situations, as for instance, the Pandavas. At the same time, Duryodhana and Dhritarashtra are somehow able to hold on to the kingdom, depriving the Pandavas of their rights. It is not easy for the Pandavas in exile to accept their state. As if to make clear many truths of life, there are many expositions of the stories of Nala, Harishchandra, Rama avatar, and so on, wherein these worthy rulers too had to undergo much suffering while trying to adhere to virtue, truth and dharma, pointed out Sri B. Damodhara Dikshitar in a discourse. Sage Brihadwasa relates the life story of Nala to the Pandavas to show that the difficulties he faced would make their own suffering seem much less in comparison. Nala’s upright way of life had kept away Kali’s influence for twelve years. But a seemingly innocent lapse on Nala’s part is enough for Kali to enter his life in a sly manner and cause havoc. His brother Pushkara calls him for the game of dice and Nala comes completely under Kali’s sway to the extent of pawning away even his good sense. Nala and Damayanti show that Time can bring about drastic changes in one’s life and one has to bear with the challenges with fortitude. Sorrow and joy are related to the mind. A person suffers when he accepts sorrow. Jadabharata does not feel the burden of palanquin; he did not carry it; it was merely placed on his shoulders. Sadasiva Brahmendra did not feel the pain when his arm was cut off. Thyagaraja was totally immersed in Rama Bhakti that he never considered hardships in life as difficult situations. Great people do not give any importance to these ups and downs in life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/facing-life-with-fortitude/article34538536.ece
12 May 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal allows private hospitals to use RAT||The West Bengal government has issued an order that allows patients needing emergency care to seek immediate admission in any hospital — government or private — without a COVID-19 report. It will be the responsibility of the hospital to admit patients without delay and run a rapid antigen test (RAT). In case they test positive, they will be sent to the COVID-19 ward and in case negative, they will have to undergo the RT-PCR test and be treated. So far, RAT was allowed only in government hospitals — according to sources, the administration did not wish to raise the daily cases by making it widespread — and the new order would not only reduce the waiting period for patients but also take the load off labs conducting RT-PCR. The highly vocal West Bengal Doctors’ Forum saw the order as its victory because it had, for long, been pressing for the use of RAT by private hospitals. “Right from June 2020, we had been communicating with the State government on a weekly basis, pleading that even private hospitals be allowed to conduct RAT. Finally this has happened, after almost a year,” said Dr. Koushik Chaki, founding secretary of the forum. “The order is not only expected to minimise the possibility of patients being refused admission but also streamline COVID-19 management,” Dr. Chaki said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-allows-private-hospitals-to-use-rat/article34538768.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Act in unison, NHRC tells Centre, States||A week after issuing an advisory, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday reiterated that the government must protect the rights of people during the second wave of the pandemic. It said it also asked for 24/7 toll-free helplines and fixing of treatment prices. It had issued an advisory to the Health Ministry and all States and Union Territories on May 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/act-in-unison-nhrc-tells-centre-states/article34538521.ece
12 May 2021||Srinagar,||Sops for kin of pandemic victims in J&K||The J&K administration on Tuesday reached out to pandemic affected families of the Union Territory (UT) and announced a slew of financial support measures. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said senior citizens, who have lost the only earning member(s) of the family, will be provided special pension for life while children, who have lost their parents, will be given a special scholarship. “Many of our near and dear ones have left us untimely due to COVID-19. The government has decided to reach out to each and every such family and they will be provided with financial assistance for self-employment by the Jammu & Kashmir Bank,” the Lt. Governor said. The government has also decided to provide Rs. 1,000 per month to all registered construction workers, ponywalas, palkiwalas and pithuwalas for the next two months. He said Rs. 55 crore would be released under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for emergency use during the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sops-for-kin-of-pandemic-victims-in-jk/article34538526.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Azad to head Cong. task force on relief||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad will head a 13-member party task force to coordinate COVID-19 relief, said a statement from the party on Tuesday. Other members include Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Jairam Ramesh, Mukul Wasnik, Ambika Soni, K.C. Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/azad-to-head-cong-task-force-on-relief/article34538529.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress creating false panic: Nadda||A day after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) demanded that the Union government “atone for its mistakes” in handling the second wave of the COVID-19, BJP president J.P. Nadda accused the Opposition party of “duplicity and pettiness”. In a four-page letter addressed to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Mr. Nadda accused the Congress of “misleading” people and creating “false panic” in the fight against the pandemic. He alleged that the conduct of Congress leaders, including Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi, “will be remembered for duplicity and pettiness”. He said that Congress leaders, including a Chief Minister, were guilty of fostering vaccine hesitancy. “Under Modi, the fight against the pandemic is driven by unwavering belief in science, support to innovation, trust in COVID-19 warriors and cooperative federalism,” the BJP chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-creating-false-panic-nadda/article34538532.ece
12 May 2021||PATNA,||I was harassed in hospital, says woman||In a video that has gone viral on social media, a woman from Bihar has alleged sexual harassment by a hospital attendant at Bhagalpur where her husband was admitted for COVID-19 treatment. She said that the attendant had pulled her dupatta (scarf) and put his hand on her waist, saying that he would take care of her ailing husband. Bhagalpur police have constituted a team to probe the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-was-harassed-in-hospital-says-woman/article34538535.ece
12 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. to take steps for care of children||Public compliance and the policy of trace, test and treat were yielding good results against COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday days, after the World Health Organization spoke of the State’s house-to-house campaign in rural areas to contain transmission. Keeping in view the assessment of experts, special arrangements for the protection of children need to be made in all districts, Mr. Adityanath instructed officials. “Paediatric ICUs with a capacity of a minimum of 10-15 beds in all district hospitals and 25-30 beds in medical colleges should be prepared,” he said. There should be a minimum 100-bed paediatric ICU at the divisional headquarters, he directed. To check the spread in villages, the State government has recently started a testing and vigilance campaign in more than 97,000 revenue villages. It has deployed 1,41,610 teams and 21,242 supervisors from the Health department to ensure all rural areas are covered, said the WHO on May 7, in a report titled Uttar Pradesh going the last mile to stop COVID-19. WHO said it now has field officers on the ground to monitor and share real-time feedback with the government. On April 30, there were 3.10 lakh active cases in the State. However, it had been reduced by 95,000 and now the State has only 2.16 lakh cases, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-to-take-steps-for-care-of-children/article34538541.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka HC calls for road map on vaccination||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to submit a road map on how it will vaccinate all eligible citizens above 45 years while orally observing that Karnataka appears to have begun COVID-19 vaccination without proper planning. It said the road map must contain how the government would complete the process of administering both the doses of vaccine to all the categories of health and the frontline workers, and all the citizens above 45 years of age; and also to ensure second dose for amongst these groups who are waiting for their second dose. A Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar also observed that the vaccination process in Karnataka may turn out to be ineffective if the present scenario continues as many citizens are yet to receive the second dose even after expiry of prescribed period of 4 to 8 weeks from the date of first dose. The Bench orally observed that the State government appears to have commenced administering of the first dose without any planning on the need to ensure that all those who took the first dose should be able to get second dose within the prescribed period. From the documents submitted before the court, the Bench noted that only 72% (4,47,734) of the health workers and 60% (1,78,231) of the frontline workers have received second dose of vaccine as on May 6, 2021. The records also disclosed that there are 1.71 crore citizens aged above 45 in Karnataka and so far only 72,25,064 have received the first dose while 11,71,008 have received the second as on May 6. While 9,92,629 of them have completed 6 weeks after first dose, 5,30,540 have completed seven weeks, 1,60,279 eight weeks after receiving first dose of Covishield and are due for second dose. Similarly 3,97,894 have completed four weeks, 3,10,022 have completed five weeks, 2,17, 543 have completed six weeks after receiving first dose of Covaxin, and are due for second doses by exceeding prescribed period, the Bench noted from the records. From the data, the Bench pointed out that State government immediately need a total 26,08,907 doses of the vaccine - 16,83,448 doses of Covishield and 9,25,459 doses of Covaxin – for administration of second dose of vaccines to the citizens who have already completed 4 to 6 weeks from taking the first dose. The Bench said the scenario of vaccine availability is disturbing while noticing that total availability of vaccine doses in Karnataka is 9,37,780 which includes 6.5 lakh doses procured recently to exclusively administer to those aged between 18-44 years. “We hope and trust that both Centre and State government take serious note of availability of vaccines,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karnataka-hc-calls-for-road-map-on-vaccination/article34538551.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Free food at Indira Canteens till May 24||The State government on Tuesday announced distribution of free food through Indira Canteen thrice a day across the State till May 24. The announcement is expected to benefit the poor, street vendors, and workers during the lockdown period. The benefit will come through in more than 170 canteens across district and taluk centres, and through food packet distribution in more than 150 canteens and about 30 mobile canteens functioning in Bengaluru city limits. The service commenced on Tuesday in rest of the State while it will begin on Wednesday in Bengaluru. Thrice a day The announcement on canteens outside Bengaluru was made by Municipal Administration Minister N. Nagaraju on Monday through a recorded video message. “With the consent of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the Municipal Administration Department has taken this measure to supply free food thrice a day,” he said. An official order from the department stated that the free food would be distributed to migrant labourers and poor through Indira Canteen in the city corporation/ municipality jurisdiction in rest of the State barring Bengaluru. In Bengaluru, each person or beneficiary will be given a maximum of three packets of food, depending on the total number of family members on their ration card. The beneficiary is expected to display his voter identification card, Aadhaar card, DL, or Labour Department ID card to obtain the meals. Currently, Indira Canteen charges Rs. 5 for breakfast and Rs. 10 each for lunch and dinner. “This will be waived to help street vendors, workers and the poor till the lockdown is lifted,” Mr. Nagaraju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-food-at-indira-canteens-till-may-24/article34538563.ece
12 May 2021||BODI,TAMIL NADU||Ghat section cleared for vehicle movement||Traffic on the Bodimettu-Munthal ghat section resumed on Tuesday. Boulders fell in at least two stretches on the ghat section including the sixth hairpin bend on Sunday night. Vehicle movement was therefore cut off between Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Tourists from Tamil Nadu used the Bodimettu ghat section to reach Munnar in Kerala. Workers from the district used the route to go to work in cardamom estates. There has not been much of tourist movement these days due to the pandemic situation. Besides, there were several restrictions so that workers could not go to the estates. Only essential goods such as vegetables, meat and milk were being transported between the two States. So, the police and highways department officials swung into action. The boulders were broken using machines and vehicles started using the ghat section by evening, DSP (Bodi sub-division) Parthiban said. Vehicles were using Cumbum Mettu to enter Kerala as an alternative but they can start using the Bodimettu stretch in full swing from Wednesday, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ghat-section-cleared-for-vehicle-movement/article34539072.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 claims 298 more lives||A total of 298 persons died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, with Chennai alone accounting for 92 deaths, even as the State reported 29,272 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking its overall tally to 14,38,509. With 7,466 fresh cases, Chennai’s overall tally surpassed the four lakh-mark. So far, 4,04,733 persons have tested positive in the city. The overall tally of both Chengalpattu and Coimbatore went past one lakh with these districts recording 2,419 and 2,650 fresh cases respectively. Deaths among youth Of the 298 deaths that took the State’s toll to 16,178, Chengalpattu and Coimbatore accounted for 19 fatalities each. Salem reported 18 deaths, Tiruvallur, 17, and Madurai, 13. The number of young persons dying of the contagion is steadily rising. According to the daily bulletin issued by the Department of Health, 67 persons who died were in the age group of 20-49, five in their 20s, 14 in their 30s and 48 in their 40s. A 25-year-old man from Coimbatore, who had no co-morbidities, was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on May 8. He died the next day of cardio-respiratory arrest, acute respiratory distress syndrome and bilateral bronchopneumonia. A 30-year-old woman from Madurai died at the Government Rajaji Hospital on May 8 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Chennai’s toll stands at 5,368, while Chengalpattu has recorded 1,091 deaths so far. The number of active cases stands at 1,62,181. Of them, 37,713 patients are under treatment in Chennai, followed by 14,324 in Coimbatore and 13,038 in Chengalpattu. A total of 19,182 persons were discharged after treatment. They included 4,583 persons in Chennai, 2,366 in Chengalpattu, 1,723 in Coimbatore and 1,309 in Tiruvallur. So far, 12,60,150 persons have been discharged. Bed vacancies In the last 24 hours, 1,56,111 samples were tested. So far, 2,43,10,931 samples have been tested. There were 11,867 vacant beds in the State at COVID-19 health centres and hospitals — 3,336 oxygen beds, 8,022 non-oxygen beds and 509 intensive care unit beds. As on Tuesday, the total number of earmarked COVID-19 beds were 33,272 oxygen beds, 26,536 non-oxygen beds and 8,325 ICU beds. Vaccination drive A total of 79,929 persons, including 40,534 persons aged 45-59 and 26,264 senior citizens, were vaccinated. The overall coverage stood at 65,88,345. The vaccination was held at 2,789 sessions — Covishield at 2,487 sessions and Covaxin at 302 sessions, according to the daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-claims-298-more-lives/article34538700.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Basic screening at home for those aged below 60||Greater Chennai Corporation has revised its COVID-19 management strategy, focusing on door-to-door screening, strengthening ambulance services, hiring doctors for telemedicine services, providing oxygen support and regulating private laboratories. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Tuesday held a meeting with monitoring officials of the 15 zones of the city, in the presence of Municipal Administration and Water Supply Secretary Harmander Singh. Mr. Bedi asked the officials adopt the revised strategy. Under this, basic screening for residents aged below 60 will be done at home. The Corporation will strengthen the facilities for screening of patients aged above 60. More doctors The State government has asked the Corporation to hire additional doctors for telemedicine services at all zones. At least 90 doctors will be hired through a walk-in interview. These doctors will offer telemedicine services for COVID-19 patients on home quarantine twice a day. These doctors will sit in the control rooms to be set up for all 15 zones, said Mr. Bedi. The Corporation has readied 30,000 basic medical kits to be supplied for residents who visit testing centres of the Corporation and private laboratories, according to the existing protocol. The civic body has planned to set up oxygen parlours at three locations in three regions. At least 300 persons will be able to use the facilities. It has started shifting patients to Chennai Trade Centre COVID-19 care centre with oxygen support. At present, 800 litres of oxygen has been made available at the centre. The facility will get more oxygen beds shortly. All COVID-19 care centres will get oxygen support, the officials said. In talks with Uber Taxi operators have been roped in for converting cars into ambulances to transport patients. The civic body was in talks with the taxi aggregator Uber, officials said. Private lab tests for COVID-19 at 59 locations will be regulated to provide support for patients. The labs have been asked to communicate the results to the Corporation to provide support to the residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/basic-screening-at-home-for-those-aged-below-60/article34538706.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors see surge in mucormycosis cases||ENT specialists and ophthalmologists in the city have begun to see cases of the very aggressive, invasive fungal condition of mucormycosis in patients cured of COVID-19 in the city. Mucormycosis, as per the Centers for Disease Control, is a serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes. People with a compromised immune system can get mucormycosis when they come in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. “There is a sudden and alarming increase in the occurrence of invasive rhino-orbito-cerebral mucormycosis in patients who have recovered from COVID recently,” says Mohan Kameswaran, Chief Surgeon and Director, Madras ENT Research Foundation (MERF). “What is perhaps new and worrisome is the sudden increase in the invasive form of the sinus variant which involves the orbit leading to blindness and at times, the brain leading to stroke and death.” It was a rare occurrence in the past, seen mostly in people with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, and in immune-compromised patients, he says. Most major ENT departments in the country have noticed a 10-20 fold increase in the number of cases since the start of second wave of COVID-19, according to Dr. Kameswaran. For example at MERF, which used to see about 10 patients a year before the pandemic, it is now receiving 5 – 10 patients a day. Almost all of them have recovered from COVID within the last two to four weeks. About a third of them had lost their vision at the time of presentation, he says. Toxic anti-dote Ravi Ramalingam, senior ENT surgeon and Managing Director, KKR ENT Hospital here, says he saw two patients last week while the norm was one in two or three years. “When people come to the hospital, it is already in a fulminant stage, they are very sick. It is treated with the anti-fungal amphotericin B, which is affordable, but is so toxic that we need to go in for more sophisticated options, that are also expensive. It costs up to Rs. 5,000-Rs. 6,000 a vial, and treatment typically lasts a few weeks.” Dr. Kameswaran says an additional worry is reported shortage of these anti-fungal agents at the national level. “It is like a serpent moving through the sinus passages and occupying the entire area, impacting the entire face,” says Mohan Rajan, senior ophthalmologist of Rajan Eye Care. He saw two cases during the first wave, and this year, already there have been three cases. This opportunistic infection seems to have multiple causative factors, and what all doctors are underlining repeatedly post COVID-19 is: indiscriminate use of high dose of steroids in COVID-19 patients, sometimes even in minimally symptomatic patients. This leads the blood sugar levels to spike rendering them vulnerable to mucormycosis. Dr. Kameswaran says the use of monoclonal agents like toclizumab may be contributory, besides the possible breach of sterile conditions that can lead to cross infections and hospital-acquired infections. “The question of COVID-19 infection itself predisposing to invasive fungal disease would need further studies but cannot be ruled out at this stage,” he adds. “Steroids are a double-edged sword,” chimes in V. Mohan, senior diabetologist, Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialties Centre. “In some instances in COVID, they are a life saver, but in diabetics, they substantially raise blood sugar levels.” However, if it is identified and treated early, and aggressively, patients can be helped. His advice is to regularly monitor blood sugar levels among diabetics treated with steroids. Sankara Nethralaya recently released a pamphlet to warn patients of possible mucormycosis infection. It has asked patients to watch out for stuffy nose, bloody, brown or black discharge from the nose, facial pain, numbness, swelling, and blackish colouration of skin. Apart from these, double vision, redness and bulging of the eyes are also signs.  There is a sudden and alarming increase in the occurrence of invasive rhino-orbito-cerebral mucormycosis in patients who have recovered from COVID-19 Mohan Kameswaran  Chief Surgeon and Director, Madras ENT Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-see-surge-in-mucormycosis-cases/article34538717.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Let’s work together, Stalin tells MLAs||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday made an appeal to the newly elected MLAs to transcend party affiliations and work together to retrieve Tamil Nadu from the pandemic caused by COVID-19. He said if the MLAs found any lax in the control of COVID-19 in their constituencies and faced crisis to get oxygen, hospital bed and medicine, they should immediately bring it to the notice of the government. “I assure you that my government will act immediately and take measures to protect people,” he said in his message to the MLAs who were sworn in by the pro-term Speaker. Mr. Stalin said though the MLAs entered the fray as members of various political parties and alliances and won the election, they had the duty to work single-mindedly for the welfare of the people. “You visit your constituencies and help the people. I request you to support the efforts of the government,” he said. The Chief Minister said while the government had imposed a lockdown, it had also decided to distribute Rs. 2,000 to each ration card holder as a first instalment of the COVID-19 financial assistance of Rs. 4,000. “We are also taking efforts on a war-footing to ensure supply of medicine, beds and oxygen. My government has dedicated itself to bringing the situation under control,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lets-work-together-stalin-tells-mlas/article34538703.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State lays out plan to help MSMEs||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday announced a few measures to help the micro, small and medium enterprises overcome some of the challenges posed by the lockdown. “At the meeting, the industrial sector raised certain concerns. The Chief Minister was sympathetic towards the concerns, and has announced these measures,” MSME Secretary Mangat Ram Sharma told The Hindu . He said the State government would immediately release 60% (Rs. 168 crore) of the Rs. 280 crore sanctioned for granting capital subsidies to these units this fiscal. All eligible units would get the capital subsidy. The government extended the timeline for registration of the memorandum of deposit without penalty till December to help these units get bank loans. The window was earlier extended until March this year. The validity of all statutory licences, including those from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and the Departments of Fire, Labour and Industrial Safety that were to expire between May and September this year would be extended till December. The government also extended by nine months the exemption of the industries from the condition that they make a minimum investment of 25%, resulting in a 25% increase in the products. The relaxation granted earlier was only till March 31. Back-ended interest subsidy (BEIS) at the rate of 5% would be released immediately for loans obtained under the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises and the Technology Upgradation Scheme. Faster allotment The allotment of SIDCO plots would be fast-tracked. The deadline for payment of rents for plots and industrial sheds in the SIDCO Industrial Estates was extended by six more months. The State government would organise vaccination camps at SIDCO Industrial Estates and industrial cooperative societies in every district for over 1 lakh workers aged above 45. The government had also exempted auto-rickshaw and taxis from road tax for three months. It would also urge the Reserve Bank of India to grant a grace period to those owning autorickshaws and taxis for payment of EMI. The State would urge the Centre and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority to grant a grace period to those owning autorickshaws and taxis for payment of premium. Instead of releasing the capital subsidy in three instalments, the government would release them at once.  The Chief Minister was sympathetic towards the sector’s concerns, and has announced these measuresMangat Ram SharmaMSME Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-lays-out-plan-to-help-msmes/article34538694.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transgender students complete skill training course at LIBA||Thirty transgender students, who completed a skill training course from the Loyola Institute of Business Administration (LIBA), have been awarded certificates by the institution. The candidates were enrolled for the course through NGOs Sudar & Thozhi , working for the welfare of the transgender fraternity and the Prof. CK Prahlad Centre for Emerging India at LIBA coordinated with them for the programme. The classes for the three-month course were held on weekends. The students were first trained in basic computer skills and administration functions. They also learnt how to use accounting software such as Tally. Good placement After completing the course, the candidates got placements in Greater Chennai Corporation and Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. Sharing his thoughts on the programme, Fr. Joe Arun, SJ Director LIBA, said the transgender students led a very difficult life in the past, but were now empowered with the skills they had learnt. “I am happy that the CK Prahlad Centre for Emerging India at LIBA has made that difference,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgender-students-complete-skill-training-course-at-liba/article34538723.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM appeals for contributions to fight COVID-19||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday appealed to the general public, charitable institutions and corporates to contribute generously to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to help the State government fight the COVID-19 pandemic. In his appeal, Mr. Stalin said Tamil Nadu was in the grip of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The current wave has placed immense stress on the State’s health infrastructure and our people. My government has marshalled all its resources in combating this unprecedented challenge, to protect the lives and livelihood of the people,” he said. The State government had imposed a complete lockdown to break the transmission chain, in spite of its impact on our economy, he pointed out. In this critical situation, the State needed additional resources to combat the second wave, in the backdrop of an economy struggling to recover from the impact of the pandemic, he added. “Crises always bring out the best in humanity. It is time for all of us to stand together and win this war. In this background, I make this personal appeal to all of you to contribute generously to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. I assure you that your contributions at this crucial juncture will be exclusively used for COVID-19 mitigation measures like oxygen generation and storage facilities, setting up of beds with oxygen, procurement of oxygen concentrators, RT-PCR kits, other life-saving drugs, vaccines and other equipment,” he said. The details of donations received and expenditure incurred for the above measures from this fund will be made available in the public domain, he said. Such contributions will be entitled to 100% tax exemption under Section 80 (G) of the Income Tax Act. Foreign contributions by NRIs or foreign entities are exempted under section 50 of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. “All contributions above Rs. 10 lakh from individuals and organisations will be acknowledged through the press and media release[s]. An official receipt will also be sent to all contributors,” he said. Contributions can preferably be made electronically through internet banking or credit/debit cards on the website:https://ereceipt- .tn.gov.in/cmprf/cmprf.htmlPayments through ECS/ NEFT/ RTGS can be made to the designated savings bank account of CMPRF at the Indian Overseas Bank, Secretariat branch, Chennai – 600009; account number: 117201000000070; IFSC: IOBA0001172; MICR Code: 600020061; CMPRF PAN: AAAGC0038F. For UPI payments, the VPA ID is tncmprf@iob. For further details, visit http://bit.ly/mkstalinrequest  In this critical situation, the State needed additional resources to combat the second wave, in the backdrop of an economy struggling to recover||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-appeals-for-contributions-to-fight-covid-19/article34538691.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PWD to add 12,900 oxygen beds soon||As the demand grows, the Public Works Department (PWD) is expediting the work on providing 12,900 additional oxygen beds across Tamil Nadu in four or five days. It has so far provided 6,650 beds equipped with oxygen support to many hospitals for COVID-19 patients. In Chennai, nearly 1,770 beds with oxygen lines are ready for use at major hospitals, including Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. Besides 1,000 more beds at major Chennai hospitals, similar infrastructure is being created at 11 other hospitals in and around the city, including peripheral hospitals and Government RSRM Lying-in Hospital. Only 25% of the work is pending. “We are getting fresh requests daily from hospitals across the State to rig up oxygen lines for more beds. On an average, requests for 50-100 beds come in daily,” a PWD official said. For instance, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital has sought 150 more oxygen-supplied beds and hospitals in Madurai and Coimbatore have sought 200 and 100 beds each. “We are prioritising the requests... and processing them as soon as possible. Such requests have also come from Salem, Tirunelveli and Kancheepuram,” the official said. Amid the total lockdown, the PWD finds it difficult to source material for oxygen pipelines. “We have to wait for two or three days after placing orders for copper materials that are in high demand across the country. We are diverting supply from other parts of the State to prevent delay,” the official said. The PWD has submitted estimates for Rs. 140 crore spent so far on the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-to-add-12900-oxygen-beds-soon/article34538695.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen Express set to bring relief to State||The Southern Railway has readied the first Oxygen Express which would help in transporting liquid medical oxygen (LMO) for medical use. The empty O2 express left Tiruvallur on Tuesday night and would be reaching Rourkela in Odisha on Thursday. In a press release, the Southern Railway said it had readied the Oxygen Express which would be carrying cryogenic tankers mounted on flat-type wagons. The oxygen express would have cryogenic tankers mounted on trucks which would be filled with LMO and transported by rail under the Roll on and Roll off (RO-RO) method. This RO-RO service will facilitate door-to-door delivery of oxygen at the hospitals as per the directives of the State government without having to unload from the railway wagon and refill them again into another vehicle. The train would be operated on a green corridor identified by the railway authorities for operating at the optimum speed. The Indian Railways has started this initiative of running Oxygen Express on a mission mode to meet the requirement of LMO for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in different parts of the country. The railways has already delivered nearly 5,735 metric tonnes (MT) of LMO in more than 375 tankers to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana. Uttarakhand and Tamil Nadu are set to receive their first oxygen express, the press release added.  The railways has already delivered nearly 5,735 metric tonnes of LMO in more than 375 tankers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-express-set-to-bring-relief-to-state/article34538697.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Move to call for applicants for Srirangam Jeeyar post opposed||Devotees and sthalathaars (families given various duties in the temple by Saint Ramanuja) of Sri Ranganatha Perumal of Srirangam have objected to the temple administration calling for applicants for the post of the 51st Srirangam Narayana Jeeyar. Badri Bhattar, a sthalathaar, said the Jeeyar is a spiritual and religious leader who has several sacrosanct duties including holding the keys to the temple and the jewellery belonging to the deities. He also ensures that the various traditions are carried out properly on a daily basis. “The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department has no business poking its nose into the religious affairs of the temple. The officials are only custodians of its various properties,” he said. The temple has had a line of Jeeyars chosen by the sthalathaars collectively. The post of the Jeeyar of the Sri Ranga Narayana Jeer Mutt is currently vacant since the 50th pontiff passed away a couple of years ago. The sthalathaars said that a successor was yet to be appointed since he had to be an elderly person and due to COVID-19 restrictions they were unable to bring someone in. Also there were various issues in the temple that needed to be sorted out before someone could be chosen and anointed. The Jeeyar usually is a senior person who is well-read, is knowledgeable about the traditions and customs of the temple that were established by Saint Ramanuja and has taken deeksha from an Acharya. The first Jeeyar was a disciple of the Saint and brought over by Koorathu Andal, the wife of Koorathalwan after his time, a temple sthalathaar explained.. Sources in the department said that following the objections, for now the notice calling for applicants had been cancelled. “We have the right to appoint a person to the post of the Jeeyar. There are enough records pointing to that. Since it is empty it is our duty to fill it up,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-call-for-applicants-for-jeeyar-post-opposed/article34538721.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP trying to form govt.: T.N. leaders||A section of political leaders from Tamil Nadu has criticised the nomination of three BJP members as MLAs to the Puducherry Assembly by the Centre, alleging it was actually an attempt to capture power in the Union Territory. The leaders alleged that the BJP had taken advantage of the hospitalisation of Chief Minister N. Rangasamy due to COVID-19 and hatched a conspiracy to form its government. “Appointment of three MLAs before the swearing-in of the elected members is nothing but a murder of democracy. It has increased the BJP’s numbers to nine in the Assembly,” Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan said. He urged the DMK, which had won six seats, to take steps to prevent the formation of a BJP government. Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani said, “BJP is a danger to Mr. Rangasamy. It has also received a letter of support from three Independent MLAs. The BJP now has 12 seats. It is more dangerous than the COVID-19 that has afflicted Mr. Rangasamy,” he said. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M.H. Jawahirullah alleged the BJP even started “purchasing” MLAs of its alliance partners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-trying-to-form-govt-tn-leaders/article34538722.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 held for bid to buy Remdesivir with fake papers and in the name of dead patient||Three persons were arrested for allegedly attempting to buy Remdesivir vials at Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital using the documents of a dead patient and forged records of a patient. The police identified the accused as Sathish Kumar, 37, of Ponniamman Medu; Christy Paul, 34, of Ayanavaram; and Selvakumar, 43, of Madhavaram. Two persons carried the prescription written for a recently deceased COVID-19 patient, while the other accused had the photocopies of documents of a patient undergoing COVID treatment. The trio got the doctor’s prescription and the patient details, a few days ago, from those standing in the queue at KMC, said the police. They had copies of medical documents on the pretext of offering to help to photocopy the documents to be submitted at the counter. They took a few copies for themselves and submitted the documents to buy the Remdesivir vials. The motive was to sell them in black market, said the police. The crime came to light after the staff at the counter grew suspicious since the residential address and patient’s credentials were different, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-held-for-bid-to-buy-remdesivir-with-fake-papers-and-in-the-name-of-dead-patient/article34538708.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t gift my books’||Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu V. Irai Anbu on Tuesday requested officials to not gift any of the books written by him at government functions. He has written to the School Education Department asking it not to procure any of his books under any scheme as long as he was the Chief Secretary. He said it would appear as if the procurement orders were placed because of his official position. “In no way, my name or my office should be misused is my intention,” he said in a request issued to all officials. Mr. Irai Anbu has penned numerous books, including fiction, non-fiction and poetry in Tamil and English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-gift-my-books/article34538716.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Act fast and save people’s lives, Alagiri tells Modi||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday slammed the Centre on its vaccination policy and for “turning it into a business” that was out of reach of the common people and the poor. He said it was playing with the lives of the people. He also criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government for “working at the speed of a tortoise. At least from now, start working at the speed of a rabbit and save people’s lives,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/act-fast-and-save-peoples-lives-alagiri-tells-modi/article34538702.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. teachers to donate day’s salary to CM’s Relief Fund||Members of various government teachers’ associations across the State, have come forward to donate one day’s salary to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for COVID-19 relief. In a statement, the coordinators of JACTO-GEO said that around 12 lakh members, including government school teachers and government employees, had come forward to donate a day’s salary. The Tamil Nadu Higher Secondary School Vocational Teachers’ Kazhagam said that its members would donate a day’s salary as well. The Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association president P.K. Ilamaran said in a statement that they supported the efforts of the government. The Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Federation (TNGTF) too offered support. Members of the Association of University Teachers too have decided to donate a day’s salary to COVID-19 relief work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-teachers-to-donate-days-salary-to-cms-relief-fund/article34538710.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman undergoes surgery to get rid of tumour in blood vessel||Doctors at a private hospital in Chennai operated upon a 56-year-old woman and removed a tumour from a major blood vessel closely associated with the liver. According to a statement from Kauvery Hospital, the woman from Salem was diagnosed with a tumour in the inferior vena cava, the largest vein in the body that passes through the liver. K. Elankumaran, head, Liver Diseases, Transplantation and Hepatobiliary Surgery, said the woman had indigestion and abdominal pain. “Ultrasound showed that there was a large tumour measuring 10 by 10 cm. Immediate removal was needed to avoid further complications,” he said. He said while the possibility of the tumour arising in other organs such as lungs or intestines and spreading into liver was common, it was rare for a tumour to grow from the liver and spread to other organs. “This can turn fatal if not diagnosed and treated in time,” he added. N. Sekar Natarajan, senior consultant, vascular surgeon at the hospital, said a portion of the vein had to be removed and grafted through a vascular graft. The surgery lasted 10 hours and the patient recovered well and was fit for discharge within a week. Aravindan Selvaraj, co-founder and executive director of the hospital, congratulated the team that conducted the surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-undergoes-surgery-to-get-rid-of-tumour-in-blood-vessel/article34538704.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. allows sale of fruits||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday announced relaxation in the rules for the total lockdown. It was decided after Chief Minister M.K. Stalin held a meeting with industrialists and traders on May 9. Along with the sale of vegetables and flowers (already exempted), the sale of fruits will be allowed, an official release said. All industrial establishments will be allowed to undertake maintenance works in their units with a minimum staff for one day. The State government has opened 24-hour helplines to address the challenges faced by the continuous process industries and those manufacturing essential items. The helpline numbers are 96771-07722, 99943-39191, 78239-28262, 96291-22906, 99629-93496 and 99629-93497. In line with the exemption of allopathic medicine shops from the lockdown, traditional medicine stores will also be allowed to remain open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-allows-sale-of-fruits/article34538692.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SST to donate 1,600 oxygen concentrators||Srinivasan Services Trust (SST), the CSR arm of Sundaram-Clayton Limited and TVS Motor Company has decided to donate 1,600 oxygen concentrators costing Rs. 18 crore to the Tamil Nadu government to aid the fight against COVID-19. In the first phase, SST CEO and retired IAS officer Swaran Singh and TVS Motors vice-president Sethuraman handed over 500 oxygen concentrators costing Rs. 7 crore to the State government on Monday, an official release said. The rest would be handed over in the next two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sst-to-donate-1600-oxygen-concentrators/article34538698.ece
12 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tipsy youth arrested||A 19-year-old youth was arrested in Otteri for allegedly attacking a beat constable. When beat constables Rajesh and Chandrakumar of Secretary Colony Police Station tried to restrain the accused, Vinodh, 19, who was under the influence of alcohol, he abused constable Rajesh and attacked him at S.S. Puram, Otteri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tipsy-youth-arrested/article34538707.ece
12 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs get orders for oxygen plants||With a steep increase in the demand for oxygen because of the spread of COVID-19 in the recent weeks, the government has come out with plans to set up oxygen plants. And, Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in the engineering sector here are getting orders. Over 500 vendors in Coimbatore have received orders, say industry sources. The large companies that have taken up orders to set up oxygen plants across the country are giving the drawings to the vendors here and they are doing the fabrication, machining, etc. Some MSMEs have experience and capabilities and the rest are doing their best to meet the demand, the sources said. However, the orders came in suddenly and not all MSMEs have enough stock of sub-components. These come from the western and northern States. Lockdown restrictions are affecting movement of goods. Hence, there could be supply chain challenges in the coming days. Further, there is no supply of oxygen for industrial use. MSMEs catering to oxygen plant orders need at least minimum supply of industrial oxygen for fabrication work, the sources added. Seasonal order “This (oxygen plants) is a seasonal order and time bound. The units have to complete the orders in a short period. However, if this model becomes successful, more hospitals across the country can go in for captive oxygen plants and have it as back up too,” said R. Ramamoorthy, former president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. President of the association M.V. Ramesh Babu said orders were high for oxygen plant works. Apart from the Central government schemes, State governments were also approaching the MSMEs here as Coimbatore had the engineering capabilities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-get-orders-for-oxygen-plants/article34538992.ece
12 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Track electrification work to be completed by June||The electrification works at the railway track between Pollachi- Kinathukadavu - Podanur is progressing at a rapid pace and more than 25 km of 40.92 have been completed and the rest is expected to be completed by June 2021. Officials from the the Palakkad Division of the Southern Railways said the wiring work that commenced from Pollachi Junction outer two months ago has now reached Myleripalayam between Kinathukadavu and Podanur. The wiring work has completed for more than 25 km. stretch in between Pollachi and Podanur (including Kinathukadavu yard). Wiring work is also under way at Pollachi junction yard.  New sub-stations Two new sub-stations are also coming up as part of the project at Gomangalam (next to Pollachi) and at Palani. “Electrification of the section will be beneficial to passengers as well as goods train operations. For bi-directional Main Line Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) services, no engine turn around is required to change its direction of operation. This will save time and path. Electrification will also give way for seamless connectivity and heavy haul operation, this will give an edge to goods train operations and also as engine change from electric to diesel vice versa is not needed,” said Trilok Kothari, Divisional Railway Manager, Palakkad Division, in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/track-electrification-work-to-be-completed-by-june/article34538749.ece
12 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Priority in vaccination sought for LPG delivery agents in Coimbatore||With LPG delivery agents being very vulnerable to COVID-19 infection due to the nature of their work, the Coimbatore District Supply and Consumer Protection Office has appealed to the Deans of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital to allot them vaccines on a priority basis. District Supply Officer R. Kumaresan wrote to the Deans on Monday, asking the officials to reserve adequate doses of COVID-19 vaccines for LPG delivery agents and make arrangements at the taluk-level for their vaccination. According to the officer, more than 2,000 LPG delivery agents are working in Coimbatore district and they make house-to-house visits to deliver cylinders. Rajendra B., president of All India LPG Distributors Federation (Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry), also wanted priority in vaccination for LPG delivery agents. “This is to control the community spread. We do not want our staff to be carriers. We request that our staff and their families be given priority, without any age limit,” Mr. Rajendra appealed in his letter to the Chief Minister’s Cell and Chief Minister’s Secretary on Monday. The letter also said that LPG delivery agents were not getting priority in vehicle checks conducted by the police during the lockdown. He wanted authorities to issue a special pass to LPG delivery agents or give them priority at checkpoints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priority-in-vaccination-sought-for-lpg-delivery-agents-in-coimbatore/article34538990.ece
12 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||19 private hospitals to offer COVID-19 treatment under CMCHIS||A total of 19 private hospitals in Coimbatore district were approved to offer treatment for COVID-19 under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS), the district administration said on Tuesday. The private hospitals to offer COVID-19 treatment under the insurance scheme include Abinand Hospital, Sathya Medical Centre, NG Hospital, CSR Nursing Home, Kongunadu Hospital, Kalpana Medical Centre, Sree Abirami Hospital, KG Hospital, Hindustan Hospital, Karpagam Hospital, One Care Hospital, GKNM Hospital, Gem Hospital, Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, Royal Care Hospital, Sri Lakshmi Hospital, NM Hospital and Kovai Medical Center and Hospital. The district administration said that people who are affected by COVID-19 can directly seek treatment at these hospitals without the recommendation from a government hospital. The expense of the treatment will be borne under the CMCHIS scheme. According to the district administration, COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals under the insurance package will be offered in two packages. For the treatment of a non-critical patient, Rs. 5,000 will be given directly to the hospital through the insurance company per day. For the treatment of patients in critical condition, Rs. 15,000 will be given to the hospital through the insurance company per day, said a release. It said that additional costs involved for the treatment will be collected by the hospitals from the insurance company. For more details about the scheme, people can dial the toll free number 1800 425 3993 or visit the website www.cmchistn.com .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-private-hospitals-to-offer-covid-19-treatment-under-cmchis/article34538991.ece
12 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Armed Reserve constable donates one month salary to CMPRF||The second wave of COVID-19 has not deterred S. Babu, a Grade-I constable attached to the Armed Reserve, Coimbatore District (Rural) Police, from continuing his acts of charity. On Tuesday, the 36-year-old policeman, a native of Palani, donated his April month’s salary of Rs. 34,474 to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). He handed over the demand draft of the donation to Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam. Last year, when the first wave of the pandemic gripped the State, Mr. Babu had donated his March month salary to the CMPRF. Contribution “I happened to visit the premises of the mortuary at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital a few days ago. In a few minutes, I could find different people who were affected by the pandemic – a man who could not touch the body of his brother, a son who could not hold the hands of his father and a woman who had a glance of her deceased husband in a body bag from a distance. The pandemic devastated the lives of people at various levels. “I thought my contribution would add a bit to the efforts taken by the government to improve the lives of people in the pandemic,” he said. Last year, Mr. Babu had sourced donations to the tune of Rs. 1.10 lakh through a WhatsApp group called ‘ Udavum Karangal’ and handed over the money to the parents of a 22-year-old youth from Tiruppur, an emergency medical technician of 108 ambulance services, who died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armed-reserve-constable-donates-one-month-salary-to-cmprf/article34538756.ece
12 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Young Indians launch portal on COVID-19 treatment facilities||Young Indians (Yi), Coimbatore, has launched a portal to make available verified information on COVID-19 treatment facilities here. According to a press release, the data for the portal is collected through Google form that is available on public domain as well as on mobile application ( https://forms.gle/ZP1NVPUTBF8ffwA19). A team of volunteers verify the data and update it on the portal. “While the data is crowd sourced, the information is verified,” the press release said. The data on the hospitals/beds is sourced from the https://tncovidbeds.tnega.org/ and  is updated regularly. The portal also provides other details on laboratories, scan centres, hotels for quarantine, food/meal services, and ambulance services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/young-indians-launch-portal-on-covid-19-treatment-facilities/article34539001.ece
12 May 2021||COIMBATORE/TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Two persons arrested for sexual assault on minor girls||Two persons were arrested on charge of sexually assaulting minor girls in separate incidents reported in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts. In the first incident, the All Women Police Station (AWPS), Perur, arrested a 35-year-old man for alleged sexual assault on a seven year-old girl, his neighbour’s daughter, on Monday. The police said the accused hailing from a residential area near Vadavalli assaulted the girl sexually when she came to his house to play with his child. The girl’s mother reported the incident to the ChildLine and counsellors of the helpline helped her lodge a complaint against the neighbour. The man was arrested for offences under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. In another incident, AWPS Avinashi in Tiruppur arrested a 52-year-old man for alleged sexual assault on a minor girl, his sister-in-law’s granddaughter, in February this year. The incident took place on February 26 when the 13-year-old girl had gone to the relative’s house with her grandmother for a house-warming function. The police said the accused took the girl to an old house, where he had been living before constructing the new house, on the pretext of shifting some materials. The girl told about the ordeal to her mother a few days ago and the latter lodged a complaint on Monday. AWPS inspector S. Saraswathi said the accused was remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-arrested-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girls/article34538750.ece
12 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Three workers killed in accident||Three workers, who were loading poultry waste in a lorry, were killed on the spot, after a car rammed them at Vijayamangalam here on Tuesday. Six workers were loading the waste in a lorry parked along the road at Eswaran Kovil when the car driver from Tiruppur to Perundurai lost control of the vehicle and hit the workers. In the impact, three workers, Chinnarasu, Muthan and Kittan, died on the spot while three other workers, Ramkumar, Senthilkumar and Chinnan suffered injuries. The injured were shifted to the Government Hospital at Perundurai. However, no one in the car suffered injuries and the driver is being questioned. Perundurai police are inquiring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-workers-killed-in-accident/article34538751.ece
12 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man drives away in government vehicle||In the absence of an ambulance to drop him home, a person after undergoing treatment at the District Headquarters Hospital here drove away in a government vehicle only to be intercepted by the police later. Govindaraj (44) of Railway Colony is working as a government bus driver. On Monday, he fell down accidentally and injured his leg. He came to the hospital and was treated as an outpatient. Later, he searched for an ambulance to drop him home. However, workers said that an ambulance was not available and asked him to book a taxi. But he told them that due to lockdown, taxi service was not available. The workers asked him to seek the help of family members or relatives for transportation. Angered over it, he took away a government vehicle parked outside the emergency wing. On seeing it, the workers alerted the GH police. The police chased and intercepted the four-wheeler on Surampatti Four Road. He was taken to the station. Since, the doctor did not prefer a complaint, Govindaraj was let off with a warning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drives-away-in-government-vehicle/article34538997.ece
12 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen, cylinders transported under police protection||Liquid oxygen and oxygen cylinders manufactured at three companies at the SIPCOT Industrial Growth Centre in Perundurai here were transported to government hospitals in other districts amid tight police protection. About 37 metric tonne oxygen is manufactured every day at the National Oxygen Limited, a public limited company, functioning at SIPCOT. Also, another private company on the premises manufactures two metric tonne oxygen while it also supplies 300 empty cylinders. Another company supplies 300 empty cylinders, both to government and private hospitals. As the country reels under the second wave of COVID-19, the demand for medical oxygen has gone up with many hospitals facing severe shortage in supply of oxygen. Based on the direction of the State government, oxygen manufactured in the district is sent to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital and to other government hospitals. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai told The Hindu oxygen tanker lorries and oxygen cylinder-laden vehicles were escorted from Perundurai to the inter-district border at Pallipalayam, from where it was escorted by the district police to reach Salem and Dharmapuri. Likewise, oxygen was transported to Tiruppur and Coimbatore amid tight security, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-cylinders-transported-under-police-protection/article34538998.ece
12 May 2021||GUNTUR,TAMIL NADU||Hospital deaths: Rs. 10 lakh ex gratia to kin, says Jagan||Expressing shock over the death of 11 patients at the SVRR COVID Hospital in Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday ordered an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh to be paid to the kin of those who died reportedly due to the inadequate supply of oxygen. During the weekly Spandana review with Collectors, Mr. Jagan said,“These are difficult times and even yesterday, we had to airlift six empty oxygen tankers to Odisha, get them filled and bring them back to Gannavaram. These are the times we are living in and even while we are putting consolidated efforts, some things are not in our hands.” “These are testing times and I request the Collectors not to get disheartened and be more vigilant and be more humane,” the Chief Minister said. “We should address these issues in a much more sympathetic manner,” Mr. Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-deaths-rs-10-lakh-ex-gratia-to-kin-says-jagan/article34538554.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||Eight die at TIMS, officials deny oxygen shortage||Authorities of the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) have denied allegations of the death of eight COVID-19 patients reportedly due to lack of oxygen supply. It was reported that eight patients in an ICU of the institute died on Sunday night. Top officials denied the allegations, and said the Liquid Oxygen Tank (LOT) has enough of the resource. TIMS director Vimala Thomas said on Tuesday the deaths were part of natural progression of the disease and complications, and not due to shortage of oxygen. She added that there was no disruption to oxygen supply. “The LOT with 20 KL capacity is installed and sufficient to meet the hospital’s needs with adequate pressure. We also have an oxygen manifold with D-Type cylinders,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-die-at-tims-officials-deny-oxygen-shortage/article34538546.ece
12 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||GHs run out of beds for COVID-19 patients||Almost all Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and oxygen-supported beds in Government Hospitals in the district are filled, pushing new patients to wait for their admission. According to the details provided by the public health department, only six out of the 345 ICU beds were vacant in the Government Hospitals at 8 p.m. on Monday. A senior doctor from the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) said almost all the 1,200 beds allocated for COVID-19 patients were occupied. There was not much difference between the ICU and general wards, as many beds in the general wards too have oxygen support. “Ideally, the hospital has the capacity to have 900 COVID-19 beds. But, it has been extended to 1,200. Hence, the beds are cramped inside the wards,” said the doctor. Unlike last year, most of the patients had severe infections, increasing the need for oxygen support. “Each patient who requires oxygen support needs around 10 to 12 days of hospital admission. So, even after death and discharges are recorded in the hospital every day, there is a limited number of extra beds available to accommodate new patients,” added the doctor. Another source from the GRH said earlier triaging would be done to decide the level of care that was required for COVID-19 patients. “But, nowadays every patient coming to the GRH requires oxygen support. So, to be on the safer side, we are advising people to come to the GRH in an ambulance with oxygen support,” she said. Private hospitals were also referring patients in critical conditions to government hospitals, said S. Gandhimathinathan, Resident Medical Officer of Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur. Doctors of the GRH say despite the lack of beds, the hospital was trying to admit new patients by sharing the resources among the patients. K. Senthil, treatment coordinator for COVID-19 speciality wing of the GRH, said: “There is a need to deploy additional 300 nurses and more number of hospital workers for the GRH,” he said. The hospital authorities are hopeful that the oxygen generated at Thoothukudi Sterlite plant would be sufficient to meet the demand of private and government hospitals in southern districts, he added. Collector T. Anbalagan, along with GRH Dean J. Sangumani, inspected the COVID-19 speciality wing of the GRH to check the arrangements made to increase bed strength. Mr. Anbalagan told The Hindu that at least 200 non-oxygen beds would be arranged in the basement of the COVID-19 speciality wing within the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ghs-run-out-of-beds-for-covid-19-patients/article34538816.ece
12 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Transpersons appeal for special vaccination drive||The south representative of the National Council for Transgender Persons, Gopi Shankar of Madurai, has written to the Health Secretaries of the southern States and Union Territories highlighting that the transgender community faced discrimination while seeking treatment for COVID-19. Gopi Shankar said that he had received complaints from transgender persons on the lack of medical attention. He urged the authorities to ensure that transgender persons get access to hospital beds and vaccination. The COVID-19 pandemic had already wrecked the livelihood of the transgender persons and it was not possible for them to afford quality healthcare, he said. Taking into account the plight of transgender persons who required urgent medical attention, he urged the authorities to ensure that transgender persons get access to hospital beds and treatment by considering allocation of at least five beds exclusively for them in each district. He stressed on the need for organising special vaccination drives for transgender persons. They were facing serious challenges in getting access to vaccines, he said. Transgender activist Grace Banu said that awareness was required among the community on vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transpersons-appeal-for-special-vaccination-drive/article34538701.ece
12 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Swami Omkarananda Saraswati passes away||Swami Omkarananda Saraswati of Sri Swami Chidbhavananda Ashramam at Vedapuri in Theni district passed away in Madurai on Monday. He had recently tested positive for COVID-19. He had undergone treatment at a private hospital in Madurai for the infection. While he had recovered from COVID-19, his health condition suddenly deteriorated. Arrangements were made to fly him to Chennai for further treatment. However, while on the way to the helipad, his condition worsened and he was brought back to the hospital in Madurai where he passed away. He was 65-years-old. He was known for spreading the message of Tirukkural , particularly among the student community. Born Sri Goshteswara Sharma alias Manoharan in Perur, Coimbatore, on January 17, 1956, he was known as Swami Omkarananda Sarawati after his sannyasa diksha . He has delivered talks on sacred Tamil and Sanskrit texts. He has conducted jnana yagna in India and abroad. He founded the U V Foundation in 2017 to spread ‘Ullam Thorum Valluvam’, an initiative to spread the message of Tirukkural . The foundation trains teachers, who in turn spread the knowledge on Tirukkural, among students. He used social media platforms to spread spiritual messages and connect with the student community. He spread messages on Bhagavad Gita and Tirukkural on WhatsApp regularly for the benefit of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omkarananda-saraswati-passes-away/article34538718.ece
12 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Five of family found dead||In a tragic incident, five members of a goldsmith’s family, including three children, were found dead in their house in Usilampatti on Tuesday morning. Police said after the door of the house of the goldsmith, Saravanan, in Vannarapettai was not opened till 9 a.m., neighbours got suspicious and opened it. They found Saravanan, his wife Srinidhi Poongothai (30), daughters Mahalakshmi (10) and Abhirami (5) and son Amudhan (5) lying dead. The police said Saravanan had left a note claiming that he had huge debts and accused his mother and brother for his debts. Usilampatti Deputy Superintendent of Police U.S. Rajan said a domestic issue had driven the goldsmith to take the extreme step. Usilampatti Town police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on State’s health helpline 104 and Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-of-family-found-dead/article34538813.ece
12 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. staff ready to give one-day salary’||Tamil Nadu Government Officials Union has urged the Chief Minister to issue a Government Order directing deduction of one-day salary of government teachers and employees to contribute towards the CM's Relief Fund for COVID-19. A release from Union president R. Shanmugarajan congratulated the DMK government on its victory in the assembly elections. The COVID-19 pandemic has claimed the lives of hundreds of people all over the world. It has also deeply affected the economy and many of the people have lost their livelihoods. The employees will cooperate with the government to contain the spread of COVID-19, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-staff-ready-to-give-one-day-salary/article34538817.ece
12 May 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal Collector inspects oxygen plant||Collector K. Megraj inspected the medical oxygen plant that was installed by the end of last year on the premises of the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. According to officials, the plant has a capacity of 10,000 litres. Earlier, the oxygen plant was filled once in 10 days. But, following the surge in the number of COVID-19 patients requiring oxygen support, the plant is now being filled once in two days. The hospital has also formed a committee to monitor the oxygen status thrice a day. The Namakkal GH has about 298 beds for COVID-19 treatment in which over 50% was provided with medical oxygen supply. The hospital has also stocked up oxygen cylinders to support the patients. There are over 700 oxygen beds in the district and the district at present is requiring 3 kl oxygen a day. Oxygen support is majorily provided through cylinders in private and other government hospitals in Taluks and major supply to the district is from Erode. The district is mulling getting oxygen plants in Taluk hospitals.  The Namakkal GH has formed a committee to monitor the oxygen status thrice a day. Officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-collector-inspects-oxygen-plant/article34538999.ece
12 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP denies rift with AINRC||The BJP on Tuesday denied any rift with the AINRC, its major ally in the National Democratic Alliance, over the Cabinet formation exercise in Puducherry. Addressing a press conference here, party president V. Saminathan said the alliance with AINRC was strong and the NDA government would serve the people for the next five years. “We are committed to serving the people of the Union Territory. There is no problem in the alliance. The Cabinet formation will take place after Chief Minister N. Rangasamy recuperates from COVID-19,” Mr. Saminathan said. Asked whether alliance partners were consulted on the nomination of three BJP members to the Legislative Assembly, he said the parties were aware of the appointment. The nominated MLAs would act as a bridge between the Centre and Puducherry government, he claimed. On Monday, the Centre had appointed K. Venkatesan, V.P Ramalingam and R.B Ashok Babu as nominated legislators of the BJP to the Puducherry Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-denies-rift-with-ainrc/article34538712.ece
12 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. toll crosses 1,000||In a new single-day high for COVID-19 mortalities, Puducherry recorded 30 deaths even as the toll crossed the 1,000-mark on Tuesday. As many as 2,049 cases were confirmed from 9,058 tests. The fatalities included a 14-year-old girl with diabetes mellitus. Puducherry recorded 21 deaths, Karaikal six and Yanam three, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,018. With this, the region-wise toll was 828 in Puducherry, 108 in Karaikal, 64 in Yanam and 18 in Mahe. Puducherry recorded 1,590 new cases, Karaikal 285, Yanam 125 and Mahe 49. The test positivity rate was 22.62%, the case fatality rate 1.36% and the recovery rate 78.88%. With 1,359 patients recovering, the active cases stood at 14,829. Of them, 2,072 were in hospitals and 12,757 in home isolation. The overall tally is 75,024 cases. Meanwhile, 127 healthcare workers, 73 frontline personnel and 596 members of the public took their first shot of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-toll-crosses-1000/article34538719.ece
12 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Special control room set up||A round-the-clock special control room has been established at the District Collectorate in Pudukottai to enable the general public and those affected by COVID-19 to ascertain information regarding empty beds in hospitals in the district for treatment of the viral infection. The special control room can be reached over telephone numbers 04322-1077, 04322-222207 and mobile phone number 75388-84840, an official press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-control-room-set-up/article34539115.ece
12 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Work on to manufacture medical oxygen at SSP||Work is progressing to manufacture medical oxygen at the Salem Steel Plant (SSP), to be used to meet medical oxygen needs in Salem district. The requirement of medical oxygen has increased in the second wave of COVID-19 and a significant number of patients require oxygen support during COVID-19 treatment.  According to health officials, patients prolonging COVID-19 tests despite showing symptoms is leading to the need for critical care here. Health officials here said that approximately 14 KL of medical oxygen is required in the district on a day. The district administration has initiated measures to convert the oxygen plant at Salem Steel Plant to produce medical oxygen which would be used to meet needs here. Authorities at Salem Steel Plant said that the work is progressing. According to district administration officials, about 14,000 litres of medical oxygen produced at JSW steel plant are being procured to meet oxygen needs here. The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, which is the tertiary care centre for COVID-19 treatment here has a dedicated 35,000-litre oxygen plant for COVID-19 treatment. According to doctors, the medical oxygen supply is received from Erode and its almost filled on a daily basis. The plant is refilled every time the stock drops to 40%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-to-manufacture-medical-oxygen-at-ssp/article34538988.ece
12 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Parents, students protest against proposed school closure in Salem||Students and parents of a private higher secondary school near Alagapuram staged a protest on Tuesday after the school management informed that they are planning to shut down. The school management allegedly advised them to get transfer certificates after paying the pending fees. The protesters said that they were not intimated earlier about the move by the management. S. Sunitha, one of the parents, said that almost all parents have paid 50% fees and the school is demanding more while they are planning to shut down. Another parent said that his child is going to finish Class 11 and asked which school would take in admission for Class 12 at the moment. However, officials at School Education department said that the management would not be able to shut the school suddenly and at least one year’s intimation should be given. Officials said that they have advised the school management not to proceed further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-students-protest-against-proposed-school-closure-in-salem/article34538753.ece
12 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Helplines for COVID-19 treatment, clarifications||The district administration has advised the public to contact the helplines set up at the District Collectorate and Deputy Director of Health Services office for any clarifications on COVID-19 treatment. District Collector S.A. Raman said in a release that round the clock assistance was available on the helpline numbers 0427 – 2452202, 0427 – 1077, 0427 – 2450022, 2450498 and 9154155297. Public can contact the helplines for details on COVID-19 treatment, hospitals, vaccination centres, fever camps and other COVID-19 related doubts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helplines-for-covid-19-treatment-clarifications/article34539003.ece
12 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman found dead||An elderly woman was found dead near Omalur here on Tuesday. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Selvamary (50). On Monday, a quarrel occurred between Selvamary’s husband Arul and their son Shayam regarding partitioning the family assets. Selvamary left home in the evening and did not return until late night. Arul went in search of his wife and found her dead on the banks of a lake. He immediately alerted the police. Omalur police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-found-dead/article34538752.ece
12 May 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Assistance for children of COVID-19 victims||The Salem district administration has offered shelter and support to children aged below 18 years whose parents have died of COVID-19 or were under treatment for the disease. District Collector S.A.Raman said in a release that temporary or permanent support was offered as required for such children. People can contact the District Child Protection Officer at 0427-2415966, 75026 71771, 98945 18260, 97897 11877 or Chairman of the Child Welfare Committee at 0427-2410085 for assistance. Public can also contact Childline 1098. In order to assist elderly persons requiring assistance to get essentials or to report domestic violence complaints, the Namakkal district administration has provided the contact numbers of the District Social Welfare Office (04286 – 280230) and Sakhi-One Stop Centre ( 99948-75096).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-for-children-of-covid-19-victims/article34539002.ece
12 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI demands early disbursement of relief amount to farmers||The Communist Party of India, Ammapet Union, on Tuesday called upon the DMK government to expedite the process of disbursement of crop-loss relief announced and implemented by the previous AIADMK government in January. In a statement issued here, union secretary R. Senthilkumar said the previous government had announced a relief of Rs. 8,000 per acre to farmers who suffered crop loss due to flooding caused by heavy rain during December last and January. Though the relief amount was sanctioned and necessary orders issued, disbursement of relief amount was withheld citing implementation of the model code of conduct ahead of Assembly election. As many as 1,063 farmers in Ammapet Union had not yet received the relief amount and the present government must expedite the process in view of financial constraints suffered by farmers due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Nalasangam president of Tiruvarur unit G. Sethuraman alleged that the flood relief sanctioned by the previous AIADMK government and credited in bank accounts of farmers were being adjusted against loans taken by them by nationalised banks. Mr. Sethuraman called upon the government to issue directions to bankers so that farmers were able to take up kuruvai cultivation with lesser financial constraint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-demands-early-disbursement-of-relief-amount-to-farmers/article34539107.ece
12 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow salt pan workers to work during lockdown’||The Thoothukudi District Tiny and Small Salt Manufacturers Association said the district administration should permit the salt industry to carry on with its operations during the lockdown. In a memorandum submitted to Collector K. Senthil Raj, association general secretary A.R.A.S. Dhanapalan recalled that when a lockdown was announced last year, the district administration had permitted workers to go to salt pans. At least, 20,000 workers were dependent on the industry and officials should take favourable action to ensure their livelihood. Besides, the police should be instructed to allow them after due verification as workers did not have identity cards. The salt pan industry, a major sector in the district, suffered huge losses due to the pandemic over the last one year. Now, when production was under way at many of the units, workers had to be present. “We assure the authorities that physical distancing will be adhered to at the work spot,” Mr. Dhanapalan said. Meanwhile, the markets were filled with shoppers. People did not maintain physical distancing and wear masks.  Like vegetables, fish, meat and milk, salt should also be considered essential commodity A.R.A.S. DhanapalanGeneral secretary, Thoothukudi District Tiny and Small Salt Manufacturers Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-salt-pan-workers-to-work-during-lockdown/article34539070.ece
12 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Head constable held for murder||The police have arrested a head-constable and his associate for murdering a man, who had allegedly murdered the policeman’s maternal uncle 23 years ago. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, the body of B. Lourdhu Jayaseelan, 41, of Fatima Nagar here, was found with stab injuries in the Meelavittaan cremation ground on May 9. The police found that the victim, against whom seven cases including a murder case had been registered, was running a teashop in SIPCOT Industrial Complex and no case had been registered against him after 2011. A special team, led by Inspector, Velmurugan, found that J. Mohanraj, 39, of Muthukrishnapuram was involved in the murder. The team arrested him, who said that M. Pon Mariappan, 39, a head-constable attached to the Thoothukudi Central Police Station and hailing from Mela Shanmugapuram, was involved in the murder. Pon Mariappan was arrested. The team found that Lourdhu Jayaseelan had murdered Azhagu, maternal uncle of Pon Mariappan, on August 6, 1998. To avenge this murder, Pon Mariappan, with the help of Mohanraj, murdered the man after 23 years, said Mr. Jayakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-held-for-murder/article34539074.ece
12 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Panel visits Sterlite oxygen plant||Members of the Monitoring Committee, constituted by the State government to oversee the operation of Sterlite Copper’s oxygen plant, visited the plant again on Tuesday. Led by K. Senthil Raj, Collector and Committee chairperson, members S. Jayakumar, Superintendent of Police, Simranjeet Singh, Thoothukudi Sub-Collector, D. Kanagavel, Head, Department of Chemistry, Kamaraj College, Sathyaraj, District Environmental Engineer, V.C.P. Amarnath, Manager (Fire and Safety), Zirconium Complex, Department of Atomic Energy, Pazhaiyakayal, and Bellarmine Anton, Deputy Chief Chemist, Tuticorin Thermal Power Station (TTPS), inspected the facility. The plant is expected to start oxygen generation on May 13 or 14 so that it will be in a position to produce 35 tonnes on May 15. Sources in Sterlite Copper said the second oxygen unit would also generate similar quantity of oxygen after overhauling if it was asked to do so. Even as the technicians of Sterlite Copper are preparing the oxygen plant, which remained defunct for the past three years following anti-Sterlite protests, Mr. Kanagavel, Mr. Amarnath and Mr. Bellarmine are visiting the plant every day to ascertain the progress of the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-visits-sterlite-oxygen-plant/article34538818.ece
12 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Science conclave for students||The week-long virtual science conclave that aims at developing scientific thinking and kindle interest towards science and technology for nation building commenced at St. Mary’s College here on Monday. The 7-day national science conclave, sponsored by Department of Biotechnology, New Delhi, and organised by Marian Star Centre of St. Mary’s College, Thoothukudi, has attracted 1,100 students from various schools across the country. Students from Class 6 to 12 have registered for this programme. There will be a special lecture every day on science subjects by expert speakers, including scientists and professors from IITs and reputed higher education institutions. The conclave was inaugurated by Mylswamy Annadurai, the Mission Director of Chandrayaan – I of Indian Space Research Organisation. Dr. Mylswamy Annadurai shared with the students, his inspiring story of how he became a space scientist. He also shared with the participants how the evolution of space research had reached the level of sending satellites to the moon in search of various possibilities of creating human settlement up above. He, after explaining the students the fundamentals of space and orbit, narrated the success story of launch of Chandrayaan – I along with the challenges and failures and shared his association with late President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam with the mission and how he had guided him to achieve the mission. Principal St. Mary’s College Rev. Sr. A.S.J. Lucia Rose welcomed and introduced the chief guest to the participants and Rev. Sr. Arockia Jenecius Alphonse, the overall coordinator of ‘DBT Star Scheme’ and the organising secretary of the Conclave introduced the dynamics of the conclave to the participants.  Dr. Alex Ramani, Deputy Principal of St. Joseph’s College, Tiruchi, Dr. Debabrata Sircar, Associate of Professor of Biotechnology, IIT Roorkey, Dr. Patrick Prabu, Associate Professor of Physics, St. Joseph’s College, Tiruchi, Dr. Cathrine Sara, Associate Professor of Botany, Holy Cross College, Tiruchi, Vimal Jerald, Assistant Professor, St. Joseph’s College, Tiruchi, and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/science-conclave-for-students/article34539071.ece
12 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sheik Chinna Moulana’s nadaswaram recitals immortalised in digital format||Nadaswaram exponent Subhan Kasim has put the long spells of isolation caused by the lockdown last year to good use by cataloguing at least 250 hours of music recitals by his grandfather and guru Sheik Chinna Moulana in a digital audio format along with a collection of video performances. The archive is being maintained at ‘Alapana’, the 1950s-era house in Srirangam that was formerly Sheik Chinna Moulana’s residence and is now Mr. Kasim’s home. “From the age of 14, I was interested in collecting music discs as a hobby. This shifted to cassette tapes and CDs. I still remember the gramophone which we had to crank up manually to play three-minute recordings in those days,” Mr. Kasim told The Hindu . Recording techniques  The archive is a good example of the advancements in sound recording technology, added Mr. Kasim. “At first we had releases from Columbia Records, [established in 1889], where the discs played only for three minutes. When HMV took over, LP discs introduced in the late 1950s, which allowed for up to 18 minutes of recording per side, made it easier to accommodate lengthier recitals,” he said. Though he had meticulously preserved much of his grandfather’s work in various formats from an early age, Mr. Kasim opted to digitise the invaluable collection only recently, when some of the tapes started deteriorating. “Though I had the records from HMV and Columbia, the machines to play them were out of production. So I used digital technology to convert everything from wax records to spool tapes, cassettes and CDs into digitised copies, which I have saved in .mp3 and .wav formats.” In addition to several complimentary discs given by recording companies, Mr. Kasim completed his collection of his grandfather’s work with the help of V.V. Sundaram, a key organiser of the annual Thiyagaraja aradhana (homage concert) in Cleveland, Ohio, and V. K. Viswanathan, a NASA scientist and ardent fan of Sheik Chinna Moulana. Among the most significant recordings in the archive is that of a live concert in Chennai in the 1950s, whose broadcast by All India Radio had to be extended beyond its allotted two-hour slot to over three hours on popular demand. The collection also includes the album of Sheik Chinna Moulana’s recital at Haus der Kulturen der Welt (House of World Culture) in Berlin released by German authorities as part of ‘Festival of India’ in 1991. Mr. Kasim says the digital archive will be useful for aspiring artistes. “I am quite willing to guide serious students of nadaswaram, and share copies of the recordings with them. As per our grandfather’s guidance, the research and education will be free of cost.” Trust activities Mr. Kasim collaborates professionally with his younger brother Subhan Babu. Dr. Chinnamoulana Memorial Trust run by them has been encouraging the growth of traditional nadhaswaram music and supporting aging artistes since 1999. Both brothers are special nadaswaram artistes of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sheik-chinna-moulanas-nadaswaram-recitals-immortalised-in-digital-format/article34539104.ece
12 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi railway division to restrict reservation counters to 14||Amid spike in COVID-19 cases and cancellation of several trains due to poor patronage, Tiruchi railway divisional authorities have restricted passenger reservation system (PRS) counters to 14 locations under its jurisdiction. Tiruchi junction being a major railway station, there will be two PRS counters. In the remaining locations, there will be one PRS counter. The move comes into effect on Tuesday after nod from Southern Railway headquarters. The communication has already been conveyed to railway commercial department officials, said a senior railway official here. Other PRS counters will function from Ariyalur, Vriddhachalam, Villupuram, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Mannargudi, Mayiladuthurai, Tirupadripuliyur, Puducherry and Srirangam. Reservation as well as cancellation can be done at the counter. At Tiruchi junction, one will be for reservation and the other for cancellation. The counters will function from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. with the staff working in shifts. At TiruchijJunction, the current booking counter will operate round the clock. The move to reduce the PRS counters has been taken in the wake of cancellation of several trains due to poor occupancy, rapid rise in COVID-19 cases and consideration of safety and health of employees. The number of PRS locations may be reduced further depending on cancellation of trains. All other PRS/IUTS counters will remain closed up to May 24 as there are no unreserved trains in operation in Tiruchi Division. Southern Railway recently cancelled Tiruchi-Thiruvananthapuram-Tiruchi Intercity specials (02627/28); Karaikudi-Chennai Egmore-Karaikudi (02606/05), Tiruchi-Chennai Egmore- Tiruchi (02654/53), Puducherry- Chennai Egmore -Puducherry (06116/15), Tiruchi-Palakkad Town-Tiruchi (06843/44) and Mannargudi-Tirupati-Mannargudi specials (07408/07). All these trains with reserved coaches were cancelled due to poor patronage. The unreserved trains cancelled due to poor patronage are Puducherry - Chennai - Puducherry, Villupuram- Tambaram-Villupuram, Vriddhachalam - Salem - Vriddhachalam, Tiruchi - Karur - Tiruchi, Tiruchi - Karaikudi - Tiruchi and Villupuram - Madurai - Villupuram passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-railway-division-to-restrict-reservation-counters-to-14/article34539112.ece
12 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||2,671 fresh cases, 37 deaths||The central region on Tuesday recorded 2,671 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 37 deaths. According to the medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department, Tiruchi district continued to report more than 800 cases a day. The district registered 879 new cases and seven deaths on Tuesday. Nagapattinam and Thanjavur followed Tiruchi in terms of new cases and number of deaths. While 454 patients tested positive and 11 died in Nagapattinam, there were 452 fresh cases and 10 deaths in Thanjavur. The day’s count of fresh cases in Karur was 166 and the district registered six deaths. Similarly, three patients, who had tested positive for the virus, died in Tiruvarur district and 270 fresh cases were recorded. While there were 168 cases in Perambalur, the count was 176 in Pudukottai and 106 in Ariyalur district. A 29-year-old male from Nagapattinam was among the 37 patients who died of COVID-19-related complications. He had no comorbidities. Most of the patients, who died without pre-existing conditions, were between 40 and 50 years of age. Those who died with comorbidities such as diabetes and heart ailments were above 60 years of age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2671-fresh-cases-37-deaths/article34539101.ece
12 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for murdering advocate||Special teams of the city police on Tuesday arrested six persons on the charge of murdering an advocate, Gopikannan, at Heber Road here a few days ago. The teams recovered the weapons and vehicles used for committing the crime. Gopikannan who was arrested in 2018 in connection with the murder of V. Hemanth Kumar in Ariyamangalam police station limits following frequent duels betweeen them with regard to holding temple festival was subsequently released on bail. The family of Hemanth Kumar shifted to Coimbatore and Gopikannan later settled at Bheema Nagar here. A police press release said during investigation it came to light that Hemanth Kumar’s younger brother V. Brijesh Prasanth, 22, of Coimbatore decided to eliminate Gopikannan to avenge the killing of Hemanth and hatched a plot along with five of his friends to execute the crime. The gang armed with weapons hacked to death Gopikannan on Heber Road on May 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-arrested-for-murdering-advocate/article34539114.ece
12 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Body of murdered showroom staff exhumed||The body of murdered employee of a jewellery showroom Martin Jayaraj was exhumed in the presence of Revenue Tahsildar at Azhagiyamanavalam village in the district on Tuesday The move was based on information provided by the accused involved in the killing. Martin Jayaraj, who worked in a jewellery shop located along Karur By Pass Road, was murdered by a gang while he was recently travelling to Tiruchi from Chennai in a hired car. He had nearly 1.5 kg of gold ornaments in his possession. The gang members killed the employee in connivance with the driver of the hired car and buried the body at Azhagiyamanavalam village near Manachanallur. A police press release said based on the information given by the accused about the spot, the body was was exhumed and a post-mortem conducted. Later, the body was handed over to relatives. All seven accused, including the car driver, were arrested. The weapons, vehicles used for committing the murder, and the stolen jewellery were recovered. The accused were remanded to judicial custody and lodged in jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-murdered-showroom-staff-exhumed/article34539113.ece
12 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patients throng Tirunelveli hospital||With the COVID-19 positive patients being diverted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) from all southern districts, the district administration and the doctors, postgraduate medical students and the nurses are under extreme pressure to find them beds and getting oxygen for most of these extremely critical patients to save them. As the number of positive patients getting reported in this region crosses 2,000 everyday, there is a need to create more beds in hospitals, particularly in government medical college hospitals. The first choice of most of the patients is the government medical college hospitals where they can avail free but quality treatment even as the private hospitals are charging in lakhs for treatment. New patients arrive at TVMCH everyday from the nearby districts even though they have their own medical college hospitals. The patients, on reaching the ‘triaging point’ at Gandhimathi School near Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, are being screened to assess their health condition. If they are asymptomatic, they are sent for ‘home quarantine’ and those who have mild symptoms are taken to the COVID Care Centres while the severely affected patients get admitted in the TVMCH. A senior doctor attached to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital said all the 940 beds with oxygen facility are occupied by the COVID-19 patients, mostly from nearby districts and from places like Dindigul. Even though the officials of the nearby districts have been requested to treat the COVID-19 positive patients in their districts, more patients are being diverted to the TVMCH over the past two weeks which has badly affected the morale and efficacy of the doctors, postgraduate students and the nurses. “We can understand the gravity of the situation. All the beds in these nearby districts might have been occupied by the COVID-19 patients as in TVMCH. Either death or discharge of a patient alone enables us to admit a new patient in TVMCH as of now. So, a good number of patients is waiting in queue all the time for admission, forcing the relatives to seek help from influential persons to find a bed for their loved ones at the earliest. We’re getting phone calls from all quarters and round the clock in this connection even as there is no bed to provide to the new patients. We’re completely exhausted as we are working under extreme pressure,” said the doctor. Since most of the patients getting admitted in the TVMCH are in need of oxygen, the TVMCH has to make sure that its two storage tanks (13 KL and 6 KL) are full all the time to save the patients. Unfortunately, the suppliers let down the TVMCH at times to trigger panic. A couple of days ago, the situation was so alarming as the oxygen level in the tanks dipped very fast forcing the district administration to send SOS to every possible sources to get oxygen at the earliest. Only after a tanker from ISRO’s Propulsion Research Complex at Mahendragiri reached the TVMCH, normalcy returned. “We received an oxygen tanker from Thanjavur on May 11 but this is a temporary relief as a few hundred patients are coming to the ‘triaging point’ and the TVMCH receives a sizeable number even as the hospital is virtually overflowing. The district administration, with the available oxygen, is managing the situation in the best possible manner. If the new patients from the southern districts are admitted in their respective districts, it will ensure the best possible treatment to the patients admitted here as the burden will be less,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-patients-throng-tirunelveli-hospital/article34539078.ece
12 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ecologically-sensitive corridor adjoining Mukurthi National Park under threat from illegal construction||The ecologically-sensitive area of Naduvattam, adjoining the Mukurthi National Park is at risk, due to the construction of buildings as well as an illegal road cutting through forest land. According to officials, a road, measuring 125 meters in length was illegally constructed through a patch of land notified to be declared as a reserve forest in the Pykara forest range in the Nilgiris forest division. The owner of a property in the area, who is alleged to be drawing water illegally from the surrounding Shola forests to construct the buildings, built the road that would serve as an access road to the building site. “Naduvattam area has a very high diversity of endemic species, second only to Cispara in the Mukurthi National Park,” said restoration ecologist, Godwin Vasanth Bosco. “There are endemic balsams in the area that are found only in this area, and most of the Shola trees are old-growth trees,” he added. Corridor for wildlife The area also serves as a crucial corridor for wildlife connecting Mukurthi National Park, the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and Gudalur, with tigers, elephants, Indian gaur, Sambar deer, Nilgiri langur, the Nilgiri laughing thrush, the Nilgiri pipit and other wildlife spotted in the area frequently. Following media reports about the destruction of the area by private landowners, the National Green Tribunal has taken cognizance of the issue and has directed the district collector and the District Forest Officer to investigate. “The status of the land on which the buildings are coming up is itself under investigation. Complaints have been received from people in the area that the owner of the property has illegally acquired these lands,” said an official from the Revenue Department requesting anonymity. Following an investigation, the Forest Department set up a small outpost cutting off access to the road that was illegally constructed, and have also begun undertaking planting of Shola trees along the road to prevent future use. A warning board was also put up stating that the road was cutting through forest land. When contacted, District Forest Officer, Nilgiris division, Guru Swamy Dabbala, said that a case has been booked against the landowners for encroaching on government land. “We have initiated action and are investigating the issue,” said the District Forest Officer. Conservationists in the Nilgiris said that if the construction is allowed to continue in Naduvattam, it could serve as a potential tipping point in the area, that will lead to more constructions of commercial and residential properties, potentially endangering the existence of hundreds of native species of flora and wildlife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ecologically-sensitive-corridor-in-naduvattam-under-threat/article34538714.ece
12 May 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT Business School gets international accreditation||VIT Business School, Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), has been accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) International, the top accrediting body for business schools globally. It is the second accredited business school in the State and the 15th in the country, a press release said. The business school that operates out of Vellore and Chennai campuses has achieved this coveted recognition. G. Viswanathan, founder and chancellor, VIT, said, “It is a prestigious moment for VIT. We thank AACSB for recognising VIT Business School’s academic rigour, research excellence, social, industry and global connectivity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-business-school-gets-international-accreditation/article34538715.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Central region receives 41,000 doses of Covishield vaccine||The Health Department has allotted 41,000 doses of Covishield vaccine for the Central region encompassing eight districts. Tiruchi has been allotted 10,000 doses, and Thanjavur district 8,000 doses. Pudukottai and Karur districts have been given 5,000 doses each, and Perambalur and Ariyalur districts will get 3,000 doses each. Similarly, 5,000 doses have been readied for Tiruvarur district, and 2,000 doses for Nagapattinam district. S. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi, told The Hindu that the vaccine had already reached Tiruchi. Re-allotment of vaccines had been made as per the requirement of the vaccination centres in the district. A special team transports the vaccine to the immunisation centres in compliance with the safety protocol. The supply would ensure the smooth continuation of the vaccination drive. As per the current trend, the fresh supply would last for a week. The stock would be replenished periodically, he said. Maintaining that the vaccination drive had not been disrupted due to supply factors, Dr. Ganesh said that the district had 1,330 doses of Covaxin as of Monday. While the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi had a stock of 960 doses, the Government Hospital at Manapparai and the Urban Primary Health Centre at Bheema Nagar had 140 and 200 doses of Covaxin. He said that 2.30 lakh persons had so far been vaccinated in Tiruchi district. As of Monday, there were 4,667 active cases of COVID-19 infection in the district. Of these, 2,407 patients were in hospitals and the remaining 2,260 patients had preferred to be home isolation, Dr. Ganesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-receives-41000-doses-of-covishield-vaccine/article34539106.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore crematoria see a steady flow of bodies of COVID-19 victims||With Coimbatore reporting more COVID-19 deaths, electric crematoria are working extra time and those that have two furnaces dedicate one of these completely to cremating the bodies of people who died of the infection. Some of the crematoria have been operating to full capacity in Coimbatore in the recent days. One of the crematoria in the city has dedicated one of its two furnaces for COVID-19 bodies. “We get five COVID-19 bodies a day. There are eight to nine bodies for the other one. This is higher that the number of bodies cremated a day using both the furnaces,” says the person in-charge of the crematorium. “I guess some of the crematoria are running for longer hours. There have been requests for maintenance tools for the furnaces from two of them,” said a person who co-ordinates maintenance of two crematoria in the city. G. Krithika, an MSME owner here, had tweeted today seeking more efforts from the government to ensure safety of people living in the vicinity of the electric crematoria. She said some crematoria were operating at night hours too and the government should take measures to allay the fears of those living nearby. Sources in the electric crematorium at Pappanaickenpalayam said that out of the two furnaces in the crematorium, one had been allotted to cremate those who died of COVID-19. While the crematorium used to see the arrival of around four to five bodies every day till April, the number of cremations per day has increased to seven or eight during the past month, the sources said. On Tuesday, the electric crematorium saw the cremation of four persons in the COVID-19 furnace and four in the non-COVID-19 furnace, according to the sources. Similarly, the electric crematorium at Chokkampudur has been seeing around seven cremations every day. Sources said that only one furnace was available in the crematorium, which was being used to cremate COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-crematoria-see-a-steady-flow-of-bodies-of-covid-19-victims/article34538994.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flex boards are back||After a lull for about two years, flex boards and digital banners have surfaced in different parts of the city. The Madras High Court had restrained recognised, registered political parties, religious, caste and community forums and organisations from erecting digital banners or placards on either side of arterial roads, platforms, walkways or any other road throughout the State in 2018. Most of the political parties and organisations complied with the HC order. The State, district and union level office-bearers of most of the registered and mainstream parties switched over to wall posters to celebrate their leaders’ birthdays or welcoming them for functions. The strict enforcement of the model code of conduct in the run-up to the State elections also helped officials to enforce the rules strictly. But the culture appears to have re-emerged gradually. It began with organisers of temple festivals putting up banners and flex boards randomly. Some flex boards announced deaths. Local political units have now erected banners in different parts of the district, mainly in the city, congratulating the elected DMK MLAs and Ministers. “Enthusiastic workers of the parties have put up flex boards in several areas. It is natural for the cadre to express their joy. But there are many safe ways to celebrate victory. The leaders of the parties should restrain them immediately,” said H. Ghouse Baig, a consumer activist in Tiruchi. If they are not checked initially, it will become a bane. If all parties put up flex boards they will pose a danger to passers-by, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flex-boards-are-back/article34539110.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||With 2,650 new cases, Coimbatore’s tally crosses one lakh||Coimbatore district on Tuesday crossed the one-lakh mark in terms of the total number of COVID-19 cases reported since the beginning of the pandemic. The 2,650 new cases reported on Tuesday took the district’s tally to 1,00,546. Nineteen more COVID-19 patients died between May 7 and 10, raising the toll in the district to 793. A total of 1,723 persons recovered from the disease and got discharged from different hospitals on Tuesday. The Health Department said 708 beds for COVID-19 treatment, including two ICU beds and 19 beds with oxygen supply, remained vacant in different hospitals in the district as of Tuesday evening. And, 276 beds were vacant in COVID Care Centres. Tiruppur district reported 584 new cases. The district had 3,912 active cases of the disease and 330 persons recovered as of Tuesday. The district’s death toll increased to 261 after five more COVID-19 patients died at different hospitals between May 8 and 10. The Health Department said 255 beds for COVID-19 treatment in different hospitals in the district remained vacant as of Tuesday evening.  Mill sealed A spinning mill at Senapathipalayam near Kangeyam in the district was sealed on Tuesday after 27 of its employees tested positive for COVID-19. Seven employees were shifted to a government hospital at Karur. Erode district reported 925 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 28,384. While 547 persons were discharged, 4,421 persons continue to be under treatment. Four persons died, raising the toll to 177. Salem district reported 475 fresh positive cases and 17 deaths. A total of 745 persons who were undergoing treatment at the COVID-19 Care Centres were discharged after recovery on Monday. Namakkal district reported 372 new cases and two deaths. Krishnagiri recorded 478 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally so far to 19,734. While 3,358 persons are undergoing treatment, 110 persons were discharged after treatment on Tuesday. Dharmapuri recorded 193 fresh cases that raised the district’s tally so far to 12,087. One person died of the infection. While 140 persons were discharged, the number of active cases on Tuesday was 1662. In the Nilgiris, 170 persons tested positive on Tuesday. The district has had 11,289 cases so far. With three more deaths, the toll rose to 56. Totally, 912 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-2650-new-cases-coimbatores-tally-crosses-one-lakh/article34538996.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||223 members take oath as Tamil Nadu MLAs||AIADMK member K.P. Munusamy, who resigned as member of the Rajya Sabha on Monday in view of his election to the Assembly from Veppanahalli, took the oath. This is the first time since Independence that the Assembly would not have a nominated member from the Anglo-Indian community. A Constitutional amendment made by the Union government discontinued the representation for the community in the Lok Sabha and all Assemblies. All the new MLAs, officials and reporters wore masks. Hand sanitizer was used frequently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/223-members-take-oath-as-tamil-nadu-mlas/article34538688.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hospital staff can collect Remdesivir: Minister||The demand for the drug has been on the rise. These counters, especially the one at Kilpauk, have been witnessing crowds daily. Replying to a post on Twitter that drew attention to instances of an entire family being admitted in hospital for COVID-19 and left with no attenders to collect the drug, Mr. Subramanian said: “For patients who do not have attenders or family members who can collect Remdesivir at the government sales counters, the hospitals where such patients are admitted can send their staff with the relevant documents to collect the drug.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-staff-can-collect-remdesivir-minister/article34538689.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi starts new course||Indian Institute of Management-Tiruchi has inaugurated the first batch of PGCMMA (Post-Graduate Certificate Programme in Manufacturing Management and Analytics) as a year-long programme in a device-to-device mode. Launched in association with Jaro Education, the programme is designed for working professionals aspiring for managerial roles in organisations to leverage latest advancements in manufacturing management. Sirish Kumar Gouda, Professor and Programme Director, said it aimed to provide an understanding of the basic concepts, tools and techniques required for effectively managing manufacturing systems using Analytics. Through hands-on exercises, practical applications and case studies, this programme would help participants in providing quantitative reasoning and generate useful insights to improve the planning process, manufacturing efficiency, yield, and future performance, leading to a sustained competitive advantage. N. Ananthaseshan managing director, Carborundum Universal, who was chief guest, spoke on the need to be in a state of preparedness to manage exponential changes happening around. He exhorted the participants to develop relevant meta-skills in these Turbulent, Uncertain, Novel, and Ambiguous (TUNA) circumstances in addition to the knowledge that they would gain through the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-tiruchi-starts-new-course/article34539102.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Welfare officer succumbs to COVID-19 in Karur||District Adi Dravidar Welfare Officer P. N. Prabakaran, 55, died of COVID-19- related complications on Monday. Mr. Prabakaran, who tested positive for the viral infection a few days ago, isolated himself in his house initially. Since there was no improvement in the condition of the senior official, he was admitted to a private hospital. He reportedly succumbed to COVID-19 pneumonia at the hospital. Mr. Prabakaran was the nodal officer for electronic voting machines in Karur during the recently concluded Assembly election in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-officer-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-karur/article34539108.ece
12 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||MLAs meet DC||A team of Congress MLAs met Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath to urge him to make COVID-19 management in the district more effective and transparent. Party leaders Satish Jarkiholi, Mahantesh Koujalgi, Lakshmi Hebbalkar and Anjali Nimbalkar were on the team. They asked him to see that no hospital suffers from oxygen scarcity. They asked him to appoint nodal officers to oversee administration of private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlas-meet-dc/article34538728.ece
12 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘17 govt. teachers have died of COVID-19 this yr.’||The Government Primary School Teachers Association has complained that 17 government teachers have died of COVID-19-related complications in Belagavi district this year. “We have lost three teachers in Khanapur, six in Belagavi and four each in Bailhongal and Ramdurg,” president of the District Government Primary School Teachers Association Jayakumar Hebli told The Hindu . “It is possible that they got infected when they were on election duty. But we are not sure,’’ he said. He demanded that the government provide all benefits to the families of the deceased. The government has fixed reimbursement of medical expenses to the families at different slabs of Rs. 9,000 to Rs. 12,500 per day. “We have written to the government to relax norms regarding appointment of their dependants on compensatory grounds. There is a statutory one-year limitation period for applying under this quota. This needs to be changed. The children of several employees are young infants and their wives are uneducated and are hence, unable to apply. We have requested the government to reconsider this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-govt-teachers-have-died-of-covid-19-this-yr/article34538729.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Budget numbers likely to be revised||With the second wave of COVID-19 having an unprecedented impact on public finances, the State Budget numbers are likely to undergo revisions for the second consecutive year as more funds will have to be set aside for expenditure in the health sector and for subsidised distribution of food. Owing to a month-long lockdown (April 27 to May 24) and reduced economic activity earlier, the State’s revenue receipts are expected to slow down at least in the first quarter of 2021-22. While the receipts are expected to be down, the Opposition Congress and the small scale-industries’ association (KASSIA) have been mounting pressure on the government to announce a financial package for those impacted by the lockdown. Though the Finance Department is yet to assess the impact of the slowdown in tax collection, it is a fact that receipts of all major revenue-generating sources such as stamps and registration, motor vehicles, and excise have taken a severe beating, government sources said. Earlier this year, Chief MinisterB.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance portfolio, presented a Budget of Rs. 2,46,207 crore — an increase of Rs. 8,314 crore (3.5%) over the previous year — without levying new taxes or increasing existing ones. Funds have been released to zilla and taluk panchayats for meeting the expenditure for the first five months of 2021-22. With the likely shortage of revenue, the government has refrained from issuing orders and releasing funds for new schemes. Main priority “Fighting COVID-19 will be given the utmost priority,” the Chief Minister has saidon many occasions. A sum of Rs. 700 crore has been released for the purchase of two crore doses of vaccines, and expenditure has been incurred for the supply of oxygen, establishment of ventilators, ICU beds, and COVID Care Centres during this health crisis, sources said. The sources maintained that the impact of COVID-19 on the State’s finances would be known by the end of June, depending on the ground situation. The State had decided to limit borrowings to 4% of the Gross State Domestic Product in 2021-22, as against 5% in 2020-21. Economists said the deadly second wave of COVID-19 has brought to an abrupt halt economic recovery, particularly in the services sector, including travel, tourism, and hospitality. These sectors are unlikely to recover in the next few months, they said. The manufacturing sector too has been adversely impacted, both from the demand and supply sides, an industrialist said. Only the farm sector has not been affected much. The forecast of near-normal Southwest Monsoon for 2021 by the IMD brightens the hope for better Kharif output in the current year, an official in the Agriculture Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-budget-numbers-likely-to-be-revised/article34538668.ece
12 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||No MGNREGA work during lockdown period||In a development that will hit the livelihood of rural workers for a fortnight in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State government has stopped work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). While the daily earnings have come to a standstill since Monday, when the lockdown commenced, alternatives are being chalked out still. The decision will hit about one lakh households across the State who would otherwise have received employment during this period. In fact, about 10,000 migrant workers who returned to their villages had also been issued job cards for employment. It is learnt that the decision to stop work was taken on Sunday after a videoconference meeting between the zilla panchayat chief executive officers and the Commissioner of MGNREGA in the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. “Messages were sent to gram panchayats to stop work between May 11 and May 24 when the lockdown would be in place. Payments were directed to be made for the work already undertaken,” a source said. MGNREGA is one of the important sources of employment in rural areas, especially in North Karnataka region which has seen heavy migration of people to urban centres in search of employment avenues. Principal Secretary of RDPR L.K. Atheeq said, “The Union government, in its lockdown guidelines notification, has identified MGNREGA work as a restricted activity. So it is not permitted and we had to stop it,” he said. Government sources said that alternatives were being formulated in the RDPR Department, including the supply of cooked food to vulnerable households through the task force set up at the gram panchayat level. “We are trying to get it approved early because we had a short window before the decision was made,” a source said. Meanwhile, the Gram Seva Sangha has criticised the decision, saying that while all construction activities have been allowed, MGNREGA work has been stopped. “At a time when thousands of migrant families are returning to their villages, this will have a serious impact in rural areas. If the work had to be stopped, financial help should have been given to the families first,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-mgnrega-work-during-lockdown-period/article34538675.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Speculation on leadership change continues||Amid a string of key political meetings and a petition being signed by a group of BJP MLAs against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, speculation was again rife on Tuesday of a possible leadership change in the State. The Chief Minister’s camp shot this down as “baseless” talk, but intense lobbying to dislodge him seems to have been taken up with renewed energy. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Sunday. Mr. Bommai has denied that it was a political meeting, given that Mr. Vijayendra accompanied him. But this meeting was closely followed by BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateeland party national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh meeting the Chief Minister at his residence on Monday and Tuesday, respectively, fuelling further speculation. Both meetings were termed “courtesy visits”. The camp within the BJP lobbying hard to dislodge the Chief Minister has argued with the high command that Mr. Yediyurappa had failed to efficiently handle the pandemic and not prepared enough for the impending oxygen crisis, resulting in people directing their anger towards the Union government. A “campaign” in this regard began immediately after the Chamarajanagar tragedy, when C.T. Ravi, party national general secretary, said the government was responsible. This was followed by a livestreamedexpose of an alleged scandal by party MP Tejasvi Surya and three MLAs. Land deal What has also raised hackles within the party is the recent decision to sell 3,667 acres of land to Jindal Steel Works (JSW) without any modification of the lease-cum-sale agreement — something the party had opposed tooth and nail when H.D. Kumaraswamy was Chief Minister. Over 20 MLAs have signed a petition on the issue and submitted it to the high command, multiple sources in the party confirmed. The effort was headlined by dissident legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. However, sources close to the Chief Minister maintained that Mr. Bommai and Mr. Vijayendra had a “positive meeting” with Mr. Shah on Sunday and the matter of leadership change was not discussed. “The meeting happened in light of the Karnataka High Court’s direction to the Centre to give 1,200 MTD oxygen to the State every day. The petition by BJP legislators opposing the JSW land sale also came up, and the duo explained the legal position that the lease-cum-sale agreement the Government of Karnataka had signed had to be honoured and the sale of land was fait accompli ,” said a strategist close to Mr. Yediyurappa. His camp also said that especially after the second wave of COVID-19 triggering public anger against all governments, irrespective of the party in power, the BJP was unlikely to dislodge Mr. Yediyurappa, who is seen as a leader with a connect to the masses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speculation-on-leadership-change-continues/article34538673.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ministers differ on global tenders for vaccine||Senior Ministers in the State Cabinet on Tuesday differed in their views on the procurement of vaccines. While Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that two crore vaccine vials would be procured through a global tender, Health Minister K. Sudhakar said no such discussions had taken place. Dr. Ashwath Narayan, who heads the COVID-19 task force, told reporters that two crore vaccine vials would be procured through a short-term seven-day global tender to facilitate vaccination of those in the age group of 18 and 44. This would be in addition to three crore vaccines, including two crore Covishield and one crore Covaxin vials. “Till now, we have depended on vaccines supplied by the Union government and not procured them through tender in the open market. Now it has been instructed to float a tender and complete the process within seven days,” he said, after a high-level meeting. Later in the day, when the views of Mr. Sudhakar were sought, he said he was not aware of the floating of a global tender to procure vaccines. “Dr. Ashwath Narayan has not spoken about this to me. I will get the information and then speak on the issue,” he said. He also pointed out that at present, only the use for three vaccines — Covishield, Covaxin, and Sputnik V — were approved in India. Meanwhile, Dr. Ashwath Narayan said instructions had been issued to procure one lakh pulse oximeters, which would be distributed to patients in districts and taluks. “It will be the responsibility of the district and taluk health officers to collect them back from the patients. Later, an oximeter bank will be set up.” He also said that 10 lakh tablets of Ivermectin have been procured already and supply would commence from Friday. A further 25 lakh tablets would be procured, he added.  Meawhile, an order issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar outlined the guidelines for the procurement of Remdesivir by private hospitals for private patients. While it outlined the mode of procurement of the drug for patients in government hospitals and government-funded patients in private hospitals, detailed guidelines have been issued on the process of indenting Remdesivir by privatehospitals.  Till now, we have depended on vaccines supplied by the Union government and not procured them through tender in the open market. Now it has been instructed to float a tender and complete the process within seven days C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Deputy Chief Minister   Dr. Ashwath Narayan has not spoken about this to me. I will get the information and then speak on the issue. At present, only the use for three vaccines — Covishield, Covaxin, and Sputnik V — are approved in India K. Sudhakar, Health and Family Welfare Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ministers-differ-on-global-tenders-for-vaccine/article34538672.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Past assessment-based grading not viable for SSLC students in Karnataka||While the Central boards have cancelled Class X board exams and will grade students based on their assessments, this model is not viable for State board students, say education experts who are batting for a school-level exam instead. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has convened a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the status of the SSLC exam, slated to be conducted between June 21 and July 5. A senior official said it would be premature to take a decision on whether the exam would be held as per schedule. “If the second wave of COVID-19 infections subsides by the end of May, our exam schedule will remain unchanged. We cannot take a decision immediately,” the official said. According to education experts, grading students based on their performance in the 2020-21 academic year was not feasible as only two formative assessments were carried out. Many high school teachers pointed out that around 30% of the students have not completed even a single assessment.  ‘No uniformity’ Niranjanaradhya V.P., a senior fellow at the Centre for Child and Law, National Law School of India University, said there was no uniformity in the teaching and learning methods. “We do not know how much of the portion was covered, so teachers are the best judges of their students. They can conduct an exam at the school level,” he said. He also added that conducting a board-level exam for Class X students of State syllabus would be discriminatory for these students as Central boards have cancelled their exam. H.K. Manjunath, president of the High School Assistant Masters’ Association, said there was a need for the department to set up a committee comprising health and education experts before deciding on whether to go ahead with the SSLC exam. Parents, on the other hand, are concerned about the safety of their children. Sushma S., mother of a Class X student, said, “It is clear that the teaching has not been up to the mark this academic year. Even if an exam is conducted, it will be an unfair tool to assess students. They should instead be graded on their performance over the past nine years,” she said.  We do not know how much of the portion was covered, so teachers are the best judges of their students. They can conduct an exam at the school level. Niranjanaradhya V.P.,senior fellow at the Centre for Child and Law, NLSIU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/past-assessment-based-grading-not-viable-for-sslc-students-in-karnataka/article34538662.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Distribute food near localities of the poor||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to ensure distribution of free food packets at locations close to areas where the poor live, if Indira Canteens are located at faraway places. The court also said the scheme of distribution of free food packets to vulnerable sections of society should be continued beyond May 24 if the government extends the lockdown. A Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the direction as the government had said that it would distribute three food packets per person daily through Indira Canteens across the State, including Bengaluru city, till May 24. As it was alleged on behalf of some of the petitioners that some voluntary organisations, engaged by the government for distributing free food packets during last year’s national lockdown, had illegally sold them, the Bench directed the government to ensure the distribution happens through proper channels. Meanwhile, in its written response to court’s queries on ensuring food security during the lockdown, the State government said 4.34 crore beneficiaries of APL and BPL ration cards would get extra foodgrains for free, in addition to their monthly allocation. Furthermore, ration card holders will 5 kg of foodgrains each for free in May and June under the Union government’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, the State government said, adding that task forces in each gram panchayat would distribute foodgrains and green vegetable to vulnerable households in villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-distribute-food-near-localities-of-the-poor/article34538665.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Adopt CET model for vaccination and bed allocation, says DKS||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Tuesday suggested that the State adopt the Common Entrance Test (CET) model of the Higher Education Department for the supply of COVID-19 vaccine and allocation of beds, oxygen, and Remdesivir to the infected. He said this would help maintain transparency in the system. For online booking of vaccination and maintaining transparency in the delivery of doses, the government should follow the system adopted by the CET for better clarity on availability of vaccines, drugs, oxygen, and beds in hospitals, he said, adding that the existing system had no transparency in allocation of beds and vaccine. Mr. Shivakumar told reporters that the government has not been able to ensure proper supply of vaccines to all primary health centres and hospitals to provide jabs to people aged above 18. “Shortage of vaccine has severely hit the vaccination drive,” he said. He also took exception to RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa’s statement that the government has not printed notes for providing compensation to all victims, and said the Minister had kept a machine for counting notes. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa too said the government had not printed notes for providing compensation to all in the State during last year’s lockdown, Mr. Shivakumar said. Reiterating the Congress’ demand that the State provide compensation of Rs. 10,000 to all those financially impacted by the lockdown, he said the Tamil Nadu government had decided to credit Rs. 4,000 each to the accounts of the poor impacted by the lockdown. On farm produce being thrown on the roadside by farmers, he suggested that Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar and Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil visit some APMCs in the State and assess the financial plight of the farmers. Tax exemption Meanwhile, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, MLA and KPCC working president Ramalinga Reddy urged the Centre to exempt medical items from the Goods and Services Tax and duties for better management of the pandemic by the State governments. The Centre has already lifted customs duty and health cess on imported medical goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adopt-cet-model-for-vaccination-and-bed-allocation-says-dks/article34538669.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State facing shortage of oxygen: Shettar||Saying that the focus should be on ensuring supply of oxygen to rural areas, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday said the State was facing a shortage of oxygen cylinders and concentrators. He said that while the State had asked for 7,700 cylinders and 1,000 oxygen concentrators, the Centre has been able to supply 320 cylinders and 400 oxygen concentrators so far. “We will take up thematter with the Centre shortly,” he said. The comments of the Industries Minister, who has been tasked with coordinating oxygen supply and distribution, came on Tuesday during a meeting of top officials involved in ensuring the supply of oxygen. He directed the officials to focus on oxygen supply to rural areas. The authorities have been asked to prepare for a buffer storage of oxygen to meet any emergency. The State has received an average of 1,015 tonnes of oxygen so far and the needs are being met through multiple sources, he told officials. “However, the demand is also increasing. The supply has to be streamlined according to the demand.” He also said the constant interaction with Central Ministers had helped the State address the issue of oxygen shortage. So far, as many as six containers with 120 tonnes of liquefied oxygen have reached the State, and four more containers have been promised by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-facing-shortage-of-oxygen-shettar/article34538676.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||86 new double mutant cases recorded||The State on Tuesday recorded 86 new double mutant (B.1.617) cases taking the total number of cases with this strain to 148. This is apart from the 86 U.K. strain and six South African strain cases reported so far. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, told The Hindu that most of these 86 are from Bengaluru. This variant is slowly taking over and replacing other circulating strains in many of the southern States including Karnataka in the past four weeks. It is one of the main reasons for the ongoing surge in Karnataka, he said. Detected first in India, this double mutant COVID-19 variant B.1.617 has been reported in 44 countries now. It is spreading fast across the U.K. and has caused concern. Therefore, the Public Health England has declared it as a Variant of Concern (VoC) two days ago. Subsequently, the World Health Organisation (WHO) followed it up by declaring it as VoC on Monday. According to data from GISAID (Global initiative on sharing all influenza data), an international repository of SARS-CoV-2 genomes, there is a steep increase of this variant in most of the continents during the last eight weeks. Dr. Ravi said while the primary cause of spike in Karnataka is the lack of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, people gathering in crowds and flouting norms, the entry of new mutants like this double mutant of Maharashtra is an added prominent factor that is resulting in the surge. “This mutant is more infectious than the circulating parent strains,” he explained. New cases Karnataka on Tuesday reported 39,510 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 20,13,193. Of these, 15,879 are from Bengaluru Urban alone.With 480 deaths, the toll rose to 19,852. This is apart from 20 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 22,584 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 14,05,869. The State now has 5,87,452 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 33.99%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.21%. As many as 1,16,238 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,04,659 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,72,58,568. Vaccination Meanwhile, on the second day after vaccination for the 18-44 age group began, 25,693 beneficiaries took the jab till 8.30 p.m. Although several unregistered persons turned up at centres on Tuesday too, hospital authorities ensured there was no crowding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/86-new-double-mutant-cases-recorded/article34538660.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to use non-invasive ventilation instead of high-flow nasal oxygen||To reduce the increasing demand for oxygen, the Health Department will now use non-invasive ventilators instead of high- flow nasal oxygen (HFNO), said Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons after chairing a video conference with District Health Officers (DHOs), district surgeons, deans and directors of medical colleges and super speciality hospitals in all districts, the Minister said that patients with moderate symptoms need about 20-60 litres of oxygen per minute. “So we have to find ways to reduce dependence on oxygen and hence are trying to utilize non-invasive ventilation as an alternative which is more effective. This will reduce the oxygen demand by 80% and all patients in HFNO will be be shifted to ventilator beds,” he said. Pointing out that 50 oxygenated beds have been set up in every taluk hospital, the Minister said, “We also have about six ventilators in each taluk hospital. However, due to lack of specialist manpower, oxygen is being used inspite of availability of ventilators. To address this issue, we are recruiting anaesthetists and specialist doctors on contract bases.” Besides, all COVID-19 hospitals have been asked to install CCTV cameras within a week. This will help remote monitoring and also ensure efficient use of beds, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-use-non-invasive-ventilation-instead-of-high-flow-nasal-oxygen/article34538659.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No need to panic, says CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday announced that there is no shortage of vaccines since they have been arriving in the State. “There is neither any need to panic nor for people to stand in queues overnight. People need not fear about any shortage,” Mr. Yediyurappa told reporters after visiting the COVID-19 war room at Arogya Soudha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-no-need-to-panic-says-cm/article34538658.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notice to pharma companies||The government on Tuesday issued notice to Cipla Ltd. and Jubilant Ltd., two pharma companies producing Remdesivir, for their failure to supply the quantum allocated to Karnataka. They have been given 24 hours to comply with the allocation. The notice, by Revenue Secretary N. Manjunath Prasad, stated that while Jubilant had been asked to supply 32,000 vials by May 8, it supplied only 17,601. For Cipla, while the allocation was 30,000 vials, it supplied 10,840.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-to-pharma-companies/article34538677.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru Bureau,KARNATAKA||Day 2 of lockdown: Minimal police presence||A day after the police were pulled up for unnecessary brutality, they were conspicuous by their near absence from the streets on Tuesday, the second day of the total lockdown in Karnataka. No instances of police beating up or caning commuters were reported. Even the seizure of vehicles witnessed a drastic drop from over 2,500 vehicles on day one to just 720 vehicles on Tuesday. “During the last two weeks, lockdown was not effective. The cases went up further in the state, which made a complete lockdown necessary. People need to cooperate, which they are not, prompting us to use force. But the widespread opposition to police action has demoralised the force,” said a senior official. Tweeting about the death of a sub-inspector in Vijayapura due to COVID-19, Praveen Sood, DG & IGP, Karnataka Police said: “She is one among 124 policemen who have lost their lives standing on the roads while requesting (read arguing) with people to remain indoors,” on Monday. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said police have been told not to resort to caning, but to seize vehicles and book cases against all violators. “Caning has already stopped across the State,” he said on Tuesday morning. He appealed to the people to understand the seriousness of the health crisis and not venture out unnecessarily. ‘No passes’ Senior police officers were flooded with calls since morning from people inquiring about passes. “We are not issuing passes. Those who venture out should carry proof of work and ID card,” a senior officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/day-2-of-lockdown-minimal-police-presence/article34538653.ece
12 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Install timers for oxygen beds to prevent excessive usage: Bommai||Emphasising the need for continuous monitoring of availability of medical oxygen and Remdesivir injection, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has suggested installation of timers for oxygen beds in Haveri district. Holding a review meeting through a video conference from Bengaluru on Monday, Mr. Bommai, who is also district-in-charge, asked the health officials to conduct an audit on the usage of Remdesivir and oxygen. “At this point of time, oxygen supply is precious. However, it is found that it is being used excessively in Haveri district. Ensure that all oxygen beds are installed with timers to provide oxygen to patients as suggested by doctors. Let doctors decide the time and quantity of oxygen required for a patient and accordingly, the timer can be installed so that the alarm goes off after the stipulated time. This will automatically prevent excessive supply of oxygen to patients,” he said. Regarding a complaint on the excessive private usage of Remdesivir and oxygen cylinders in Ranebennur district, the Home Minister directed the health officials to conduct an audit on supply of oxygen and Remdesivir to Ranebennur taluk from the beginning of the second wave. The Minister expressed displeasure over the increasing COVID-19 cases in Ranebennur and also the death rate in the taluk and sought to know what the health officials were doing. He warned them of stern action if steps were not taken to improve the situation. The Minister also asked the health officials to conduct audit of patients in home isolation and keep strict vigil over patients without symptoms and distribute medicine kits to them. Mr. Bommai suggested increase of oxygen beds in the Hanagal Taluk Hospital and suggested sending inmates of COVID Care Centres who had stayed for around eight days into home isolation after carrying out the requisite steps. Remdesivir During the meeting, the Minister called up senior officers concerned and directed them to immediately send 1,186 vials of Remdesivir as the district was facing a shortage. He also said that 100 oxygen concentrators would be supplied to the district under CSR funds and 294 jumbo cylinders would also reach the district in a couple of days. Deputy Commissioner of Haveri Sanjay Shettennavar, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Roshan, Superintendent of Police K.G. Devaraju and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/install-timers-for-oxygen-beds-to-prevent-excessive-usage-bommai/article34538734.ece
12 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Horatti seeks more ventilators for KIMS||Chairman of the Legislative Council, Basavaraj Horatti, who recovered from COVID-19 and was discharged from KIMS (Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences) Hospital in Hubballi, has urged the Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to supply more ventilators and oxygen beds for the hospital, which is a nodal medical facility for northern districts of Karnataka. In a letter to Mr. Yediyurappa, which was released to the media on Tuesday, Mr. Horatti said he had recovered from the infection, but the developments he had seen at KIMS had forced him to write seeking more aid. Mr. Horatti said he had found that the hospital, which had been doing tremendous service despite odds, faced shortage of infrastructure and medical equipment. He said there was specifically shortage of oxygen beds and ventilators and he was pained to witness deaths of patients due to this in the last couple of days. “KIMS has 100 ventilator beds and requires at least 300 ventilators. Similarly, there is need for an oxygen plant at the hospital and 500 oxygen beds. During my hospitalisation, I saw a few deaths, including that of the medical director’s relative, due to shortage of ventilator,” he has said in the letter. Mr. Horatti also urged the Chief Minister to provide additional oxygen and ventilators to district hospitals of Dharwad, Gagag, Haveri, and Uttara Kannada districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horatti-seeks-more-ventilators-for-kims/article34538746.ece
12 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Over 300 media persons get vaccine in twin cities||Over 300 journalists, photographers, camera persons and a few staff of the Department of Information and Publicity received vaccine at a special vaccination programme conducted in Hubballi and Dharwad on Tuesday. The special programme was conducted following declaration of media persons as frontline warriors by the State government and an order to give them vaccine on priority basis and a subsequent direction from Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil. In Hubballi, 240 media persons received their first dose of Covishield during the special vaccination programme held at the Patrakartara Bhavan of the Dharwad District Union of Working Journalists (DDUWJ). While 196 media persons in the age group of 18 to 44 received the vaccine, there were also 44 others who were aged above 45 who were inoculated. Medical Officer of Chitaguppi Hospital Sridhar Dandeppanavar and Prakash Naragund accompanied by health staff Asha Yadalli, Kavya Goravanagol, Praveen S.M., Mallikarjun N.M., Pavitra S. and Shweta administered the vaccine to the media persons. In Dharwad, a total of 67 media persons received the vaccine at Vartha Bhavan with District Health Officer Yashwant Madinkar and RCH Officer S.M. Honakeri monitoring the programme. While several of the media persons had enrolled their names for the vaccine with the Information Department, those who had not enrolled were also allowed to do spot registration for receiving it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-300-media-persons-get-vaccine-in-twin-cities/article34538736.ece
12 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hubballi railway division sees record freight growth||Hubballi Division of South Western Railway (SWR) has achieved an originating freight loading of 2,810 million tonnes and registered a growth of 68.9%. Thereby, it earned Rs. 250.05 crore in revenue, which is a growth of 77.49% compared to April 2020. Addressing a virtual press conference with Chief Public Relations Officer Aneesh Hegde, Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division of SWR Arvind Malkhede said on Monday that overall business and agriculture in North Karnataka have been robust as can be seen from the despatches of these commodities by train. Meanwhile, loading of iron ore too registered a growth of 192%, he said. Mr. Malkhede said that persistent efforts by BDU (Business Development Units) had resulted in more loading of foodgrains from the region. “For seven months in a row from October 2020, parcel revenue of Hubballi Division has been over Rs. 1 crore per month and the division earned the highest ever parcel earning of Rs. 1.44 crore in April 2021,” he said. He said that in the last six months, seven level crossing gates have been eliminated through construction of road underbridges — three in Belagavi, three in Ballari and one in Dharwad district. The Divisional Manager said that in the fight against corona, 42% of staff of Hubballi Division have been vaccinated so far. Mentioning that as on May 9, Indian Railways has delivered nearly 4,200 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen through 268 tankers to various States across the country, he said that six cryogenic containers of 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen reached Bengaluru on Tuesday from Tatanagar in Jamshedpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-railway-division-sees-record-freight-growth/article34538743.ece
12 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi district gets 1,200 vials of Remdevisir||Kalaburagi district received 1,200 more vials of Remdesivir for treating COVID-19 patients admitted to government and private hospitals across the district. Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani, who is also district in-charge, has, on his own initiative, procured the 1,200 vials which were flown to Kalaburagi from Bengaluru on Tuesday. Government and private hospitals in the district are being provided with the required Remdevisir injections for administering the drug to those prescribed, he said. Though the number of vials procured for Kalaburagi district is lower than the daily requirement, the district administration will make time to time requisition to procure more vials. Oxygen plant As the district is facing shortage of oxygen, it will soon get a 400-cylinder-capacity oxygen manufacturing plant. The plant will be established in Kalaburagi city in collaboration with Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Mr. Nirani, who held a discussion with the officials of the DRDO and NHAI, has promised to set up the oxygen manufacturing plant in the next 10 days. Control room To address the difficulties being faced by people in getting essential commodities during the lockdown, the Kalaburagi district administration has set up a control room to monitor the supply of such goods. The control room will function 24 x 7 and officials from the Food and Civil Supplies Department will monitor the real-time status of transportation and delivery of goods, manufacturing and delivery of essential commodities. The move comes in the wake of complaints to Mr. Nirani that the district authorities and police were stopping staff of e-commerce and other grocery retailers, thereby hindering supplies. Meanwhile, officials from various departments were assigned to the control room on shift basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-district-gets-1200-vials-of-remdevisir/article34538732.ece
12 May 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Pregnant woman walks seven km||A pregnant woman from Naregal village in Koppal district was compelled to walk for almost 7 km after vehicle owners in her village refused to drop her at a hospital in Koppal because of police fear. Lakshmi Pujar, in an advanced stage of pregnancy, wanted to visit a hospital in Koppal for her regular check-up. However, no one in her village was ready to take her to the hospital as they were afraid of police personnel who were deployed at many locations to enforce the lockdown. Left with no option, she walked for almost 7 km to reach the Koppal outskirts where the police were stopping people for violations. Some journalists found her on the highway and arranged a car for her to go to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pregnant-woman-walks-seven-km/article34538742.ece
12 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Slots for 18-44 age group fill up fast||Slots for vaccinating those in the 18 to 44 age group at the Government Wenlock and four taluk hospitals in Dakshina Kannada district filled up fast with 250 slots at the Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru being exhausted in 10 minutes on Monday. Vaccination for people in this age group started on Tuesday and it will be organised only in these five government hospitals in the district. Vaccination for this age group began in the Udupi District Hospital with 100 each getting the vaccine at the Udupi District Hospital, the Udupi MCH Hospital and the Taluk Hospitals in Kundapur and Karkala. All slots for Tuesday in these four hospitals were booked. Dakshina Kannada Nodal Officer for Vaccines B.V. Rajesh said that while 250 persons will be given the vaccine per day at the Wenlock Hospital, 150 persons each will get it at the Bantwal, Belthangady, Sullia and Puttur Taluk Hospitals, respectively. The slots have to be booked online. The vaccination for this age group is being carried out free, out of the vaccines procured by the State government. Dakshina Kannada has received 6,500 doses of Covishield vaccine, Dr. Rajesh said. Second dose The second dose of Covishield vaccine for those aged 45 and above is being given at the 10 Urban Primary Health Centres, including those in Jeppu, Kadri, Lady Hill, Bunder, Surathkal and Shakti Nagar in the city and other primary health centres in the district. People in this age group can walk in to the UPHCs and PHCs to get it. The Union government is providing the vaccine for those aged 45 and above. The district has received 6,500 doses, Dr. Rajesh said. In Udupi The State government has provided 4,500 doses of Covishield vaccine for those aged between 18 and 44 in Udupi district. According to official sources, 150 slots each are available for this age group at the four vaccination centres in the district. The Union government has provided 1,000 doses of Covishield vaccine for those aged 45 and above getting their second dose, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/slots-for-18-44-age-group-fill-up-fast/article34538731.ece
12 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ward-level COVID-19 task force panels set up in Mangaluru||As directed by the State government, the Mangaluru City Corporation has formed ward-level COVID-19 task force committees in 60 wards of the city for monitoring COVID-19 patients and their primary contacts. The committees will be facilitating testing, arranging for ration for patients and also taking micro containment steps. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that the ward-level task force committees will comprise local councillors, nodal officers from the corporation, multi-purpose workers and 10 volunteers each. They will be attached to the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) that covers about seven wards. Each one of the 10 UPHCs will have a team of officers from the corporation who will coordinate with the ward-level committees. Mayor Premanand Shetty said that a list of COVID-19 patients in home quarantine and new cases will be bifurcated ward-wise and provided to the ward-level committees. These members will along with local health workers go to the houses of these patients, enquire about their health and make arrangements for medicine and their other needs. The committees have been given the responsibility of tracing primary contacts and making arrangements for isolating them at COVID care centres in the area concerned, if needed. The committees have been permitted to paste posters outside houses or in a locality as part of COVID-19 containment efforts, he said. Mr. Shetty said that the corporation will put to use the mobile testing facilities that will help in collecting samples in the wards. Each ward will be given two autorickshaws fitted with loud speakers for making people aware of COVID-19 guidelines. The corporation has identified three shelter homes in the city where those without shelter, who are now found at bus stops and other public places, will be lodged. Food and other arrangements are being made for them, he said. In Udupi In a video conference to review steps in Udupi district on Monday, Home Minister and district in-charge Basavaraj Bommai asked officials to provide kits containing medicine and other essential items for all those in home isolation. The ward-level and village-level task force members have been asked to keep regular contact with people in isolation and make arrangements to shift them to nearby health facilities if their oxygen level is coming down. Timely treatment will prevent fatalities, Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ward-level-covid-19-task-force-panels-set-up-in-mangaluru/article34538739.ece
12 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Anointment ceremony begins at Shiroor Mutt||A four-day ceremony to anoint Anirudha Saralathaya as the seer of the Shiroor Mutt began on Tuesday with rituals being conducted at the moola mutt in Shiroor in Udupi district. The remaining customs will be conducted at the moola Mutt of Udupi Sode Vadiraj Mutt, which is the dwanda mutt of Udupi Sode Mutt, in Sode in Uttara Kannada district. According to a press release from Shiroor Mutt, seer-designate was offered fruits and he took part in various homas, including Gana Homa and Dhanvantri Homa, on Tuesday. He also performed some rituals, which are to be performed before his anointment. The homas and rituals were performed in the presence of Sode Vadiraj Mutt seer Vishwavallabha Tirtha. Avadhani Subrahmanya Bhat and Vidwan Giriraj Acharya conducted the homas and rituals. The parents of seer-designate Vidya and Udaykumar Saralathaya were present, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anointment-ceremony-begins-at-shiroor-mutt/article34538738.ece
12 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MLA refutes charge that he interfered in vaccination process||While the former MLA J.R. Lobo accused Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath of interfering with vaccination process and sending his followers to the Government Wenlock Hospital on Monday for receiving Covaxin, Mr. Kamath denied it and said that there was no question of him interfering with the system. Mr. Lobo said that of the available 1,000 doses of Covaxin, 350 doses were allotted to the Government Wenlock Hospital for giving it to those in need of their second dose on Monday. SMSs were sent to 280 persons, who were among the many who are nearing the six-week period since taking their first dose, asking them to come to the hospital. Mr. Lobo said that Mr. Kamath called these 280 persons to say that he has made arrangements to get the vaccine for them. When not all of these persons turned up for vaccination, the MLA called a few of his followers to the hospital and ensured that they received their second dose. An MLA should not interfere in the process, Mr. Lobo said. Denying the allegation, Mr. Kamath said that there was a system in place for completing the vaccination process and he will not interfere with it. “There is no question of calling residents and ensuring some of our people get the vaccine,” the MLA added. The MLA said that he has been visiting Wenlock Hospital and other government health care facilities since the last few days to ensure that there is no inconvenience caused to people who come for vaccination. “On Monday, I did the same at the Wenlock Hospital,” he said. Seeing a long line of people waiting for their second dose at the Lady Hill Urban Primary Health Centre here on Tuesday, Mr. Kamath directed the authorities to administer the vaccine at the government school in Gandhinagar from Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-refutes-charge-that-he-interfered-in-vaccination-process/article34538741.ece
12 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Police help labourer||A constable and a home guard from Puttur Rural police station helped a worker from Madikeri reach his hometown on Sunday. The labourer from Ranipet of Madikeri of Kodagu district had come to Mangaluru for work and had been stranded after the lockdown was announced. A few days ago, he started to walk towards his native place. Local papers on Sunday reported about him, starving for two days, surviving on mangoes thrown down by bats and birds in Santyaru village of Puttur taluk. Head constable Dayanand and home guard Kiran, who were posted at Santyaru checkpost, immediately traced the labourer and gave him food. They then arranged a vehicle to take him to Madikeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-help-labourer/article34538744.ece
12 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Hall named after Madhukar Shetty||The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (NPA), Hyderabad, has named a lecture hall of the academy after the late IPS officer of Karnataka K. Madhukar Shetty, who passed away in December 2018. In an order issued on Tuesday, academy assistant director (establishment) K.P.A. Ilyas said hall no. 106, the main lecture hall of basic course, has been named after Madhukar Shetty. This was a mark of respect to the officer’s commitment, dedication and being a role model for IPS probationers. Madhukar Shetty, 47, belonged to the 1999 batch of IPS from Karnataka cadre. He hailed from Udupi and was the son of senior journalist Vaddarse Raghurama Shetty, editor of Kannada newspaper Mungaru. He died after week-long hospitalisation in Hyderabad for suspected HIN1-induced pneumonia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hall-named-after-madhukar-shetty/article34538747.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Power failure leaves patients on edge||A 90-minute power failure in some areas of ward number 66 on Monday night put the lives of over 20 COVID-19 patients at risk. These patients were in home isolation and had been using oxygen concentrators. The oxygen concentrators run on power. Without backup, families of most patients went through anxious moments till power was restored. According to residents, power went off at 9.09 p.m. on Monday in areas in and around Rajajinagar, Mahalakshmi Layout and Malleswaram. It was restored at 10.40 p.m. after repeated calls to the jurisdictional Bescom officials. Proning exercise A few patients residing on Subramanyanagar Main road, Milk Colony and Gayatrinagar told The Hindu that those who had power backup (UPS) at home managed to run the concentrators for around 45 minutes. The rest were in a bad state. Most resorted to proning exercise to improve their oxygen levels even as their families made all possible efforts to restore power supply. Bescom officials attributed the problem to transmission issues by the KPTCL. “A 220 KV line of KPTCL had tripped. After getting calls from some residents, I spoke to the KPTCL MD. Power was restored after the problem was set right,” said M.B. Rajesh Gowda, MD, Bescom. KPTCL Chief Engineer for Bangalore Metro Area Zone (BMAZ) Chandrashekariah said the problem was due to equipment failure at the Nelamangala station. “It was not a scheduled breakdown. The tripped line had to be set right. Although we supplied power through a line change from another station, it took a while for power to be restored in the entire ward,” he said, adding that it did not take more than 30 minutes. Concentrators on rent Recalling the harrowing 90 minutes spent by oxygen-dependent patients without power, Dr. Namitha A. Kumar, a resident of Subramanyanagar Main Road, who is part of the Centre for Health Ecologies and Technology (CHET), said a major disaster was averted. “Fortunately, we did not lose anyone though we came close to that. This is a lesson learnt,” she said. Many COVID-19 patients are forced to manage with rented oxygen concentrators at home due to non-availability of beds in hospitals. “These concentrators run on power. They can give up to 10 litres of oxygen per minute. Disruption in power supply was not an issue in our area, and none of us had anticipated a sudden power failure. After this incident, volunteers bought 12 oxygen cylinders from Peenya for a few patients, who could afford to pay Rs. 15,000 per cylinder,” she said. “It was harrowing for one elderly couple. Both are COVID-19 patients. The husband had recovered while the wife, who has diabetes, had low saturation and was on a concentrator. With great difficulty, she was proned, but the husband reported at one point that her saturation dipped to 29. After power was restored, a doctor in the area attended to her. Thankfully, she has improved now,” said Dr. Namitha. Another resident said proning is not so easy for the elderly with arthritis, and COVID-19 patients are already fatigued and not in a position to do proning easily. “The power cut was a nightmare with each minute passing by without steady oxygen. None of the patients had cylinders and were in great discomfort,” the resident said. “While power was restored to some areas like Gayatrinagar by 9.50 p.m., there was no sight of power in Subramanyanagar till 10.10 p.m. Bescom officials were helpful, but could not do much. Eventually, we got power at 10.40 p.m.,” the resident recalled.  These concentrators run on power. Disruption in power supply was not an issue in our area, and none of us had anticipated a sudden power failure. After this incident, volunteers bought 12 oxygen cylinders from Peenya for a few patients, who could afford to pay Rs. 15,000 per cylinder Dr. Namitha A. Kumar, resident, Subramanyanagar Main Road   It was not a scheduled breakdown. The tripped line had to be set right. Although we supplied power through a line change from another station, it took a while for power to be restored in the entire ward... it did not take more than 30 minutes Chandrashekariah, Chief Engineer, KPTCL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-failure-leaves-patients-on-edge/article34538648.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KSHRC orders probe into caning, use of force by cops||Karnataka State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) has ordered a probe into three complaints of alleged brutality in the State when police resorted to caning people during enforcement of the lockdown on Monday. R.K. Dutta, member of the Commission, said the police wing was tasked with a probe into the three complaints and will submit a report by June 8, when the case is posted for hearing. Meanwhile, two retired judges also came down heavily on the police. Retired Supreme Court judge V. Gopal Gowda termed police beating people with lathis ‘a barbaric act’ and said there was no legal basis for the same. “People trusted with protecting the rule of law seem to have taken law into their hands. Each of the personnel, who assaulted the public, must be booked and the probe entrusted to a judicial inquiry commission,” he said, adding that the police leadership who watched silently for the entire day must also be held accountable and culpable. Another retired judge of Karnataka and Bombay High Courts M.F. Saldanha termed police action “inhuman and arbitrary” and said he would consider moving the High Court in a Public Interest Litigation. His visits to and from hospitals are under threat of the vehicle being seized and being beaten up on the road. The threat was not imaginary, he stated. Both former judges were also critical of police seizing vehicles. Mr. Saldanha said no law can sanction such atrocity and this was “virtually State goondaism” while Mr. Gowda questioned under what provision of law were the police seizing vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kshrc-orders-probe-into-caning-use-of-force-by-cops/article34538655.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Reforms by BJP MP draw flak||Some of the reforms in the civic body’s bed allocation software that Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya announced on Monday has drawn flak from officials in the BBMP and health experts. Many were altered within a day when they failed to adapt to the ground reality. Following the alleged bed allocation scam, which he exposed, the BJP MP on Monday announced implementation of four reforms, and promised to implement two more in the next four days. It is the queue system where patients will be given a token that has received the most criticism. In an attempt to eliminate discretion and bring in transparency, Mr. Surya said that each type of bed – HDU, ICU, etc – will have a separate queue. If a patient’s condition deteriorates, he or she will be added to the relevant queue. He said this will be implemented in the next few days. However, a strict queue system will create havoc and possibly even endanger people’s lives, argue civic officials and public health experts. “Allocation has to also be assessed based on how critical a patient is and not just on when he or she gets a token. This is a subjective call by the doctor, based on several factors like age, oxygen saturation level, and co-morbidities. Who applied for a bed first cannot be the sole criteria for allotment. We are trying to work out a criteria based on these,” said a senior civic official, overseeing bed allotment in the city. Some of the reforms Mr. Surya announced have already been altered. He announced that the window of a bed being blocked and a patient occupying it would be reduced from 10 to four hours to prevent misuse. BBMP sources said it has been restored to six hours. “Our data shows that a significant chunk of people occupy beds in the fifth and sixth hours. This may be due to ambulances, especially those with oxygen, being hard to come by. We have set the window at six hours, but are ready to increase it by an hour or two if we find patients showing up late,” a senior official said. The manual unblocking of bed allotment has not been completely removed from the software as claimed by Mr. Surya. Authorisation to do so is now restricted to the central control room. “There are many scenarios where bed allotment needs to be unblocked. We unblocked over 20 allotments on Monday, the first day the reform was implemented,” the official said. Public health expert Dr. Sylvia Karpagam said that in allowing Mr. Surya to make “ill-considered changes” to the bed allotment software, the Karnataka government was again giving in to ad hocism. However, some of his reforms have been welcomed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reforms-by-bjp-mp-draw-flak/article34538656.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Will talk to authorities on police ‘excess’ during lockdown: A-G||The State Advocate-General on Tuesday told the High Court of Karnataka that he will immediately discuss with authorities the police “excess” against citizens while enforcing COVID-19 lockdown. A-G Prabhuling K. Navadgi gave this assurance to a special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar during the hearing of PIL petitions related to COVID-19. During the hearing, several advocates representing the petitioners pointed out instances of police “excess” reported from various parts of Karnataka on May 10, the first day of 15-day State-wide lockdown to prevent further spread of COVID-19. The advocates also brought up a direction issued to the Director-General and Inspector General of Police by the court on March 30, 2020 when police had resorted to similar types of actions against citizens during last year’s nationwide lockdown. The High Court had on March 30, 2020 directed the DG&IGP to instruct all personnel across Karnataka to restrain from using lathis to enforce the lockdown, and behave with courtesy and patience with citizens while emphasising that citizens must adhere to all conditions of the lockdown and cooperate with the police. The direction was issued after Mr. Navadgi had pointed out to the court that the city police Commissioner had asked civil police to leave their lathis in police stations and asked reserve police to use lathis only if necessary for bandobast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-talk-to-authorities-on-police-excess-during-lockdown-a-g/article34538646.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Relatives barge into COVID-19 ward||A group of people ransacked Doddaballapura government hospital and threatened staff and doctors after a patient died on Sunday. The deceased developed multiple complications during the course of her treatment and succumbed, said doctors. Her son Girish, accompanied by other relatives, allegedly barged into the hospital, ransacked the premises and gained entry into the restricted COVID-19 ward where they threatened the doctor and staff, and frightened patients. The actions of the mob prevented staff from treating patients, who were in shock, said a police officer. Based on a complaint filed by Dr. Ramesh, Chief Medical Officer, the police on Monday registered an FIR against Girish and others, charging them for damage to public property and also under Section 427 (mischief to cause loss or damage). The police have provided security at the hospital and are on the lookout for Girish who is absconding. The fact that he and others entered the COVID-19 ward is also a serious cause for concern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relatives-barge-into-covid-19-ward/article34538650.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Now, government to focus on timely discharge||A day after the announcement of tweaks in the Central Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS) portal, the Chief Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Gaurav Gupta said that, going forward, all the hospitals in a particular zone will come under the IAS and IPS officer-in-charge. Earlier, only a few hospitals were under the SAST portal while the CHBMS portal was allotted to IAS and IPS officers, but now, all hospitals will be under the purview of these officers. One of the key issues is timely discharge of patients, which Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa addressed on Tuesday. “Despite doctors asking them to be discharged, as many as 503 patients continue to stay in hospital beyond 20 days. They should be asked to continue treatment at home so that these beds can be allocated to the needy,” said the CM. Citing war room data, he said that 6,500 patients were in hospital for 1-10 days and 1,900 patients for 11-20 days. A total of 337 patients had been hospitalised for 30 days or more. “What is the necessity for patients to be in hospital for so many days when serious patients are not getting beds?” Beds in private hospitals The Karnataka government has set a deadline of 24 hours for bureaucrats to conduct an on-ground audit of all hospitals in the city and take over 50% of beds for the government quota. Hospitals with 30 beds or less, which were not giving any beds to the government, will also have to hand over 50% of their beds to the government. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R. Ashok told officials to increase beds by at least 5,000 in the next two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-government-to-focus-on-timely-discharge/article34538657.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||150 oxygen concentrators gifted by Dubai-based NRI||Philanthropists and corporates have been stepping in to help the city fight the COVID-19 pandemic. St. Martha’s Hospital received 150 sets of oxygen concentrators that were sent by Dubai-based NRI Eugene Mayne, founder and chief executive of the Tristar Group. Mr. Mayne, a graduate of St. Joseph’s Bangalore and Bangalore University, sourced the oxygen concentrators from Europe. “We hope that this small gesture of support will provide some relief to all those suffering during this difficult time. Our thoughts and prayers are with our fellow citizens in India,” he stated in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/150-oxygen-concentrators-gifted-by-dubai-based-nri/article34538649.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Oxygen Express||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-express/article34538652.ece
12 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||A leader who shaped the destiny of modern Kerala||“I am just like any other common woman. I don’t have the diplomatic flexibility of seasoned politicians. I am very straightforward in talking my mind and working it out the same way, with no holds barred. My rough nature has created a lot of friends and foes for me. There are a lot of people who hate me and love me due to my nature,” wrote K.R. Gouri in her autobiography K.R. Gouri Amma . One of the longest-serving members in the Kerala Assembly, Revenue Minister in the first Communist Ministry in 1957 who piloted the historical land reforms Bill, which heralded the end of feudalism in Kerala, Ms. Gouri epitomised the presence of women in the politics of State for several decades. The political history of Kerala and the Communist movement in the State cannot be complete without Gouri Amma or Kunjamma, as she is fondly called by the masses. Born on July 14, 1919 into a wealth family as the seventh daughter of K.A. Raman and Parvathi Amma at Pattanakad in Alappuzha, a rebelliousness was evident in her since early days as an activist. Early days Ms. Gouri entered politics as a student activist and joined the Communist Party of India (CPI) in the mid-1940s at a time when not many women dared to enter politics. It was a time when communists were facing the wrath of British and caste discrimination was rampant. She made her presence felt by urging the then princely State of Travancore to join the Indian Union in 1947. Noted for her revolutionary activism among the poor, working class, and peasants, she was jailed on a number of occasions for political activities and suffered at the hands of the police, especially in her early political career. Ms. Gouri fought the first elections in Travancore in 1948, before the formation of the State, without success. She, however, tasted victory in the elections held to the Travancore-Cochin Legislative Assembly in 1952 and 1954. The first woman advocate from the backward Ezhava community, Ms. Gouri was elected to the Kerala Assembly from the Cherthala constituency in 1957 on the CPI ticket following the formation of the State. Underlining her presence in State politics, Ms. Gouri had contested in all Assembly polls between 1957 and 2011, tasting victory 11 times and losing three times.  From a diminutive grass-roots worker of the Communist party, she became the first and only woman Minister in the Communist government led by E.M.S. Namboodiripad. That was the beginning of a long and vibrant journey in Kerala politics, which had seen her donning the role of people’s representative, Minister in various governments, farmers’ leader, trade unionist, and women’s leader. Apart from the land reforms Bill, another major contribution to modern Kerala was that she helped draft and present the Women’s Commission Bill and Anti-Corruption Bill in 1987. Despite her political stardom, Ms. Gouri's private life was subject to public scrutiny. After the split in the CPI in 1964, she joined the newly formed Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)]. Her husband T.V. Thomas, also a Minister in the first Communist government, stayed with the CPI. They had issues in their private life and the couple separated on ideological grounds. By the late 1980s, Ms. Gouri’s image as a fearless Communist and an adored administrator reached its pinnacle. Although she was widely touted as the party’s choice for chief ministership in 1987, the top post went to E.K. Nayanar after the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) victory in the polls. Apart from the CPI(M) sidelining her for the Chief Minister’s post, she never made it to the central leadership of the party, despite her ability and stature as a tall leader. Her utterly unyielding attitude did not make things easier. According to political observers, being a woman and belonging to a backward community might have played a part in her getting sidelined in the party. Exit from CPI(M) Her relationship with the CPI(M) soured and she was expelled from the party in 1994. The former Communist firebrand formed Janadhipatya Samrakshana Samiti and joined the United Democratic Front. She went on to become a Minister in the UDF government in 2001. However, in the final years, she left the UDF and backed the LDF. With the demise of the revolutionary leader, curtains fell for a chapter in Kerala politics as she was the last in the generation of political leaders who shaped the cornerstones of the present State, being part of the first elected Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-leader-who-shaped-the-destiny-of-modern-kerala/article34538855.ece
12 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||A female icon of revolution||In the last public appearance on the occasion of her 100th birthday in Alappuzha in June 2019, veteran leader K.R. Gouri wearing her trademark white sari shared her story to a jam-packed auditorium. “I don’t know whether I will live to celebrate another birthday. But I will raise my voice till my last breath for empowering women and will remain in the forefront of the fight against atrocities being committed against them,” she told in a quavering voice. Among the many facets of her character, what made Ms. Gouri the tallest woman leader in the State and a distinct politician was her incomparable courage, sacrifice, determination, and unwavering spirit. Her traits remained her strength until the end. Education Born into a well-off family, she received quality education, a rarity for girls at the time, thanks to her loving and caring father. Her education included schooling at Thirumala Devaswom School, Thuravoor, and English School, Cherthala, and higher education at Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, St. Teresa's College, Ernakulam, and Government Law College, Thiruvananthapuram. Her college days, especially her years at Government Law College, had driven her to the Communist ideology. Later, she started practising law at a court in Cherthala and entered politics under the influence of her brother and trade union leader K.R. Sukumaran. According to her autobiography, she was made a member of the Communist Party of India by P. Krishna Pillai. Soon she fought her first elections in Travancore in 1948 and lost. The party was banned and she along with other members were incarcerated. Ms. Gouri who was initially lodged at the Cherthala police station was later shifted to the Central Prison, Thiruvananthapuram. Along with other comrades, Ms. Gouri defied adversities to build the party in the State. She created her own space and personality in a male-dominated political spectrum, becoming an inspiration for generations of women. She always stood and tirelessly worked for what she believed, be it the uplift of the poor, caste discrimination, rights of women, farmers’ welfare, and so on.  Women’s wall When the Left Democratic Front (LDF) with the support of various social organisations decided to organise a women's wall for gender equality and to protect the renaissance values in January 2019 following the Supreme Court verdict allowing the entry of women of all ages to Sabarimala, Ms. Gouri was among the first to declare her support. On the day of the event, she stepped out of her house at Chathanad in Alappuzha to join the wall at Shavakottapalam, but she could not travel there, feeling exhausted after walking a few steps. But she was not ready to return home and asked her aides for a chair. She sat on the chair by the roadside in front of her house for more than an hour until the event concluded. She later said: “I took part in the women’s wall as it was for a good cause.” That showed her determination for one of the causes she championed all through her life. No woman politician in Kerala would have gone through such an ordeal of being the talk of the town, when her relationship with T.V. Thomas fell apart ideologically and in private life. With the resoluteness of an ‘Iron Lady,’ she toed the party line. Formation of JSS Three decades later, in 1994, when Ms. Gouri was expelled from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] alleging ‘anti-party activities,’ it was not for her to capitulate. Undaunted by the expulsion from the party for which she had even sacrificed her family life, the veteran leader launched her own political outfit, Janadhipatya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS). In November 2015, Ms. Gouri, who lived most of her life as an atheist, drew flak for attending a ‘naari puja’ in a temple, in which she was worshipped as a goddess. A female icon of revolution, her life, which was bedecked with an illustrious political career, many struggles, and the fights that she waged are part of the history of modern Kerala and will inspire generations to come.  I will raise my voice till my last breath for empowering women||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-female-icon-of-revolution/article34538857.ece
12 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||2,460 people test positive in Alappuzha||COVID-19 cases continue to spike in the district with 2,460 people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. It also recorded one COVID-19-related death. Of the fresh cases, 2,451 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of five others remains unknown. Three persons who came from other States and one health staff were also diagnosed with the disease. The test positivity rate stood at 25.70%. Meanwhile, 1,708 people who were undergoing treatment in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stood at 26,439. On Tuesday, the police registered 46 cases and arrested 22 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 778 people for not wearing face masks, 656 people for violating physical distancing norms, and 12 people for violating quarantine norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2460-people-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article34539093.ece
12 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Now, local destinations set to drive tourism||With a slump in international travel apprehended following the pandemic outbreak, lesser-known local destinations are expected to drive the tourism sector. The trend was witnessed when the tourism sector was reopened after the first wave of COVID-19, wherein lesser-known tourist spots received a large number of visitors compared to the main destinations. Sign of shift Tourism stakeholders say a sign of the shift was seen nearly a decade back with group visitors from abroad also preferring them. “The crowded tourism spots are no longer preferred by international and domestic tourists. They prefer countryside, hill destinations, and rural landscape,” says Rajeshkumar, consultant with a tourism agency having its office in Munnar. The sector in the district is on a downward slide since the 2018 floods, he says. District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) secretary Gireesh P.S. says it may take a long time to restore the normal arrival of international tourists. Like domestic tourists, they will be avoiding crowded centres in the post-COVID period. Domestic and international tourists prefer farm tourism and hill destinations instead of adventure tourism or entertainment programmes. Mr. Gireesh says lesser-known tourism destinations which recently gained prominence are Aruvikkuzhy, Panchalimedu, and the Ripples waterfalls at Sree Narayanapuram. These destinations received more tourists when they were thrown open after the first wave of the pandemic. He says this trend was witnessed for nearly a decade as Wagamon and Ramakkalmedu emerged as main tourism destinations after Munnar and Thekkady. Entertainment activities are not available at lesser-known destinations though an ambience for a peaceful leisure time is there. Visitors may prefer places having a large area and with less crowds. Now, 12 destinations under the DTPC are remaining closed in the district in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic. According to officials, 2,47,392 tourists visited the destinations in Idukki in 2019. A total of 1,41,396 tourists came to the district during the post-lockdown period last year. “There is an uncertainty over the opening of tourism centres in the present situation. After the lockdown last year, resorts and hotels were opened and maintenance works were done. Now we are quite anxious. We are waiting for the pandemic to subside for the situation to ease out,” says a manager of a resort in Munnar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-local-destinations-set-to-drive-tourism/article34538827.ece
12 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||892 new cases in Wayanad, TPR surges to 25.96%||As many as 892 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Tuesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district was going up and the TPR on Tuesday was 25.96%, said District Medical Officer R. Renuka. The TPR on Monday was 18.66%, she added. Of the new cases, 880 patients, including nine health workers, were infected through local contact and 12 people had returned from other States. Recoveries The district has so far reported 49,315 COVID-19 cases, including 2,693 cases from the Scheduled Tribe community. Of those, 34,311 people have recovered from the disease, including 665 persons on Tuesday. The total number of active cases was 13,917. As many as 35,464 persons were under observation, said Dr. Renuka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/892-new-cases-in-wayanad-tpr-surges-to-2596/article34538837.ece
12 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Plant to scale up oxygen production||Balco Air Products at Pappinisseri near here which provides oxygen cylinders to hospitals, has decided to scale up the production following an increase in demand due to the surge in COVID-19 cases in Kannur and Kasaragod districts. The production unit has a capacity to supply 300 oxygen cylinders every day. However, with an increase in COVID cases, the demand has increased to 500 cylinders, said Dileep P. Nair, CEO, Balco Air Products. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that earlier, the company was getting empty cylinders from Mangaluru. However, after they stopped supply, the company was meeting the increasing demand by getting cylinders from Kozhikode and Palakkad. “We were planning to expand and had already installed machinery to produce about 200 cylinders and now this can be put to use to meet the demand,” he said. He said the Balco plant produced oxygen through an air separation system. Such oxygen was 99 percent pure, he said. Mr. Dileep said the new facility would collect liquid oxygen in a large tank and fill the cylinders. It would not be difficult to get oxygen even to small hospitals in Kannur and Kasaragod districts. 14 cylinders an hour The plant was producing 14 cylinders in an hour. However, with the increasing requirements, it would be scaled up to 30 cylinders per hour, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plant-to-scale-up-oxygen-production/article34538834.ece
12 May 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Two auto drivers ferry over 2,000 COVID-19 patients||Despite the COVID-19 restrictions, two autorickshaw drivers in Nileswaram have been working to help affected patients for over a year. C.Hareesh Karuvacheri, 48, and Ratheesh,42, have helped over 2,000 patients from various parts of Nileswaram, Kanhangad municipality, and Charavathur panchayat since the first wave of COVID-19 outbreak. They came forward to help COVID-19 patients, when ambulances fell short and other drivers refused to take the patients to hospital after they were confirmed positive for the disease. Mr. Hareesh recalled that he took the first patient in his autorickshaw in March last year. The driver, who brought the patient to the hospital, refused to pick him up after knowing that he was positive for COVID-19. Since then, the number of calls for taking people to hospitals and to testing centres have only increased. During the first wave, there were just 10 cases a day, but now they were handling over 30 cases a day, he said. “Since we have been working for the past one year, people call us directly or they approach us through Asha workers to take them to the hospital,” said Mr. Ratheesh. He said calls would come even in the wee hours and sometimes at midnight. But there was great satisfaction when the people recovered and called them back, he said. Though their families were initially reluctant, they now extended complete support to both of them. Their service also helped them to take care of the family during the pandemic as they charged a nominal fare from the people for taking them to the hospital and back home. Fare waived However, they ensured that no poor person was affected due to lack of transport facility. They waived the fare for them. Interestingly, the virus never affected them, despite their transporting several COVID patients. All that protected them was their mask and the sanitiser that they used regularly. Inspired by their initiative, five more auto drivers have joined them. Mr. Hareesh coordinates with other drivers whenever a call is received from people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-auto-drivers-ferry-over-2000-covid-19-patients/article34538836.ece
12 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,000-bed COVID field hospital coming up at Ambalamugal||The district administration, National Health Mission (NHM) and Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) are working in tandem to ready beds with oxygen supply, including at a 1,000-bed COVID field hospital that is being readied at KRL School, Ambalamugal, with the support of BPCL, to provide medical support to COVID patients who cannot be confined to their houses. Visiting the upcoming facility that is slated to become fully functional in a fortnight, District Collector S. Suhas said on Tuesday that this would become one of the biggest of its kind in the country. Over 100 beds which have been readied here will become functional from Thursday. The first phase of interviews to recruit doctors and nurses to the facility is over, said officials of the District Health Mission. Major hospitals will be entrusted with the task of operating such facilities. Patients who are covered under the Karunya health insurance scheme too will be provided COVID medical care here. Those who participated in an online meeting that was held on Tuesday to assess the progress of work on the facility include Chief Manager of BPCL Kurian Alappat and officials of government departments concerned. Sources in BPCL said that the agency would supply oxygen manufactured to the desired purity to the upcoming field hospital. Portable equipment “A total of 100 beds have been readied on the premises. We have planned a total of 1,500 beds, including 500 in buildings. Apart from beds having piped oxygen supply, there would be portable medical equipment to tend to patients. Ambulances will be kept ready to shift patients whose health condition does not improve despite being given oxygen, to regular hospitals,” said an NHM official. The field hospital is being built using two rows of ‘German tents’. Efforts are on so that private hospitals can manage the facility as their annex, while providing their doctors and nurses, he added. Officials and engineers of the LSGD did the groundwork to identify open spaces and unoccupied halls to arrange temporary healthcare facilities for those who are COVID positive and need better medical care. “Our engineers ready the design and space within each cubicle. We have been using our own and Plan funds allocated for different projects to set up these medical facilities, considering the pandemic situation,” said an official of the Kochi Corporation. In the first half of 2020, it was the responsibility of PWD (Buildings wing) to identify vacant buildings to house COVID-treatment facilities. It had identified around 2 lakh rooms. The task was subsequently handed over to the LSGD.  The hospital will become one of the biggest of its kind in the country S. Suhas District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1000-bed-covid-field-hospital-coming-up-at-ambalamugal/article34538842.ece
12 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||TPR rises to 30.03% in Ernakulam||Ernakulam recorded a total of 4,514 new COVID cases on Tuesday, with a test positivity rate of 30.03%. The district’s active caseload stands at 65,284. Of the 15,033 tests done on the day, 5,753 were RT-PCR tests. Fourteen health workers have tested positive. Thrikkakara continues to record the maximum number of infections with 142 new cases, followed by Thripunithura and Palluruthy with 139 each. Piravom recorded 101 new cases, Fort Kochi 96, Rayamangalam 91, Chengamanad 89, Vengola 88, and Kadungalloor 81. The source of infection could not be determined in 150 cases. As many as 5,200 people were considered to have recovered on the day. While 274 people were discharged from hospitals and other treatment centres, 468 new admissions were made. Of the people recovering from the infection, 56,186 are at home, 2,595 are at private hospitals, 88 patients are recovering at INHS Sanjivani and 1,221 are at FLTCs, SLTCs and domiciliary care centres. A total of 680 patients are admitted at COVID treatment centres at 12 government hospitals. A total of 447 patients are admitted in intensive care units. Going by a release from the district administration, a total of 1,911 out of 3,900 beds are available for COVID treatment in Ernakulam. Of these vacant beds, 1,114 are at 30 domiciliary care centres, 459 are at first-line treatment centres and 130 are at second-line treatment centres. At government hospitals, 207 out of 975 beds are available. So far, the district has seen a cumulative number of 2,47,550 COVID cases, and 540 people have succumbed to the infection, according to figures from the State Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-rises-to-3003-in-ernakulam/article34538847.ece
12 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||49% of people above 45 get first shot||Around 49% of people over the age of 45 in the district have taken the first dose of the vaccine with 5.78 lakh of the total 11.76 lakh people in the age group availing themselves of the facility. Over 1.06 lakh have taken the second. Over 4 lakh people were scheduled to take the second dose soon, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination. Additional stock would have to be made available to start administering the first dose to people who haven’t taken the shots, he said. Although people had to wait at vaccination centres for hours to be allotted tokens for the second dose, the online slot booking system could not be reintroduced, Dr. Sivadas said. Since changes could not be made locally to the CoWIN portal, slot bookings only for the second dose cannot be allowed on the portal. The district was prioritising people for the second dose. If slot bookings were opened up, it would be available to everybody, leading to confusion, he said. The district was also awaiting additional stock to set up separate centres for people who took their first shot at private hospitals and were awaiting their second shot. On Tuesday morning, the district had 28,230 doses of the two vaccines remaining (15,660 doses of Covishield and 12,570 doses of Covaxin). A total of 13,189 doses were administered on Tuesday at 89 vaccination sites. On Wednesday, only 16 vaccination centres would be operational, since sufficient stock is available only for these, Dr. Sivadas said. So far, a total of 9.17 lakh doses of the two COVID vaccines have been administered in Ernakulam. While a total of 7.08 lakh people have taken the first dose, 2.09 lakh people have taken the second dose as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/49-of-people-above-45-get-first-shot/article34538840.ece
12 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fishers’ forum asks community members to exercise caution||The Kerala Paramparagatha Matsya Thozhilali Samithy, representing fishers in the traditional sector, has called on the fishing community to impose upon itself more restrictions and follow physical-distancing norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19 as Ernakulam is seeing massive surge in the pandemic cases. Secretary of the Samithy P.V. Jayan said that even the opening of harbours, even partially, as it is happening now, would help the chances of COVID-19 spread. He said that fishing boats of different sizes manned by two to 45 people are now venturing out, even on a limited level. When they come back to the shore, there is difficulty in following the COVID-19 protocol. At the same time, there is a crisis-like situation in the inland fisheries sector brought about both by the spread of COVID-19 and the deteriorating condition of the backwaters around Kochi. P.N. Babu, convener of the Vembanad Kayal Samrakshana Samithy, said that the backwaters were shrinking. There is a sharp drop in catch, which has accentuated the crisis facing inland fishers in the wake of the spread of the pandemic. He said that there was demand for inland fish from consumers despite the lockdown. But the fish catch had dwindled and the price of fish was going up. Package sought Meanwhile, Charles George of Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedhi claimed that oil sardine landings on the Kerala coast had shrunk to about 35,000 tonnes (provisional figures) during the last financial year. This is down by more than 10,000 tonnes compared to the previous financial year. “There is a crisis-like situation. The fish drought is serious,” he said as he called on the government to declare a package for the coastal community even as rations and special provision supplies were helping them. The dwindling catch has resulted in the price of all varieties of fish going up sharply. While there is little oil sardine available, what has been passed for the favourite fish in Kerala is the lesser sardine (Karichaala), which is now selling for about Rs. 280 a kg. Shrimp price is up at about Rs. 550 a kg and premium quality seer (king) fish is being sold for over Rs. 1,000 a kg. Mr. Jayan also said that Kochi harbours were being hosting mostly boats coming from outside the district. It is the common practice for fishers come by road to different harbours and then venture out into the sea. However, the practice of crowded buses and transport vehicles increase the risk of COVID-19 spread, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-forum-asks-community-members-to-exercise-caution/article34538844.ece
12 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||30 local bodies yet to take action against roadside waste dumping||Thirty grama panchayats in Ernakulam have failed to take steps against dumping of waste in public places, according to an assessment by the Local Self-Government Department. The erring local bodies include Ayavana, Elankunnapuzha, Avoili, Valakom, Aarakuzha, Kadamakudi, Payipra, Kaloorkad, Mulavukad, Manjaloor, Alangad, Aaradi, Vengoor, Okkal, Chottanikkara, Koovapadi, Varapuzha, Udayamperoor, Rayamangalam, Kadungalloor, Karumalloor, Cheranalloor, Vengola, Nedumbassery, Chittattukara, Ezhikkara, Vadakkekara, Kottuvalli, Choornikkara and Edathala. The performance evaluation of the waste management scenario was held in April. The department has pulled up 18 local bodies for not acting against dumping of waste in waterbodies. The grama panchayats figuring in the list include Elanji, Elankunnapuzha, Arakuzha, Malayatoor-Neeleswaram, Kalloorkad, Alangad, Vengoor, Mulanthuruthy, Varapuzha, Udayamperoor, Karumaloor, Cheranalloor, Kindimana, Kottapadi, Kavalangad, Chittatukara and Kottuvalli. The department has directed the Director of Panchayats to ask for an action-taken report from these local bodies. The Deputy Director of Panchayats in Ernakulam has to direct the secretaries of the local bodies to remove waste in public places and waterbodies without delay. A performance audit of these local bodies must be carried out by supervisors deputed by the Deputy Director of Panchayats. A report on the action taken against those responsible for the dumping of waste along public spots and waterbodies should be submitted before the department. The assessment revealed that the local bodies that include Ayavana, Avoli, Arakuzha, Payipra, Kaloorkad, Manjaloor, Alangad, Maradi, Varapuzha, Rayamangalam, Karumaloor, Kadungalloor, Cheranalloor, Chittatukara and Kottuvali have failed to act against open burning of waste. The local bodies have to entrust the junior superintendent/assistant secretary/head clerk to initiate action against those responsible for open burning of waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-local-bodies-yet-to-take-action-against-roadside-waste-dumping/article34538849.ece
12 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rural police step up control room activities||The Ernakulam Rural police have intensified measures to check the spread of the raging pandemic. The control room set up at the district police headquarters to coordinate the activities to fight the pandemic has been further scaled up. It collects the details of those testing positive every day in rural limits by contacting the Health Department and handover the details to police stations concerned. The control room has been entrusted with an assortment of tasks, including arranging the transportation of infected patients to either first-line treatment centres or hospitals, organising food and medicines for those in need, updating superior officials about the positive cases being reported. Tracking the movement of trucks carrying oxygen cylinders, ensure that they reach their scheduled destinations without hiccups, surveillance of oxygen filling points, ensuring pilot and escort for vehicles transporting oxygen cylinders, collecting data of hospitals in need of oxygen, monitoring those in quarantine with the help of the COVID safety app, and checking whether the e-passes issued were genuine are also the responsibilities of the control room. “The control room receives hundreds of calls a day. Majority of the calls sought assistance for ambulance, medicines, treatment and e-pass. Calls of migrant workers are being addressed in their languages,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). A special highway patrol has been deployed for the delivery of medicines during the lockdown. The team available round-the-clock has by now delivered medicines in more than a hundred places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-police-step-up-control-room-activities/article34538848.ece
12 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic-induced spike in biomedical waste||COVID-related biomedical waste generated in the State shot up from an average daily quantity of 1,452 kg in March last to 11,312 kg in April this year, according to the estimates by the Indian Medical Association Goes Eco Friendly (IMAGE). The total daily average of biomedical waste (including COVID-related waste) recorded a massive spike since March last year. From a daily average of 34,078 kg in March, the waste generated reached 54, 512 kg in April this year. IMAGE, an initiative of the Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association, has been operating its Common Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility at Palakkad from 2003 onwards. “We cater to about 16,900 healthcare institutions across the State in government and private sectors. The Palakkad facility, based on the incinerator model, has the capacity to treat nearly 55 tonnes of biomedical waste daily,” said Sharafudheen K.P., secretary of IMAGE. The worsening pandemic scenario has resulted in a massive spike in biomedical waste generated in the State. With IMAGE’s Palakkad facility unable to handle the increasing quantity of waste, the government has given its nod to start the operations of a common biomedical waste treatment facility under the Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd in Ambalamedu here. Official figures revealed that the daily generation of biomedical waste was above 50,000 kg from September last year. October witnessed the highest quantity of an average 55,307 kg daily. The average daily quantity showed an increase from 52,551 kg in March to 54, 512 in April this year in tune with the surge in COVID cases following the second wave. COVID-related average daily waste, which included masks, gloves, PPE kits etc., went up from 10,911 kg in March to 11, 312 kg in April this year. “As per our estimates, the average quantity of biomedical waste generated in government hospitals was nearly 660 g per bed while the corresponding figure in private hospitals was nearly 188 g. The data showed that government hospitals were generating a higher quantity of biomedical waste compared to private hospitals,” pointed out Dr. Sharafudheen. The bar-coded collection bags and containers provide IMAGE with a real-time monitoring of the collection and transportation process daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-induced-spike-in-biomedical-waste/article34538845.ece
12 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Police set to tighten curbs||The Ernakulam Rural police are set to further tighten restrictions in places where the test positivity rate is on the higher side. K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), said that more police personnel will be deployed in such areas for stringent enforcement of the lockdown. The police have so far issued 2,630 e-passes on 20,692 applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-set-to-tighten-curbs/article34538841.ece
12 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MLA sets up help desk for patients||T. J. Vinod, MLA, has set up a help desk that will home deliver free medication to COVID-19 patients facing financial difficulties. The help-desk will connect people recovering from the infection at home to doctors over the phone. The doctor-on-call facility is being set up in collaboration with doctors from hospitals across the city. The help desk can also be contacted for an ambulance or vehicle in case of emergency. People in isolation at home and facing mental health issues can also use the helpline to access counselling facilities, said a note from the MLA’s office. For counselling services, the help-desk is collaborating with Sahrudaya, a charitable organisation supported by the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese, and the Women and Child Development Department.  The help desk can be contacted on: 0484-3503142.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-sets-up-help-desk-for-patients/article34538838.ece
12 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Details of vaccine stock sought||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday sought the response of the State government to a plea for posting the stock and supply details of COVID-19 vaccines on the Jagratha portal. The Bench comprising Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan and Justice M.R. Anitha passed the directive when a public interest litigation seeking a directive to disclose the available stock of vaccines with the Centre and State governments came up for hearing. The petition sought a directive to the State government to post weekly supply calender of vaccines meant for all health centres, vaccination centres and private hospitals on the portal. The crowding at vaccination centres could be checked if data on the number of vaccines being supplied to each vaccine centre was published. According to the petition, lack of information about the available number of doses had led to chaos and crowding in various vaccination centres. In fact, the refusal of vaccine manufacturers to disclose their production capacity had created a lot of confusion. If the manufacturers could not disclose their actual production capacity, the possibility of duplicate vaccines entering the market could not be ruled out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/details-of-vaccine-stock-sought/article34538808.ece
12 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Steady rate of recoveries in Kozhikode||Kozhikode district has been reporting a high rate of recoveries from COVID-19 infection even though the daily test positivity rate (TPR) seems to be hovering above 25% almost every day. A total of 4,890 people were discharged from various health facilities on Tuesday, while 3,927 others tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The daily TPR was 27.28% when 15,204 samples were tested. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 3,842 cases of local transmission of the infection, of which 1,454 were from the Kozhikode Corporation alone. Kunnamangalam reported 99 cases, Unnikulam 98, and Feroke 90. The active caseload from the district is now 48,252. Health Department officials claimed that 1,056 of the 3,221 beds were vacant at 56 hospitals designated for COVID-19 treatment. There are 76 beds with intensive care units and 23 ventilators. A total of 345 beds have oxygen support. As many as 486 beds are available at 10 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs). Meanwhile, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said local bodies had been asked to purchase oxygen concentrators to ensure the availability of medical oxygen for COVID patients. The Kozhikode Corporation would buy 25 units, municipalities five each and grama panchayats two each. This was decided at an online meeting held on Tuesday. Mr. Rao said local bodies needed to ensure that the last rites of infected persons were conducted. A total of 38 local bodies in Kozhikode had their own facilities. If a grama panchayat does not have the facility, the adjacent local body should be contacted. The District Collector warned of action against traders overcharging for food products. Mr. Rao said people aged above 50 years and exhibiting symptoms should be shifted to domiciliary care centres or FLTCs. If bedridden patients have any symptoms, they too should be shifted to the FLTCs. Mobile medical units should be ready to take care of those in home isolation. All FLTCs should have ambulance services. Mr. Rao also directed local body chiefs to ensure that migrant labourers were taken care of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steady-rate-of-recoveries-in-kozhikode/article34538832.ece
12 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Private hospitals in the dark about vaccination||Government hospitals in Kerala will have to handle COVID-19 vaccination alone for at least another couple of months. Hospitals in the private sector have not had any vaccine stock for weeks now and manufactures have told them that direct procurement may take six months. According to Sheba Jacob, joint secretary, Kerala Private Hospitals’ Association (KPHA), many private healthcare firms have already paid money to the manufacturers for the vaccine. “A large majority of private hospitals had stopped vaccination in April itself when shortage was reported. They exhausted the stock by April-end or May first week. When the Centre modified norms to allow private hospitals to directly procure the doses, some of our members had approached Serum Institute of India for Covishield. They were told to wait for six months,” she said. Ms. Jacob said that though the KPHA members later approached the State government to get the vaccine, there was no clear response. New orders on hold The manufacturers are now learnt to be meeting only pre-booked orders from the government. With the demand for vaccines going up in the wake of the second wave of the infection, new orders are put on hold. Sources said that import of vaccines would also take time because it will require an approval from the Centre and cold-storage facilities. Apollo Adlux Hospital, Angamaly, Ernakulam, has reportedly begun the vaccination drive again. The institution is part of the Apollo Hospitals group, which bought Covaxin doses directly from Bharat Biotech. Price hike unlikely Meanwhile, KPHA functionaries indicated that the vaccination charge might not have to be hiked. Private hospitals had been charging Rs. 250 per person, with Rs. 100 marked as service charge. Ms. Jacob claimed that at least some members were willing to waive the service charge now. “Our members have realised that the effort should be to vaccinate maximum number of people, especially those in the 18-45 age group who are more vulnerable to the infection,” she added.  With the demand for vaccines going up in the wake of the second wave of the infection, new orders are on hold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-hospitals-in-the-dark-about-vaccination/article34538829.ece
12 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Textile sector suffers a blow, yet again||The sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases across the State and the resultant lockdown have pushed textile dealers in Kozhikode to the brink, as they are facing the biggest losses in the last four to five years. The unexpected loss was the result of dealers stocking up aggressively for the Ramzan season, expecting to make amends for the loss they experienced over the last few years due to the Nipah outbreak, two floods and COVID-induced lockdown last summer. Usually, shops remain open until early morning during the last days of the Ramzan season to accommodate last-minute shoppers. For the textile market here, it used to be the most profitable season, next only to Onam. The COVID-19 situation had eased considerably during the months of January, February and March and the textile dealers anticipated a good Ramzan sale. “Most textile shops had purchased stocks worth crores of rupees and had even borrowed additional spaces to keep their stocks for the season. But the situation turned upside down by the end of April and most textile shop owners are now drowning in debt,” said K. Sethumadhavan, district general secretary of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi. The merchants are in various stages of liability. Some have suppliers calling them relentlessly for payment while some are being troubled by loan sharks. “Many merchants are on the verge of suicide,” said Arshad Abdulla, head of a prominent textile house in Kozhikode. The Samithi had appealed to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan earlier this month to allow textile and footwear shops to open for a few days in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol. But the Chief Minister was not ready to take the risk. The dealers have appealed again to allow textile and footwear shops to remain open from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. for the two last days of Ramzan. “If we get the last two days, we will be able to cut down losses by at least 10%,” said Mr. Sethumadhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/textile-sector-suffers-a-blow-yet-again/article34538833.ece
12 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||BJP leadership under fire for poll debacle||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State and district leadership has come under severe criticism for the shoddy performance of the party in Kozhikode in the Assembly polls. An online meeting attended by State president K. Surendran, former president Kummanam Rajashekaran, State organising secretary M. Ganesh and district president V.K. Sajeevan to review the performance of the party saw participants putting the blame squarely on the leadership for the lack of coordination and ineffectiveness in the elections. Local body polls The BJP, they said, which nominated candidates in all the 13 Assembly segments, had failed to improve its vote share when compared with the performance in the three-tier local body polls held in December. Its popular vote share declined by 2% in the district even as its two candidates in Perambra and Kozhikode South received more votes than in the previous Assembly elections held in 2016. The last time, its partner Bharath Dharma Jana Sena, contested in Kozhikode South and Perambra constituencies. This could be the reason for the increase in the votes, they said. However, two candidates - party zonal president T.P. Jayachandran and State general secretary M.T. Ramesh - increased the number of votes in Elathur and Kozhikode North respectively by over 30,000. Meanwhile, the absence of Mr. Ramesh was conspicuous in the meeting. The party votes decreased to 27,572 from 32,702 in the 2016 polls in Kunnamnagalam where Mr. Sajeevan contested. His entry into the election scene also affected the electioneering works in other segments. Usually, the charge is given to a senior leader when the president contests the polls. A district functionary, M. Mohanan, who was given charge, was in fact overseeing the campaign in Kozhikode North as well. The meeting decided to hold an Assembly-level reviews of the performance of the party before May 20. Several members flayed district level leaders for holding group meetings ahead of the elections. They also demanded disciplinary action against them. Most of the participants said that both State and district leadership had lost links at the grass-roots level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-leadership-under-fire-for-poll-debacle/article34538830.ece
12 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Id-ul-Fitr tomorrow||Muslims across the State will celebrate Id-ul-Fitr on Thursday marking the end of the month-long Ramzan fasting. As the moon sighting heralding the Islamic month of Shawwal was not reported on Tuesday, various khazis of the region, including Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulema president Muhammad Jifri Muthokoya Thangal, its general secretary K. Alikutty Musaliyar, and Kozhikode khazi Muhammad Koya Thangal and Syed Nasar Hayy informed that Id would be celebrated on Thursday after completion of 30 days of fasting. Joint Mahallu Jamaat khazis Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musaliyar and Syed Ibrahim Khaleel Al-Bukhari also informed that the Id-ul-Fitr would be celebrated on Thursday. The khazis also called upon Muslims to observe Id prayers in their households in view of the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/id-ul-fitr-tomorrow/article34538850.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital marks highest single-day deaths at 35||Marking the district’s highest single-day spike in the number of deaths, the COVID-19 death toll rose by 35 on Tuesday, taking its cumulative toll to 1,152. The deaths that occurred between May 4 and 9 were of people whose ages ranged from 94 to 26. The case fatality ratio (CFR), which has marginally deceased during the last few days, currently stood at 0.62. Kozhikode (703) and Kannur (0.42) trailed Thiruvananthapuram in terms of death toll and CFR respectively. TPR at 27.45% The number of active COVID-19 cases in Thiruvananthapuram mounted to 39,705 when 3,700 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. A test positivity rate (TPR) of 27.45% was recorded when 13,478 people were subjected to tests. Ten health care workers were among those who were diagnosed with the disease. 2,831 recover While most of the fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection, the source was unknown in 403 cases. A total of 2,831 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. The district authorities placed 4,568 people in quarantine on the day, taking the total number of people being monitored to 95,115. As many as 4,397 people were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period without exhibiting any disease symptom. Containment zones Meanwhile, new containment zones were declared in Navaikulam grama panchayat (fully) and in Amboori ward in Amboori grama panchayat. The district panchayat will on Wednesday formally launch its help desk stationed at its headquarters to boost the COVID-19 containment efforts. The public can seek various assistance, including food, treatment, medicine and emergency ambulance service, through the round-the-clock facility. The help desk can be contacted at 9400310017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-marks-highest-single-day-deaths-at-35/article34538801.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||12 train coaches ready for isolation of patients||Twelve non-air-conditioned three-tier sleeper and general class coaches have been modified into isolation units in Kerala as part of efforts to curb COVID-19. The Thiruvananthapuram railway division has converted four coaches and has positioned them in Ernakulam South. The Palakkad railway division has converted eight coaches and has placed them in Palakkad Town for those in need of quarantine. Railways’ initiative comes at a time when the beds and ICU units in government and private hospitals are getting exhausted across the State following the surge in cases in the second wave of the pandemic. Facilities available A total of 192 beds are available in the 12 isolation units readied by the personnel of the mechanical wing of the two divisions. The isolation units have been set up in eight of the nine cabins in a coach. The first cabin has been converted into a paramedical area. Middle sleepers have been removed from the eight cabins. Thus, only 16 infected persons can be accommodated in each unit. Extra bottle holders, extra 3 peg coat hooks, mosquito net on windows, and three dustbins in different colours with foot-operated lids are available. The isolation units positioned in Ernakulam will be managed by the government and those in Palakkad Town by the Railway Hospital. So far, Railways have made available more than 4,400 coaches with around 70,000 beds to serve as isolation units. These coaches can be easily moved and positioned at places of demand on the railway network. “Requisition has not come so far from the State for these units,” Nitin Nobert, Area Manager, Ernakulam, said. Last year, 97 coaches — 65 from Thiruvanathapuram division and 32 from Palakkad division — were modified into isolation units in Kerala at a cost of Rs. 35,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-train-coaches-ready-for-isolation-of-patients/article34539095.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local bodies take novel steps to check virus spread||With Kerala decentralising its COVID-19 management strategy, enterprising local bodies have gone beyond predetermined guidelines to set innovative examples to help contain the spread of the virus. While many panchayats have launched help desks and war rooms to keep track of bed occupancy and oxygen availability, some have brought private entities on board to benefit the local populace. In Kozhikode’s densely populated Azhiyoor grama panchayat, the authorities have collaborated with medical stores to deliver medicines at the residents’ doorstep. Besides bringing succour to the indisposed, the initiative also prevented the public from coming out in large numbers for medicines. Bordering Mahe, the 9.77-sq.-km. panchayat has a population density of around 3,580 people per sq. km., much higher than the State average of 859. Battling a worrying spread of the coronavirus of late, the COVID-19 test positivity rate there stood at 34%. Several migrant labourers involved in the Mahe bypass construction also reside in the area. “Notwithstanding the lockdown, several people used to venture outdoors for medicines. This prompted us to rope in all the 12 medical stores here to supply medicines at 10-20% discount. Now, there are not many people leaving their homes,” says panchayat secretary T. Shahul Hameed. ‘COVEHICLE’, launched by Karadka block panchayat in Kasaragod, has enabled the residents of seven high-range grama panchayats to utilise the services of taxis to transport COVID-19 patients, their contacts and other patients to hospitals free-of-cost or at subsidised rates. Panchayat president Sigi Mathew said the existing fleet of 32 vehicles had undertaken nearly 6,000 trips within five days. Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) Director General Joy Elamon pointed out that local bodies had seized the opportunity to play a major role in COVID-19 management by breaking the confines of conventional local governance. KILA has been at the forefront of imparting panchayat leaders with the technical knowledge on handling the evolving scenario. In addition to distributing check lists, the institution had organised training on facets of COVID-19 management, Dr. Elamon said. Community kitchens will soon come up in local bodies that do not have Janakeeya hotels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-take-novel-steps-to-check-virus-spread/article34539091.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fish auctions get a makeover in capital||Fish auctions have come under tight leash along the coastal belt of Thiruvananthapuram district. The police have deployed teams to enforce social-distancing norms and regulate entry in such areas that are prone to a COVID-19 spread of alarming proportions. The City police have evolved a system involving circles drawn on sand using chalk powder by way of which the auctioneer stands at the centre and the bidders are positioned in circles around him at a safe distance. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Vaibhav Saxena said that the arrangement fostered COVID-appropriate behaviour and marked a shift from the conventional method when fish auctions witness motley crowds of buyers jostling to bid for the day’s haul at fishing landing centres. At the Valiyathura fish market, the police have been regulating entry to prevent overcrowding. Besides, no vehicles were permitted within the market area. While the market used to witness the presence of around 200 people on an average during auctions, the number has significantly come down. “The regulations that were arrived at through deliberations held with fishermen and auctioneers have began to attain results. We have succeeded in taking the local populace into confidence,” says Shangumugham Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Nazeer M.A. Winds of change The winds of change have also reached the Vizhinjam fishing harbour where the harbour committee hand-picked over a hundred volunteers to enforce the pandemic norms at all times, especially during the auctions that take place twice or thrice a day depending on the catch. Vizhinjam station house officer Ramesh G. said volunteers operate round the clock and assist the police in enforcing physical distancing and frequent sanitisation. Vehicles that enter the harbour are screened at the entry points, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-auctions-get-a-makeover-in-capital/article34539099.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||K.R. Gouri’s unflappable role in realising Technopark||Technopark, the IT hub in the State capital that today employs thousands of professionals and accounts for the bulk of Kerala's software exports, owes a lot to the vision and unflinching resolve of K.R. Gouri who passed away on Tuesday. The blueprint for Electronics Technology Parks, Kerala — the little-known expansion of 'Technopark' — was drawn up by the industrialist and technocrat K.P.P. Nambiar. As Industries Minister in the March 1987-June 1991 LDF government led by E.K. Nayanar, it was Ms. Gouri who ensured the availability of land for setting up Technopark, India's first IT park. Quick action The founder-CEO of Technopark G. Vijayaraghavan, who had then signed on as Officer on Special Duty — Technology Parks, recalls how, with just a phone call and a set of terse instructions, Ms. Gouri guaranteed 50 acres for the project. The Technopark team had zoomed in on an ideal location on the sprawling University of Kerala campus at Kariyavattom after several other proposals bit the dust. On being informed about this possibility, the Minister summoned G. Sudhakaran (who later became a Minister) and Devadas, the CPI(M) members in the University syndicate, says Vijayaraghavan. ''She informed them that Technopark was an important project and it required 50 acres. When they tried to say something, she said 'the decision was taken, get it done'”, recalls Vijayaraghavan, who later became Technopark's first CEO. The University syndicate and senate soon approved the land transfer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kr-gouris-unflappable-role-in-realising-technopark/article34538806.ece
12 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State case graph shows a declining trend||The State’s COVID-19 case graph continued to show a slowdown in growth. However, test positivity rate stays over 25%, which means that disease transmission will continue to create a huge caseload. The State registered 37,290 new cases on Tuesday when 1,99,748 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The average test positivity rate registered 26.77% on Tuesday. The State’s active case pool, which had showed a dip on Monday, climbed back to 4,23,957 cases on Tuesday. Hospitalisations continue to increase. The number of patients currently being treated in hospitals has risen to 34,149 with 4,007 persons newly admitted to hospitals. ICU admissions continue to rise and another 46 persons who were critically ill were newly admitted to ICUs. A total of 2,687 persons are occupying ICUs across the State, threatening to breach the health system’s capacity. A total of 1,400 patients are on ventilator support now, the numbers going up day by day. The State reported 32,978 recoveries. Another 79 deaths which had occurred over the past few days were added to the State’s official toll, taking the cumulative death toll to 5,958. At present, a total of 9,59,164 persons have been put in home or institutional isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-case-graph-shows-a-declining-trend/article34538859.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vaccine at 27 centres||The vaccination drive will be undertaken across 27 public health institutions on Wednesday. These include 17 centres for Covaxin and 10 for Covishield. General Hospital, Thycaud Women and Children Hospital, Nedumangad District Hospital, Neyyattinkara General Hospital and Pulayanarkotta Chest Diseases Hospital are some of the centres that will administer Covishield. Besides the Fort Taluk Hospital and Valiyathura Coastal Speciality Hospital, the other institutions that will provide Covaxin include Chirayinkeezhu taluk hospital, primary health centres (PHC) in places including Amachal, Balaramapuram, Chemmaruthy, Kallikkad, Malayadi, Poozhanad and Vattiyurkavu, and community health centres in Kanyakulangara and Pulluvila. While certain vaccination centres, including the one at the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport, Corporation health clinic and mental health centre are not open for the public, the one at Amboori PHC will be restricted for the tribal population in the area. Only 1,177 people were inoculated on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-at-27-centres/article34538802.ece
12 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Virus variants causing breakthrough infections||The first study on the phenomenon of breakthrough SARS-CoV-2 infections among health-care workers in the State has found that these individuals were infected by virus variant B.1.1.7 (a Variant of Concern) and variants with E484K and S477N mutations in spike protein, which are associated with immune escape. The genomic analysis study of virus samples collected from health-care workers who developed infection two weeks after they had received the second dose of vaccine was done by the IGIB, New Delhi. The pre print, “Genomic survey of SARS-CoV-2 vaccine breakthrough infections in healthcare workers from Kerala,” appears in OSF Preprints (https://osf.io/85ndu/). COVID-19 vaccines are an effective and potent tool to bring the pandemic under check. However, no vaccines are 100% effective in preventing infection. Another reason for people getting infections after they are fully vaccinated is when the infections are caused by circulating virus variants, with potential immune escape mechanism, which might reduce the efficacy of vaccines. These are called “vaccine breakthrough infections.” Considering that the efficacy against symptomatic infection, post 15 days of the second dose of Covishield, with a 28-day inter-dose interval, is reported to be 76%, it should be expected that a small percentage of fully vaccinated people may still get infected, researchers noted. “What is most important is that all of them had only mild symptoms and that none progressed to a serious disease, which confirms that vaccines are effective in preventing serious disease or death due to COVID-19,” said Vinod Scaria, Principal Scientist, IGIB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virus-variants-causing-breakthrough-infections/article34538860.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Oxygen concentrators in police ambulances||State Police Chief Loknath Behera on Tuesday launched the distribution of oxygen concentrators meant to be installed in police ambulances. As many as 20 police districts will be provided an oxygen concentrator each under the scheme. The facility will benefit both the police and the public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oxygen-concentrators-in-police-ambulances/article34538804.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3,79,618 travel pass requests||The police received 3,79,618 applications for the e-Curfew passes as on 6 p.m. on Tuesday. Of these, 44902 passes have been issued, while 2,89,178 were turned down. As many 45,538 applications were being scrutinised, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/379618-travel-pass-requests/article34538803.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for stake transfer in BHEL-EML||The Centre has given its approval for the transfer of Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited’s (BHEL) 51% stake in Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited-Electrical Machines Limited (BHEL-EML) in Kasaragod. Set up as a joint venture of the Central and State government in 2010, the Centre has 51% stake and the State 49% in the unit manufacturing rotating electrical machinery. The Department of Heavy Industry (DHI), Union Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, has communicated the approval of competent authority for transfer of the BHEL’s 51% stake to the Principal Secretary, Industries, on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-stake-transfer-in-bhel-eml/article34538852.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One arrested with spurious liquor||The Pallickal police on Tuesday arrested one person on the charge of possessing spurious liquor. The accused has been identified as Asokan, alias Sindhukuttan, of Madavoor. Equipment used to brew arrack was also seized from his house. The police apprehended Asokan with alleged possession of 6.5 litres of arrack and 10 litres of ‘koda’ (undistilled spirit).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested-with-spurious-liquor/article34538799.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In shock||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-shock/article34539097.ece
12 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Severe shortage of doctors in Anantapur||There is a shortage of doctors in Anantapur district even as the number of active cases has been on the rise, putting inordinate pressure on the available government facilities. In the 19 Community Health Centres, Government Hospitals and Area Hospitals managed by the Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad, there are supposed to be 292 doctors (sanctioned) of all cadre, but of them, only 128 have been filled and 164 are vacant, District Coordinator of Hospital Services (DCHS) N. Ramesh Nath said. Of the 128 functional doctors, many are periodically turning COVID positive and they are given 15 days quarantine, putting further pressure on the government healthcare system in the rural areas. In the Primary Health Centres at the grassroots level, of the 234 medical officers only 193 are available, 82 lab technician posts are sanctioned, but only 78 are filled; of the 1,203 ANM posts, only 498 are filled and Male Nurses too are in short supply with only 204 of them serving against 428 sanctioned. For the COVID-19 special services, about 1,000 medical and paramedical personnel were recruited recently and majority of them joined service, GGH Superintendent KVVS Venkateswara Rao said and they have been deputed to Super Speciality Hospital, Cancer Hospital and the GGH main hospital. While on the face of it, the staff look too inadequate as many of the doctors and paramedical staff are overburdened and are falling prey to the infection due to continuous exposure in the wards. On the other hand, the number of active cases, which were below 10,000 by April-end, went up to 14,528 on Tuesday, while the positivity rate continues to hover around 40%. The positivity rate, which touched a peak four days ago at 44.99% has come down to 38.50%. Appeal to public Dr. Ramesh Nath appealed to the politicians, non-medical officers and other general public not to go into the COVID-19 wards without taking adequate precautions such as wearing a PPE kit. “Some of them think that just wearing a double mask is enough, but that is inadequate,” he opines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/severe-shortage-of-doctors-in-anantapur/article34539120.ece
12 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doodh Duronto transports mangoes from Tadipatri||Mango growers from Kothacheruvu in the district sent 4.5 tonnes of their produce from Tadipatri to New Delhi in the Doodh Duronto Express that starts from Renigunta. The consignment will reach Delhi within 36 to 48 hours. In the wake of the fruit commanding a good price in the Delhi markets, 4.5 tonnes was sent last week and a similar quantity was sent from Tadipatri on Tuesday. Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah, on a request from District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, arranged transport of the consignment. Lockdown had hit prices of all the horticulture crops and mango was one among them, the Collector said. Locally, the farmers are getting Rs. 14 to Rs. 18 per kg for the ripe mangoes, while it commands Rs. 30 to Rs. 50 per kg in the retail market in Anantapur depending on the size and quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doodh-duronto-transports-mangoes-from-tadipatri/article34539122.ece
12 May 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shortage of specialists, inadequate oxygen supply ‘plague’ VIMS||Judicious use of the available manpower and infrastructure, increasing the number of doctors with specialisation in General Medicine and utilising the services of PG students and junior doctors may result in improvement in services at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), according to sources in the hospital. The number of doctors at VIMS, which was a mere 25 till recently, was increased to about 100, following pressure from various quarters. However, the number of specialists with General Medicine, required to treat COVID-19 patients, is still in a single digit. The oxygen distribution system of the hospital can support only 300 beds but there are over 400 patients, requiring oxygen support, at any given point of time, says a reliable source on condition of anonymity. The triage area of the VIMS should have at least one General Medicine specialist, to decide whether a COVID-19 patient requires an oxygen bed or otherwise. Similarly, after admission and treatment for some days, based on the condition of the patient, the specialist should decide whether the patient could be shifted to a general bed, so that the oxygen bed could be given to another needy patient. The King George Hospital (KGH) has six units of medicine and over 50 doctors with specialisation in General Medicine, at least some of them can be deputed to the VIMS. While some of them are rendering their services at the COVID block (CSR Block) in KGH, the remaining specialists, manning non-essential services, can be deputed here in view of the emergency situation, the source says. Reduced pressure Though the oxygen storage capacity of the VIMS is quite high, the distribution pipeline is long, and patients at the far end of the pipeline are not getting adequate oxygen, which is indicated by the low reading on the wall monitor and the beep sound. This could be due to reduced pressure and it was brought to the notice of the officials concerned. An engineering official, who was deputed to the VIMS to look into the problem, claimed that the pressure was sufficient, without delving deep into the problem, according to the source. Admission delays On Friday evening, patients werereportedly made to wait for over an hour at the VIMS gate, though the CM dashboard was showing that 30 beds were vacant. A case sheet has to be generated through the CM dashboard at the reception for every patient. As the data entry operators are afraid of working in the triage area, the generated case sheets are sent through attendants resulting in delays, the source says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shortage-of-specialists-inadequate-oxygen-supply-plague-vims/article34539146.ece
12 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collectors told to create NREGS work days||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that 20 crore work days were available for workers under NREGS and asked the Collectors to make the full use of the window so that workers could be provided with livelihood during the pandemic. During the weekly review with Collectors and officers, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the government had set a target of completing 16 crore man days by the end of June and so far, only 4.57 crore were completed. He said works for 10,929 sachivayalams were yet to be completed and wanted all the works to be finished. Fifty percent of 10,408 RBKs have been completed, he said and asked the Collectors to focus on the completion of the projects. He also wanted them to focus on YSR Health Clinics as most of the 8,585 clinics planned were yet to be completed. Stating that the government is determined to convert anganwadis into YSR Pre-Primary Schools, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that in 1,230 urban areas they were yet to find places to build schools. House site pattas He praised the efforts of the Collectors in gathering lands for house sites. Pattas were still to be given for 4,220 Tidco houses. Stating that 1.19 lakh beneficiaries were identified, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that officials have to start giving pattas to them. Out of 15.60 lakh pattas issued during 2020, 15.10 lakh were in urban areas, he said, and asked the officials to ensure that the layouts are developed with all amenities, including potable water, paved roads, common spaces, schools and bus stops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collectors-told-to-create-nregs-work-days/article34539135.ece
12 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR, Guntur sets up care centre at Rail Mahal||South Central Railway, Guntur has set up a 70-bedded COVID Care Centre on the premises of Rail Mahal, near Guntur Railway Station (western side). Divisional Railway Manager A. Mohana Raja, Collector Vivek Yadav, Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar and Joint Collector (Development) P. Prasanthi were present. Out of 70 beds, 16 beds are fitted with oxygen supply and nine beds are equipped with oxygen concentrators, which have been arranged by the Collector. The arrangements include pipelines and humidifiers. The Railways said that 40% of the facility is reserved for serving/retired railway employees and their family members. The centre will function as a step down facility for the Government General Hospital, Guntur. On reporting of patients and triaging, patients with mild conditions will be admitted at Rail Mahal and would be transferred to GGH if they are in a serious condition. Further, patients who have undergone treatment at GGH and are improving would be shifted to Rail Mahal so that the GGH beds are released, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-guntur-sets-up-care-centre-at-rail-mahal/article34538609.ece
12 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||APMDC gives Rs. 100 crore to CM’s Relief Fund||The Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation has donated Rs. 100 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Minister for Panchayat Raj and Mines Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy handed over the cheque for Rs. 100 crore to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the latter’s camp office on Tuesday. The contributions were from District Mineral Fund (Rs. 90 crore) and APMDC (Rs. 10 crore). Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, Secretary for PR and RD, Gopalakrishna Dwivedi and MD of APMDC V.G. Venkat Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apmdc-gives-rs-100-crore-to-cms-relief-fund/article34538607.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public should have been given more time for lockdown: HC||Describing sudden imposition of 20-hours-per-day lockdown in the State as ‘knee-jerk’ reaction, the Telangana High Court on Tuesday said the government should have given more breathing time for people to pool up groceries and other essential commodities. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said that other States had given sufficient time before clamping lockdown, so that people made arrangements to meet the situation. The bench issued a slew of directions to Police Commissioners of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda Anjani Kumar, V.C. Sajjanar and Mahesh Bhagwat respectively. They attended the court in virtual mode, after the bench advanced the hearing of PIL pleas on COVID-19 related issues from Thursday to Tuesday, taking into consideration the grave situation due to alarming rise in cases. The bench made it clear to the three Commissioners covering entire State capital and surrounding localities that they should ensure everyone conformed with the COVID-19 rules during the lockdown relaxation time. “No further orders required to be passed in this regard,” the CJ said. The police must ensure all people adhered to COVID-19 related restrictions on the day of Eid-ul-Fitr as well. The bench directed the police to video record the festival celebrations on Friday at prominent places and present the same to the court while furnishing the next status report by May 17. Earlier in the morning, the bench expressed dissatisfaction over the response of the State machinery to check further spread of coronavirus in the State. The bench said that the government presented a “rosy picture” claiming that everything was “hunky dory” while the “ground reality was completely different”. The government went to town tom tomming everything was safe. Media reports galore about violations of social distancing and wearing face masks especially in Old City of Hyderabad. What were the local police doing when social distance and face mask rules were being thrown to winds?, the bench said. “We will hold the top officials responsible for this… buck should stop at the top officer,” CJ Hima Kohli observed, directing the three Commissioners to come back to it with plans of action to check violations of COVID-19 rules and congregations of people in the name of religion and festival. “Is religion more important than humanity?” the CJ said. The bench said it had been receiving feedback about COVID-19 rule violations from different quarters and sections. Media reports also confirm those inputs. While night curfew begins at 9 p.m, people were congregating from 6 p.m. Owners of business establishments were continuing their activities even after 9 p.m. through the backdoor, the bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/public-should-have-been-given-more-time-for-lockdown-hc/article34538548.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mad rush at liquor shops||A hotspot for regulars of alcohol, as soon as the announcement of lockdown in the State went on air around 2.30 p.m. was liquor shops where they landed within minutes. They were buying their choice of brands in dozens, almost half emptying the shops by 4 p.m. The bulk purchasers were found to be hoarders who sold the bottles in black market. The rush subsided gradually after 5.30 p.m. when the government came up with a fresh announcement that liquor shops will also be allowed to be kept open from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. like all other trade from Wednesday. The shops also displayed flexis with the timings of business. Until then, the crowds had swelled at the shops requiring the intervention of police. Long queues started forming within no time of announcement of lockdown as shopkeepers kept expressing helplessness to meet the demand for popular brands and handing over to the disappointed customers whatever was left. The salesmen across the counters went on telling everyone that they can try their choice of brands after a few hours when the next consignment of stock was expected. The crowding at shops contributed to traffic jams caused by people rushing back home on learning about lockdown. A shop owner said they expected imposition of lockdown but not as early as Wednesday. They felt it might be only after Eid on Friday. No one made any attempt to indent larger load in shops. He said the window of 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. for business was too small as it might not even fetch them a revenue to break even. It was not the right time for business of this nature because a large chunk of customers were daily wage earners who get money at the end of their work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mad-rush-at-liquor-shops/article34539051.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors flag possible shortage of drugs for Black Fungus treatment||ENT surgeons in the city have flagged a possible shortage of a specific anti-fungal medicine used in treatment of Mucormycosis, which is increasingly being detected among post-COVID patients. A few corporate hospitals are already facing shortage of the injection used in the treatment. Earlier, the fungal infection was rare. But, currently, it is being detected in comparatively more number of patients, mostly post COVID, leading to a sudden demand for the anti-fungal medicine. National Task Force for COVID-19 and experts have stated in an advisory that Mucormycosis is a fungal infection that mainly affects people who are on medication for other health problems that reduce their ability to fight environmental pathogens. Sinuses or lungs of such individuals get affected after fungal spores are inhaled from the air. The doctors have pointed at a link between indiscriminate use of steroids, high sugar levels, and activation of Black Fungi. Specialist doctors said it is easy to put a check on the fungal infection, also called as Black Fungus, if people are aware of the symptoms, consult ENT specialists on time, and keep blood sugar levels in check. Cost of vials An anti-fungal medicine used in the treatment of the fungal infection costs anywhere between Rs. 3000 and Rs. 7000 per vial. Senior ENT Consultant at Apollo Hospitals, K. Rambabu said that depending on a patient’s condition, and considering other parameters, four to six vials would be used per day. “And it has to be given for minimum of 10 days. So, a minimum of 40 vials are required to treat a patient. Its availability has to be constantly monitored so that critical patients get it on time,” Dr Rambabu said. He and his colleague Madhav said earlier, most Mucormycosis cases were treated primarily in big corporate hospitals after smaller hospitals refer the patients to them. The corporate hospitals used to request the pharma firms for medication, and the latter would then cater to the needs through their pharma supply chain. “Now with COVID entering the battlefield, this whole system has been disrupted. Every corporate hospital in India is working above its full capacity. Thus, the patients being treated for COVID in smaller hospitals once infected with Mucormycosis are not able to find any beds in the corporate hospitals. The toughest challenge with Mucormycosis is the need for treatment at least within 48 hours [of the symptoms showing],” Apollo’s ENT surgeons said. Monitor blood sugar An ENT Surgeon at Aster Prime Hospitals, B. Sushmitha stressed that people should know symptoms of the fungal infection to avoid serious complications. “Parasthesia (altered sensation), swelling of eyes, numbness in cheeks, dryness of nose and severe headache, which do not come down with medication and nasal discharge with blood traces are some of the symptoms of Mucormycosis. The headache will give one sleepless nights. Checking blood sugar levels regularly and keeping it under control is extremely important. It is easy to put a check on Black Fungus if people monitor their blood sugar levels and do not neglect warning symptoms,” Dr Sushmitha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-flag-possible-shortage-of-drugs-for-black-fungus-treatment/article34539037.ece
12 May 2021||Hyderabad/ Suryapet,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana lets regulated entry for A.P. vehicles||After being pulled up by the High Court for not allowing ambulances and other vehicles carrying COVID-19 patients from Andhra Pradesh to cross the inter-State border, Telangana police on Tuesday partially allowed the movement of vehicles on Tuesday. However, ambulances from Maharashtra were not allowed in Mancherial district. At Pullur toll gate on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border in Jogulamba-Gadwal district, police were checking every vehicle before permitting them to cross the border and reach Hyderabad. “Today we got instructions not to stop any vehicles, especially ambulances, even if they don’t have prior confirmation of bed from the hospital,” an officer on field said. He said that in the morning they did not let the medical emergency vehicles from the Rayalaseema region, especially Kurnool and Kadapa district. “Earlier, the decision was taken by the senior officers to contain the spread of virus in the State capital,” another officer said. Since Sunday night, dozens of ambulances with COVID-19 patients in it were queued on the border with Telangana police not permitting them to enter the State, and drive on to reach Hyderabad, without any confirmation of bed. Many were sent back. The Ramagundam Police in Mancherial district ‘sealed’ the Maharashtra border, despite not receiving any specific orders from the government, and continued not to allow the vehicles. “We cannot allow them into the town and spread the virus. There is a severe shortage of beds and oxygen here. With ambulances parked on the roadside, COVID-19 patients from Maharashtra are spreading the virus,” a senior police officer said. He said that unless the family members of the patient get confirmation about the bed from any of the hospitals, they were stopped at the border and sent back. However, the situation was totally different on the Maharashtra borders in Nizamabad, Kamareddy and Adilabad districts, where police did not put any restriction and allowed all the vehicles. “There is free flow of vehicles from Madnoor check post. Our personnel conduct temperature and allow the vehicles into the district. The practice of checking the body temperature is going on since there was a surge in cases COVID case in Maharashtra earlier this year,” Kamareddy SP N. Swetha said. Nizamabad DCP (Law and Order) K.C.S. Raghuveer maintained the same. In Suryapet district, the curbs on the movement of ambulances coming from AP were lifted at the inter-State border checkpost at Ramapuram crossroads late on Tuesday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-lets-regulated-entry-for-ap-vehicles/article34538556.ece
12 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E. Godavari to get temporary 300-bed hospital soon||East Godavari district authorities have chalked out an action plan to set up a 300-bedded temporary hospital in Rajamahendravaram city to meet the requirement of additional beds for COVID-19 treatment. The decision was taken in the backdrop of denotifying many private hospitals that were designated as COVID hospitals in the city. “A decision has been taken to set up a temporary 300-bedded hospital in Rajamahendravaram city. Oxygen production would soon commence on the Andhra Paper Mill campus,” East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said at a press conference. Authorities have also finalised talks with an oxygen production firm in Peddapuram to produce oxygen and its daily production capacity will be sufficient to fill 480 cylinders daily. “The requirement of medical oxygen for private hospitals in Rajamahendravaram will be met from the Peddapuram unit within a week,” Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said. The district’s daily need of oxygen is 156 kilolitres, officials said.  “We have been directed by the State government to provide the second dose to individuals on a war-footing,” Mr. Muralidhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-godavari-to-get-temporary-300-bed-hospital-soon/article34538610.ece
12 May 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala HC seeks response on licensing of vaccines||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to respond to a plea for invoking compulsory licensing to allow other capable vaccine manufacturers to produce COVID-19 vaccines. The Bench comprising Justices Raja Vijayaraghavan and M.R. Anitha passed the directive when a public interest litigation petition in this regard came up for hearing. Scarcity of vaccines The petition said the scarcity of vaccines was mainly due to the inability of manufacturers of the vaccines to ramp up their production. All capable Indian companies could be allowed to produce vaccines by invoking the compulsory licensing. In fact, this had been approved by the World Trade Organization (WTO). Countries were free to issue compulsory licences during emergencies. Besides, compulsory licensing had been permitted under the Patents Act of 1970. The countries were also free to decide what constitutes an emergency. Patent owner The patent owner must be suitably compensated. So there was no scope of a backlash from Geneva, according to the petitioner. The petition said Section 92 of the Act empowered the Central government to issue compulsory licences in case of a national emergency and for public non-commercial use. Deadly virus A deadly virus, killing 4,000 plus Indians a day did qualify for invoking the provision. India could even override patents on Pfizer and AstraZeneca and other vaccines, the petitioner contended. Moreover, the rigours of protection of intellectual property right as per the TRIPS agreement could be relaxed with respect to life saving medicines, in case of national emergency as decided by the Doha Summit of WTO in 2001, the petitioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-hc-seeks-response-on-licensing-of-vaccines/article34538558.ece
12 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,ANDHRA PRADESH||He enriched Malayalam literature and cinema||Madampu Kunjukuttan, who contributed greatly to Malayalam literature and cinema as a writer of exceptional skills, died of COVID-19 at a private hospital in Thrissur on Tuesday. He was 79. Madampu, who had been ailing for some time, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 when he was hospitalised following fever and breathing discomfort on Sunday. He wrote much-talked about novels such as Ashwathamavu and Bhrasht and penned the scripts of some fine films, including a small-budget one that took the box office by surprise and another that fetched him the national award. And yes, he was also an actor, who dabbled mostly in character roles, despite making his debut as a hero. It was as a writer that Madampu first caught attention. He made a splendid debut with Aswathamavu , which was serialised in Mathrubhumi weekly. “I remember reading the novel when it was being published in the magazine and was very impressed with his narrative style and characterisation,” says critic M.M. Basheer. “It was a brilliant debut. Though he wrote a few more significant novels, I feel he could have been an even greater writer had he focussed more on literature.” Yet, he followed Aswthamavu up with Bhrash t , which told the remarkable tale of Kuriyedath Thathri. Among his notable novels are Mahaprasthanam , which won him the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award, Avignamasthu, Mararasree, Om Shanthi Om and Amruthrasya Puthra.  Though he debuted in cinema as an actor with Aswthamavu – adapted from his eponymous novel – in 1979, it was nearly a couple of decades later that he started writing scripts and became part of some notable films.  Second coming in films Madampu’s second coming in cinema was facilitated by director Jayaraj. Desadanam was one of the biggest – and unexpected – hits of 1996. Its superb script had a lot to do with it. Jayaraj and Madampu went on to work with some memorable films, including Karunam , which won Madampu the national award, and Shantham . “Our collaboration benefited each other immensely,” says Jayaraj. “Before Desadanam , he had also contributed creatively to the screenplay of my earlier film Paithrukam .” Hailing from Kiralur in Thrissur, Madampu Shankaran Namboodiri came to be known as Madampu Kunjukuttan. Known for his fascination for elephants, Madampu was an expert in Mathanga Leela (science about elephants), Vedas and philosophy. He unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election in 2001 from Kodungalloor on the Bharatiya Janata Party ticket. Kerala Sahitya Akademi president Vaishakhan and secretary K.P. Mohanan condoled the death of Madambu Kunjukuttan. “He was a great writer who skilfully connected Indian mythology with current realities. By telling the story of Kuriyedath Thathri in his book Bhrasht , he portrayed the plight of women in those times and their efforts to fight the discriminative norms. He was part of the reformative movements in the Namboodiri community,” they said. His body was cremated at Madambu Mana at Kiralur with State honours. ( With inputs from Mini Muringatheri in Thrissur )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/he-enriched-malayalam-literature-and-cinema/article34538553.ece
12 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire breaks out at SBI branch in Kurnool||Fire erupted at the State Bank Of India (SBI) Old Town branch in the city on Tuesday morning. District Fire Officer V. Sreenivasa Reddy said that the fire, started at 9 a.m., was brought under control by 11 a.m. Entire furniture, air conditioning machines, printing machines and false roofing were gutted, but the cash chest was safe, he said.  Property loss The loss of property was estimated at Rs. 10 lakh, the DFO said. An electrical short-circuit is suspected to be the cause of the fire. Thanking the fire personnel team, the DFO said their timely action prevented damage to other properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-breaks-out-at-sbi-branch-in-kurnool/article34539123.ece
12 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic disrupts auction of tobacco for second year in a row||Tobacco farmers of Nellore and Prakasam districts are at their wits’ end as the coronavirus pandemic that dashed their hopes of a good return last year has hit the auction of the produce this year too. There will be no auction of tobacco till Saturday in D.C.Palli and Kaligiri in Nellore district as the Tobacco Board staff members and workers have contracted the infection, according to the crop regulator. COVID protocol The Tobacco Board, which has been conducting the auctions across the 11 platforms in the Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil (SBS) regions in strict adherence to the standard operating procedure (SoP) evolved by the Centre, has decided to scaled down the trading activity in nine other auction platforms as well so that farmers, farm workers and staff members do not fall a prey to the infection. Tobacco Board SLS Regional Manager D. Venugopal said that soon after the auctions commenced in the middle of March, only 600 bales of produce have been traded so far. “In smaller auction platforms such as Kanigiri, only 200 bales are being traded per day while it is around 400 bales for bigger auction platforms like Kandukur,” Mr. Venugopal told The Hindu . Meanwhile, the farmers are divided on the decision of suspending the auction process. “One section of farmers and exporters are urging the Tobacco Board to suspend auctions till the month-end when overseas orders are likely to get confirmed. But, another section of farmers who are under pressure to clear their crop loans fears that the price of the produce may go on a downward spiral if the auction is stopped,” said V.V. Prasad, a farmer leader from Ongole. “We want the Tobacco Board to ensure active participation of exporters who are adopting a wait-and-watch policy in the auction process,” said YSRCP ryots’ wing Prakasam district president Mareddy Subba Reddy. SBS Regional Manager B.Manjunath said that they were auctioning the minimum number of tobacco bales, in strict compliance with the COVID guidelines. Average price Despite a late start of auctions this year, farmers are able to market 10.35 million kg of tobacco at an average price of Rs. 163.23 per kg in the SLS auction platforms and 9.89 million kg at an average price of Rs. 157.40 per kg. The production, according to Tobacco Board sources, has been estimated to be about 70 million kg this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-disrupts-auction-of-tobacco-for-second-year-in-a-row/article34539137.ece
12 May 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No let-up in COVID deaths in Nellore district||While there was no let-up in COVID-related deaths in SPSR Nellore district that reported eight fatalities in the last 24 hours, Prakasam also reported nine deaths taking the combined toll in the region to 1,673. New cases The active case tally crossed the 31,000-mark in the region as 1,673 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 1,130 in Prakasam contracted the disease, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The only positive aspect was that over 2,300 patients were discharged post recovery, thanks to 24x7 treatment provided by health professionals during the period. Alarmed over the disease spreading thick and fast, SPSR Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Rao and Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan led a large number of personnel in enforcing the 18-hour curfew strictly at the VRC centre in Nellore. Those stepping out of their homes without valid reasons were sent back. Observing that treatment in home for patients proved to be detrimental, the Collector advised all those who tested positive to get themselves admitted to COVID-19 Care Centres(CCCs) where their health can be monitored or to designated COVID hospitals. He attributed the late arrival of patients in a serious condition to the increase in death toll of late. “The oxygen level will not go down to alarming level if only patients took treatment in the first four days of testing positive,” he said. The district administration was taking steps to ensure production of an additional 400 oxygen cylinders by reviving defunct industrial units. Fines imposed for not wearing mask In Ongole, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal hit the street and counselled the public on the need to stay at home during the curfew period. The district police registered 5,603 cases and imposed a fine of Rs. 11.67 lakh on those not wearing a mask. As many as 147 vehicles were seized from offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-let-up-in-covid-deaths-in-nellore-district/article34539125.ece
12 May 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVRAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Oxygen on Wheels’ to offer critical care treatment||At least two buses have been converted into mobile hospitals with critical care treatment facilities and equipment for those waiting for admission to the District Government Hospital in Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district. The initiative, titled ‘Oxygen on Wheels’, is the brainchild of Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat, who will launch the mobile hospitals on Wednesday. “Each bus will comprise six seats and run under the aegis of the District Government Hospital staff, including doctors. The mobile hospitals will be equipped with oxygen facility and parked on the DGH campus, providing treatment to those waiting for admission,” said Mr. Bharat. According to East Godavari district official data, there was no availability of beds with oxygen facility in the DHG to allow new admissions owing to huge number of inpatients battling with COVID-19. “The incidences of COVID patients waiting for the beds with oxygen facility came to my knowledge. Such a grim scenario forced me to create an alternative system that ensures temporary medical treatment to save lives. The trial has been a success and services will commence from Wednesday”, said Mr. Bharat. The patient will receive the critical care treatment in the mobile hospitals until a bed is allotted in the hospital. “The ‘Oxygen on Wheel’ initiative will be shared with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy after a few days in order to replicate the model in the rest of the State to address the shortage of beds with oxygen facility in the government hospitals,” said Mr. Bharat. In coming days, local NGOs would be roped in its operation. On the availability of oxygen in the city, Mr. Bharat said the technical team of the Andhra Paper Mill was on the task of resuming oxygen production at the mill. It is expected to commence production of 15 kilolitres daily by Sunday. Once functional, there would be no scarcity, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-on-wheels-to-offer-critical-care-treatment/article34538612.ece
12 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala loses its firebrand woman leader||Legendary leader and former Minister K.R. Gouri, the lone woman member in the State’s first Cabinet, died at a private hospital here on Tuesday. She was 102. Ms. Gouri had been suffering from various age-related ailments for some time. The chief of the Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS), Ms. Gouri breathed her last at 7 a.m. while undergoing treatment, they said. Her mortal remains were consigned to flames with full State honours close to the final resting place of husband T.V. Thomas, Communist leader P. Krishna Pillai, and other revolutionaries near the Punnapra-Vayalar Martyrs’ Memorial at Valiya Chudukkad here on Tuesday evening. COVID-19 norms restricted her final journey to a toned-down event. Apart from politicians and people with police permission, no one was allowed to see their beloved leader one last time. She was cremated in the presence of a small crowd consisting of her family members, leaders of the CPI(M), the CPI, the JSS, and others amidst slogans “Sakhavu Gouri Amma Zindabad” and “Communist parties Zindabad”. Earlier, her body was brought to her house at Chathanad here from Thiruvananthapuram in the afternoon. It was later taken to the SDV School auditorium, where a few hundred people paid their last respects. Leaders pay homage In the morning, her mortal remains were brought to Ayyankali Hall in Thiruvananthapuram for public homage. The government relaxed the COVID-19 protocol for one hour to permit the entry of a maximum of 300 people for the occasion. The body was brought to the hall around 10.55 a.m. after completing formalities at the private hospital where she was under treatment. Prominent personalities, including Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, Forest Minister K. Raju, CPI(M) acting State secretary and LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan, CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran, UDF convener M.M. Hassan were among those who paid their last respects. The other prominent leaders were Adoor Prakash, K.C. Venugopal, K. Muraleedharan, Rajmohan Unnithan, John Brittas, MPs, and a number of MLA-elects, including V. Sivankutty, K.B. Ganesh Kumar, V.K. Prasanth, K. Ansalan, I.B. Satheesh, G.R. Anil, M. Mukesh, Roshy Augustine, and M. Vincent.  (With inputs from   Alappuzha bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-loses-its-firebrand-woman-leader/article34538561.ece
12 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||High test positivity, a challenge||Kerala’s COVID-19 cases appeared to maintain a slowing pattern, but the test positivity rate (TPR) stayed over 25%. The State registered 37,290 new cases on Tuesday after testing 1,99,748 samples. The TPR of 27-28% over three days registered 26.77%. Active cases climbed to 4,23,957 cases after a small drop. Hospitalisations continued to rise and patients in hospitals rose to 34,149 with 4,007 persons admitted on Tuesday. ICU admissions rose with another 46 cases. A total of 2,687 persons were occupying ICUs and 1,400 were on ventilator support. There were 79 more deaths added to the State’s COVID toll. Thiruvananthapuram reported 35 deaths, mainly from May 7 to 9, Thrissur reported 11, Palakkad and Kannur 10 each, Kozhikode six and Kollam five deaths. A total of 9,59,164 persons were on home or institutional isolation. Ernakulam had the highest active cases with 65,283 patients, while Thiruvananthapuram had 39,705 cases and 4,976 hospitalised patients. Among districts, Malappuram had the highest new cases at 4,774, Ernakulam 4,514, Kozhikode 3,927, Thiruvananthapuram 3,700, Thrissur 3,282 and Palakkad 2,959. Kollam had 2,888, Kottayam 2,566, Alappuzha 2,460, Kannur 2,085, Pathanamthitta 1,224, Idukki 1,056, Kasaragod 963 and Wayanad 892 cases. Karnataka on Tuesday reported 39,510 new cases, taking the total to 20,13,193. Of these, 15,879 were from Bengaluru Urban. With 480 deaths, the toll rose to 19,852. As many as 22,584 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 14,05,869. The State had 5,87,452 active patients. The TPR stood at 33.99%. Daily tests stood at 1,16,238, including 1,04,659 RT-PCR tests. Andhra Pradesh reported 108 new deaths, the highest single-day toll, on Tuesday. There were 20,345 infections. Active cases stood at 1,95,102. The TPR of 86,878 samples was 23.42%. Chittoor also reported the highest single-day tally of 2,426 infections in the past day. A total of 298 persons died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, with Chennai alone accounting for 92 deaths, even as the State reported 29,272 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking its overall tally to 14,38,509. The number of young persons dying of the contagion is steadily rising. According to the daily bulletin issued by the Department of Health, 67 persons who died were in the age group of 20-49, five in their 20s, 14 in their 30s and 48 in their 40s. Chennai’s toll stands at 5,368. The number of active cases stands at 1,62,181. Of them, 37,713 patients are under treatment in Chennai. A total of 79,929 persons, including 40,534 persons aged 45-59 and 26,264 senior citizens, were vaccinated.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-test-positivity-a-challenge/article34538550.ece
12 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Low pressure area likely to become cyclonic storm’||A low pressure area that is expected to form over the Arabian Sea around Friday is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. Heavy rainfall alerts have been issued for the Lakshadweep islands on May 13 to May 15, in addition to a tidal wave warning. Parts of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are likely to receive widespread to isolated heavy rainfall on May 14 and May 15. “A low pressure area is very likely to form over the southeast Arabian Sea around May 14 morning. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards across southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area and intensify gradually. It may intensify into a cyclonic storm over east central Arabian Sea around May 16 and continue to move north-northwestwards,” the IMD said in a weather update. Lakshadweep has been put on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on May 13 and orange alert for isolated heavy to extremely heavy rainfall on May 14 and May 15. Orange alerts for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall have been issued for Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam on May 14. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha have been put on orange alert on May 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-area-likely-to-become-cyclonic-storm/article34538564.ece
12 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Telugu Academy to function from Tirupati||The Andhra Pradesh Telugu Academy is all set to function from Tummalagunta in Tirupati as its headquarters. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) has allotted a building to the academy. Academy chairperson Dr. Nandamuri Lakshmi Parvati had written to the TTD, seeking allotment of a building with all facilities free of cost and the TTD allotted a two-storeyed building, along with a godown, to the Academy for three years at a licence fee of Rs. 10,000 a month. Though the allotment was made last year, the academy could not take possession of the building owing to non-sanctioning of funds and non-compliance of certain formalities by the academy. According to TTD rules, it is mandatory on the part of the licensee to take possession of the allotted premises within 15 days of the receipt of orders and pay the licence fees for six months, besides executing a deed. With the delay in sanctioning of funds, Dr. Parvati sought time for the payment of security deposit of Rs. 60,000 towards the licence fee and permit them take possession of the premises in the meantime. The TTD feared that exemption in the case would turn into a precedence to others. It also found that the letter didn’t carry any specific mentioning of the date or period for tendering the security deposit which would attract objections during the annual audit. The TTD permitted the academy to pay the security deposit at a latter date with a rider that it be deposited within six months from the date of occupation of the building and also collect the licence fee from November last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-telugu-academy-to-function-from-tirupati/article34539132.ece
12 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to take up gardening works at Tirumala||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) is planning to take up landscaping gardening works at a cost of Rs. 3.15 crore at Tirumala and has identified Gita park and Sri Padmavati guest house area for grounding the project. It has planned to redesign the Gita park with sit outs, water bodies and paths and grow flowering plants in such a way that it forms the shape of Sankhu and Chakra, the two religious symbols of Lord Venkateswara. At Padmavati guest house area, the remodelling works include providing concrete and tiled pathways, water bodies, pergola-trellis, granite sit outs and gabion walls among other things. Illumination will be provided at both the locations so as to enhance the visual aspects during dusk and in the nights. GMR-RGIA has been entrusted with the task of developing and maintaining softscape works for two years after the completion of the hardscaping works under the supervision of TTD forest wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-take-up-gardening-works-at-tirumala/article34539126.ece
12 May 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati hospital tragedy attributed to stress on medical infrastructure||The death of 11 patients due to disruption in oxygen supply at Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia hospital on Monday night is primarily attributed to the heavy stress on medical infrastructure. The sudden rush of patients requiring oxygen, especially over the last four days, had a cumulative effect. The brief disruption in the flow of oxygen from the tank was said to have caused the incident. Though a tanker from a plant in Sriperumbudur (Tamil Nadu) was scheduled to arrive at 5 p.m., it reached by 8.30 p.m. As the pressure from the ‘near empty’ tank had come down by then, the authorities rushed in to provide oxygen from bulk cylinders. The delay of five minutes involved for the replacement, though unofficially pegged at 25 minutes by the relatives of the victims, caused the disaster. Ruia hospital has 1,028 beds, of which 876 are marked for COVID-19 patients and the remaining for non-COVID cases. However, as the inflow remained unabated in the last four days, the authorities tried to accommodate as many COVID cases as possible even on the non-COVID beds. According to superintendent K. Bharathi, 962 patients were undergoing treatment as on Tuesday morning, with 250 of them tagged as ‘serious cases’. There are many more in the triaging and testing areas. The deceased were among the 135 being treated with ventilator support at the ICU. “Around 40 suffered brief breathlessness due to low pressure from the bulk cylinder when it was being replaced, out of which 11 died,” explained the hospital’s nodal officer Hari Krishna. He said one more tank would be installed in a week. Lack of manpower Though the government has ensured additional supply of oxygen in tune with the rising demand and donors also chipped in with munificent supply of tankers, lack of trained manpower to operate them remains a grey area. Sources in the know of things revealed to The Hindu that only one unskilled, lowly-paid person had been engaged to operate the five to six oxygen tanks installed at Ruia as well as the contiguous Government Maternity Hospital compounds. Meanwhile, newly elected MP M. Gurumoorthy, MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and Mayor R. Sireesha visited the hospital on Tuesday and inspected the measures taken to restore normalcy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-hospital-tragedy-attributed-to-stress-on-medical-infrastructure/article34539141.ece
12 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppn. leaders accuse govt. of negligence||The opposition parties alleged that the negligence by the government led to the loss of lives due to disruption in supply of oxygen at the SVR Ruia Government General Hospital on Monday night. TDP former MLA M. Sugunamma said lack of technical knowledge and and coordination had led to the unfortunate incident. “It is time the government came up with a strategy statement on tackling the pandemic, especially when the demand for beds with oxygen supply facilities is rising exponentially,” she said. Meanwhile, TDP leaders Mabbu Devanarayana Reddy, V. Sankaranarayana, Mahesh Yadav, Munisekhar Rayal, R.C. Munikrishna and Ravi Naidu were prevented by the police when they were reportedly proceeding to the hospital for an update. Commemorating the launch of the annual folk festival at the Thathayagunta Gangamma temple on Tuesday, TDP leaders staged a demonstration at the shrine. ‘Health Minister must quit’ Congress district leader P. Naveen Kumar Reddy demanded the resignation of Minister for Medical and Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas. The party demanded that the government declare a ‘health emergency’ in the State and sought a probe into the incident by a High Court sitting judge. “The government should pay a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to the kin of each deceased,” Mr. Reddy demanded. The police dispersed BJP leaders G. Bhanuprakash Reddy, S. Dayakar Reddy and S. Muni Subramanyam when they visited the hospital reportedly to pay tributes to a member of the district unit of the BJP Dalit Morcha, who died. They alleged that the government was arresting all those who were questioning its ‘inept handling of the issue’.  CPI national Secretary K. Narayana was arrested in Nagari when he was proceeding to Tirupati to take part in a protest by the party. City unit leader T. Janardhan and others were also apprehended by the police when they tried to stage a demonstration in front of the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppn-leaders-accuse-govt-of-negligence/article34539139.ece
12 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||War room formed in Chittoor dist. to monitor oxygen management||Following the Ruia incident, the district administration has hurriedly formed a war room to monitor the requirement, supply and usage of oxygen at various public and private hospitals in Chittoor district. The control room, formed in tune with the COVID Instant Orders 119, will continuously monitor the data pertaining to oxygen in the district, announced Joint Collector (Health) S. Veerabrahmam. Participating in a meeting along with the Revenue Divisional Officer Kanaka Narasa Reddy here on Tuesday, he gave instructions to the special officers to keep an eye on the oxygen supported beds and the inflow/outflow of patients. Oxygen is currently being supplied from a plant in Yerpedu, while two more plants in Chittoor and Vadamalapet will be operational soon. District Industries Centre (DIC) General Manager Pratap Reddy will monitor the arrival of liquid gas arrival from Visakhapatnam, under the supervision of Assistant Collector Abhishek Kumar. Mr. Narasa Reddy instructed the Tahsildars and Deputy Tahsildars (Civil Supplies) to be available 24 x 7 to share real time figures to the administrators. He warned that any lapse on the part of the officials would be sternly dealt with under Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/war-room-formed-in-chittoor-dist-to-monitor-oxygen-management/article34539119.ece
12 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apollo group donates oxygen concentrators||Apollo Hospitals group on Tuesday donated 50 oxygen concentrators to the district administration and also inaugurated a community COVID centre at the Total Health Complex at Aragonda village of Thavanampalle mandal in Chittoor district. The concentrators, having a capacity of 5 litres/minute, will be used to provide oxygen with purity of more than 90%, suitable to COVID and critical care patients. The centre opened at Aragonda, the native village of its Chairman Prathap C. Reddy, has oxygen-supported beds, isolation beds and ICU beds and is staffed with trained healthcare personnel, said Dr. Prathap Reddy during a virtual meeting with Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and Collector M. Hari Narayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apollo-group-donates-oxygen-concentrators/article34539127.ece
12 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APCPDCL proposes hospital for staffers||Andhra Pradesh Central Power Distribution Corporation Limited (APCPDCL) has requested the government permission for constructing a super-specialty hospital at the Guntur circle office compound in an area of 1,000 sq. yards, which could be used by the employees of the Discom and their families. In a letter addressed to the Secretary, Energy Department, the APCPDCL Chairman and Managing Director said the cost of the construction of the building and equipment and infrastructure would be met through funds generated by way of donations from employees and pensioners. Informing that no government or APCPDCL funds would be used for the construction of the proposed super-specialty hospital, he said permission was sought only for occupation of 1,000 sq. yards of vacant land at the Guntur circle office. The need for the project was felt in view of the problems faced by APCPDCL employees at the peak of the pandemic while admitting their family members to hospitals, some of which did not accept credit cards though the hospitals were included in the empanelled list of the Corporation, the letter written by the CMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apcpdcl-proposes-hospital-for-staffers/article34538617.ece
12 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Direct Bharat Biotech to transfer vaccine technology, Jagan urges PM||In what could be termed as an astute move amid the COVID pandemic and growing case load, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct Bharat Biotech to transfer the technology to companies that are interested and capable of manufacturing the vaccine. Mr. Jagan wrote two letters to Mr. Modi detailing the COVID situation and the requirements of the State, on Tuesday. While in one letter he listed out the requirements of the State, in the other, he suggested a solution to the gap between supply and demand for the vaccine. “Considering that the COVAXIN® manufacturing is intended to be ramped up, we would request you to please direct Bharat Biotech to do technology transfer of manufacturing the COVAXIN® and ICMR-NIV to provide the viral strain to whoever interested and capable of manufacturing the vaccine,” he said in the letter. Anyone who could manufacture or was interested in manufacturing the vaccine should be encouraged to do so in larger public interest. Entire manufacturing capacity should be mobilised and put to use in this testing time, he said. It was necessary to explore the possibility of involving all such production firms and enable them with the technology, IPR etc., to deliver the vaccine as quickly and as affordable as possible. This would ensure that IPRs/Patents etc., if any, were not a hindrance, the Chief Minister said. “I therefore request your consideration and intervention on the above suggestions and if implemented will go a long way in encouraging the manufacturers and accelerate supply of vaccines to be made available to the population at large,” Mr. Jagan said. Oxygen supply Mr. Jagan, in another letter, said Andhra Pradesh was drawing 35 MT of oxygen from St. Gobain, Chennai, and 25 MT from INOX, Sriperumbudur (Tamil Nadu). This had to be maintained, otherwise the hospitals would face severe crises. He urged the Prime Minister to increase the allocation of Liquid Medical Oxygen to 910 MT in view of growing demand, and also allocate 20 LMO tankers so as to ensure oxygen supplies to all hospitals to take current patient load requiring oxygen, he said. The average count of cases per day over the last week stood at 20,300, and as of Tuesday, the State had 1,86,695 active cases. “We have taken all the steps necessary to check the infections and provide quality treatment,” Mr. Jagan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-transfer-vaccine-technology/article34538809.ece
12 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scientists issue alert over fruit fly infestation in mango||The scientists of Mango Research Station (MRS) have warned that ready-to harvest crop in different parts of the State have been infested with fruit flies ( Bactrocera dorsalis) , adding the pest attack will bring down the yield significantly if proper measures are not taken. Speaking to The Hindu , MRS principal scientist B. Kanaka Mahalakshmi says fruit fly is one of the deadliest pests that causes extensive damage to crops. “A majority of mango-growers are suffering from lower yield due to fruit flies and the damage accounts for about 27% to 42 % of loss in the harvest. In Andhra Pradesh, the loss has been found to be up to 48% if proper measures are no taken. It also depends upon the variety of mango grown,” she says. The cultivators of rasaalu, panukulu, and other early varieties are, however, less affected by the pest. But, the farmers who have grown varieties such as Banginapalli and Totapuri may suffer losses as the harvesting period begion from April or May, she explains. The expert says that the use of chemicals to control mango fruit fly is harmful to consumers as it leaves toxic residue on fruits. So, the MRS has been promoting pheromone trap technique to check the infestation. Early detection Using the methyl eugenol lure, which is artificially made and mimics the smell of the sex pheromone of the female files, is the best option to lure male flies into traps, she says. Early detection and effective countermeasures can save the crop. The farmers tend to ignore the fallen fruits, which are the source of fruit flies. Collecting the fallen and infested fruits and disposing them would reduce the susceptibility. Ms. Kanaka Mahalakshmi says that some farmers use jaggery and malathion mixture to attract fruit flies and it is yielding better results, the expert says. The scientist says that ploughing the interspaces in the orchard during the summer exposes fly puparia to the sun and kills them. When the mango season is over, these flies move to other fruits and vegetablessuch as guava, citrus, plum, peach, sapota and etc are also susceptible to this pest attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scientists-issue-alert-over-fruit-fly-infestation-in-mango/article34539143.ece
12 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAS officers to monitor oxygen supply from neighbouring States||The Andhra Pradesh government has deputed two senior IAS officers and a retired bureaucrat to supervise the oxygen supply from plants in three neighbouring States, in the wake of the tragedy at SVR Ruia Government Hospital in Tirupati where delay in the arrival of oxygen tanker led to death of 11 patients. Addressing the media on Tuesday, HealthPrincipal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal said the officers would coordinate with the officials in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha and ensure that all the required quantity of medical oxygen reached the State on time. He said Special Chief Secretary Karikal Valaven (Tamil Nadu), Special Chief Secretary G. Anantha Ramu (Karnataka) and APPCB chairman A.K. Parida (Odisha) would oversee the oxygen supply operations in the respective States. Mr. Singhal said the oxygen tanker that was supposed to reach Tirupati by 5 p.m. arrived late, resulting in disruption of supply of the lifesaving gas at the hospital for 15 minutes. As the incident occurred due to the late arrival of the oxygen tanker that was being managed by a private company, the State government has decided to oversee the things from now, he said. He further said that the State had drawn the entire 590 metric tonnes of medical oxygen allotted to it by the Centre and the stock was used in the past 24 hours. “We have been urging the Centre for allocation of more oxygen,” he said. Bed availability He further said that 6,304 of the 6,792 ICU beds in the State had been occupied and that there were no ICU beds available in some districts as of Tuesday afternoon. Of the 23,358 beds with oxygen facility in 636 hospitals, 22,266 have been occupied. Meanwhile, the State has issued a G.O. regarding the same on Tuesday. It also asked DGP D. Gautam Sawang to deploy police teams at eight locations of oxygen plants in the three States to ensure tankers are sent without delay. The Police will provide green channel for the tankers when needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ias-officers-to-monitor-oxygen-supply-from-neighbouring-states/article34539134.ece
12 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC teams to penalise COVID safety violators||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has formed three teams to enforce COVID safety measures in the city. Chief Medical Officer of Health Gita Bhai said the mobile teams would go around the city and take action against people not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance. She said a fine of Rs. 100 would be imposed on people not wearing masks and those not maintaining physical distancing at commercial establishments and other places. In the case of establishments such as shopping malls and complexes, where a large number of people gather, a fine of Rs. 500 would be imposed against those found not wearing masks, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmc-teams-to-penalise-covid-safety-violators/article34538606.ece
12 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu condemns arrest of TDP, oppn. leaders||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national President and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has condemned the arrest of TDP leaders and those of other opposition parties. “There are two sets of laws in the State. One for the ruling party leaders and the other for opposition leaders. The TDP strongly condemns the arrests of the opposition leaders,” he said. Addressing party senior leaders and mandal presidents on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu said that the government, instead of coming to the rescue of the needy patients, was targeting opposition leaders. The police arrested the TDP leaders and CPI national Secretary K. Narayana when they were going to visit the Ruia hospital. On the other hand, the ruling YSRCP leaders were permitted to go into the wards at this hospital. “It is sheer double standards,” he said. Eleven COVID patients died at the Ruia hospital in Tirupati due to lack of oxygen. Other reports were saying that the actual death toll could be 29. The TDP had formed a fact-finding committee. Till now, over 76 patients had died all over the State due to lack of oxygen supply,” he said. The TDP chief said that while other States were buying vaccines in thousands of doses, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was whiling away his time by writing letters to the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-condemns-arrest-of-tdp-oppn-leaders/article34539131.ece
12 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. nod for school project with World Bank aid||The government has given the administrative approval to the School Education Department to take up ‘Supporting Andhra’s Learning Transformation’ (SALT) project with a loan assistance of USD 250 million from the World Bank for supporting various initiatives in school education. A Government Order released to this effect on Tuesday said the administrative nod has been given for implementation of initiatives like Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu (infrastructural facelift), curriculum reforms, improved classroom practices, professional development of teachers and preparing students to be globally competitive by introducing English as a medium of instruction in government schools through SALT, subject to the condition that the department shall avoid increase in the recurring human resource expenditure by keeping the additional recruitment, if any, to bare minimum. Earlier, the Director, School Education had submitted a detailed report to the government stating that the SALT project would facilitate transformation of government schools into vibrant and competitive institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-nod-for-school-project-with-world-bank-aid/article34539144.ece
12 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district records 2,371 new COVID cases, 12 deaths||The Visakhapatnam district crossed the one lakh-mark in the COVID-19 infections, ever since the pandemic broke out and the first case was detected in the city at Allipuram in the last week of March, 2020. In the last 24 hours, the district recorded 2,371 cases taking the total cases to 1,02,320. During the first wave, which is said to be from the last week of March 2020 to the first week of March 2021, the total cases reported were around 59,000, which was spread over a period of almost 12 months. The second wave, which the district administration acknowledged from mid March to till date, which is around 55 days, the district recorded close to 43,000 cases. Analysing the spread of infection, it can be seen that from March to June-end last year, the district recorded around 900 cases. But from July to August-end, the number of cases recorded was around 35,000, with about 25,000 cases being recorded in August alone. Thereafter from September, there was a steady decline and by November the pandemic was under control, with the district recording single digit cases on a daily basis. The active cases, as on March 1 this year, were just 24. “This gives an indication that the surge in cases lasts around two to three months and thereafter, it tappers down. And that is why we have a feeling that the vibrancy may come down by May-end or mid of June,” said District COVID Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar. “But we have to be more careful from the time the curve starts flattening,” he added. The district also recorded 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total death count to 719. The district recorded around 160 deaths from mid of March to till date. With the new cases, the active cases have now gone up to 20,590 and the discharges have gone up to 81,011 with 1,521 discharges in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-records-2371-new-covid-cases-12-deaths/article34539153.ece
12 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy sets up COVID Care Centre at Bheemunipatnam||As part of the Indian Navy’s efforts to assist the general population of Bheemunipatnam in dealing with the second COVID wave, a 60-bed COVID Care Centre has been set up at INS Kalinga, Bheemunipatnam. This facility was dedicated to the public by Tourism Minister and Bheemunipatnam MLA Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday. The Commanding Officer INS Kalinga stated that the centre has adequate facilities to provide treatment to the patients with moderate symptoms from Bheemunipatnam mandal and adjoining areas. Administrative and logistic support, food conservancy services and medical equipment are being provided by the Indian Navy. The centre will be manned by three doctors and 10 nursing staff provided by the Community Health Centre. Towards the maintenance and the running of the centre, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by Cmde Neeraj Uday, Commanding Officer, INS Kalinga, and the Superintendent of the Community Health Centre, Bheemunipatnam, in the presence of the Tourism Minister and the District Medical and Health Officer G. Suryanarayana. The centre has medical facilities to provide care to patients with mild to moderate symptoms. Fourteen out of 60 beds have the provision for oxygen support through cylinders and oxygen concentrators. Suitable accommodation for the doctors and nursing staff near the centre has also been provided to ensure round-the-clock services to patients. In addition to the centre, additional facilities are being created in consultation with the State government. The Eastern Naval Command besides deploying ships for transporting relief material from overseas has also set up a 50-bed COVID Care Centre at INS Eksila, Gajuwaka, for COVID positive Armed Forces Veterans, and another 200-bed COVID Care Centre at Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, for use by a large number of defence civilians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-sets-up-covid-care-centre-at-bheemunipatnam/article34539155.ece
12 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six oxygen cylinders seized||Oxygen cylinders worth Rs. 2,10,000 were seized in a raid conducted at a private company by the officials of the Drugs Control Authority(DCA) at Marripalem here on Tuesday. A decoy operation was ordered by the Joint Director and Assistant Director, DCA, Visakhapatnam, based on a tip-off that illegal sale and black marketing of medical oxygen was taking place at Coromandel Roller Flour Mills beside the National Highway at Marripalem. When D. Sunitha, Drugs Inspector (Vigilance), contacted the company representative for oxygen, he gave her a code ‘00019’ and asked her to collect the cylinder at their firm by disclosing the code. When Ms. Sunitha went to the company premises, the company representative asked for her details and code. He asked her to pay Rs. 35,000 and he gave a bill for that in the name of Sangeetha (on which name she booked the cylinder). Six cylinders (of 10.6 litres capacity) were present in the firm. As the company does not have any drug licence, the six cylinders were seized from the possession of Naveen Gupta, Director of the firm, by Drugs Inspector, Gajuwaka, N. Kalyani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-oxygen-cylinders-seized/article34539148.ece
12 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mini call centre opened at VIMS||A mini call centre was inaugurated at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) by its Director K. Rambabu on Tuesday. The centre will facilitate passing of information to the family members of patients. On admission and allocation of bed, information would be sent to the family members of the patients on their mobile phones. The family members can call the centre to know the status of the patient on a daily basis. A tele-consultation facility was also started at VIMS. The facility would enable senior doctors to monitor the condition of patients in the ICU through video and to extend timely medical aid to patients. Dr. Rambabu interacted with the patients through video and enquired about their health and the facilities at the hospital. Free food is being provided to patients through an NGO. A tea and coffee facility was launched at the hospital for doctors and staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mini-call-centre-opened-at-vims/article34539150.ece
12 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Akshaya Patra distributing food to the needy||The Akshsya Patra Foundationstarted food distribution for needy people in hospitals and at different places. The foundation started this programme all over the country with the help of donors. The foundation is distributing 3,000 food packets every day in the city. The food packets are being distributed at KGH, ENT Hospital, Government Chest Hospital, Government Hospital for Mental Care, Victoria Hospital, homeless people on the roads, GVMC night shelters and at the railway hospital, according to a statement issued by the foundation on Tuesday. Due to the COVID-19 situation, patient attendants and health workers are facing problems for food at the hospitals. Donors can contact on phone number 8184887108.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/akshaya-patra-distributing-food-to-the-needy/article34539149.ece
12 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patient found dead in washroom||Sudarshana Rao, a COVID-19 patient, who was admitted to the King George Hospital (KGH), was found dead in the washroom on Monday night. His son Madhu Kishan lodged a complaint with the KGH Superintendent P. Mythili on Tuesday alleging that the callous attitude of the staff was responsible for his father’s death. He said that his father was admitted to the KGH on May 1. His son said that his father’s pulse rate had improved and they were hoping that he would be discharged in a day or two. He said that his father stopped responding to phone calls from Monday evening. He gained entry into the fourth floor ward and found his father lying dead in the washroom. The ward boys and staff behaved as though nothing had happened, Madhu Kishan alleged. He rushed to the duty doctors and lodged a complaint. When contacted, Dr. Mythili said that the issue has been brought to her notice and she was looking into it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patient-found-dead-in-washroom/article34539151.ece
12 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centurion University launches COVID helpline||The Centurion University of Technology and Management has launched an exclusive Centurion COVID-19 helpline that will act as an interface between a team of medical experts and patients from Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States. Patients can call up either 9059810827 or 9337191210 for COVID-19 consultation. Questions will be asked about active symptoms such as fever, body pains, cough, cold, throat pain, breathlessness, pulse rate and oxygen levels. Details of vaccination, medication and medical test reports will be noted down in a prescribed format. The information thus collected will be given to doctors who in turn would offer appropriate advice to the patients. Those whose symptoms are in an advanced condition will be advised to go to a nearby hospital with oxygen-equipped beds. The helpline has information on how many beds are vacant at each hospital in the region and will advise patients accordingly. “Almost all major hospitals of North Andhra region provide us information on an hourly basis. It is a big advantage for patients as they don’t need to run from one hospital to another inquiring about availability of beds and oxygen. Optimum utilisation of the precious golden hour helps doctors save the lives of patients,” said D.N. Rao, vice-president of Centurion University. Vice-Chancellor G.S.N. Raju and Registrar C.V. Gopinath have been in constant touch with both government and private hospitals in Bhubaneswar, Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam to get accurate information about the availability of beds. “We will run this helpline for at least three months,” said Dr. Gopinath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centurion-university-launches-covid-helpline/article34538616.ece
12 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release test results within a day: CITU||CITU Vizianagaram district general secretary T.V. Ramana on Tuesday urged the State government to provide medical test reports for COVID-19 within 24 hours to enable patients avail timely treatment. Mr. Ramana alleged that the Health Department was taking more than a week to inform people about their COVID-19 test results, and said that the delay was proving to be costly. Along with other CITU leaders and activists, he staged a protest at the Collectorate here on Tuesday. Mr. Ramana also sought appointment of more doctors and medical staff to provide treatment to patients at COVID-19 hospitals and care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-test-results-within-a-day-citu/article34538614.ece
12 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulance drivers warned||Vizinagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Tuesday warned that the government would take stern action against ambulance drivers and owners who were collecting hefty amounts from families of deceased COVID patients.  People who have grievances can lodge complaints with Motor Vehicle Inspectors JVSS Prasad (91542-94414) and U. Durga Prasad (91542-94615).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambulance-drivers-warned/article34538613.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Looking for silver lining||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/looking-for-silver-lining/article34539157.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Marching on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/marching-on/article34538619.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Self-service||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/self-service/article34539129.ece
12 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR to blame for the worsening of the situation, says Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has blamed Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for the worsening health situation in the State and pointed out that the Chief Minister had always belittled the Congress that warned him on the Corona situation and the need to be prepared to tackle it. Mr. Vikramarka also demanded that the government include COVID-19 treatment in Arogyasri as promised by the Chief Minister in the Assembly when he had raised the issue during a discussion on the subject.  ‘Immune to misery’ Speaking to reporters here, he said the Chief Minister had become immune to people’s misery even in the pandemic and was engaged in a political witchhunt when people were dying without access to oxygen and hospital beds. He charged the CM with having killed all the systems in the State with no power left with ministers and officers. The entire power and decision making is concentrated with him, he added. People are paying the price for Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao’s hunger for power, he alleged and pointed out how the elections to urban local bodies were conducted blindly ignoring all the warnings of existing pandemic. Mr. Vikramarka demanded that a monitoring committee of senior IAS officers be constituted immediately to oversee distribution of vaccines, conducting COVID tests, treating the patients ensuring enough supply of oxygen and medicines on daily basis. “Why is Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar alone entrusted with all the responsibilities,” he asked. He said there was no shortage of money as the government presented a Rs. 2.30 lakh crore budget this year despite lockdown last year. All that the government lacks is political will and concern for people’s lives. “Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao lacks both these,” he charged and demanded that enough funds be provided for treatment of COVID-19. The CLP leader also suggested that the treatment of the epidemic be decentralised with primary health centres equipped with 30 oxygen beds each to reduce pressure on the district hospitals and those in Hyderabad. This will also reduce financial pressure on the poor people affected with the disease. He also wanted the government to set up isolation centres in each constituency. Charging the Chief Minister with lack of concern, he reminded that as CLP leader he had toured all the government hospitals in the State last year and brought to the notice of the government that the medical system was crippled, but the CM just ignored the suggestions. “If he had taken that ground report seriously we could have handled the present situation comfortably,” he said. Now the CM talks of recruiting 50,000 medical staff on temporary basis. KCR is too egoistic to take suggestions from anyone, including ministers, officers and opposition parties, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-to-blame-for-the-worsening-of-the-situation-says-bhatti/article34539063.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State logs 4,801 cases, 32 deaths||A total of 4,801 coronavirus cases and 32 deaths were reported in Telangana on Tuesday, taking the infection tally and toll to 5,06,988 and 2,803, respectively. With another 7,430 infected persons declared recovered, the number of recoveries have gone up to 4,44,049. The active COVID cases on Tuesday evening were 60,136, including those in home and institutional isolation. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department on the status of COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, a total of 75,289 samples were tested. Reports of 2,878 samples were awaited. Of the samples tested on Tuesday, 49.5% were of primary contacts and 12.2% of secondary contacts of infected persons. As usual, the Greater Hyderabad region and its surrounding areas continued to contribute a major chunk of the daily positive cases and leading the table with 756 cases followed by Medchal-Malkajigiri (327) and Rangareddy (325). Other districts such as Nalgonda (254), Warangal Urban (215), Khammam (196), Nagarkurnool (189), Karimnagar (172), Vikarabad (163), Mahabubnagar (162), Mancherial (150), Warangal Rural (145) and Peddapalli (142) were also major contributors to the virus spread. Based on the active cases, the State had a total of 109 micro-containment zones on Tuesday with a majority of 16 in Hyderabad followed by 15 in Kumaram Bheem-Asifabad, 12 each in Siddipet and Warangal Urban and 10 in Jogulamba-Gadwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-logs-4801-cases-32-deaths/article34539033.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown announcement triggers exodus of workers||Confusion prevailed among workers and contractors about what will remain functional once the 10-day lockdown kicks in. “The building is almost complete. We don’t know whether the workers will be allowed to stay here and work. If we have to stop work, it will delay our schedule,” said a builder supervising the construction of an apartment complex in Attapur. The announcement of lockdown has triggered an exodus of migrant workers hailing from the surrounding areas of Mahabubnagar, Shadnagar, Mahabubabad, Yadadri and other areas. A large number of people thronged the Jubilee Bus Station in Secunderabad and Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station in Imlibun on Tuesday. “I was planning to go to my hometown near Pune but this has caught me unawares. I am confused about what to do as there is no work and I will have to pay rent, electricity bill and other expenses,” said Mahesh, a plumber. Migrant workers from UP, Bihar, Rajasthan and other States have been moving out of the city over the past one month. Immediately, after the announcement of the lockdown, the Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers demanded a relief package. “We want the Centre and State government to announce an economic and social support packages so that the drivers and rider community working with platform-based transport companies are not affected,” said Shaik Salauddin of IFAT. “Besides, a waiver of loans or moratorium on the financial commitments of workers should be included in the PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana scheme,” said Mr. Salauddin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-announcement-triggers-exodus-of-workers/article34539046.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Humanity blooms amid COVID gloom||Some people are rising above religion, caste and creed, reaffirming our faith in humanity when all we hear during COVID-19 pandemic are instances of unscrupulous elements cashing in on the calamity. These are voluntary organisations and people coming forward to perform the last rites of the deceased belonging to different religions, especially at a time when even kin are shying from doing so. Bilalpur New Youth Welfare Society, a group of seven Muslims, in Jagtial district has arranged the last rites for 210 Hindus and 73 Muslims who died of COVID in the past six months. The group led by Mohammed Muneer (48), a plumber and electrician from Korutla, disposes of the bodies as per the religious customs of the dead. “In Islam we bury the dead, while Hindus cremate or bury, in some cases. But, ultimately every human being deserves a decent resting place,” he said. Speaking to The Hindu , he said as relatives of several COVID-19 victims are not coming forward to perform last rites fearing contracting the virus, they decided to help the families in shifting the bodies in ambulances from houses to burial/ cremation grounds in Jagtial, Korutla and Metpally towns in the district. Mr. Muneer said he and some like-minded people formed the group when they saw the agony of COVID victim’s family in Nirmal district. “The authorities dug a big pit and dumped his body in it. That incident moved me to do something,” he added. Similarly, a Muslim couple in Warangal have proved that humanity is above religion. Forty-seven-year-old Md. Mahaboob Ali and his wife Yakoob Bi (42), who run Sahrudaya Home for Orphans and Aged have endeared themselves to locals with their selfless service. Last month, the couple performed the funeral rites of a 70-year-old man Veeraswamy, who died in the old age home, as per Hindu traditions. “When someone is abandoned and has nobody to take care, how can we turn a blind eye?,” Mahaboob Ali alias Chotu told The Hindu . In the last one year, the old age home has given a decent farewell to 10 inmates of different faiths. The old age home has 80 inmates and luckily so far none of them have contracted coronavirus. As the husband-wife’s gesture made headlines, two Muslim ambulance drivers of Banswada town in Kamareddy district too won appreciation for their good deed. A COVID-19 positive patient Mogaliah died in Banswada hospital. When his family members refused to come forward, it was left to the ambulance drivers Shafi and Ali to perform the last rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/humanity-blooms-amid-covid-gloom/article34539054.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination, testing to continue during lockdown||A few minutes after the Telangana government announced a 10-day State-wide lockdown from Wednesday, there were a lot of questions regarding continuation of COVID-19 vaccination, testing and other health services. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, on Tuesday evening, clarified that all medical and health services at all government and private hospitals, as well as diagnostic and testing centres will function normally. The senior official added that the government vaccination centres will also remain open from 9 am to 4 pm. “However, as announced previously, only the 45-plus age group will be given the second dose. They have to show proof of having taken the first dose, either in form of a partial vaccination certificate that they can download from cowin.gov.in, or a text message that they may have received confirming administering of the first dose. Those eligible should also carry their Aadhaar card with them,” Dr Srinivasa Rao said. People suspecting to have contracted the infectious disease can get themselves checked at the nearest testing centres. “The police department has been informed to allow free movement of citizens seeking to get their vaccine shots or wanting to get themselves tested for COVID-19 at their nearest available centres,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-testing-to-continue-during-lockdown/article34539039.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||You cannot restrict ambulances from other States: High Court||The Telangana High Court on Tuesday observed that government cannot restrict or stall ambulances coming into the State from neighbouring States carrying patients seeking medical assistance. Taking exception to police not permitting ambulances ferrying COVID-19 patients from other States into Hyderabad at the borders, the HC wondered if that was that fair and humane. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy made it clear to the authorities that unless the government issued a circular and an advisory well in advance on that matter, the ambulances cannot be stopped at the borders. Taking a serious note of reports that police stopped ambulances ferrying coronavirus patients at the borders, the bench sought to know who gave orders to police to seal the borders. Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the court that oral instructions were given by Chief Secretary on the matter to the police. “Does the government run on oral instructions?” the CJ asked. The AG sought time to get clear instructions on the issue and assured to file a counter affidavit on the matter. The CJ recalled that during previous hearing the court had directed the authorities to conduct testing at State borders to ensure COVID-19 positive persons were identified and they did not spread the virus in Telangana with their movement. That time State responded stating that the Centre had issued orders facilitating free movement of people across the State and no person can be restricted from entering the State. Quite contradictory to that government stand, police stopped ambulances entering the State from neighbouring States, the bench noted. Making it clear that government cannot restrict people from other States coming to Hyderabad for better medical assistance, the bench said the government should issue a circular or an advisory to that extent in advance in case of scarcity of beds or unavailability of adequate medical equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/you-cannot-restrict-ambulances-from-other-states-high-court/article34539057.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pace of vaccination to guide return of IT employees to campus||One of the factors that will guide the return of employees to office in the Information Technology sector, most of whom are working from home for over a year now, is the pace of vaccination. “In the current situation, obviously, companies are not intending to bring people back to the office now,” says Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) president Bharani K Aroll about the second wave of the pandemic. Based on findings of a survey it conducted towards 2020-end, HYSEA had earlier said some 30% of the IT workforce were expected to return by July this year. “Looks like that may not be a possibility unless vaccination happens in large scale,” he said, adding the survey had also anticipated 60-70% of the workforce back in office by December. For now, less than 10% of an estimated 6.5 lakh IT employees in Hyderabad are working from office. They too are doing so mainly on account of the high level of data and process sensitivity of the BPO tasks they handle for sectors such as banking, insurance and healthcare as well as those in charge of IT and network operations. For the IT industry and its predominantly young workforce, accelerating the process of vaccination would make matters a lot better. But as Mr. Aroll says, the shortage of vaccines has meant that the focus of vaccination remains on those aged above 45 years. This, despite the government extending since May 1 the immunisation programme to those above 18 years. HYSEA, however, is hopeful of the vaccine situation to improve with time. Seeking to play the role of a coordinator, it has already initiated discussions with hospitals for vaccination of the IT workforce. “We are facilitating arrangements with hospitals and disseminating information to members,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pace-of-vaccination-to-guide-return-of-it-employees-to-campus/article34539030.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five oxygen plants in 6 weeks||The Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has decided to set up five oxygen plants at its hospitals with a cost of Rs. 2 crore and also to procure ventilators and other necessary medical equipment with another Rs. 3.15 crore to ensure complete COVID healthcare services. Although medical oxygen supply was being ensured now to all COVID wards and quarantine centres, the oxygen plants are being planned keeping in mind the possibility of higher need of oxygen in the event of a surge in cases. The plants would be established at the SCCL headquarters hospital at Kothagudem and the area hospitals at Bhupalapally, Ramakrishnapur and Bellampally. According to company officials, Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar has instructed the contract agencies to complete established the oxygen plants over the next four to five weeks. The oxygen plants coming up on the hospital premises would produce 12 cubic meters of medical oxygen every hours and it would be supplied to the needy patients through the central supply network. The process of tenders for the establishment of oxygen plant at Ramagundam area hospitals was in the final stages. The plant would have the capacity to produce 80 to 100 cylinders of oxygen and would be completed in six weeks. The SCCL management has arranged 1,400 beds, 20 additional medical officers and 250 paramedical staff to deal with the situation. It has also been decided to procure 15 ventilators, 42 oxygen concentrators, 200 oxygen flow meters, 31 multi-para monitors, eight ice lined refrigerator systems, 28 high flow nasal devices and others with Rs. 3.15 crore. The management has already vaccinated 25,000 workers to ensure seamless production of supply of coal to power generating stations in the State for uninterrupted power supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-oxygen-plants-in-6-weeks/article34539034.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||110-year-old man recovers from coronavirus at Gandhi||A 110-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital for moderate COVID-19 symptoms, has recovered from the infectious disease. Doctors at the hospital said they will keep him under observation for a few more days before discharging him. The man, Ramananda Theerthulu, does not have any co-morbidities and stays at an ashram in Keesara. Doctors who spoke to him said that he earlier lived in the Himalayas for nearly two decades. A retired government doctor considered Mr Ramananda a guru. When he was detected with COVID-19, the doctor referred him to Gandhi Hospital. He was admitted on April 24. “Earlier, he had oxygen saturation levels of around 92 at room air. Now he has recovered. We will shift him to a non-oxygen bed and give him liquid diet for full recovery,” said T. Prabhakar Reddy, nodal officer for COVID-19 at the State-run hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/110-year-old-man-recovers-from-coronavirus-at-gandhi/article34539036.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP welcomes ‘belated’ lockdown||TS Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday said the 10-day lockdown declared by the government to cut the COVID transmission chain was belated but welcome considering that the same was being adhered to by many States after the Centre allowed them to decide independently. "However, the government should ensure there are no obstacles to testing, medicare, movement of patients and vaccination should be expedited as it is the proven weapon to combat the coronavirus," said party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar in a virtual press conference. Citizens should not be made to run around for essential medicines, oxygen cylinders or beds during this period and it was the responsibility of the government. “Public and private hospitals’ needs should be fulfilled while the contract workers in the healthcare should be paid salaries on time. I also appeal to the young doctors to serve the needy for the sake of humanity even if they do not trust the government to pay on time,” he said. The Karimanagar MP found fault with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar declaring there was no shortage of medical infrastructure, medicines or oxygen and questioned why people had been running from pillar to post, from one hospital to another, seeking proper treatment for their kith and kin besides complaints of black marketing and hoarding. Mr. Sanjay Kumar reeled out figures to claim that the Centre had supplied 1.20 lakh Remdesivir injections, 30,000 ventilators and permitted five oxygen plants to be established with PM Care funds. “Not a single plant has become functional though permission was given in December last. Ventilators are not being used. What has this government done to save people's lives? Sufficient funds are not being released to the districts to fight this pandemic, The administration wakes up from slumber only when the High Court raps its knuckles. Let the CM call for an all-party meeting, explain the steps taken and take suggestions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-welcomes-belated-lockdown/article34539059.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registration dept. hopes for exemption from lockdown||The Registration and Stamps department is hopeful that the government will exempt its services from lockdown and allow registrations through slot booking process. The department which witnessed impressive recovery since the adverse impact of the first phase of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic is hopeful that the pace of revenue collection will continue unhindered in spite of the lockdown. Senior officials are citing that the department was exempted during the first phase of the lockdown too, but was impacted by the slowdown in transactions for a few months. The collections started improving since December last with revenue in excess of Rs. 400 crore each reported during the last three months of the previous financial year. “Revenue during April, the first month of the current financial year, stood at Rs. 717 crore marking a good beginning,” a senior official told The Hindu . A section of senior officials are, however, sceptical about the relaxation as the Government Order on the lockdown did not make a mention of the Stamps and Registration department. The department has taken enough steps to ensure that most of the processes are completed online. Applicants can upload their details as well as remit stamp duties through net banking or RTGS. “The department’s software allows online transactions without any hassles,” the official said adding the system would generate an e-pass to the applicants once they enter the details. There could be some restrictions on the people entering the registration offices without valid papers, necessary Covid-19 protocols like checking temperature and placing sanitisers will be adopted for those who will be allowed. “We are awaiting a formal communication from the government and we are hopeful of receiving it at the earliest,” the official said. It may be recalled that the Registration and Stamps department suffered a setback in the run-up to the introduction of Dharani portal and the amendments made to the Revenue Acts overhauling the system making it more user-friendly and transparent. Registrations were altogether stopped for some days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/registration-dept-hopes-for-exemption-from-lockdown/article34539061.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CII-TS hails decision on State-wide lockdown||The Confederation of Indian Industry, Telangana (CII-TS) has appreciated Telangana government on the decision to impose State-wide lockdown for 10 days starting from May 12. “During the current situation, saving lives should be the priority,” CII Telangana Chairman Sameer Goel said in a statement. There is a need to break the chain and the lockdown may help. All essential services, prioritised sectors should be allowed to function, he said. A GO from Industries and Commerce Department, on the lockdown guidelines, said all manufacturing industries are permitted to function following appropriate COVID-19 protocol standard operating procedures. “Telecommunication, Internet services, broadcasting services, IT and IT enabled services shall operate with minimum required staff and others can work from home. Maintenance and operations of data centres and other critical IT infrastructure needed to support back-end operations of medical, financial, transport and other critical services are permitted to operate.” Other services and facilities permitted, during the lockdown, are cold storage and warehousing; transport and movement of goods and workers; laying of industrial and domestic use of gas pipelines; delivery of all e-commerce and home delivery services; power generation, transmission, distribution services; as well as all construction projects of industries. Listing them, the GO said “movement of employees/workers shall be restricted as far as possible and be allowed only during the lockdown relaxation timings. Arrangements shall be made for the employees/ workers to be accommodated in the factory premises during lockdown timings.” On guidelines for workers testing positive for COVID, the order said in the event of a member of workforce infected, others who came in contact with him ought to be quarantined with pay. Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry president Ramakanth Inani said “we understand that to control the spread, lockdown was unavoidable. We appreciate the government for measures taken to allow industrial activities and minimise adverse impact on employment and livelihood.” Telangana State Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Trade president Prakash Ammanabolu said since impact of the lockdown on trade could be severe, the State and Centre should consider extending assistance on the lines of the support they provide to agriculture and industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cii-ts-hails-decision-on-state-wide-lockdown/article34539040.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banks to work as usual||Banks will function as usual during the 10-day lockdown beginning May 12 in Telangana though questions remain on the customer footfall their branches are likely to receive. “Banks, ATMs, insurance services and related activities” figure in the list of permitted activities according to the Government Order on the lockdown issued on Tuesday evening. Though they have been asked to operate as usual, it is unlikely customers will find it easy to access branch banking services since the lockdown will be in force from 10 a.m. Most branches open at 10 a.m. while some start functioning from 9 a.m., sources in banks said, pointing to how keeping the facilities open when restrictions on movement of people are in place may not serve any purpose. The worry is not just about getting customers as bank employees dependent on public transport could find the going tough, especially those who commute long distances to branches in semi-urban and rural areas. “Ever since the decision on lockdown was announced, we have been receiving calls from employees, especially women staff, saying they will manage to get to the branch in the morning, but how will they return home in the absence of public transport,” a source in Andhra Pradesh Grameena Vikas Bank said. Amid the raging pandemic, it is neither advisable nor easy for the employees to stay at a relative or friend’s place near the work place until the lockdown, the source said. For bank employees commuting by own vehicles, the essential services sticker many banks, including SBI were readying on Tuesday evening, are expected to pave the way past police checks. Many of them will also draw on their experience in handling the challenges when they worked during lockdown last year. The United Forum of Bank Unions Convenor for Telangana R. Sriram said in the light of the State government decision, the UFBU has decided to reiterate its appeal and the decision of the State Level Bankers’ Committee to permit a reduction in bank business hours. Many of the banks were already operating with limited staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banks-to-work-as-usual/article34539043.ece
12 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Imposing lockdown will not be difficult for police||The second lockdown in the State will not be difficult to implement, police top brass have said. Telangana police have learnt many lessons from last year’s lockdown and have chalked out elaborate plans for the new 10-day lockdown that begins from Wednesday morning. “We will make sure lockdown is implemented strictly but we cannot be physically present everywhere. Citizens must take COVID precautions seriously. We are hoping that this time we will not need to exercise much force as people have suffered immensely due to COVID,” Additional DGP (Law and Order) Jitender said. DGP M. Mahender Reddy reportedly asked officers to make sure no untoward incidents were reported in the State and directed them to be ‘polite’ with citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/imposing-lockdown-will-not-be-difficult-for-police/article34539049.ece
12 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eatala holds talks with Bhatti Vikramarka||Former Minister Eatala Rajender called on Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka at his residence on Tuesday and the duo apparently discussed the recent political developments in the State. The meeting assumed significance as Mr. Rajender, who was dismissed from the Cabinet by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao after differences arose between them, is seen as a rallying force for anti-KCR forces in Telangana. Mr. Rajender explained the reasons for the fallout between him and KCR and how he was being targeted for speaking his mind out on the self-respect within the government and the party. He apparently shared his future political moves and how he intended to take on KCR despite the government targeting him personally and financially. Mr. Bhatti told The Hindu that Mr. Rajender made a courtesy call and shared a few concerns with regard to the path taken by this government. The Huzurabad MLA was annoyed by the insults heaped on him and other senior leaders of the party by the CM giving the go-by to democratic norms. “I have reminded him that people in Telangana would not accept disrespect and will never compromise on self-respect, and that was the prime reason why AICC president Sonia Gandhi had agreed to a separate state,” he said while hinting that anyone with similar thought process can work with the Congress. ‘Rajender annoyed’ Sources in the party, however, said Mr Rajender also wanted to clarify on certain misconceptions about him among Congress leaders. A day after Mr. Rajender’s dismissal the Congress leadership had a meeting where Mr. Bhatti wanted the party to use the opportunity to attack the government. He wanted that the party should focus on the dismissal of the minister and relate it to corruption within the government rather than seeking the dismissal of other Ministers and MLAs against whom allegations of land grabbing had come up. He felt that focus from dismissal of a Minister should not be diluted while demanding action against other Telangana Rashtra Samithi leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-holds-talks-with-bhatti-vikramarka/article34539064.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Process to fill RLB seats put on hold||The State Election Commission (SEC) has decided to put on hold the election process – ordinary and casual elections – to several rural local bodies (RLBs) till significant improvement in the pandemic situation and the conditions getting conducive to hold the elections. A total of 2,445 gram panchayat wards, sarpanches, MPTC and ZPTC member vacancies, both ordinary and casual including 126 sarpanches and 2 mandal parishad presidents, are to be filled. At a meeting chaired by State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi here on Tuesday, it is stated that the Commission would take a decision in the matter at an appropriate time in the coming weeks/months after taking inputs from the health authorities and also in consultation with the State government. In exercise of its plenary powers, the Commission reviewed the situation on its own and observed that it is not appropriate to hold elections due to the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/process-to-fill-rlb-seats-put-on-hold/article34539055.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NTPC staff donates tents, chairs to ENT Hospital||The employees of National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd (NTPC) have donated tents ( shamiana ) and plastic chairs to the ENT Hospital at Koti, one of the oldest speciality hospitals in the city which serves patients suffering from ear, nose and throat problems, after witnessing the plight of people coming there for their COVID vaccine jab. A group of NTPC employees who went to the hospital recently to get their second dose of the vaccine jab were moved by citizens waiting in queues in the scorching sun till the arrival of their turn. The NTPC employees raised Rs. 80,000 voluntarily to donate tents and a total of 70 plastic chairs to the hospital so that they are used for providing shade and seating facility to the citizens going there for getting their vaccine dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ntpc-staff-donates-tents-chairs-to-ent-hospital/article34539031.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Total curfew declaration did not come as a surprise||The lockdown announcement at 2 p.m. on Tuesday didn’t catch anyone by surprise. But supermarkets had to shutter their doors as customers rushed to make last minute purchases. “I had to buy pulses and eggs. As I was expecting the lockdown, I had stocked up on groceries and cereals so I was not affected,” said a resident of Khairatabad who shopped at More Supermarket. “I have been living in a self-imposed lockdown for the past 20 days. The announcement doesn’t change anything for me. I may have to go out and buy few veggies,” said G. Venkatesh who lives in Tarnaka. “I got to know about the lockdown at 4 p.m. and rushed here. It took me 45 minutes to buy what I wanted,” said Dorababu, one of the shoppers at a liquor shop in Radhakrishna Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/total-curfew-declaration-did-not-come-as-a-surprise/article34539044.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ex-OU Dean passes away||Osmania University’s former Dean of Humanities and head of English department professor Radhe Shyam Sharma passed away on Monday after a brief illness. Born in Tinsukia, Assam, Prof. Sharma graduated from Gauhati University in 1962 in the throes of the Chinese aggression in India’s North East. Through a special provision of the Central government, Prof. Sharma obtained his post graduate degree in English Literature from OU and bagged the William Shakespeare Gold Medal in 1965.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-ou-dean-passes-away/article34539047.ece
12 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Metro rail services curtailed||Hyderabad Metro Rail has rescheduled its services from Wednesday following the lockdown orders. The first train from respective terminal stations will start at 7 a.m. and the last train will start at 8:45 a.m and end at the respective terminating stations by 9:45 a.m. Passengers are advised to strictly follow the COVID guidelines, including social distancing, wearing of face masks, regular hand sanitisation and thermal screening, among others. People are also requested to cooperate with security personnel and staff in their efforts towards keeping their journey safe,” said L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad CEO & MD KVB Reddy on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-rail-services-curtailed/article34539048.ece
12 May 2021||P SridharKHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Giving a dignified funeral is a noble act’||Amid the COVID-19 gloom, volunteers of the town-based Annam Seva Foundation turned Good Samaritans for grieving families of two COVID-19 victims by performing their final rites in Hyderabad on Tuesday, where the latter succumbed to COVID-19 at separate hospitals in the wee hours of the day. The pandemic robbed the two bereaved families of Khammam town a chance to conduct the funeral of the deceased (two elderly women) in their hometown as some family members of the deceased were home quarantined, sources said. Acting on requests made by the bereaved family, Annam Seva Foundation founder and para-legal volunteer Annam Srinivas Rao and his team rushed to Hyderabad in an ambulance and conducted the funeral of the two. “We have conducted the last rites at Puranapul graveyard in the presence of a few close family members of the deceased as per their religious traditions and in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocols on Tuesday afternoon,” Mr Srinivas Rao told The Hindu over phone. The COVID-19 pandemic is devastating many families robbing the bereaved families the chance to bid a final adieu, Mr Rao said. “Our team comprising 20 volunteers has conducted funerals of around 200 COVID-19 victims in the old undivided Khammam district and its adjoining districts as well as in neighbouring AP,” he said, adding that giving a dignified funeral to the deceased was a noble act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/giving-a-dignified-funeral-is-a-noble-act/article34539065.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 370 FIRs lodged, 91 arrests made in COVID-related crimes||Delhi Police has registered over 370 FIRs against those committing COVID-related fraud, arrested 91 persons for the same, seized 95 of their devices and frozen over 200 bank accounts so far, officials said on Tuesday. They said they have registered 372 cases and frozen 214 bank accounts. The total amount in the fraud is to the tune of Rs. 53.6 lakh, they added. The police said they have adopted a two-pronged strategy. In the first one, the citizens are being facilitated for easy lodging of complaints at a helpline and a portal. The second one is proactively taking actions to dismantle the ecosystem of COVID frauds. There was a sudden change in the nature of distress calls. The police said overnight, they augmented the capacities of its helpline — 011-23469900 — for reporting COVID-related fraud cases. Continuous analysis of registered cases and complaints indicated that while a majority of suspected SIM cards were sourced from one State but they were used in another State, they said. Moreover, the beneficiary accounts from where these SIM users were receiving payments were scattered all over the country — West Bengal, Bihar, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, the police said. The Director Generals of Police of States concerned were contacted by Delhi Police Commissioner for coordinated effort to stop such crimes. Teams from crime department, CyPAD and districts were sent to locate and dismantle the infrastructure of the accused, they said. The citizens were advised to follow safety tips during online transactions. The daily reporting of cases has now reduced, said an officer. We successfully curbed the rising trends of COVID-related crimes. There are 20 teams in action on ground in several States; a substantial number of arrests are likely in the coming few days, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-370-firs-lodged-91-arrests-made-in-covid-related-crimes/article34539015.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jailed activists’ families share fears in the time of COVID||A day after Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal was granted bail to attend her father Mahavir Narwal’s funeral, United Against Hate co-founder Khalid Saifi’s wife, Nargis, said her husband lodged in jail is scared if he would be able to meet his mother. ‘Prisoners in a pandemic’ Ms. Nargis and a few others, including activist Harsh Mander, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, jailed journalist Sidhique Kappan’s wife Raihanath Kappan, advocate Mihir Desai, held a conversation titled — Prisoners in a pandemic. “I told Khalid about Natasha’s father over the phone, and he got scared. He is scared if he would be able to meet his 80-year-old mother. Our daughter asked him when he will return home. He told her that he doesn’t know if he will return at all,” she said at the conference. She said a few days ago, Khalid complained of fever, but his COVID-19 test wasn’t conducted despite requests following which, she approached a court. A test was then ordered. “Thankfully, he tested negative, but he was unwell for 15 days. I know how tough that period was for us because there was no one to take care of him. There are no provisions for hot water and steam,” Ms. Nargis said. Sharing another incident, she said a person in the barrack where Mr. Khalid is lodged had tested positive. She said neither other persons in the barrack were tested nor was the place sanitised, she said. Umar’s father on UAPA Former JNU student Umar Khalid’s father SQR Ilyas said Umarhad tested positive for COVID while in jail but has now recovered. “The law, which keeps under-trial prisoners of UAPA in jail and doesn’t allow them bail, needs to change,” he said. Ms. Raihanath also claimed that her husband was denied treatment and was only shifted following a court order. She said she couldn’t meet him despite the court giving her permission to do so. Remembering late Narwal, activist Mander, said: “He was proud of his daughter, but he also said he hoped the jailed time is not long enough that he is unable to see her. Unfortunately, that is what happened,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jailed-activists-families-share-fears-in-the-time-of-covid/article34539019.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Navneet Kalra fails to get protection from arrest||A Delhi court on Tuesday refused to give any interim relief from arrest to businessman Navneet Kalra for the second time in the alleged oxygen concentrator hoarding and black marketing case. Additional Sessions Judge Sumit Dass also placed his anticipatory bail before the District and Sessions Judge which will now decide which court will hear the plea on Wednesday. “Bail application placed before the District Judge South East at 10 a.m. tomorrow; they will send it to the concerned court. There is no interim relief or any sort of protection to the accused yet,” the judge remarked. The court was hearing the arguments on the issue of jurisdiction on the anticipatory bail petition filed by the businessman in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his upscale restaurants, including ‘Khan Chacha’ in Khan Market. Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava said since the matter was transferred to the Crime Branch, the court has no jurisdiction to hear the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/navneet-kalra-fails-to-get-protection-from-arrest/article34539010.ece
12 May 2021||New DELHI,||HC raps JNU for apathy towards students, faculty||The Delhi High Court Tuesday rapped Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) for “apathy” as well as lack of “swiftness and alacrity” in responding to requests by students and faculty to set up COVID care and oxygen production facilities on the campus, which has seen 3-fold rise in infections in three weeks. Justice Prathiba M. Singh said considering the “rigour” of the current pandemic, the JNU administration “ought to have reacted with swiftness and alacrity” to the several correspondence sent to it from April 13 onwards. “You got the first letter on April 13 and today is May 11. Almost a month has gone by, but there has been no response from the Vice-Chancellor or the administration. There is complete apathy. I am shocked,” Justice Singh said. She noted that from 74 cases on April 18, the number of COVID-19 cases on the JNU campus has gone up to 211 on May 7, indicating a three-fold increase in three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-raps-jnu-for-apathy-towards-students-faculty/article34539011.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Court issues NBW against Olympian in murder case||A Delhi court on Tuesday issued non-bailable warrants against Olympian Sushil Kumar and six others for failing to appear before it in a murder case of a wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium in north-west Delhi, said a senior police officer. He said they have held three suspects and impounded nine cars that were allegedly used by the accused during the crime. The role of suspects is yet to be identified. They have been questioned based on the evidence collected in the case and confirmed their presence at the spot when the murder took place. On May 4 morning, wrestler Sagar Dhankad was beaten to death during a brawl at the stadium's parking area allegedly over some property dispute. The police had arrested one accused — Prince Dalal — along with SUV, double barrel gun and three live cartridges. On Monday, the Police had issued a Look-out-Circular against Kumar. Kumar is on the run and efforts are on to trace him, another officer had said earlier, adding that efforts are on to nab him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-issues-nbw-against-olympian-in-murder-case/article34539017.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for illegally selling medicines at higher prices||A 27-year-old man was arrested for allegedly selling COVID-related medicines at exorbitant prices in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said the accused has been identified as Lovee Narula, resident of Paschim Vihar, who is engaged in the business of pharmaceuticals. The accused procured the medicines from his associate and sold them at Rs. 3 lakh each. The police said they received information at Punjabi Bagh police station regarding black marketing of COVID-related medicines following which a raid was conducted. The police claimed to have recovered Rs. 30,4500 from the accused. They also recovered two Actemra 400 mg/20 ml Tocilizumab 400 mg/200 mL, 10 Liposomal Amphotericin-B for injection 50 mg, 14 Mephentermine Sulphate injection I.P Termin 30mg/ml from him. Efforts are on to nab another accused, Rahul, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-illegally-selling-medicines-at-higher-prices/article34539014.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajan recovers from COVID, back in jail||Gangster Chhota Rajan, who was admitted at AIIMS for treatment after he tested positive for COVID-19, was taken back to Tihar jail on Tuesday following his recovery, said officials concerned. He was found COVID-19 positive in the Tihar Jail on April 22 and was admitted to AIIMSon April 24. On Friday, the jail administration had dismissed reports claiming that Rajan had died. “News of death of Tihar jail inmate Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje @ Chhota Rajan s/o Sadashiv Nikalje is wrong [sic],’’ Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel had said. Rajan, 61, is lodged at the high-security prison since his arrest after deportation from Bali in Indonesia in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rajan-recovers-from-covid-back-in-jail/article34539016.ece
12 May 2021||NOIDA,||‘Why would we come here again, but forced to go looking for a living’||“No one listens to the poor man,” said 16-year-old Ramkishor outside the Gautam Budhha Nagar District Magistrate’s office on Tuesday. While he said he has that figured out, he was there waiting for someone to help him and his family out of the bonded labour situation. Ramkishor, his parents and two younger siblings, who are from Lalitpur in Uttar Pradesh, along with three other families from Sagar in Madhya Pradesh said they had been working without pay at a construction site in Aicher village in Greater Noida for the past two months. Payments stopped The payment of small amounts every few days, sometimes Rs. 500 or Rs. 1,000, for expenses also stopped about 20 days ago and the contractor went missing, says Ramkishor’s mother, Haribai. The group of workers had been hired by a contractor and were working at the private construction site since November. Their principal employer had stopped paying wages two months ago, a complaint to the DM and the police by Badhua Mukti Morcha on May 9 said. ‘Inhuman conditions’ “They are being forced to work in inhuman conditions without wages and any allowance for food, thereby creating a situation of bondage. Further, since the country is facing the second wave of the pandemic, and lockdown is in place, it has created further hurdles for the labourers,” the complaint by Badhua Mukti Morcha general secretary Nirmal Gorana read. On Monday night, the workers said they were asked to leave the site. Girdhari, Ramkishor’s father, said the group had been waiting outside the DM’s office all day on Tuesday, but to no avail. “We don’t have enough money for food so how will we have enough to travel back home. And even then, what will we do there. No one has heard us out or helped us,” asked Girdhari, who was rescued from another situation of bonded labour about five years ago, according to Mr. Gorana. He said the workers were owed around Rs. 20,000-Rs. 25,000 each, being paid Rs. 400 to Rs. 500 a day. Ramkishor added that the group had worked under the hot sun for two months, with the children also asked to assist. He said he last attended school “before the lockdown”, referring to the national lockdown imposed by the government in March 2020. “Why would we ever come back here? We have seen now what it is like here. But there is nothing in the village for us; we wouldn’t have left if there was an option. We will go wherever we have to earn a living,” he said. The workers said they had been waiting for some relief — food, money to return home and their wages — all day. Ramkishor said someone had offered them “biscuits”. An official at DM Suhas LY’s office said relief would be given to the group soon when contacted on Tuesday evening, as the workers remained camped outside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/why-would-we-come-here-again-but-forced-to-go-looking-for-a-living/article34539013.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Amid paucity, State to divert doses meant for 18+ towards second shot||Facing an acute shortage of COVID-19 vaccines and with the Centre unable to deliver Covaxin, the Maharashtra government will now use doses it purchased for the 18-44 age group towards the second dose for those above 45 years. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said that over five lakh individuals in the State were waiting for the second dose of Covaxin. “We have only 35,000 doses remaining, which were delivered by the Central government for those above 45 years. So, we have issued directions to use over 2.75 lakh Covaxin shots purchased by the State government for the 18-44 age group for the second dose,” he said. As per the Central government’s vaccine policy, it will provide doses for citizens above 45 years while the State needs to procure shots for the 18-44 age group. Mr. Tope said that the State was also awaiting the Centre’s delivery of Covishield as over 16 lakh citizens were due for their second dose. “On Monday, I had a detailed discussion with the Union Health Minister. But he conveyed that no doses of COVID-19 vaccines were available. Therefore, we will have to take a decision on using Covishield doses purchased by the State for those above 45 years,” he said. The Health Minister said the Maharashtra government had written to Russian Direct Investment Fund, which sponsors Sputnik V, but it had received no response as of now. “I urge the Centre to speed up the process of granting sanction to other COVID-19 vaccines so that we can buy them from the global market,” he said. Mr. Tope also said that patients infected with Mucormycosis (also known as black fungus) had been found in many districts. “We have said that the government will take the financial burden of treating this disease under the Mahatam Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya scheme. It requires a multi-approach treatment and may not be available in all hospitals. We are in the process to expand the scope by including costly medicines in the scheme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amid-paucity-state-to-divert-doses-meant-for-18-towards-second-shot/article34538795.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra puts off transfers till June 30||The Maharashtra government has decided to postpone all administrative transfers of officers till June 30 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. As per the general practice, deadline for transfers is May 31. A government resolution (GR) issued by the General Administration Department (GAD) headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that transfers would be done only under exceptional circumstances. As per the general practice, government officials who have completed three years at a particular posting are transferred in April and May. Usually, 30% staff of the total strength of a particular department get transferred. Rights to transfer employees in groups C and D stand with the local administration, while those for groups A and B are with the minister of that particular department or the Chief Minister. The GR, however, has mentioned exceptions to the rule. Transfers are allowed in case the post is vacant due to retirement, posts in essential services or if an officer is facing complaints of a serious nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-puts-off-transfers-till-june-30/article34538793.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Centre using investigating agencies to settle political scores, allege Cong., NCP||The Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday criticised the Central government for allegedly using investigating agencies to settle political scores. This came after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) registered a case against Maharashtra’s former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh based on an FIR filed by the CBI probing the allegations by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh that Mr. Deshmukh demanded Rs. 100 crore extortion money from the suspended police officer Sachin Vaze. “The ED filing a case against Mr. Deshmukh reflects the Modi government’s ridiculous mindset and dangerous politics that is detrimental to democracy. It’s an attempt to cover up the the government’s failure to handle the COVID-19 situation and divert public attention, and to take a political revenge,” Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said. He said the action had been taken based on lies of Mr. Singh. “Let’s analyse those allegations. Mr. Vaze said that he was asked to collect Rs. 100 crore. Same was told by Mr. Singh. Complainants don’t even say that they paid that amount. So what was the CBI raiding? Why the ED is involved if there is no money transaction? And if the CBI and the ED say that the money was paid, then why no action is taken against Mr. Singh and Mr. Vaze? It’s clear that this is a political persecution started by the Modi government. People are now well aware of this. Actions of these Central agencies have become a joke,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-using-investigating-agencies-to-settle-political-scores-allege-cong-ncp/article34538792.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra adds 40,956 COVID-19 cases, 793 deaths||Maharashtra reported 40,956 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, a sharp rise from 37,236 logged a day ago, taking the tally to 51,79,929, while 793 more patients succumbed to the infection, the State Health Department said. The State’s caseload increased to 51,79,929, while 793 deaths upped the fatality count to 77,191, the Health Department said. Of the 793 fatalities, 403 occurred in the last 48 hours, while 170 were from last week, and 220 people had died before the last week, but were added to the toll on Tuesday, the department said. Statewide recoveries were much higher than the new cases. As many as 71,966 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the count of recoveries to 45,41,391, it said. Maharashtra is now left with 5,58,996 active cases. The State’s COVID-19 recovery rate now stands at 87.67%, while the fatality rate is 1.49%, the department said. Mumbai saw 1,717 new cases, taking the tally to 6,79,129, while the overall fatality count rose to 13,906 with 51 more deaths, the department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-adds-40956-covid-19-cases-793-deaths/article34538789.ece
12 May 2021||Mumbai,||Bhima-Koregaon violence: Hany Babu denied follow-up for eye infection, claims family||Professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, who is lodged at the Taloja Central Jail, had an acute eye infection which had spread to his cheek, ear, and forehead and it could pose a significant risk to his life if it spread to the brain, his family claimed on Tuesday. A press release issued by Mr. Babu’s wife Jenny Rowena and brothers Harish MT and MT Ansari said he started experiencing pain and swelling in the left eye on May 3, which soon developed into double vision and severe pain. “He immediately requested for consultation and treatment with a specialised doctor, but he was not taken for consultation, because an escort officer was not available,” they said. “After his lawyer emailed the jail superintendent on May 6, he was taken to a government hospital in Vashi the next day and was examined by an ophthalmologist who prescribed him certain anti-bacterial medication and advised to return for a follow-up in two days. However, despite repeated requests from the lawyer he was not taken back to the hospital after two days, once again due to the lack of escort officers, the prison claims,” the release said. Talking to The Hindu , Kaustubh Kurlekar, Superintendent of Taloja Central Jail, said, “Mr. Babu has an eye infection; it’s like a boil on the outside of his eye. He was taken to an ophthalmologist and had been given eye drops and other medicines. He will be taken for a follow-up in two to three days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bhima-koregaon-violence-hany-babu-denied-follow-up-for-eye-infection-claims-family/article34538791.ece
12 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||IMD warns of cyclonic storm||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast this year’s first storm in the Arabian Sea this week. A warning of rough sea conditions, which is expected to develop starting Thursday, has been issued and fishermen from the coastal States have been advised against venturing into the sea from Friday. “A low-pressure area is very likely to form over the southeast Arabian Sea on May 14. It is likely to move north-northwestwards. It may intensify into a cyclonic storm around May 16,” an IMD statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/imd-warns-of-cyclonic-storm/article34538790.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s population growth slows to lowest rate in decades||China’s once-in-a-decade population census has recorded a slowing population growth rate that will likely see China’s population peak — and be overtaken by India’s — by as early as 2025, experts said, with the number of births falling for the fourth consecutive year. The seventh census, released on Tuesday by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in Beijing, noted 12 million babies were born last year, the lowest number since 1961, a year when China was in the midst of a four-year famine unleashed by Mao Zedong’s Great Leap Forward policy in 1958 that devastated the farm sector and claimed millions of lives. China’s population was 1.41 billion in 2020, according to the census, increasing by 72 million since the last census in 2010, recording a 5.38% growth in this period. The average annual growth was 0.53%. The slowing growth rate, a consequence of China’s stringent family planning rules over decades — known as the “one-child policy” but involving a range of varying restrictions across urban and rural areas — has evoked concerns of a rapidly ageing society and the impact on China’s labour force, and fears that China will, as some experts have said, “get old before it gets rich”. The census recorded 264 million in the age group of 60 and over, up 5.44% since 2010 and accounting for 18.70% of the population. Those in the 15-59 age group were 894 million persons, down by 6.79% since 2010 and accounting for 63.35% of the population. Chinese experts on Tuesday acknowledged the seriousness of the problem, without linking it directly to the history of the Communist Party’s harsh family planning policies, at a time when it is planning to mark its 100th anniversary in July. In the lead up to the anniversary, China’s Internet regulator said it had deleted more than 2 million posts containing “harmful” discussions of history, the South China Morning Post reported, with the party clamping down on any adverse commentary about its present or past. China loosened family planning rules and allowed couples to have two children in 2016, but that has failed to mark a boom amid changing lifestyles and declining preferences, particularly in urban areas, for larger families. Population decline “China will likely enter a period of population decline soon,” Huang Wenzheng, a fellow at the Center for China and Globalisation, in Beijing, told official broadcaster China Global Television Network. “This might be the biggest challenge the nation faces in the next century.” The impact on the labour force and healthcare is a particular concern. China’s workforce in the 15-59 age bracket peaked at 925 million in 2011, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security said previously. That number was down to 894 million in this census and would drop to 700 million by 2050, according to the Ministry. The census did not offer a specific year for the population to peak, but experts said that could happen by 2025. “China’s population will peak in the future, but there remains uncertainty as to when specifically it will happen,” Ning Jizhe of the National Bureau of Statistics said. “For the next stage, we should continue to pay attention to changes in population growth and respond actively to risks and challenges in demographic development,” he said. The findings from the census were not entirely dire. The census also shed light on China’s increasingly educated workforce and its rapid pace of urbanisation. The number of people with a university education was 218 million, up to 15,467 per 100,000 of the population compared with 8,930 in 2010. The average years of schooling for 15 and above increased from 9.08 years to 9.91 years and the illiteracy rate dropped from 4.08% to 2.67%, in part due to policies for nine years of compulsory and free education. The urban population touched 901 million, accounting for 63.89%, up from 49.68% in 2010 with an increase of 236 million urban residents in the last decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-population-growth-slows-to-lowest-rate-in-decades/article34538501.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s happening in Jerusalem?||On Monday, Israeli armed forces stormed Al-Aqsa Mosque in the Haram esh-Sharif in Jerusalem, ahead of a march by Zionist nationalists commemorating Israel’s capture of the eastern half of the city in 1967. More than 300 Palestinians were injured in the raid. In retaliation, Hamas, the Islamist militant group that runs Gaza, fired dozens of rockets that killed two Israelis. Israel launched an airstrike on Gaza in response, killing 26 Palestinians, including militants and nine children.     What led to escalation? Tensions have been building up since the start of Ramzan in mid-April when Israeli police set up barricades at the Damascus Gate outside the occupied Old City, preventing Palestinians from gathering there. As clashes erupted, the police removed the barricades, but tensions were already high. The threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families in the East Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah escalated the crisis further in the last week of Ramzan. Clashes erupted on the night of May 7 in Jerusalem between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police in which hundreds of Palestinians and over a dozen police personnel were injured. The Israeli authorities had given permission to the Jerusalem Day march, traditionally taken out by far-right Zionists through the Arab Quarter of the Old City. Ahead of the march on May 10 (which was rerouted given the tensions), Israeli armed forces stormed Al-Aqsa Mosque with rubber bullets, stun grenades and tear gas to evict Palestinians, who Israel said had camped with stones and Molotov cocktail. Hamas issued an ultimatum to the Israeli troops to stand down from Al-Aqsa. By the evening, they launched rockets. Israeli strikes followed. Sheikh Jarrah dispute Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were forced out of their homes when the State of Israel was created in historic Palestine in 1948 (the Palestinians call the events ‘Nakba’, or catastrophe). Twenty-eight of those Palestinian families moved to Sheikh Jarrah in East Jerusalem to settle there. In 1956, when East Jerusalem was ruled by Jordan, the Jordanian Ministry of Construction and Development and the UN Relief and Works Agency facilitated the construction of houses for these families in Sheikh Jarrah. But Israel would capture East Jerusalem from Jordan in 1967. By the early 1970s, Jewish agencies started demanding the families leave the land. Jewish committees claimed that the houses sat on land they purchased in 1885 (when Jews, facing persecution in Europe, were migrating to historic Palestine that was part of the Ottoman Empire). Earlier this year, the Central Court in East Jerusalem upheld a decision to evict four Palestinian families from their homes in Sheikh Jarrah in favour of Jewish settlers. The Israeli Supreme Court was scheduled to hear the case on May 10. But the hearing was postponed on advice from the government amid the ongoing violence in Jerusalem. The issue remains unresolved. Why Jerusalem? Jerusalem has been at the centre of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. According to the original 1947 UN Partition Plan, Jerusalem was proposed to be an international city. But in the first Arab Israel war of 1948, the Israelis captured the western half of the city, and Jordan took the eastern part, including the Old City that houses Haram esh-Sharif. Al-Aqsa Mosque, Islam’s third holiest site, and the Dome of the Rock are situated within Haram esh-Sharif (Noble Sanctuary). One side of the compound, called Temple Mount by the Jews, is the Wailing Wall (Western Wall), which is believed to be the remains of the Second Jewish Temple, the holiest site in Judaism. Israel captured East Jerusalem from Jordan in the 1967 Six-Day War and annexed it later. Since its annexation, Israel has expanded settlements in East Jerusalem, which is now home for some 220,000 Jews. Jews born in East Jerusalem are Israeli citizens, while Palestinians in the city are given conditional residency permits. Palestinians in East Jerusalem, unlike other parts of the occupied West Bank, can, however, apply for Israeli citizenship. Very few Palestinians have done so. Israel sees the whole city as its “unified, eternal capital”, a claim endorsed by Donald Trump when he was U.S. President but not recognised by most other countries. Palestinian leaders across the political spectrum have maintained that they would not accept any compromise formula for a future Palestinian state unless East Jerusalem is its capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/whats-happening-in-jerusalem/article34538499.ece
12 May 2021||Brussels,||EU is suing AstraZeneca to get 90 million doses before July||The European Union is suing British-Swedish pharmaceutical group AstraZeneca to force it to deliver 90 million more doses of its COVID-19 vaccine before July, a spokesman said on Tuesday. “We want the court to order the company to deliver 90 million additional doses, in addition to the 30 million already delivered in the first quarter,” European Commission spokesman Stefan De Keersmaecker told a media conference. The Commission has launched two emergency legal actions against the company in a Belgian court, first to have the urgency of the issue recognised, and then to have a judge rule on whether the EU’s case is well-founded. After citing production problems in its EU manufacture, and refusing to divert doses from British factories listed as suppliers in the EU contract, the company offered revised deliveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-is-suing-astrazeneca-to-get-90-million-doses-before-july/article34538493.ece
12 May 2021||Dubai,||Saudi aid worth $123 mn announced for Pakistan||Saudi Arabia has announced 118 humanitarian projects worth over $123 million for cash-strapped Pakistan in food security, health, education and water during Prime Minister Imran Khan’s two-day visit, according to a report. The King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Center (KSrelief)’s Supervisor General Dr Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Rabeeah said that the assistance was announced in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. 118 projects identified KSrelief announced 118 humanitarian projects for Pakistan at a cost of over $123 million in food security, health, education, water and environmental sanitation. He said that the kingdom has provided medical and preventive aid worth over $1.5 million to combat the pandemic. Mr. Khan’s Special Representative for Middle East Affairs Sheikh Tahir Mahmood Ashrafi told the Saudi Press Agency (SPA) that the visit will push the march of the joint cooperation in the right direction in order to achieve the desired interests and goals, and contribute to developing the political, military, diplomatic, economic, commercial, developmental and cultural coordination and cooperation fields. Mr. Khan met Secretary General of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Dr. Yousef bin Ahmad Al-Othaimeen and discussed developments in the Islamic world, the situation of Muslims in non-OIC countries and the issues on the OIC’s agenda, in particular combating Islamophobia. During the summit meeting between Mr. Khan and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, enhancing economic and trade relations and the challenge posed by extremism came under discussion. They confirmed their satisfaction with the firmness of bilateral military and security relations, and agreed on further cooperation to achieve common goals between the two countries, the SPA reported. “The two sides also stressed the need for concerted efforts of the Islamic world to confront extremism and violence and reject sectarianism, and strive to achieve international peace and security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-aid-worth-123-mn-announced-for-pakistan/article34538497.ece
12 May 2021||Berlin,||Germany halts FB from sharing WhatsApp data||A German regulator on Tuesday slapped a three-month ban on Facebook collecting user data from WhatsApp accounts and referred the case to an EU watchdog, citing concerns about election integrity. The Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, with jurisdiction over Facebook’s branch based in the city, sent the order to the social network. The tech giant informed WhatsApp users earlier this year that they must consent to a new data use policy to continue using the service. The German authority said in an emergency decision that the terms of that agreement were now null and void for three months. It will hand the case over to the European Data Protection Board, an independent EU body that enforces rules throughout the bloc. The head of the German regulator, Johannes Caspar, said past Facebook data protection breaches as well as Germany’s general election in September showed the “dangers” of “mass building of user profiles” that could be exploited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/germany-halts-fb-from-sharing-whatsapp-data/article34538494.ece
12 May 2021||TEHRAN,||ML--Persian Gulf Tensions||Iran’s powerful Revolutionary Guard on Tuesday rejected the U.S. Navy's claim that fast-approaching Iranian speedboats in the Strait of Hormuz sparked a tense encounter in the already sensitive region. The Revolutionary Guard said Americans were guilty of using “unprofessional behaviour” and should more strictly “abide by international regulations.” A day earlier, the U.S. said that 13 armed speedboats came too close to U.S. Navy vessels in the Strait of Hormuz.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ml-persian-gulf-tensions/article34538496.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID mishandling foretold in the Budget||“India has begun medically safeguarding not only her own citizens against COVID-19 but also those of 100 or more countries. I have provided Rs. 35,000 crores for Covid-19 vaccine in BE 2021-22...,” was the bombastic claim made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech to the nation on February 1, 2021 (https://bit.ly/33yHVAw). Ms. Sitharaman assured the nation that her government at the Centre was protecting not only Indians but also people of other countries against COVID-19 and that she had provided enough money. She also boasted that the overall Budget for health had been increased substantially and pointed to details in Annexure I of the Budget speech. In Annexure I, a table under ‘Health and Wellbeing – Expenditure’ lists Rs. 35,000 crore for ‘Vaccination’ under ‘CoVID related Special Provisions’. Zero amount Logically, when the Finance Minister says that the Budget for ‘Health and Wellbeing’ is being expanded significantly, one would expect to see these details in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s Budget. Page 155 of the 350 page ‘Notes on Demands for Grants’ lists the Health Ministry’s Budget details for the year 2021-22. Item No.19 is clearly titled ‘Covid-19 Emergency Response & Health System Preparedness’, which lists an expenditure of Rs. 11,757 crore that was incurred in the previous year (2020-21) by the Centre in its fight against COVID-19. But for the current year 2021-22, the amount budgeted for ‘Covid-19 Emergency Response’ is zero. One then ponders, wondering whether for some reason, COVID-related Budget provisions have been made under another expenditure item in the Ministry’s Budget this year. The answer is ‘No’. It is a matter of alarm that there is no provision in the entire Ministry of Health’s 2021-22 Budget for COVID-19 vaccinations and other related expenditure. Moreover, the Health Ministry’s Budget for this year is lower than the amount spent last year when more money was needed to defeat the novel coronavirus this year. It turns out that Rs. 35,000 crore for COVID-19 vaccination has been allocated as “Loans/Grants to States” in the Budget of the Ministry of Finance. Does this mean that when Ms. Sitharaman and the government sat down to prepare the Budget earlier this year, they did not think the Centre had any role to play in vaccination? Did they think that COVID-19 would just disappear providentially and that there was no money required this year for health supplies, infrastructure, and other expenses under the Health Ministry’s ‘Covid-19 Emergency Response package’? On what basis then did the Finance Minister say that her government would not only “safeguard” Indians but also the citizens of 100 or more other countries? After this writer pointed this out first in a tweet, the Finance Ministry gave a long and a bureaucratic response about how even if the vaccination amount is not budgeted under the Health Ministry, the Centre could still use the money to procure vaccines and give it as an ‘in-kind’ grant to the States. This misses the point. This is not a squabble about the technical details of budgeting for activities under different heads. This is about the intent, thought and actions of the Narendra Modi government in the middle of a national health emergency. Either the government was callous about the nation’s continued fight against COVID-19, or wanted to abdicate responsibility to the States entirely. If not, it would have made a meticulously detailed ‘Covid-19 Emergency’ Budget for the year 2021-22. More questions It is also justifiable to say that public health is a State subject, vaccination is the responsibility of the States, and hence, COVID-19 vaccination money should rightfully be given only to the States and not to the Health Ministry at the Centre. In which case, the States should also be given the full rights to decide and implement a COVID-19 health policy. How is it then that the Centre chose to intervene and dictate an irrational vaccination pricing policy that has a lower price for the Centre and a higher price for the States for the exact same vaccine? If at the time of the Budget, the Finance Minister thought COVID-19 vaccination money was fungible and could be used either by the Centre or the States, then how does it square with the fact that with the same money, the Narendra Modi government would buy vaccines at a lower cost to vaccinate Indians above the age of 45 while the States would buy the same vaccines at a higher price for all others? Vaccine is public good It is amply evident that the Finance Minister and her government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic is like a deer caught in the headlights. The thought behind the Budget for COVID-19 is at odds with its health policies for COVID-19. A knee-jerk and confused vaccination policy, with varying price structures and quotas for the Centre, States and private hospitals for the same vaccine, has made a royal mess of India’s vaccination efforts. The basic economic principle that a COVID-19 vaccine is an essential public good and not a private good like flight tickets to be priced differently for everyone, seems to have been lost on the government’s policy makers. It has now put the lives of a billion Indians and India’s $3 trillion economy at risk. Earlier in January this year, it was crystal clear that India would need to vaccinate the vast majority of its people to put an end to the COVID-19 pandemic. It was also well-established then that there were at least two vaccines available in India and more could be imported, as the Finance Minister herself alluded to in the Budget speech. The approximate costs for these vaccines were also known. Presumably, the Finance Minister and her team also knew the size of India’s population, and that they should multiply the costs of the vaccines with the total number of people to calculate the total amount needed for vaccinations. Then, all that the government needed to do was to explicitly budget for the vaccination amount and other attendant costs in this final battle against the virus. The Health Ministry should have negotiated one standard price for each type of vaccine and procured them directly. After this, the vaccines should have been distributed to the States to set up vaccination camps and vaccinate people. All this was blindingly obvious even in January before the Budget was prepared. Lives and livelihoods were at stake. Instead, the Finance Minister resorted to headline and narrative management using half-truths and misleading claims. Ineptitude Is the Narendra Modi government so incompetent and reckless that even after five months, and after lakhs of lives have gone and billions of dollars lost in economic output it is still struggling to come up with a coherent vaccination policy and save Indians from this deadly pandemic? Alas, the answer is a yes. Let us not forget that it is the same Prime Minister and his government who thought that invalidating all currency overnight, in 2016, would magically eliminate black money or locking down the entire nation last year at just four hours notice would defeat the coronavirus as quickly as ‘the Pandavas won the Mahabharata war’. Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and Chairman, Data Analytics department of the Congress party||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/covid-mishandling-foretold-in-the-budget/article34538480.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Not all crises are opportunities for reforms||This year marks 30 years of the landmark economic reforms that permanently altered the production and distribution structures of the Indian economy. Swayed by the success of the 1991 reforms, albeit, at the macroeconomic level, there has been a growing clamour from economic commentators for some more doses of reforms in 2021. Both 1991 and 2021 have one thing in common: an economy facing a severe growth crisis. This raises two fundamental questions. First, is crisis a prerequisite for reforms? Second, given the magnitude of economic contraction, in 2021, are reforms capable of rejuvenating the economy or will they push the economy towards growth fatigue? Crises and reforms It is not very common to depart from initiating incremental policy changes to making fundamental shifts in economic policy. Big-bang policy reforms often face hurdles in terms of rules and routines. Overcoming these requires effort and conviction. Crises provide opportunities for radical changes as they break down the legitimacy of existing policy approaches. Crises thus create a space for new proposals and possibilities, which could have far-reaching consequences for the economy and society. Viewed from a sectoral perspective, during a crisis, the services delivered by some sectors do not meet societal expectations, which in turn sets the stage for institutional reforms to enhance the credibility and legitimacy of those sectors. For the policymaker, crises can generate increased demand for change and that could be the opportunity for which they would have been waiting. However, not all crises create conditions for widespread acceptance of reforms, as they could generate other by-products. Thus, to posit a linear causal relationship between crises and reforms could be erroneous. Crises cause the breakdown of established structures leading to instability. They create uncertainty as the prevailing behaviour and choices of actors change. This combination of uncertainty and instability sets the stage for a reorientation of policies, packaged and delivered under the banner of reforms. The argument for converting a crisis into an opportunity to reform arises due to three factors. First, during a crisis, group relations and modes of interactions change, which sets a suitable background for change. Second, at times of crises, authority replaces rules, which makes it easier to push the polices in a short time span. Third, during periods of crisis, the legitimacy of prevailing rules and routines diminish, which makes it easier for actors to depart from them. 2021 is not 1991 The character and consequences of the crisis of 1991 and 2021 are different. In 1991, the crisis of the economy was the product of endogenous factors, that is, factors which were operating within the economic system. The crisis of 2021 is different, as it is the product of a pandemic, which is exogenous to the economic system. The cause-and-effect relations are entirely different in the latter, as the cause originates from outside the economic system and the economy is forced to adjust to this external shock. Further, in 1991, the crisis was limited to the Indian economy, while the present calamity has engulfed most global economies with varying intensities. This makes policy responses very challenging. In the former case, we could have India-specific policies, assuming that there would not be drastic changes in the rest of the world, while in the latter case, India-specific policies will have to be tempered with the dynamics of the rest of the world, as all affected economies are formulating policy responses at the same time. The availability of a semi-fixed template for reforms eased the matter in 1991. The template, which had some generic measures for all the economies experiencing external sector imbalances, was a tried and tested one. This gave policymakers some headroom to anticipate the likely consequences in the post-implementation phase. Two uncertainties However, in 2021, the challenge is to evolve a country-specific package. Two uncertainties pose serious problems in charting such a set of measures. The first is the uncertainty with regard to the government’s own revenues which would limit the policy space for interventions. Expenditure reduction is not a viable strategy for expanding the scale and scope of policies in a situation of demand contraction due to the pandemic. The second is the unpredictability of global factors, as India’s dependence on the global economy increased manifold after the 1991 reforms. Both these have the potential to jeopardise the effective implementation of strategic changes. The magnitude and intensity of the crisis of 2021 is manifold compared to that of 1991. There is also a lag effect in the unravelling of the scale and extent of the crisis, which is surfacing slowly. To highlight this point, I use only one piece of empirical data. In its recent research report, Pew Research Center observes that a large section of India’s population would be pushed into poverty as a fallout of the economic crisis driven by the novel coronavirus. To quote: “…. the number of people who are poor in India (with incomes of $2 or less a day) is estimated to have increased by 75 million because of the COVID-19 recession. This, too, accounts for nearly 60% of the global increase in poverty. Perhaps not surprisingly, media reports from India point to a spike in participation in its rural employment programme – originally intended to combat poverty in agricultural areas – as the many who have lost jobs in the reeling economy seek work. The number now participating is setting record highs in the programme’s 14-year history”. The enormity of the crisis is appropriately captured in the research cited above, which throws light on the circumstances of 2021 and its non-suitability as a year for radical reforms. All crises do not inevitably lead to possibilities for reforms, even though some do create opportunities for fundamental changes. However, to gauge whether a crisis can be turned into an opportunity for reforms requires an in-depth understanding of the factors that led to the crisis. Further, all the three clusters of actors who are crucial agents in the policy process — political leaders, policymakers and implementers, and the relevant stakeholders — need to have a shared vision. In 2021, the call for reforms leaves out the stakeholders, which might undermine the very purpose of reforms itself. M. Suresh Babu is professor of economics at IIT Madras. Views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/not-all-crises-are-opportunities-for-reforms/article34538491.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Evaluate the Ladakh crisis, keep China at bay||After over a year, the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh shows no signs of resolution. Disengagement has stalled, China continues to reinforce its troops, and talks have been fruitless. More broadly, the India-China bilateral relationship has ruptured. Political relations are marked by hostility and distrust. Reversing a long-held policy, New Delhi will no longer overlook the problematic border dispute for the sake of a potentially lucrative wider relationship; now, as India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has made clear, the relationship is conditional on quietude on the border. Even if — a big if — disengagement continues, the relationship will remain vulnerable to destabilising disruptions. On the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and beyond, India’s military and political leaders will need to learn the right lessons from Ladakh, to ensure they are better postured to meet the challenge of Chinese coercion. Study and findings In a recent study published by the Lowy Institute (https://bit.ly/33ApECB) — ‘The crisis after the crisis: how Ladakh will shape India’s competition with China’ — this writer has argued that the Ladakh crisis offers New Delhi three key lessons in managing the intensifying strategic competition with China. Revamping strategies First, military strategies based on denial are more useful than strategies based on punishment. The Indian military’s standing doctrine calls for deterring adversaries with the threat of massive punitive retaliation for any aggression, capturing enemy territory as bargaining leverage in post-war talks. But this did not deter China from launching unprecedented incursions in May 2020, and the threat lost credibility when retaliation never materialised. In contrast, the Indian military’s high-water mark in the crisis was an act of denial — its occupation of the heights on the Kailash Range on its side of the LAC in late August. This action served to deny that key terrain to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), and gave the Indian Army a stronger defensive position from which it could credibly defend a larger segment of its front line. A doctrinal focus on denial will give the Indian military greater capacity to thwart future land grabs across the LAC. By bolstering India’s defensive position, rather than launching an escalatory response, such a strategy is also more likely than punishment to preserve crisis stability. Over time, improved denial capabilities may allow India to reduce the resource drain of the increased militarisation of the LAC. Political costs The second key lesson of Ladakh is that China is more likely to be deterred or coerced with the threat of political costs, rather than material costs. Admittedly, the Chinese military’s deployment to the LAC was also large and extremely expensive. But China’s defence budget is three to four times larger than India’s (https://bit.ly/3ydmVgK), and its Western Theatre Command boasts over 200,000 soldiers (https://bit.ly/3bhOWK9). The material burden of the crisis would not disrupt its existing priorities. In contrast, India successfully raised the risks of the crisis for China through its threat of a political rupture, not military punishment. A permanently hostile India or an accidental escalation to conflict were risks that China, having achieved its tactical goals in the crisis, assessed were an unnecessary additional burden while it was contending with the instability of its territorial disputes and pandemic response. The corollary lesson is that individual powers, even large powers such as India, will probably struggle to shift Beijing’s calculus alone. To the extent that China adjusted its position in the Ladakh crisis, it did so because it was responding to the cumulative effect of multiple pressure points — most of which were out of India’s control. Against the rising behemoth, only coordinated or collective action is likely to be effective. Indian Ocean Region is key The third lesson of Ladakh — and possibly the hardest to address — is that India should consider accepting more risk on the LAC in exchange for long-term leverage and influence in the Indian Ocean Region. From the perspective of long-term strategic competition, the future of the Indian Ocean Region is more consequential and more uncertain than the Himalayan frontier. At the land border, the difficult terrain and more even balance of military force means that each side could only eke out minor, strategically modest gains at best. In contrast, India has traditionally been the dominant power in the Indian Ocean Region and stands to cede significant political influence and security if it fails to answer the dizzyingly rapid expansion of Chinese military power. The Ladakh crisis, by prompting an increased militarisation of the LAC, may prompt India to defer long-overdue military modernisation and maritime expansion into the Indian Ocean. To keep its eyes on the prize, New Delhi will have to make tough-minded strategic trade-offs, deliberately prioritising military modernisation and joint force projection over the ground-centric combat arms formations required to defend territory. This will be a politically formidable task — blood has now been spilled on the LAC, and for domestic political reasons, India cannot be seen to be passive on the border. Rebalancing India’s strategic priorities will require the central government, through the Chief of Defence Staff, to issue firm strategic guidance to the military services. This response will be a test not only of the government’s strategic sense and far-sightedness, but also of the ability of the national security apparatus to overcome entrenched bureaucratic and organisational-cultural biases. As these three lessons show, the future of the strategic competition is not yet written. Thus far, India has suffered unequal strategic costs from the Ladakh crisis. Chinese troops continue to camp on previously Indian-controlled land, and worse, India may jeopardise its long-term leverage in the more consequential Indian Ocean Region. But if India’s leaders honestly and critically evaluate the crisis, it may yet help to actually brace India’s long-term position against China. Arzan Tarapore is the South Asia Research Scholar at the Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University, and a Senior Non-Resident Fellow at the National Bureau of Asian Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/evaluate-the-ladakh-crisis-keep-china-at-bay/article34538483.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||How to adopt a child legally||Profiteering from child trafficking rackets knows no bounds. Today, some people are offering infants for instant adoption by selling sob stories of how the children have lost their parents to the dreaded virus. These unscrupulous people target gullible persons who fall into the trap, little realising that such adoptions are illegal. The lack of inputs for proper procedures for legal adoption and hasty sentimental considerations are exploited for exorbitant sums of money. Tough times call for tough measures. This business of criminal trading of children must be checked with an iron hand. Protection granted by the law According to UNICEF, India has over 30 million orphan and abandoned children. Unfortunate parental deaths added unknown numbers of orphans to the list. Many children escaped monitoring by the official machinery due to the breakdown of systems. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) law was enacted in 2015. The Juvenile Justice Rules of 2016 and the Adoption Regulations of 2017 followed to create the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) as a statutory body for the regulation, monitoring and control of all intra-country and inter-country adoptions. Furthermore, CARA became pivotal in granting a ‘no objection’ certificate for all inter-country adoptions, pursuant to India becoming a signatory to the Hague Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoptions. India is also a signatory to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thus, protections afforded to children became a legal mandate of all authorities and courts. Laws were enacted. Machineries and mechanisms created were put in place. The Juvenile Justice Act is a secular law. All persons are free to adopt children under this law. However, persons professing the Hindu religion are free to adopt under the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act of 1956. Rehabilitation of all orphaned, abandoned and surrendered children is regulated by the strict mandatory procedures of the Adoption Regulations. Children of relatives can also be adopted under the Juvenile Justice Act, if desired. Only such children declared legally free for adoption under the Juvenile Justice Act by prescribed procedures can be adopted. Any person or organisation offering or receiving such children for adoption in violation of the Juvenile Justice Act and the Adoption Regulations invites punishment up to three years and a fine of Rs. 1 lakh, or both. Following procedure The eligibility of prospective adoptive parents living in India, duly registered on the Child Adoption Resource Information and Guidance System (CARINGS), irrespective of marital status and religion, is adjudged by specialised adoption agencies preparing home study reports. Upon approval, as per seniority in the adoption list, prospective children are offered and pre-adoption foster care follows. The specialised adoption agency then secures court orders approving the adoption. All non-resident persons approach authorised adoption agencies in their foreign country of residence for registration under CARINGS. Their eligibility is adjudged by authorised foreign adoption agencies through home study reports. As per seniority, they are offered profiles of children and child study reports are finalised. CARA then issues a pre-adoption ‘no objection’ certificate for foster care, followed by a court adoption order. A final ‘no objection’ certificate from CARA or a conformity certificate under the adoption convention is mandatory for a passport and visa to leave India. Not many may know this. CARA must conduct an outreach programme on social media, newspapers and TV, warning everyone not to entertain any illegal adoption offers under any circumstances whatsoever. The legal process of adoption must be adequately publicised. The National and State Commissions for Protection of Child Rights must step up their roles as vigilantes, as they are empowered by law to take effective action against those engaging in illegal activities. Social activists, NGOs and enlightened individuals must report all the incidents that come to their notice. Respective State Legal Services Authorities have the infrastructure and machinery to stamp out such unlawful practices brought to their attention. The media must publicise and shame all those involved in this disreputable occupation. Innocent children deprived of the love and care of their natural parents due to tragedies cannot fall prey to traders of human smuggling. At the same time, the police authorities need to be extra vigilant in apprehending criminals. A joint private-public venture must come into motion. Every citizen of the nation has a role to play in eradicating this unhealthy practice. Anil Malhotra is a lawyer, author, legal analyst and an IAFL fellow. anilmalhotra1960@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-to-adopt-a-child-legally/article34538487.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A matter of concern||The Indian variant, B.1.617 and its family of related coronaviruses have been categorised as a Variant of Concern (VOC) by WHO, a classification which will now prompt greater international scrutiny of those who test positive overseas. While there are several so-called ‘variants of interest’, only three, other than the B.1.617, have been categorised as VOC — the U.K. variant (B.1.1.7), the South Africa variant (B.1.351) and the Brazilian variant (P2). Usually, in countries that detect emergent variants, it is the health authorities there who flag them as potential VOC. To qualify as one, the identified variant must be linked to increased transmission or be associated with more severe disease or found to be evading detection by diagnostic tests. Concerns that the B.1.617 may be playing a role in disease spread in India were expressed by scientists by mid-March. The INSACOG, or the Indian SARS-CoV2 Genomic Consortia, had flagged a variant with two concerning mutations, E484Q and L452R, that separately had been found in other variants elsewhere. INSACOG said they now seemed to appear together on a variant that was linked to a large fraction of cases in Maharashtra and began to be called ‘double mutant’ or even ‘triple mutant’ (as it also had another important mutation, P614R). In March nearly 20% of the cases out of Maharashtra, which has consistently been among the most afflicted States, were being linked to the variant. However, it was in early April that this variant became formally classified as a lineage, B.1.617. It was only after the U.K.’s labelling it as a VOC that it was called so by health authorities in India. In fact, unlike the United States’s CDC or Public Health England, India still does not have a classification criterion for labelling viruses as variants of interest, or concern. Classifying variants is not just a matter of mere academic interest. Based on the prevalence, some variants may go on to become the dominant strain in a region or multiple geographies. It then becomes the responsibility of vaccine companies to check whether their vaccines continue to be effective. Such studies have already begun in India, but while laboratory studies show that vaccines continue to be effective, some of the emerging variants do seem to be better at evading antibodies. Along with monitoring reinfections and cases of breakthrough infections (testing positive after being double inoculated), flagging variants must be seen as a crucial health response. Detecting newer variants does not always merit radical changes in public health response — such as masking up — but they go a long way in reminding people to continue being alert, viewing vaccines as an important defence but not a magic pill, and keeping health authorities on their toes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-matter-of-concern/article34538474.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Losing trust||Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli’s loss of a trust vote in Parliament on Monday comes at a particularly crucial time. The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has not only ravaged India but has also begun to affect its landlocked neighbour Nepal, leaving citizens reeling under oxygen shortages, spikes in the daily case load, and fatalities. Political instability is the last thing Nepal needs now, but the trust vote did little to resolve the issue of who will take over the role of leading the government. Mr. Oli won just 93 votes in the 271-strong House of Representatives where only 232 turned up to vote, with 124 voting against him and 15 members staying neutral. The leading party in the Opposition, the Nepali Congress (NC) led by Sher Bahadur Deuba, with 61 members voted against Mr. Oli along with the Pushpa Kumar Dahal-led Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist-Centre) with 49 votes. The Maoists had just recently de-merged from the Nepal Communist Party after a Supreme Court ruling de-recognised its merger with Mr. Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist). Mr. Oli could not command the full support of his own party as the 28 legislator-strong Madhav Kumar Nepal-Jhalanath Khanal-led faction within the UML decided to remain absent from the House. Mr. Nepal had taken up the cudgels against Mr. Oli in the unified NCP along with Mr. Dahal, and had opposed Mr. Oli’s decision to dissolve Parliament — a move which was also struck down by the Supreme Court. Even more intriguing was the vertical split in another Opposition party, the Janata Samajwadi Party-Nepal (JSP) — the 15-member Baburam Bhattarai-Upendra Yadav faction voted against Mr. Oli while the 15-member Mahantha Thakur-Rajendra Mahato-led group decided to stay neutral. While Mr. Bhattarai and Mr. Yadav have taken a clear ideological position in line with their stated goal of a federally restructured Nepali state favourable to the plain-dwelling Madhesis — something that Mr. Oli had steadfastly opposed — the other faction is inclined to support Mr. Oli in order to wrest concessions for the Madhesis. The net effect of the trust vote was a loss of face for Prime Minister Oli, and yet it is not clear if an alternative government can be formed by the Opposition as things stand. Mr. Deuba enjoys support from the Maoists and the Bhattarai-Yadav faction of the JSP but it remains to be seen whether the Nepal-Khanal faction will decide to resign from Parliament to enable a victory for the NC. Nepal’s political class has been, more often than not, caught up in political tugs of war with frequent changes in regimes despite the people reposing their faith in democratic institutions through two “jan andolans” — the first removing absolute monarchy, and the second enabling a constitutional republic. At least now, when Nepal faces the onslaught of the novel coronavirus, the polity must rise to the occasion and work towards an alternative stable regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/losing-trust/article34538475.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal and what it means for BJP||The results of the West Bengal Assembly elections can be seen broadly in two ways. It shows the failure of the Modi-Shah-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in defeating the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. Yet, the performance of the BJP is remarkable — it has increased its seat share from three in 2016 to 77 in 2021. In some ways, this increase is reminiscent of the BJP’s electoral journey at the national level from two seats in 1984 to 85 seats in 1989, accomplished through the Ayodhya movement. In West Bengal, the BJP has accomplished this task mainly through a polarised campaign in religious terms. From 1989 to 2014, it took nearly 25 years for the BJP to win a single-party majority in the Lok Sabha elections; however, that might not be its experience in West Bengal. In the wake of the decimation of the Left and the Congress, the possibility for the BJP to become West Bengal’s ruling party depends on how the Trinamool is going to govern in a bipolar polity. Make no mistake: the BJP is the only national party that enjoys a special advantage and its hunger to expand is far more acute compared to the Congress’s when the latter had an identical or even better national profile. A force to reckon with It is often argued that the BJP was an insignificant force with only two seats in the 1984 parliamentary election. However, what is overlooked is the fact that it received 7.74 % votes in 1984, which is more than the total vote share of the CPI (M) and the CPI in 2004, which was 7.07%. Interestingly, the Left parties had 53 seats in Parliament with that vote share and played a key role in the United Progressive Alliance-1 regime. This means that the BJP was not as insignificant in 1984 as is portrayed in scholarly literature. Moreover, its vote share could have been greater than what it had received if not for the abnormal nature of the 1984 election, held after the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Nonetheless, the BJP began to build on this limited social base with great sophistication, often with the active support of leaders such as Ms. Banerjee and Farooq Abdullah as National Democratic Alliance partners. Election strategist Prashant Kishor remarked that a party can at best secure 50%-55% of the votes through polarisation. One is not certain if this is true of all cases and States. Take Gujarat, for example, where polarisation certainly brought in more than 50% of the votes in one election, making it a paradigmatic case of the politics of polarisation in Indian electoral history. Consequently, that has helped the BJP return to power election after election. According to the 2011 Census, the Muslim population is 27% in West Bengal, but in Assam, it is 34.2%. Yet, the BJP was able to defeat the Congress-led Grand Alliance in Assam. It is another matter that former Congressman Himanta Biswa Sarma played a crucial role in scripting the Congress’s defeat, which speaks volumes of the kind of Congress leaders who were once building secular India. Therefore, what has worked for the Trinamool in 2021 may not work forever. This leaves vast opportunity structures for the BJP to expand. Inflection point In the present Assembly, the gap in seats between the Trinamool and the BJP is 136. This makes the Mamata government immune to the experiments that the BJP conducted in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka to capture power. But the long-term future of the BJP partly also depends on how the Trinamool is going to shape itself in the post-Mamata period. If the Trinamool chooses to remain a populist party and becomes a dynasty party, it will become more vulnerable. It could still remain a contender like the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu or the Samajwadi Party in U.P. But if it chooses to institutionalise and create opportunities for bright leaders like Mahua Moitra, there is a fair chance that the party can have a future beyond Bengal. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Millia Central University and is the author of the forthcoming book titled, Shikwa- e-Hind: The Political Future of Indian Muslims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bengal-and-what-it-means-for-bjp/article34538488.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||In England: Aldershot riot||London, May 9: A serious riot took place in Aldershot last night. Shops windows were smashed and looted by men in uniform who were accompanied by a large party carrying red flags. Two or three police were injured. The outbreak is apparently due to the discontent of reservists being called up in connection with the coal dispute. A later message states all is now quiet in Aldershot. The riot was apparently such as occasionally occurs on Saturday nights where large bodies of troops are gathered. It began by the smashing of omnibus windows. The soldiers concerned wore no badges but were excited by an erroneous report that some of their comrades had been detained in the guard-room. A comparatively small part actually took part in window smashing but a hundred soldiers followed the rioters and many of them treated the matter as a joke, although some remonstrated with the rioters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-england-aldershot-riot/article34538484.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak. faces serious food shortage||Washington, May 11: Mr. M.M. Ahmed, Chief Economic Adviser to President Yahya Khan of Pakistan, admitted here yesterday that the country would be facing serious food shortage after three or four months as the present stock would last only till then. Mr. Ahmed, who is now in the United States seeking additional aid, said the entire Pakistan would need sizeable food assistance for the rest of this year and all of next year because of “civil war” in Pakistan. Mr. Ahmed added, “There is no danger of imminent starvation in East Pakistan, despite the recent civil disturbances there”. He said there were approximately 686,000 tons of wheat and rice in East Pakistan at the end of March. An additional 801,000 tons, including 300,000 tons of rice, was in the aid pipeline, some of which could be transferred to East Pakistan, if needed. Mr. Ahmed conferred for 40 minutes with President Nixon and with Dr. Henry Kissinger, Mr. Nixon’s National Security Adviser. He had also talks with World Bank officials and is expected to see the Secretary of State, Mr. Rogers, before leaving on Friday. Details of his mission were shrouded in secrecy but it was believed that he was seeking further international as well as U.S. economic aid. Aid has been delayed by Washington since the civil war broke out in East Bengal in March last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pak-faces-serious-food-shortage/article34538485.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||MFI sector urges RBI backing for emergency credit support||Reeling under the impact of the second wave of the pandemic, the microfinance sector has reached out to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for support, including an emergency credit line and creating awareness among State governments on ill-effects of loan waivers. In a letter to the RBI, Sa-Dhan, representing the sector, has sought emergency credit of up to 25% of their outstandings with the lending banks to enable micro-finance institutions (MFIs) to mobilise Rs. 15,000 crore. It also sought a special liquidity facility of at least Rs. 15,000 crore through NABARD and SIDBI. “At least 40% of funds under this may be earmarked for MFIs with portfolio below Rs. 500 crore.” It also recommended the introduction of a partial Credit Guarantee Scheme 3.0 as it may help boost confidence of banks in the ‘present uncertain times’ to lend to the microfinance sector, especially small and mid-size MFIs with relatively lower credit ratings. The RBI should emphasise to the Union and State governments the role of the sector in financial inclusion and highlight the need to categorise it under ‘essential services’ without imposing curbs on operations that affect clients as well as MFIs. “RBI may reiterate to State governments the ill- effects of loan waiver announcements and its implications on credit discipline and flow of funds to the marginalised sections,” it added. Other recommendations include assessment of MFI cash flow by banks and developmental finance institutions and providing them moratorium or restructuring support for 6-12 months .  The RBI must highlight the need to categorise the sector under essential services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mfi-sector-urges-rbi-backing-for-emergency-credit-support/article34538473.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Equity MF inflows slump in April amid pandemic||Equity mutual funds (MFs) witnessed a net inflow of Rs. 3,437 crore in April, making it the second consecutive monthly infusion but lower than the amount recorded in March amid the second COVID-19 wave. The quantum is much lower than the inflow of Rs. 9,115 crore recorded in March, according to data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Equity schemes had witnessed outflows for eight straight months from July 2020 to February 2021.   “With the second wave putting pressure on citizens to hold a higher emergency corpus for medical needs, investor interest is a tad down and can be expected to recover in the waning phase of this health scare,” Gopal Kavalireddi, head of research at FYERS, said.  “The start to fiscal 2021-22 has been quite positive with MF industry average assets under management at an all-time high of Rs. 32.42 lakh crore owing to positive flows in all open-ended categories and robust SIP contribution in April at Rs. 8,591 crore,” said N. S. Venkatesh, CEO, AMFI. (With inputs from Lalatendu Mishra)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equity-mf-inflows-slump-in-april-amid-pandemic/article34538458.ece
12 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Nomura pares FY22 growth estimate to 10.8%||Japanese brokerage Nomura on Tuesday cut its GDP growth estimate for the current 2021-22 fiscal to 10.8% from the earlier 12.6%, blaming the impact of the second wave-induced lockdowns. It said the activity levels have dropped further to 64.5% of the pre-pandemic levels in the week to May 9 as per a proprietary index, after a further 5 percentage points drop in the week. The activity levels, at present, are at par with those seen in June last year. The country has reported over 4 lakh new infections and 4,000 deaths a day during the ongoing second wave of the COVID-19 infections, leading over 20 States to impose lockdowns or lockdown-like restrictions as a desperate measure to restrict the virus spread.  “We expect a localised hit in Q2 (April-June) and believe that medium-term tailwinds (like vaccine pivot, global recoverys) remain intact,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nomura-pares-fy22-growth-estimate-to-108/article34538461.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Second wave to slow smartphone sales: IDC||The smartphone industry in India is expected to witness growth challenges in April-June quarter on account of the second wave of the pandemic, as per International Data Corporation (IDC) The segment had witnessed a healthy year-on-year growth of 18% to 38 million units shipped in the first quarter (January-March) of 2021, IDC said. However, compared with the strong October-December 2020, the Indian smartphone market declined by 14% in the first quarter. “The April-June quarter is expected to face growth challenges under the weight of the second wave of infections,” said Navkendar Singh, research director, client devices & IPDS, IDC India. While the impact was estimated to be less pronounced compared with last year, with factories being operational today, only limited restrictions on logistics/transportation and State-level lockdowns, recovery in 2021 “might not be as smooth as expected earlier.” IDC expects a rebound in consumer sentiment in the second half of 2021, resulting in a single-digit growth annually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/second-wave-to-slow-smartphone-sales-idc/article34538472.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||SEBI pitches for ‘person in control’ over ‘promoter’||Markets regulator SEBI on Tuesday proposed to rationalise the definition of ‘promoter group’ and move to the concept of ‘person in control’ as well as lower the minimum lock-in periods for promoters and other shareholders after an IPO. In a consultation paper, the watchdog has also suggested streamlining the disclosures requirement of group companies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has sought comments from the public on the proposals, the window being open till June 10. With regard to lock-in periods, SEBI has proposed that if the objective of the issue involves offer for sale or financing other than for capital expenditure for a project, then the minimum promoters’ contribution of 20% should be locked-in for one year from the date of allotment in the Initial Public Offer (IPO). Currently, the lock-in period is three years. “Promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’ contribution shall be locked in for a period of six months as opposed to the existing requirement of one year from the date of allotment in the IPO,” SEBI suggested. The entire pre-issue capital held by persons other than promoters should be locked in for six months from the date of allotment in the IPO as against the current norm of one year. In addition, the regulator has suggested rationalising the definition of ‘promoter group’ as the current definition focusses on encompassing holdings by a common group of individuals or persons and often results in including unrelated companies with common financial investors. The regulator has proposed to do away with the current definition of promoter group as the deletion would rationalise the disclosure burden and bring it in line with the post listing disclosure requirement. ‘Changing scenario’ Citing the changing investor landscape, SEBI said there was a need to revisit the concept of ‘promoter’ to a concept of ‘person in control’ and a period of three years has been proposed for such a shift over in a smooth and progressive manner without causing disruption. “Unlike the past, the concentration of ownership and controlling rights does not vest completely in the hands of the promoters or promoter group. There has been a significant increase in the number of private equity and institutional investors who invest in companies and take up substantial shareholding, and in some cases, control,” SEBI noted. Such investors invest in unlisted firms and continue to hold shares post listing, many times being the largest public shareholders, having special rights, such as the right to nominate directors, it added. Aggregate promoters’ holdings in the top 500 listed firms by market value, peaked at 58% in 2009 and is on a downward trend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-pitches-for-person-in-control-over-promoter/article34538467.ece
12 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Groww to buy Indiabulls MF for Rs. 175 crore||Investment platform Groww said it will acquire Indiabulls Mutual Fund (MF) for Rs. 175 crore. Under the deal, Groww would acquire Indiabulls AMC and trustee company of Indiabulls Mutual Fund.  The sale of Indiabulls AMC would be limited only to the mutual fund part of the business while alternate investment fund and portfolio management services would stay with Indiabulls Housing Finance. “We have decided to divest our interest in the retail mutual fund business to consolidate capital and provide greater focus to building the real estate asset management business,” said Gagan Banga, vice-chairman and MD, Indiabulls Housing Finance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/groww-to-buy-indiabulls-mf-for-rs-175-crore/article34538456.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Dividend plan a must for top 1,000 firms’||To strengthen corporate governance practices and disclosure requirements, SEBI has notified new rules, including that top 1,000 listed firms will have to formulate a dividend distribution policy. The regulator has also put in place a framework in relation to applicability, constitution and role of the Risk Management Committee (RMC) and eased norms for reclassification of a promoter as a public shareholder, according to a notification dated May 5. SEBI has asked firms to post audio and video recordings of analyst and investor meets on their websites and stock exchanges within 24 hours or before the next trading day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dividend-plan-a-must-for-top-1000-firms/article34538462.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||India to ship 56 lakh tonne sugar: AISTA||India has contracted to export 56 lakh tonne sugar so far in the ongoing 2020-21 marketing season, and is expected to conclude deals for shipment of the balance 4 lakh tonne soon, trade body AISTA said. The government has fixed a mandatory export target of 60 lakh tonne surplus sugar for ongoing the 2020-21 season (October-September). During the 2019-20 sea son, India had shipped 59 lakh tonne. Releasing latest data, All India Sugar Trade Association (AISTA) said of the56-lakh-tonne contracts, 34.78 lakh tonne had been already shipped to top 12 nations till May 6. It was however concerned over high freight rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-to-ship-56-lakh-tonne-sugar-aista/article34538463.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Medi Assist Healthcare Services files IPO papers with Sebi||Medi Assist Healthcare Services has filed preliminary papers with SEBI to float an initial share-sale. The initial public offer (IPO) is entirely an offer of sale of up to 28,028,168 equity shares of Medi Assist by promoters and existing shareholders, according to the draft red herring prospectus. Those selling shares include Dr. Vikram Jit Singh Chhatwal and Medimatter Health Management.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/medi-assist-healthcare-services-files-ipo-papers-with-sebi/article34538459.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccination status of hotel staff on app: OYO||Hospitality chain OYO on Tuesday said it had rolled out a new feature to show the vaccination status of hotel staff across its properties. With the feature ‘VaccinAid’, users on the OYO app will have visibility on hotels and homes with vaccinated staff, either with the first dose or second dose, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vaccination-status-of-hotel-staff-on-app-oyo/article34538465.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||M&M's sales volume may be lower by 20 pc in Jun quarter||Utility vehicles and farm equipment major Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. said sales volume for the quarter ended June is estimated to be lower by 15-20% as compared with the year-earlier period due to the second wave of the pandemic. Revenue and profitability will also be impacted. However, M&M is taking cost optimisation measures to limit the adverse impact, it said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mms-sales-volume-may-be-lower-by-20-pc-in-jun-quarter/article34538468.ece
12 May 2021||London,||Fulham tumbles out of PL||Relegation, promotion, and now relegation again. Fulham’s rollercoaster ride between the top two divisions of English soccer has taken the London club back out of the Premier League, its fate sealed by losing to Burnley 2-0 on Monday. Fulham joined Sheffield United and West Bromwich Albion in going down to the Championship, wrapping up the Premier League’s relegation battle at the earliest ever stage — with three rounds still to go. Burnley was one of four clubs — along with Brighton, Newcastle and Southampton — still mathematically not safe heading into the match at Craven Cottage. Good news for Burnley After first-half goals from Ashley Westwood and in-form striker Chris Wood, Burnley was able to celebrate the prospect of playing a sixth straight season in the lucrative top flight — a stunning achievement by manager Sean Dyche given the budget he works under. Borja Iglesias scored twice, including in the 87th minute, as Real Betis defeated Granada 2-1 to move closer to a Europa League spot in the Spanish league. The victory moved Betis to sixth place with three rounds remaining, two points in front of Villarreal. The teams in fifth and sixth places qualify for the Europa League next season.  The results: Premier League: Fulham 0 lost to Burnley 2 (Westwood 35, Wood 44).   LaLiga: Real Betis 2 (Iglesias 39, 87) bt Granada 1 (Machis 66).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fulham-tumbles-out-of-pl/article34538631.ece
12 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Shreyas likely to be unavailable for Sri Lanka tour||Shreyas Iyer is unlikely to recover in time to be considered for India’s limited-over tour to Sri Lanka in July, which will clash with the Test squad’s tour to England. The Mumbai batsman is being touted as a contender to be India’s future captain for the shorter versions of the game. However, ever since injuring his shoulder during the ODI series against England in March, Shreyas has been out of action. Shoulder surgery Having undergone a shoulder surgery on April 8, Shreyas is expected to take at least three months to return to competitive cricket. Even though Shreyas is understood to be off a sling, the medical staff of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is understood to have decided in consultation with the team management and the national selectors that his return should be aimed for the T20 World Cup, likely to start mid-October. In Shreyas’s absence, all-rounder Hardik Pandya and veteran opening batsman Shikhar Dhawan will be front-runners to lead India’s second-string squad to Sri Lanka. Despite BCCI chief informing The Hindu earlier this week that the tour will have three T20Is and five ODIs, it is confirmed that India will play three ODIs and three T20Is from July 13 to 27. Considering the surge of COVID-19 cases in the neighbouring island, the Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) is understood to have been working on two plans for the tour. Depending on its government’s clearance, the tour will either be played in Colombo or will be split into Pallekele (near Kandy) and Sooriyaweva (near Hambantota). Parallel FTP not surprising The BCCI’s decision to agree to tour Sri Lanka with a development squad, leading to two of India’s squads based in two different continents at the same time may have raised a few eyebrows, but it was expected. “It was bound to happen at some point, with stricter quarantine protocols and limited windows available to respect bilateral cricket commitments,” a BCCI official said on Tuesday, preferring anonymity. In fact, in May 2020, The Hindu had reported that parallel Future Tours Programme (FTP) may be forced into the cricket calendar due to the hard lockdown across the globe last year. While it didn’t happen during India’s tour to Australia, it will be a reality soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shreyas-likely-to-be-unavailable-for-sri-lanka-tour/article34538573.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Cricket needs to rediscover its evangelical spirit||Not for the first time, India will have two teams touring simultaneously for international matches. The first eleven will be in England for the World Test Championship final against New Zealand and the five-Test England series, and the second in Sri Lanka for white ball cricket. Perhaps that is the route international cricket needs to take, thus ensuring that while one country eats the cake, another will have it too. In 1998, India played the Sahara Cup in Canada and in the Commonwealth Games in Kuala Lumpur simultaneously. Financially, an Indian tour is the most sought-after in world cricket today, and being in two places at the same time is a nifty way of keeping more people happy. But there’s more to it than that. Enough talent It helps, of course, that India have enough players to field two full international teams, each capable of winning their respective series ahead. The triumph in Australia where India put together a replacement team after injuries (and a childbirth) had deprived them of some top players clearly sent out a message. It also created an opening for bowlers in particular which they might not otherwise have had. In any case, with the coronavirus squeezing the schedule, the Future Tours Programme will need to be planned differently. Overlapping series in different countries or even the same one will help get through the calendar with greater ease. It will also mean that international teams which are not television favourites will get a chance to meet the popular ones more often. Anything will be an improvement from the current situation where they are treated like second class citizens. Few other teams have the luxury of being able to field two teams simultaneously. England, yes. And perhaps Australia too. But increasingly, as teams field different players depending on the colour of the ball, it is possible that Test cricket and one-day internationals (also T20I) will move on different tracks. And that’s not such a bad thing. Perhaps formats can be played simultaneously during the same tour. It would have been worthwhile experimenting during India’s tour of England later this year where they play five Tests but no other internationals. Keep the best for Tests Top players, however, tend to be crucial to more than one format. Virat Kohli, Jasprit Bumrah, Ben Stokes, Kane Williamson, Babar Azam, Rashid Khan and others are invaluable members of their teams in all formats. But the idea would be to keep the best for the Tests while the best of the rest play the second rung white ball teams. This will mean a great deal to such countries which seldom, if ever, get to play the top Test teams. Cricket needs to rediscover its evangelical spirit. In 1929-30, England fielded two international teams, one led by Freddie Calthorpe which was the first to visit the West Indies, and the other by Harold Gilligan which travelled to New Zealand. Both hosts were recent entrants into the Test fold, and England felt it was necessary to promote the game in these new regions. The more experienced team went to the West Indies, where the four-Test series was drawn 1-1 while the team to New Zealand won 1-0. England played Tests in Georgetown and Auckland simultaneously. But all that is incidental. What matters is the missionary zeal behind the tours. The spread of the game was important, and the established teams felt a responsibility towards the newbies. Some of that thinking — so necessary to the game’s spread, and so forgotten in the era of television money — ought to see India play Nepal or Oman while Australia play Papua New Guinea in ODI. I am not sure that contemporary teams see this as part of their responsibility. The tension between what the cricket bodies believe is their duty and what television sees as its birthright does not exist. Governing bodies have the dual responsibility of strengthening the sport in different parts of the world as well as generating funds for themselves. Television has mainly the latter obligation. The result is that the governing bodies easily fall into line, and don’t make enough of their bargaining power — the marquee matches. Simultaneous tours or competitions will free up time for the marquee teams away from the somewhat rigid Future Tours Programme, enabling them to engage with the less powerful teams. The India versus Sri Lanka series is a competition of equals and does not fit into this category. But the idea of a fielding two teams — even if it is just by three or four of the top sides — is a sound one, and can help raise the overall standard of the sport. All that is needed is intent. And common-sense planning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricket-needs-to-rediscover-its-evangelical-spirit/article34538569.ece
12 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Royal Basco scripts a success story||Royal Basco FC was a revelation in the recent Ramco Kerala Premier League. The lesser- known club from Malappuram surprised everyone by entering the semifinals. In the semifinals, Basco led former champion KSEB 3-0 before losing in the tie-breaker. Basco’s dream run in the KPL earned the club a right to play in the second division I-League. The credit for Basco’s fine performance should go to former Santosh Trophy coach P.K. Rajeev. Great transformation He reluctantly agreed to train a bunch of sevens footballers after much persuasion from the club officials. But within two months, Rajeev transformed them from part-time professionals to giant killers. However, on the first day of training Rajeev realised he had a tough task at hand, convincing the players, whose bread and butter were the sevens tournaments, about discipline and systematic coaching. “It was a challenging experience. We operated on a shoe-string budget and players didn’t take the training sessions seriously. For them playing in sevens tournament was lucrative and they turned up for training after playing in late night tournaments. “Most of them didn’t have the experience or fitness to play the elevens game. When the fasting started for Ramzan, some of them didn’t turn up. So I had to maximise whatever resources I had. “I built the team around Calicut University players Thejas Krishna, Mohammed Sanish and Mohammed Ashik. I had to rotate the players in certain positions and played them for short durations and it worked. Thejas and Ashik were standout performers for us in the KPL,” said Rajeev. Tough pool Basco was drawn in a tough pool which had Kerala Police, Gokulam FC, Luca SC, FC Kerala and SAT. Basco started the campaign losing to Gokulam, but held Kerala Police, SAT and Luca SC to draws before thrashing FC Kerala to book a place in the semifinals. But Basco’s frailties were exposed in the defeat against KSEB. “We lost to KSEB because of our inexperience. Honestly we never practised the penalty kicks during training and we didn’t have any specialist kickers. We missed one during regular time against KSEB. “But overall it was a tremendous performance by the boys, especially when we had to play three matches in four days after the tournament was rescheduled. If we had a good holding midfielder, a reliable defender and a good goalkeeper, the team would have won the championships. “Considering our limitations, qualifying for the second division was a big achievement,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royal-basco-scripts-a-success-story/article34538825.ece
12 May 2021||TOKYO,||Olympic torch relay pulled off Hiroshima streets||The Tokyo Olympic torch relay is being pulled off the streets in Hiroshima prefecture as COVID-19 cases rise in Japan barely 10 weeks before the opening ceremony. Hiroshima Governor Hidehiko Yuzaki said that a ceremony next week without the relay is likely to still take place. This is at least the sixth change to the relay — from rerouting to cancellation — in the last several weeks. Organisers warned before the relay began that changes and delays were expected in the face of the pandemic. “It is certain there will be no relay on public streets since we are all trying to reduce going out, and how to do the ceremony without the relay on the streets is still being discussed with the organisers,” Yuzaki said on Monday. The relay began on March 25 in northeastern Japan and is to end on July 23 at the opening ceremony of the Olympics.  Cancellation calls  The relay is heavily sponsored by Toyota and Coca-Cola and has proceeded despite some calls a year ago to cancel it to save money. It involves 10,000 runners crisscrossing Japan with organisers trying to keep crowds off the streets and urging them to maintain social distancing. On Monday, Japan’s Kyodo news agency reported that Hyogo and Okayama prefectures will also take the torch relay off public streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-torch-relay-pulled-off-hiroshima-streets/article34538626.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Have to be prepared for all situations: Rahi||As much as she sizzles in the international arena with her spell-binding mastery of rapid fire shooting with the sports pistol, Olympian and Asian Games gold medallist Rahi Sarnobat can be stunning with the depth of her thoughts. A voracious reader who juggles four books at a time, the 30-year-old Rahi has meticulously taken notes of all her experiences over the years, to be best prepared for any situation. Having been trained by top coaches like Anatolii Piddubnyi and Munkhbayar Dorjsuren, Rahi prefers to be in her “personal space” at the moment in the last stretch of Olympic preparation in Croatia, especially in the absence of high performance coach Samaresh Jung. “We have to be prepared for all situations. We have to perform on our own. I do discuss with professional psychologists. I get to know that I am on the right track. I know the mistakes, problems and the pattern. I keep rating myself on my mental ability,” revealed Rahi. Precautions Having recovered from COVID after the last World Cup in Delhi in March, when she won an individual silver behind compatriot Chinki Yadav, Rahi has made it a point to pack herself with adequate precautions. “I am carrying a steamer. I am carrying spices. That is, Ayurvedic ingredients for preparing kadha. I hope not to be infected again. I am also carrying an oximeter and infrared thermometer,” said Rahi during a media interaction organised by Sports Authority of India (SAI). She was categorical that pressure was important for peak performance. “I want some pressure. I like the feeling of responsibility. More than the media or people, we have expectations from ourselves. It brings out the best in me. I am pretty sure that the expectations will be fulfilled as our young team has been brilliant.”  She keeps it simple about the final stretch. “As athletes, we should stick to our routine. We can’t take things for granted. We have to keep working hard and spend time in a productive way. It will help us crack these Games,” Rahi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/have-to-be-prepared-for-all-situations-rahi/article34538639.ece
12 May 2021||ROME,||Auger-Aliassime dispatches Schwartzman||Canada’s Felix Auger-Aliassime stunned eighth seed Diego Schwartzman of Argentina 6-1, 6-3 in the second round of the Italian Open on Tuesday. Japan’s Kei Nishikori also made the third round with a walkover against 11th seed Pablo Carreno Busta of Spain. Earlier in the day, 16th seed Grigor Dimitrov crashed out in the first round when he was beaten by Spanish qualifier Alejandro Davidovich Fokina. The World No. 48 saved two set points in the second set as he dismissed the 2014 semifinalist Dimitrov 6-4, 7-6(2). In doubles, Rohan Bopanna and Denis Shapovalov were beaten 6-4, 6-4 by Marcus Daniel and Philipp Oswald in the first round. On the women’s side, Argentinian Nadia Podoroska, ranked 44 in the world, assured herself of a second round meeting with Serena Williams, playing her first event since the Australian Open, when she came from a set down to beat Laura Siegemund 2-6, 7-6(3), 6-1.  Important results: Men: Second round: Felix Auger-Aliassime bt Diego Schwartzman 6-1, 6-3; Reilly Opelka bt Lorenzo Musetti 6-4, 6-4; Kei Nishikori bt Pablo Carreno Busta, walkover.   First round: Alejandro Davidovich Fokina bt Grigor Dimitrov 6-4, 7-6(2); Matteo Berrettini bt Nikoloz Basilashvili 4-6, 6-2, 6-4; John Millman bt Dusan Lajovic 6-3, 6-4; Lorenzo Sonego bt Gael Monfils 6-4, 5-7, 6-4; Roberto Bautista Agut bt Tommy Paul 6-3, 6-4; Denis Shapovalov bt Kamil Majchrzak 6-1, 6-3; Marin Cilic bt Alexander Bublik 4-6, 6-2, 6-3; Gianluca Mager bt Alex de Minaur 6-4, 6-3; Jan-Lennard Struff bt Aljaz Bedene 6-3, 6-1; Lorenzo Musetti bt Hubert Hurkacz 6-4, 2-0 retd   Doubles: First round: Marcus Daniell & Philipp Oswald bt Denis Shapovalov & Rohan Bopanna 6-4, 6-4.   Women: First round: Yaroslava Shvedova bt Martina Trevisan 0-6, 7-6(4), 7-6(6); Veronika Kudermetova bt Elise Mertens 4-6, 6-2, 6-3; Madison Keys bt Sloane Stephens 4-6, 6-2, 7-5; Garbine Muguruza bt Patricia Tig 6-1, 6-2; Nadia Podoroska bt Laura Siegemund 2-6, 7-6(3), 6-1; Kristina Mladenovic bt Belinda Bencic 6-3, 6-4; Maria Sakkari bt Polona Hercog 7-6(6), 3-6, 6-2; Vera Zvonareva bt Christina McHale 6-3, 6-0; Petra Martic bt Shelby Rogers 5-7, 6-3, 6-4; Jessica Pegula bt Daria Kasatkina 7-5, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/auger-aliassime-dispatches-schwartzman/article34538576.ece
12 May 2021||Kingston,||‘Don’t think we will see those glory days again’||Pace legend Curly Ambrose believes the current lot of Caribbean youngsters doesn’t really understand what cricket means to the West Indies and so the two-time World champion will never be able to relive the glory days again. West Indies had lifted first two World Cup titles in 1975 and 1979 and it took 33 years for the team to claim another ICC World title when Darren Sammy guided them to the 2012 T20 crown and repeated the feat four years later. “Most of the youngsters we have now probably don’t quite understand what cricket means to West Indians in the West Indies and abroad. “Because cricket is the only sport that really unites Caribbean people,” Ambrose told Talk Sports Live. No disrespect “This is no disrespect to the players we have now because we have a couple of guys who have some quality in them and can become great, but what we have to understand is that I don’t think we will ever see those great, exceptional glory days again.” The 57-year-old, who claimed 405 wickets in 98 Tests, said it is difficult to find talented cricketers from the island nations nowadays. “Yes, we can be competitive and climb up the ICC rankings and be a force to be reckon with again, but those glory days, I don’t think we will see them again.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dont-think-we-will-see-those-glory-days-again/article34538585.ece
12 May 2021||LONDON,||MCC rejects the idea of bamboo bats||The Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) has shot down the idea of bats made from bamboo, saying it would be “illegal” under the current set of rules governing the game. The guardian of the laws of cricket, however, said they will deliberate on the matter during their sub-committee meeting. According to a study by Dr. Darshil Shah and Ben Tinkler-Davies from the University of Cambridge, bats made from bamboo are economically sustainable and are also stronger than the ones made from willow, which is traditionally used. “Currently, law 5.3.2 states that the blade of the bat must consist solely of wood, so for bamboo (which is a grass) to be considered as a realistic alternative to willow would require a law change,” MCC said in a statement on Monday. “Importantly, the law would need to be altered to allow bamboo specifically, as even if it were to be recognised as a wood, this would still be illegal under the current law, which bans lamination of the blade, except in junior bats.” The researchers found the bamboo bat to be “stiffer, harder and stronger than those made of willow, although more brittle” and also supposed to have a larger “sweet spot, closer to the toe of the bat.” MCC, however, said it needs to tread carefully to ensure that the balance of bat and ball remains intact. “MCC’s role as Guardian of the Laws includes maintaining the balance between bat and ball, and any potential amendments to the Law would need to carefully take this into consideration, particularly the concept of the bat producing greater power.” “Sustainability is a relevant topic for MCC and indeed cricket, and this angle of willow alternatives should also be considered,” MCC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcc-rejects-the-idea-of-bamboo-bats/article34538588.ece
12 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Harikrishna readying for Sochi WC||For someone known for making the best moves against the toughest opponents on the 64 squares, GM P. Harikrishna is enjoying being ‘cornered’ by a new member in his family — three-month-old daughter Maya. “It has been a fabulous time no doubt. Obviously, chess took a back seat for the last few months as we (he and wife, former Serbian chess player Nadezda Stojanovic) are busy taking care of our new family member,” Harikrishna said in a chat with The Hindu from Prague, his second home now. “The last event I competed was the Tata Steel and I was happy with my performance having drawn against the likes of Magnus Carlsen, Fabiano Caruana. “So essentially, my focus will be the next World Cup scheduled in Sochi (Russia) this July,” said the former World junior champion. “As things stand, it is still on and hope it remains so,” he added.  “It is not that I was completely away from the sport because of family commitments but real, serious practice will begin very soon as like anyone I have to be ready as and when the competitive circuit begins, hopefully, with the pandemic fading away,” said the 35-year-old. “Life has been really tough as there is complete lockdown again here (Prague). But it is inevitable. There are positives too like being with the family. Luckily, since Nadezda is a chess player it is handy though I prefer to have on-board training with my seconds, especially ahead of the World Cup,” he said. “There are more benefits training and competing on the boards,” he said. Hari, who will be playing in his eighth World Cup with his two previous best performances being making it to the last 32 stage, believes that the pandemic is a real test of character for everyone. “Whoever stays mentally tough, understands the ground reality better and continues to be focused on what he has to do will play better chess,” Hari concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-readying-for-sochi-wc/article34538630.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Anand and four other GMs to raise funds||Five-time world champion Viswanathan Anand and four other Indian Grandmasters will play simultaneous online exhibition matches against other chess players on Thursday to raise funds for COVID-19 relief work in the country. Any player who has a Chess.com blitz or FIDE standard rating of under 2000 can play with Anand by donating $150 and with the other four GMs by paying $25 as registration amount. Donations will also be accepted during the exhibition matches to be broadcast on Chess.com at 19:30 IST. The website said it will match all donations up to a total of $ 10,000. All the proceeds from the simultaneous exhibitions involving Anand, Koneru Humpy, D. Harika, Nihal Sarin and R. Praggnanandhaa will go to Red Cross India and the Checkmate COVID initiative of the All India Chess Federation (AICF). “We all know India is struggling hard against COVID-19. At this time, we all have been affected in some way. I don’t think there is a single person young or old who has not been affected by this,” Anand said in a video message posted on Chess.com . “ You can play some of India's finest GMs, and have Chess.com match your donations. This is a little contribution from our chess fraternity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-and-four-other-gms-to-raise-funds/article34538583.ece
12 May 2021||London,||England players set to miss re-scheduled IPL: ECB||England has a busy international schedule from June and the players are unlikely to be available for the remainder of the suspended IPL if the T20 tournament is rescheduled this year, says ECB Director of Cricket Ashley Giles. The IPL was suspended last week after multiple COVID-19 cases inside its bio-bubble. There are two windows for the T20 event to be resumed this year — one is in the second half of September and before the T20 World Cup (October-November ) and the other is after mid-November. But England’s top players will be in action at both times. They have tours to Bangladesh and Pakistan in September and October, while they will compete with Australia at the Ashes right after the T20 World Cup. “We’re planning on involvement of England players in England matches. We’ve got a full FTP schedule. So if those tours to Pakistan and Bangladesh are going ahead, I’d expect the players to be there,” Giles said as quoted by ESPNcricinfo. There were 11 Englishman in various franchises in the suspended IPL. Giles dismissed suggestion that this signals a change in approach from the ECB as the management had earlier allowed up to a dozen players to miss the Test series against New Zealand at the start of June due to their involvement in the IPL. “The New Zealand scenario was very different. Those Test matches were formalised at the end of January, by which time all those contracts and NOCs (no objection certificates) were signed for full involvement in the IPL.” Giles expressed hope that players would be allowed “a bit more freedom” from bio-bubbles as the England summer progresses. The Test players are likely to enter their latest bubble from around May 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-players-set-to-miss-re-scheduled-ipl-ecb/article34538586.ece
12 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Video analysis helped us: Rohidas||The Indian men’s hockey team defender Amit Rohidas feels that the use of video analysis during preparations has played a big role in the side’s recent success during tours of Europe and Argentina. He said video analysis has also been a useful tool to correct players’ flaws in the national camp here. “Video analysis helped us on both the tours. We analysed our opponent’s style of play, their movement in the attack as well as in defence, and we adapted to the situations accordingly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/video-analysis-helped-us-rohidas/article34538823.ece
12 May 2021||Heilbronn (Germany),||Nagal stuns Kudla||Sumit Nagal beat sixth seed Denis Kudla of USA 7-5, 1-6, 6-1 to move into the second round of the €88,620 Challenger tennis tournament here. However, Prajnesh Gunneswaran lost to Italy’s Alessandro Giannessi 7-6(4), 6-1 in his opening match. Ramkumar Ramanathan, who won two qualifying rounds in the €44,820 Zagreb Challenger on his return to the circuit after a six-week break, was beaten 6-4, 6-0 in the first round of the main draw by fellow-qualifier Sebastian Baez of Argentina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-stuns-kudla/article34538627.ece
12 May 2021||Kuala Lumpur,||AFC’s women’s meet draw postponed||The qualifying round draw of the 2022 AFC Women’s Asian Cup to be held in India, scheduled for May 27 was on Tuesday postponed by the Asian Football Confederation until further notice due to rising COVID-19 cases in the host country and across the continent. “Taking into consideration the current challenges and logistical arrangements, the AFC agreed the postponement of the draw was necessary due to rising COVID-19 cases in the host nation as well as across the continent keeping in mind the well-being and safety of all teams, players, officials and relevant stakeholders,” the AFC said. “More details on the new arrangements will be announced in due course,” it added in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afcs-womens-meet-draw-postponed/article34538628.ece
12 May 2021||London,||UEFA may move CL final to Portugal||Playing the all-English Champions League final on home soil at Wembley is proving problematic. Instead, the players and fans of Chelsea and Manchester City could be headed to Portugal. UEFA’s hopes of playing its club showpiece in Istanbul have been scuppered for a second consecutive season, this time by Turkey being added to England’s “red list” of countries with severe coronavirus outbreaks. But the government immediately talked with UEFA about the possibility of moving the May 29 final to Wembley. Discussions between UEFA and the government failed to reach a resolution on Monday with the competition organiser wanting waivers to allow media, sponsors and guests to fly in without having to quarantine, people familiar with the talks told The Associated Press. UEFA has given the British government until Tuesday to decide whether authorities can offer all of the travel waivers required. If not, UEFA will consider taking the final to Portugal just like last season. Porto’s stadium is one of the backup options to play this season’s final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-may-move-cl-final-to-portugal/article34538632.ece
12 May 2021||ROME,||Nadal undecided about Olympics participation||Two-time Olympic champion Rafael Nadal on Tuesday became the latest top tennis player to admit that he had not yet decided whether he would participate in the Tokyo Games this summer, still giving himself time to decide according to “circumstances”. The 34-year-old Spaniard, who won the singles gold in Beijing in 2008, adding another gold in the doubles with Marc Lopez in Rio de Janeiro five years ago. “In a normal world I would never consider missing the Olympics. There is no doubt about that. Everybody knows how important the Olympics are for me. “Under these circumstances, I don’t know. Let’s see what’s going on in the next couple of months. But I need to organise my schedule. Honestly I can’t give you a clear answer because I don’t know.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-undecided-about-olympics-participation/article34538580.ece
12 May 2021||Rome,||Ibrahimovic to miss at least two Milan games with knee injury||Zlatan Ibrahimovic will be out for at least two matches with a knee injury, just a month before the start of Euro 2020, AC Milan coach Stefano Pioli said on Tuesday. The Swede, who returned to international football in March after a five-year absence, suffered the injury during Milan’s 3-0 victory over top-four rival Juventus at the weekend.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ibrahimovic-to-miss-at-least-two-milan-games-with-knee-injury/article34538633.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 08:43 IST,||Sudoku - May 12, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-12-2021/article34539302.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Optimism at the forefront||On March 16, World Vaccination Day, Vineet Singh Hukmani not only got himself vaccinated but also released his new single ‘Jab the World’. A fun and synth-based rock number created to allay anxieties surrounding the COVID-19 vaccines, ‘Jab the…’ broke into the mainstream top 100 and became one of the top 20 songs most played on rock radio in the US, a first for an Asian/Indian in recent times. This success comes close on the heels of Vineet securing the number one position on international radio charts for his first release of 2021 ‘Dreamin Out Loud’. His latest single ‘So New’ adheres to his credo in life — optimism. It is now in 94th position in the top 200 Mainstream DRT Pop Charts in the US, alongside Justin Bieber, Ariana Grande, Dua Lipa and Megan Thee Stallion! A trained singer, electronics engineer and a Harvard alumnus, Vineet founded India’s only International format radio station — Radio One — and helmed it for 12 years. He lives in Delhi NCR, and through an email interview, discusses the relevance of his music during the pandemic: Excerpts from an edited interview: ‘So New’ comes amid the worst calamity in recent times, especially in our country. How would you want the listeners to perceive its message? The current situation reminded me of why I got into music in the first place. All the optimism I have ever felt towards any facet of life, I could express through my music. ‘So New’ portrays a mental state which is upset or ‘imbalanced’... and through its beat and happy words explains that the negative will not last and we have to find ways to feel new again. ‘Jab the world’ carries the same optimism…  My optimism is almost childlike. ‘Jab the World’, while being about a vaccine, is also about a much larger concept. It imagines a world vaccinated against hate. So while it tells everyone to get the COVID jab, it also makes a larger point. Synth-pop seems to be your trademark; do you ever wish to foray into other genres?  I truly enjoy synth-pop as it uses ‘artificial’ instruments to create real emotions. I love the contrast this presents. However, I am equally comfortable with rock, pop, adult contemporary, and hip-hop. I am even learning Latino pop for a release later on in the year. I like to think of myself as being genre-agnostic, mostly due to the producers I work with. There are very few musicians, like Michael Jackson, Bruno Mars or Taylor Swift, who are known to move smoothly across genres and this inspires me endlessly. There is the 1980s rock influence in your music. Who has influenced you the most?  The classic rock era of the late ’70s and ’80s was rebellious and I liked how that helped develop my voice. Rock is my ‘voice gym’. The rock influence in ‘Jab the World’ comes from my rock idols from college days, namely Van Halen and ACDC. It was therefore very special to be able to share prestigious chart space with these bands on the DRT rock top 50. Most of your songs are global radio chart-toppers. Have you adopted any particular formula to achieve this?  A chart position only means that a song is being played more on the radio, and that happens when listeners like the song. So it is the best pat on the back possible. The critical thing for charting is therefore radio airplay. Radio in the US and Europe is particular about songs with ‘repeat listening value’ so I always compose a catchy chorus first and then work the rest of the song around that core. Since radio stations are segmented as rock, pop and hip-hop, the song must be clear in its genre. The recording and mastering quality needs to be of the highest order. But most crucial are diction and pronunciation. One needs to have globally authentic vocals. In the West, a lot of music gets introduced through radio. In India, the medium is under-explored. What is your takeaway from the experience with Radio One?  My greatest challenge and success in radio came from this very dilemma. Should one continue on the beaten path like all radio stations in India playing Bollywood, or create a new differentiated approach for discovery? Radio One was and is India’s first International (English) Radio Network. This journey taught me that you have to embed discovery in the fabric of radio itself. In the US and Europe, radio is split into first music and talk radio, and then music is split into genres. Each radio station format fills a particular void that community discover new things in that area of interest. Due to the very expensive radio licensing in India, radio players opted for the most common denominator area of interest, namely Bollywood. However, I am sure in the quest to create ‘discovery’, radio stations will have to figure out a clearer and targeted path.  Radio in the US and Europe is particular about songs with ‘repeat listening value’ so I always compose a catchy chorus first and work the rest of the song around that core||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/optimism-at-the-forefront/article34538763.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A camera and a village||“I was in Class VII when I tried making films using my dad’s video camera,” says Praveen Kandregula, “My friends and I did all sorts of jugaad . There was no YouTube back then; but we made short films and watched them.” Praveen makes his directorial debut with Cinema Bandi, which  will stream on Netflix from May 14. The film is about an autorickshaw driver who chances upon an expensive video camera and tries to make a feature film with the help of folk from a nondescript village. The trailer of Cinema Bandi indicates a story laced with humour that looks at how a village pins its hopes on a film that could bring attention to the drought-hit region. Praveen pitched the story to filmmaker duo Raj and DK at the NFDC (National Film Development Corporation) Film Bazaar in 2018. He concedes that the documentary Supermen of Malegaon (2008) was one of the inspirations: “I thought it would be interesting to make a Telugu film on those lines. Raj and DK liked the story and suggested that we first make a short film,” he recalls. Praveen and his co-writers, Vasanth Maringanti and Krishna Pratyusha, set to work. They were clear that the project requires new faces to make the film appear raw and realistic. An audition process followed and actors with theatre experience were chosen. “We shot in the Gollapalli village of Karnataka. In these borderlands, there are many Telugu families that settled there decades ago. Their Telugu is laced with Kannada.” Among the cast, two actors were familiar with the dialect that is a mix of Telugu and Kannada, while the others finetuned the accent by interacting with the locals. An elderly gentleman from the village was roped in to play the thatha (grandfather). Raj and DK liked the short film and greenlit the feature film. Cinema Bandi was filmed in 2019, and plans were afoot to release it in the theatres in 2020. “The pandemic struck and we held on to the film. An independent film like this needs word-of-mouth publicity for people to come to the theatres; that was proving to be tough even after theatres reopened. So we decided to go for a digital release,” says Praveen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-camera-and-a-village/article34538761.ece
12 May 2021||May 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Three shades of a woman||Colors: White , a short film written and directed by AK Srikanth, was released last weekend on YouTube. Second in a trilogy, the film features Srikanth’s partner Savitha Sastry, a Bharatanatyam exponent, and uses dance as a form of narrative. In September 2020, the duo released the first part, titled Colors: Green, which was dedicated to Srikanth’s mother. “ Colors: White ,” says Savita, “is more like my biography. The film is titled so, because it is based on the three colours of our National Flag — saffron white and green. It is to examine whether the ideals represented by each colour have an equal bearing on the women in India. Colors: Green talked about the prosperity of the mind or the freedom to choose.” Savitha then explains that the Colors: White “stands for peace and truth. Here the story uses the form of dance to examine a woman who dares to stand true to her beliefs, and pursues it despite the varied reactions around her. In doing so, she finally finds her peace. In some way the film talks about my own journey and how I broke away from the confines of the traditional form of Bharatanatyam, and paved my own path — of completely changing the narrative structure without compromising on the technical aspects of the form.” Dance, she reiterates, is a traditional art form. In that system, there is an implicit understanding that you will honour what you are taught. So, this became autobiographical. “In the sense that I started off by never questioning the system at all... but when I started examining the tradition, some aspects did not sit well with me.” She adds, “ Colors: White juxtaposes the life of a woman today, with the visions that our founding fathers had when India got its Independence. This is the second part of the trilogy. The story looks at the Colour ‘White’ from the protagonist’s view.” The short film features dance sequences choreographed by Savitha and has bagged a few awards, besides being nominated for Best Director categories at the Paris Film Festival, France, and at the New Wave Short Film Festival, Germany.   The trophy corner The International Film Festival of Shimla Calcutta International Cult Film Festival||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/three-shades-of-a-woman/article34538758.ece
12 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan to use MLA fund for vaccination||As part of the efforts to mobilise financial resources for COVID-19 vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44 years, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved a proposal to provide Rs. 3 crore each from the MLA Local Area Development (LAD) Fund. For meeting the expenses, the fund for each legislator has been increased from Rs. 2.25 crore to Rs. 5 crore a year. The 200 MLAs in the State will contribute a total of Rs. 600 crore to the vaccination fund account under the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Mr. Gehlot had earlier announced enhancement in the MLA-LAD Fund in each Assembly constituency in the 2021-22 Budget. The State government had announced free COVID-19 vaccination for the people above 18 years on April 25, after a prolonged tussle with the BJP government at the Centre, while affirming that the budget for development works and social security schemes would have to be slashed in order to allocate funds for inoculations. Mr. Gehlot, who had raised the issue of free vaccination with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said the State government would spend Rs. 2,500 crore on the vaccination of those from 18 to 45 years, whose number in the State was estimated at 3.75 crore. “It would have been better if the Centre had agreed to incur the cost, as it did in the case of those above 45 and 60, because it would have saved the State Budget from getting disturbed,” he said. From the remaining Rs. 2 crore in the MLA-LAD Fund, Rs. 1 crore will be spent on strengthening the medical infrastructure, purchase of equipment and setting up of model community health centres. Besides, Rs. 25 lakh will be utilised for providing food packets and distributing essential items to the poor during the lockdown. Since the 2021-22 Union Budget had allocated Rs. 35,000 crore for vaccination, it had created an impression that the Centre would bear the entire cost for the drive. Mr. Gehlot said the State governments, which did not allocate funds for vaccination because of this, were facing an additional financial burden with the Centre shifting the responsibility to them. Pilot donates salary Meanwhile, former Deputy Chief Minister and Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot on Tuesday donated his one month’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund as a contribution for the fight against the pandemic. He also recommended utilisation of Rs. 3 crore from his MLA-LAD Fund for purchasing vaccines in his Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-to-use-mla-fund-for-vaccination/article34538774.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covaxin stock for 18-45 age group exhausted: govt.||The Delhi government on Tuesday said that the Capital had exhausted its Covaxin stock for those between 18-45 age group, and nearly 125 centres have been forced to shut down. For Covishield, it said that stock for three days was available for those in the 18-45 years category. For healthcare and front-line workers and those above 45 years, only five days stock is left of Covaxin, and four days of Covishield, it added. AAP MLA Atishi delivering the “vaccination bulletin” said that 1,39,261 beneficiaries had been vaccinated on Monday which was the highest till date. Talking about the shortage of vaccines, Ms. Atishi said: “If we are not supplied sufficient vaccine doses by the Centre, we will be forced, and will have no choice but to halt the vaccination programme. We have been informed that 2,67,690 doses of Covishield will be supplied to us by Tuesday evening by the Centre. If these are delivered to us, we will be able to inoculate those between 18-45 age group for the next 6 days.” Of the 1,39,261 doses inoculated on Monday, first doses accounted for 92,926. Of these, 983 healthcare workers and 3,500 front-line workers got their first dose. Approximately 24,000 first doses were inoculated to those above 45 years and for those between 18-45 years, 64,000 first doses were administered. As many as 46,335 were administered second doses too. The total number of doses administered till date was 40,35,812, the MLA said.  If we are not supplied sufficient vaccine doses by the Centre, we will have no choice but to halt the vaccination programme   Atishi AAP MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covaxin-stock-for-18-45-age-group-exhausted-govt/article34538783.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Allow more vaccine-making companies in India: CM to PM||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, requested the Centre to allow more companies in India to manufacture COVID-19 vaccination by directing the two companies currently engaged in manufacturing it to share the formula with others. Mr. Kejriwal said the Centre should formulate a national policy to vaccinate every person within the next few months by increasing vaccine production, though the second wave is abating.  ‘End duopoly’ “Right now we are administering 1.25 lakh doses of vaccine every day. Soon we will start administering vaccines to more than 3 lakh people every day. But a major problem is the shortage of vaccines. We have only a few days of vaccine left in Delhi and this problem is being faced countrywide,” he also said. He said only two companies are manufacturing the vaccines and, together, made only 6-7 crore vaccines per month. If things were to continue like this, vaccinating the entire country would take more than two years. “Till then we don’t even know how many [COVID] waves will come and how much destruction we will have to face. Thus we must increase the production of vaccines in India and formulate a national policy to vaccinate every person within the next few months. Unless everyone is vaccinated, the battle cannot be won,” he said. “The Central government should take the formula for producing the vaccine from these two companies and give it to all those companies which can safely make the vaccines,” he added. In these difficult times, the Chief Minister said, the Centre had the power to execute this. It could make the vaccine-producing formula available to companies that want to make the vaccines. “If you remember, when we faced the first wave, there was a shortage for PPE kits. Today, many Indian companies are making PPE kits. That is why we are not dependent on others. India houses some of the greatest industrialists and we have some of the biggest pharma companies in the world,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/allow-more-vaccine-making-companies-in-india-cm-to-pm/article34538785.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||500-bed facility attached to GTB to open today||A 500-bed temporary facility for COVID-19 patients, which is attached to GTB Hospital, has not yet started admitting patients as work was going on inside the facility on Tuesday evening. On Monday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that it is “all set to start from Tuesday”. “Due to some unavoidable technical glitches, the extended facility at GTB Hospital will be operational from tomorrow [Wednesday]. Team GTB is working day and night to ensure healthcare services are available to Delhiites,” Mr. Jain said in a tweet on Tuesday evening. Around 5 p.m. on Tuesday, work was still going on at different parts of the makeshift hospital, which has been created at Ramlila Ground next to GTB Hospital. “Since morning about 20 patients were brought here by family members, but we told them that the centre is yet to be opened for public,” a guard said.  No social distancing Also, there was a rush at the administration and accommodation area, where people who work at the centre were queuing to complete some procedure before leaving and there was no social distancing. On Monday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that these beds will solve the scarcity of ICU beds in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/500-bed-facility-attached-to-gtb-to-open-today/article34538788.ece
12 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram student takes 93-year-old refugee under her wings||A Mizoram-based law student and a 93-year-old Myanmar national were strangers to each other, separated by the international border. The second COVID-19 wave has made them develop a bond. C.T. Ramnunmawii, a first-year student of Lloyd Law College in New Delhi tested negative twice after returning to Aizawl on April 6. She went into quarantine at a designated hotel but shifted to the COVID Care Centre (CCC) after testing positive four days later. She was to be discharged after recovery on April 20, a day after a nonagenarian woman was admitted to the CCC. Ms. Ramnunmawii came to know this woman, one of the hundreds of Chin people who had fled the military junta in Myanmar, had come in search of her daughter who had been living in and around Aizawl for years. “This lady was seemingly lost as all others who had accompanied her from Champhai had been quarantined. She was quite incoherent,” Ms. Ramnunmawii, 24, said. “I sought the permission of the doctors to accompany her to the Zoram Medical Hospital, where she was being shifted. It did not feel right to let her fight the virus alone in a strange place,” she told The Hindu . The law student tested negative again on April 27 but stayed on until her “grandma” tested negative and was discharged. And while she was at the hospital, Ms. Ramnunmawii networked with a cousin and some friends to locate the old woman’s daughter. “Her family and a cousin of mine came to pick us up on the day we were discharged,” she said. She heaved a sigh of relief after escorting the nonagenarian to her daughter’s house in the Mualpui locality of the State capital a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mizoram-student-takes-93-year-old-refugee-under-her-wings/article34538776.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre is sowing discord among States: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday alleged that the Central government was pitting one State government against the other by asking them to pass a global tender to procure vaccines. The Minister appealed to the Central government to integrate the needs of all States and procure vaccines through a global tender for India, instead of leaving States to fight in an international marketplace for vaccines. “The Central government raised a question to the Delhi government over why we haven’t passed a global tender to procure vaccines. The Centre already exported vaccines that could have been used in India, and is now sowing discord among States. The Centre’s model of COVID-19 management is to overlook the needs of Indians and export vaccines to other countries.” Mr. Sisodia said in a digital press conference.  He added that if States are asked to purchase vaccines internationally through global tenders, then the State with the largest coffers would unfairly procure the maximum number of doses. This will lead to fights among States, and further bashing and criticism of the country in international communities. He appealed to the Central government to take cognisance of the crisis at hand and immediately begin a vaccine programme along the lines of the Pulse Polio Programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-is-sowing-discord-among-states-sisodia/article34538781.ece
12 May 2021||Agartala,||7 who fled from Mizoram COVID centre detained||The police on Tuesday detained seven of the 25 infected men who fled from a COVID Care Centre (CCC) at Ambassa in Dhalai district late on Monday night. The escapees, all migrant labourers, were employed in mobile tower construction works. They were housed in the CCC after they tested positive. The police said seven were detained at the Ambassa railway station in the morning and confirmed that 18 people were still at large. The inmates broke an iron grill on the backside of the two-storey building and scaled the boundary wall. Police personnel deployed at the entrance of the building failed to stop them. Senior police officers who visited the CCC hoped to capture the rest. The incident created panic among people in the district. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb had visited the centre in September last year to see the arrangements. Mr. Deb has been inspecting major CCCs across the State as infections and fatalities are surging. Lax security measures have been said to be the reason behind the escape of the patients. Last week, an infected undertrial prisoner fled from a CCC in Sepahijala district. He has not been caught yet. On April 21, 30 youths escaped from a CCC at Arundhutinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/7-who-fled-from-mizoram-covid-centre-detained/article34538772.ece
12 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Expedite work on ‘Basera’, Punjab CM tells govt. dept.||In an attempt to provide homes to the urban poor, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday directed the Local Government department to expedite work on flagship ‘Basera’ project to achieve the target of giving proprietary rights to 10,000 slum households by September 2021. Reviewing the functioning of the department during a virtual meeting, the Chief Minister asked the officials to fast-track all major projects schemes to ensure their completion and commissioning by December this year. Under the ‘Basera’ scheme, 196 slums had been identified and 25,850 households surveyed, he pointed out, calling for urgent completion of the work of transfer of proprietary rights to 10,000 households in the next four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/expedite-work-on-basera-punjab-cm-tells-govt-dept/article34538771.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. broke word on free ration: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday alleged that the AAP government has not kept its promise to provide two months of free ration to cardholders. The failure to keep the word has driven people without any livelihood means to desperation. The party said that when the government announced a week-long lockdown on April 19, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had promised that it would be “short” and had asked migrant workers not to leave the Capital. But the lockdown would soon complete a month, forcing the daily wagers to fend for themselves. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar demanded that both cardholders and those without cards should be provided free ration and each family should be given a monthly financial incentive of Rs. 10,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-broke-word-on-free-ration-cong/article34538779.ece
12 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Blast kills 12-year-old boy in Assam||A grenade blast in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district killed a 12-year-old boy on Tuesday morning. The incident in the Kathakathani area of Jagun happened less than 24 hours after Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma appealed to the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent to come forward for talks. The district police said the boy, identified as Suraj Hajong, died of his injuries at the Margherita Civil Hospital nearby. No outfit has taken any responsibility for the blast. “It could be an accidental blast,” a local police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/blast-kills-12-year-old-boy-in-assam/article34538769.ece
12 May 2021||Kolkata,||8 killed as rain batters Bengal||Eight people were killed in different parts of West Bengal as thunderstorms and heavy rain battered the southern districts of the State on Tuesday afternoon, officials said. Lightning and gusty wind with speed up to 54 kmph lashed Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad, Bankura, Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur, Birbhum and Purulia, Met Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/8-killed-as-rain-batters-bengal/article34538770.ece
12 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||IGIA to suspend operations at T2 from May 18||The Indira Gandhi International Airport will temporarily suspend operations at Terminal 2 (T2) with effect from May 18 due to a drastic drop in passenger demand, a spokesperson said. With this announcement, only Terminal 3 will be operational. Terminal 1 (T1) has remained shut ever since a two-month long ban on flight operations was imposed last year on March 25. IndiGo and GoAir flights operating from T2 will be moved to T3. “The move will also help airlines and the airport to curtail staff deployment,” according to the spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/igia-to-suspend-operations-at-t2-from-may-18/article34538778.ece
12 May 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- Vaccines||The BJP has accused Manish Sisodia of indulging in “dirty politics” over allegations that the Centre had brought States to a point where they needed to “fight each other” for vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-vaccines/article34538786.ece
