13 May 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition urges PM to start free, universal vaccination||In a joint letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, 12 Opposition parties have urged the government to immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country as the COVID-19 pandemic has “assumed unprecedented dimensions of a human catastrophe”. This is the second such letter by the Opposition parties in less than 10 days to the government. In the earlier one on May 3, they asked the government to ensure uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen and free vaccination. The signatories to the letter include Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee, M.K. Stalin, Uddhav Thackeray and Hemant Soren. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, JD(S) leader H.D. Deve Gowda, NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, CPI general secretary D. Raja and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury are the other signatories. No response from govt. The parties complained that all their previous attempts to draw the government’s attention, both independently and jointly, had come to naught. “Without going into all the acts of commission and omission by the Central government that have brought the country to such a tragic pass, we are of the firm opinion that the following measures must be undertaken on a war footing by your government,” they said. The government should procure vaccines centrally from all available sources — global and domestic. “Immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country. Invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic vaccine production,” they noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-urges-pm-to-start-free-universal-vaccination/article34546474.ece
13 May 2021||BENGALURU,||Oxygen shortage led to 24 deaths in Chamarajanagar hospital: Report||Twenty-four COVID-19 patients, who were being treated at Chamarajanagar district hospital, died due to lack of oxygen on May 2 and 3, and the shortage of oxygen occurred due to failure of the district administration in general and the hospital authorities in particular, according to a report submitted by a committee consisting of two retired judges of the High Court. “The Dean of Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) and the in charge district surgeon, a microbiologist, did not exhibit leadership quality and failed to efficiently marshal available resources to save lives,” the report said. “The Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar, as chairman of the District Disaster Management Committee, miserably failed to guide and supervise the crisis situation arising out of extreme demand for oxygen. On the contrary, he indulged in an unsavoury blame game accusing the DC of Mysuru of causing hindrance for oxygen supply without any basis,” the committee pointed out in its report. “...the DC, Mysuru, did not come in the way of refilling agencies in Mysuru from refilling oxygen cylinders of any other districts, including Chamarajanagar,” it stated. The committee, comprising A.N. Venugopala Gowda and K.N. Keshavanarayana, retired judges, and S.T. Ramesh, DG&IGP (retd), submitted its report to the Karnataka High Court after analysing official records that were seized by the Chief Secretary on direction of the court. A Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar directed the government to submit its response on the report of the panel, which has recommended payment of compensation to legal heirs of the 24 victims.  The report also said that a detailed probe is essential to unearth omissions and commissions of individuals. “Had the hospital administration been vigilant, it could have had enough stock of oxygen by timely refilling cylinders from its suppliers,” the report stated. Interestingly, the report pointed out that there was not even a whisper about shortage of oxygen stock at the hospital by any of the Mysuru-based agencies, with whom CIMS had contracts, in the meeting held by the DC, Chamarajanagar on May 2. The report said the hospital was dependent on six kilolitre liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tank, commissioned only on April 29, 2021, though it was installed several months ago. Prior to commissioning of the tank, the hospital was using 250 jumbo cylinders along with 100 jumbo cylinders secured from taluk hospitals. “Refilling of jumbo cylinders took a nosedive after commissioning of the tank. The mismanagement in that regard is quite evident. Slackness appears to have set in probably on account of LMO tank being installed,” the report said. The report also pointed out that “oxygen in the LMO tank should have catered for a period of at least 40 hours. But it is reported to have been exhausted in less than 30 hours, which shows mismanagement of the lifesaving gas, even during critical time.” “Had the hospital administration been vigilant, it could have had enough of oxygen by timely refilling of cylinders. With the bottling plant at a distance of about 70 km, not having sufficient filled oxygen cylinders at Chamarajanagar is an act of callousness and led to loss of dozens of precious lives,” the report said. The report found that as the Mysuru district hospital dispatched 40 jumbo cylinders at midnight on May 2, the truck should have reached Chamarajanagar by 2 a.m. if it had not stopped anywhere. However, the truck waited for hours at a refilling agency to load another 30 cylinders and reached Chamarajanagar hospital only at 6 a.m. on May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oxygen-shortage-led-to-24-deaths-in-chamarajanagar-hospital-report/article34546507.ece
13 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||A day of new pandemic highs in State||It seemed to be a day when Kerala hit many new highs as the COVID-19 spread rages on. The State reported the highest single-day spike on Wednesday, when 43,529 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours, after testing 1,46,320 samples. Test positivity rate touched an all-time high of 29.75% on the day. Public health experts are hoping that the State will see the peak by May 15 and that in the subsequent plateauing, daily case numbers will stabilise around 30,000 to 35,000 cases. However, the plateau could be prolonged, unless disease transmission can be brought down through an extended lockdown. On Wednesday, the State also added a record 95 deaths to the official list of toll, taking the cumulative fatalities in the State to 6,053. These are deaths which occurred over the past few days, mostly between May 3 and May 10 across districts. Even though the State claims that the increase in deaths is only in proportion to the increase in cases, the absolute number of deaths have been quite high. Kozhikode reported 24 of these deaths, Thrissur 20, Ernakulam 17, Thiruvananthapuram 14, Kottayam 11, Malappuram five while Alappuzha reported four deaths. The State’s active case pool continues to rise and had 4,32,789 patients on Wednesday. The State reported 34,600 recoveries on the day. At present, a total of 9,67,211 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 20,10,934 cases. Ernakulam continues to have the highest number of active cases with 67,180. However, Thiruvananthapuram, with 41,644 active cases, has the highest number of hospitalisations at 5,064. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 6,410, Malappuiram 5,388, Kozhikode 4,418, Thiruvananthapuram 4,284, Thrissur 3,994, Palakkad 3,520, Kollam 3,350, Kottayam 2,904, Alappuzha 2,601, Kannur 2,346, Pathanamthitta 1,339, Idukki 1,305, Kasaragod 969 and Wayanad 701 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-day-of-new-pandemic-highs-in-state/article34546649.ece
13 May 2021||Pune,||58,805 more recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 58,805 recoveries as opposed to 46,781 new COVID-19 cases as its active cases dipped below the 5.50 lakh mark to reach 5,46,129. However, a surge of 816 deaths, of which 387 occurred over the last 48 hours, pushed its total toll to 78,007. As per the State Health Department, 193 of them occurred during the last week and the remaining 236 from an earlier period. While the total cases have reached 52,26,710, cumulative recoveries have risen to 46,00,196, with the recovery rate rising to 88.01%. “Of 3,01,00,958 laboratory samples tested so far, 52,26,710 (with the average case positivity rising incrementally to 17.36%) have returned positive, with over 2.52 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. The State’s case fatality rate has incrementally declined to 1.49%. Despite Central authorities lauding Pune’s ostensible dip in cases, the district continued to report surges, adding more than 9,500 new cases to take its case tally to 9,48,010. As per State Health Department figures, 74 deaths were reported as the toll rose to 10,176. However, district authorities said the active case tally had dipped to 90,000, while the total death toll crossed 14,700. Mumbai reported 2,104 new cases to take its tally to 6,81,233. Active cases have declined to 36,595, while 66 fatalities pushed the city’s death toll to 13,972. Nagpur district reported more than 2,500 new cases as its total case tally reached 4,71,803, of whom 49,345 are active, while 54 deaths pushed the toll to 5,768.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/58805-more-recoveries-in-maharashtra/article34547072.ece
13 May 2021||Gaza City/Tel Aviv,||Israel-Palestinian clashes trigger fears of a ‘full-scale war’||Relentless rocket fire and rioting in mixed Jewish-Arab towns fuelled growing fears on Wednesday that deadly violence between Israel and Palestinians could spiral into a “full-scale war”. Israel’s Defence Minister Benny Gantz vowed more attacks on Hamas and other Palestinian militant groups in Gaza to bring “total, long-term quiet” before considering a ceasefire. Gaza militants have launched over 1,000 rockets since Monday, said Israel’s Army, which has carried out hundreds of air strikes on Islamist groups in the crowded coastal enclave of Gaza. The most intense hostilities in seven years have killed at least 53 people in Gaza, including 14 children, and six in Israel, including an Israeli soldier and one Indian national, since Monday. Three Palestinians were killed in West Bank clashes. At least 230 Palestinians and 100 Israelis were wounded. As world powers voiced growing alarm and the UN Security Council readied for another emergency meeting on the bloody crisis, the UN Middle East envoy Tor Wennesland warned that “we’re escalating towards a full-scale war”. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu declared a state of emergency in the Jewish-Arab city of Lod, where “wide-scale riots erupted among some of the Arab residents”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/israel-palestinian-clashes-trigger-fears-of-a-full-scale-war/article34546476.ece
13 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam solar plant: activists seek return of land||A group of 153 academics, activists, students and professionals has demanded the return of land controversially acquired from farmers in central Assam’s Nagaon district for a 15-MW solar plant and withdrawal of security forces from the site. The group said local authorities submitted false reports regarding cultivation and tenancy rights to hand over 276 bighas to Azure Power Forty Private Limited for the plant that would dispossess Adivasi and Karbi tribal farmers of their land in the midst of the worst phase of the pandemic. The group also asked the government to stop the construction work for the solar plant until the contested claims over the land in Mikir Bamuni Grant are settled. 1,500 families affected About 1,500 families, who have been cultivating the tract for generations, would be affected by the project that entails a 25-year power purchase agreement with the Assam Power Distribution Company Limited. A statement issued by the 153 signatories said the Mikir Bamuni Grant farmers have been fighting for a year to protect their land forcibly taken over the by Azure Power after destruction of ripened paddy crop on 200 bighas. Eighteen villagers were arrested after police cracked down violently on their protests on at least two occasions — October 8 and December 29, 2020. Azure Power countered the allegation saying it had all clearances from the local and district administration besides the gram panchayat concerned. “We have stringent internal processes.We are fully compliant with the rules and regulations of the State and the land purchase has been done in a lawful and fair manner,” a spokesperson of the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-solar-plant-activists-seek-return-of-land/article34546609.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu to float global tender for vaccines||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to float a global tender to procure COVID-19 vaccines as the allocation from the Central government is insufficient to inoculate those in the 18-44 age group. The State government will also take steps to set up oxygen production units as the allocation of medical oxygen made by the Centre to Tamil Nadu is not sufficient. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin issued orders in this regard after chairing a meeting of Ministers and officials, where the need for procuring vaccines to launch vaccination camps for those in the 18-44 age group was discussed. “This government will take all steps to float a global tender to procure vaccines for the vaccination of those in the 18-44 age group in time,” an official release said. Though the allocation of medical oxygen to Tamil Nadu was increased from 280 MT to 419 MT, it was still not sufficient, and there was a need to set up oxygen production units across the State, it added. [The Centre has since informed the Madras High Court that the allocation has been increased to 519 MT]. The government would also take steps to bring oxygen from other States on trains, and would ensure smooth distribution of oxygen to hospitals. An order to this effect was issued by Mr. Stalin, the release said. Revenue and Disaster Management Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian, Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Finance Secretary S. Krishnan, Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and senior officials took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-to-float-global-tender-for-vaccines/article34546549.ece
13 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||‘Black fungus’ scare looms among patients on oxygen support||The mention of ‘mucormycosis’, or ‘black fungus’ as it is commonly known, is creating a scare among the people, especially among those who have battled COVID-19 with oxygen support for long. It is akin to the fungus that develops on bread due to moisture if stored for long. The detection of a few cases of black fungus in a couple of States in the North, and now in Hyderabad, is causing fear among the people. The disease, if not treated promptly, can result in loss of vision in both eyes and ultimately death, say doctors. “The indiscriminate use of steroids to treat COVID-19 patients, which results in decreased immunity, has led to an increase in the cases of black fungus. It has to be surgically removed, or treated with drugs, failing which it can cause loss of vision, or be life-threatening if it reaches the lungs or brain,” P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College (AMC), told The Hindu on Wednesday. “The fungus develops in individuals who use steroids indiscriminately, or in those who are on immunosuppressant drugs. The spores open and develop into fungus. If the fungus goes into the nostrils, balls form and reach the sinus, where they multiply. They reach the eye, and from there the lungs and brain. They are rarely seen as black patches on the skin,” says Dr. Sudhakar. “While only distilled water should be used for hydrating oxygen, sometimes tap water, or any other available water, is being used either due to ignorance or negligence. The containers are seldom cleaned, leading to concentration of viruses and bacteria in the piped supply system,” according to a reliable source. “In the past, only one or two cases used to be detected in a year. Excessive use of steroids and oxygen support due to surge in COVID-19 cases has led to an increase in black fungus cases,” says M.V.R.J. Somayajulu, a general physician and former KGH Superintendent. “In the past, when such cases were very few, doctors and nurses used to keep a watch on the nostril area, and paramedics used to ensure that the flow meters and nasal prongs were clean,” he says. “The healthcare staff should watch the nostril area for black patches. A simple test by the bedside such as scraping the nostrils and dipping it in potassium permanganate solution can reveal the fungus. The disease does not spread from person to person,” says Dr. Somayajulu. “The water used for manufacturing oxygen and equipment for its supply should be clean. The oxygen prongs should be cleaned with anti-septic soap solution frequently,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/black-fungus-scare-looms-among-patients-on-oxygen-support/article34546468.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi closes over 100 jab centres due to ‘shortage’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that more than 100 vaccination centres, where Covaxin is administered, have been closed in the city. The Delhi government has been raising the issue of shortage of vaccines and urging the Centre to resolve the issue. A total of 1,28,800 doses were administered in the city on Tuesday, down from 1,39,261 doses on Monday. “More than 100 Covaxin (vaccination) centres have been closed in 17 schools. Covaxin (manufacturer Bharat Biotech) has said it cannot give more than what the Central government says,” Mr. Sisodia said on Wednesday. He said the supply of Covaxin to Delhi has stopped, and it was “high time” the Centre recognised the severity of the crisis and plays the role of a “united government”. The Deputy Chief Minister also released a letter by Bharat Biotech to the Delhi government, which read: “We are making dispatches as per the directives of the concerned Govt. officials. We, therefore, sincerely regret that we cannot make any additional supplies as required by you [sic].” “Although States are willing to pass tenders if the need arises, it is important for the world to see India as one entity instead of a divided nation-state. It is the responsibility of the Centre to ensure availability of vaccine to all States, while States make sure that all citizens are vaccinated within three months after receiving the vaccine from the Centre,” the Minister said. 18-44 group affected Aam Aadmi Party leader Atishi said no centre in Delhi will be able to administer Covaxin from Thursday to the 18-44 age group due to unavailability of the vaccine. “Our goal is to inoculate 3,00,000 people a day, and we are steadily moving towards this goal, but shortage of vaccines is a huge hurdle,” Ms. Atishi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-closes-over-100-jab-centres-due-to-shortage/article34546985.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will move SC for NRC reverification: Assam CM||Newly-elected Chief Minister of Assam Himanta Biswa Sarma said his government will be approaching the Supreme Court again for reverification of the National Citizenship Register (NRC) — up to 20% of entries in areas bordering Bangladesh and 10% in the interior areas of Assam. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sarma said this was something the previous BJP government, in which he was Health and Finance Minister, had been saying for some time. “If the NRC checks out, then we shall do nothing, but if there are discrepancies, we will ask for the Supreme Court’s guidance. We have been saying this for a while, and we stand by this,” he said. On the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) that had broken out in the State in 2019-20, Mr. Himanta Biswa Sarma said it was currently not in the purview of any State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-move-sc-for-nrc-reverification-assam-cm/article34546462.ece
13 May 2021||new delhi,||SC rejects bail plea of activist Navlakha||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused bail to activist Gautam Navlakha in the Bhima Koregaon violence case. Justice K.M. Joseph pronounced the verdict saying Mr. Navlakha’s period of house arrest cannot be counted as “custody” and, hence, he was not eligible for statutory bail. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit had heard arguments raised by senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocates Nitya Ramakrishnan and Shadan Farasat for grant of default bail to Mr. Navlakha. They had argued that the 34 days of his house arrest from August 28, 2018 to October 1, 2018 amounted to “custody” under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure read with Section 43(D)(2) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Hence, they argued, he had crossed the 90-day period of investigation in custody, following which he should be granted default bail. “The period of custody begins not from the time of arrest but from time the accused is first remanded… Also, detention under Section 167 would not embrace preventive detention in the form of house arrest,” Justice Joseph noted. Lack of access The court also highlighted that the investigating agencies were not granted access to Mr. Navlakha during the house arrest. This was taken as a further indication of the fact that his house arrest cannot be viewed as custody under Section 167(2). Mr. Navlakha had challenged the dismissal of his bail plea by the Bombay High Court on February 8. The HC had upheld the NIA court verdict to deny him bail “despite the petitioner spending over 90 days in custody”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-rejects-bail-plea-of-activist-navlakha/article34546978.ece
13 May 2021||Chennai,||White Paper on T.N.’s finances soon: Minister||The newly-elected DMK government in Tamil Nadu will release a White Paper on the State’s finances at the earliest, Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan told The Hindu in an interview on Wednesday. “My first step is to release a White Paper myself,” he said, adding that the objective was to let the public understand the true state of affairs. The debutant Minister, a former investment banker, dismissed criticism that handing over cash assistance to the people amounted to freebies. “In a crisis like this [COVID-19 pandemic], our first priority is to get cash into the hands of the people and get demand back up. What we have done is classic macro-economics,” he said. The government’s priority was to restore Tamil Nadu to the “good State” it was between 2004 and 2014, when it complied with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003. Disapproving of the previous AIADMK government’s handling of the State’s finances, he said, “For the first time in the history of Tamil Nadu, we used borrowing to pay compulsory expenses and non-discretionary expenses like salary and interest. We have to get out of that business. I have to fix that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/white-paper-on-tns-finances-soon-minister/article34546546.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will move SC for NRC reverification: Assam CM||Newly-elected Chief Minister of Assam Himanta Biswa Sarma said his government will be approaching the Supreme Court again for reverification of the National Citizenship Register (NRC) — up to 20% of entries in areas bordering Bangladesh and 10% in the interior areas of Assam. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sarma said this was something the previous BJP government, in which he was Health and Finance Minister, had been saying for some time. “If the NRC checks out, then we shall do nothing, but if there are discrepancies, we will ask for the Supreme Court’s guidance. We have been saying this for a while, and we stand by this,” he said. On the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) that had broken out in the State in 2019-20, Mr. Sarma said it was currently not in the purview of any State government. “The CAA is a legislation that was passed by Parliament and, as it stands, the State government has nothing much to do in this case, as rules are yet to be framed... Since, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the exercise to frame the rules is on hold, that is where the matter lies,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-move-sc-for-nrc-reverification-assam-cm/article34546509.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will move SC for NRC reverification: Assam CM||Newly-elected Chief Minister of Assam Himanta Biswa Sarma said his government will be approaching the Supreme Court again for reverification of the National Citizenship Register (NRC) — up to 20% of entries in areas bordering Bangladesh and 10% in the interior areas of Assam. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sarma said this was something the previous BJP government, in which he was Health and Finance Minister, had been saying for some time. “If the NRC checks out, then we shall do nothing, but if there are discrepancies, we will ask for the Supreme Court’s guidance. We have been saying this for a while, and we stand by this,” he said.  “The CAA is a legislation that was passed by Parliament and, as it stands, the State government has nothing much to do in this case, as rules are yet to be framed... Since, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the exercise to frame the rules is on hold, that is where the matter lies,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-move-sc-for-nrc-reverification-assam-cm/article34547133.ece
13 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||‘Chandanotsavam’ to be performed without devotees||The annual ‘Chandanotsavam’, the biggest festival at Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam, will be performed without devotees, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, on May 14. The festival will be held in‘ekantam’ only and devotees and VVIPs will not be allowed to have darshan of the presiding deity in His ‘nijarupam’. According to the temple tradition, the Dharmakartha (Sanchaita Gajapati) will have the first darshan of the deity (in ‘nijarupam’) and later the Minister would offer silk clothes on behalf of the State government. Only a few staff members, essential for performing the festival, will be allowed with special passes and even members of Trust Board and special invitees will not be allowed on the day. The decision has been taken in view of the COVID-19 protocol and the orders of the government, according to temple Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala. The temple authorities would provide live feed from the Kalyana Mandapam of the temple covering major events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chandanotsavam-to-be-performed-without-devotees/article34547132.ece
13 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||Four killed in road accident||Four persons, including a woman, were killed and another injured when their car lost control and hit a roadside tree near Harti village in Gadag district on Wednesday. They were all proceeding to Laxmeshwar town from Lingadal in Gadag taluk for a funeral. The dead were identified as Viresh (26), Shekhappa (45), Bapugouda (25) and Savitri (50).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-killed-in-road-accident/article34546580.ece
13 May 2021||Hyderabad,||Id-ul-Fitr to be celebrated on Friday||Id-ul-Fitr, marking the end of Muslim holy month of Ramzan, will be celebrated in Hyderabad on Friday. The Markazi Ruet-e-Hilal (moon sighting) committee has announced that Id will be celebrated on Friday as the moon has not been spotted. “Tomorrow is the 30th day of Ramzan and Id will be celebrated the next day,” informed a member of the committee. It may be noted that Kerala is celebrating Id on Thursday May 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/id-ul-fitr-to-be-celebrated-on-friday/article34546757.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Two States stop jabs for 18-44 age group||Having run out of vaccine stocks, the Karnataka and Maharashtra governments on Wednesday announced that vaccination for those in the 18-44 age group would be suspended temporarily and priority would be given for second dose.Pages 5, 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-states-stop-jabs-for-18-44-year-olds/article34546469.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Waive GST on Remdesivir, vaccines: Cong.||A GST waiver on vaccines, Remdesivir and oxygen concentrators can save Rs. 6,000 crore for States and individuals, the Congress said on Wednesday, reiterating that tax must be waived on all goods needed to fight COVID-19.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/waive-gst-on-remdesivir-vaccines-cong/article34546470.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Catastrophe could have been avoided’||The catastrophic scale of the COVID-19 pandemic could have been prevented, an independent global panel said, but a “toxic cocktail” of dithering and poor coordination meant the warning signs went unheeded.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/catastrophe-could-have-been-avoided/article34546471.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||With 89 deaths, State’s COVID toll inching closer to 9,000||The State reported 89 deaths due to COVID and 21,452 new infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning taking the toll to 8,988 and the cumulative tally to 13,44,386. As many as 19,095 patients recovered in the past day and the number of recoveries reached 11,38,028. The active cases tally inched close to two lakh at 1,97,370.  The recovery rate and death rate remain at 84.65% and 0.67% respectively. The positivity rate of the 90,750 samples tested in the past day was 23.64% and the overall positivity rate of 1.76 crore samples tested was 7.64%. New deaths, cases Visakhapatnam reported 11 new deaths and was followed by East Godavari, Krishna and Vizianagaram which reported nine new deaths each. Chittoor, Guntur and Nellore reported eight new deaths each while Srikakulam reported seven, Anantapur reported six, Kurnool reported five, Prakasam reported four, West Godavari reported three and Kadapa reported two deaths in the past day. East Godavari reported close to 3,000 infections and two other districts more than 2,000 cases in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-89-deaths-states-covid-toll-inching-closer-to-9000/article34546472.ece
13 May 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata calls for urgent import of vaccines||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging the Centre to import vaccines on an urgent basis to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. In her letter, Ms. Banerjee said “vaccines are the real antidote to the pandemic”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-calls-for-urgent-import-of-vaccines/article34546610.ece
13 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam adopts odd-even vehicle formula||The Assam government has added the odd-even vehicle formula to its stricter partial lockdown for 15 days from Thursday, while allowing security forces to be “ruthless” if people are found crowding, and violating guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-adopts-odd-even-vehicle-formula/article34546611.ece
13 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Litterateur Homen Borgohain passes away||Noted Assamese litterateur and journalist Homen Borgohain, 88, breathed his last on Wednesday at a hospital here. Doctors attributed the death to cardiac arrest. A former president of the Assam Sahitya Sabha, Borgohain tested positive for COVID-19 on April 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/litterateur-homen-borgohain-passes-away/article34546612.ece
13 May 2021||PATNA,||Net spread in Ganga to fish out bodies||A day after 71 bodies of suspected COVID-19 victims were retrieved from the Ganga at Chausa in Buxar district of Bihar, the authorities on Wednesday spread a big net in the river to catch bodies floating in from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/net-spread-in-ganga-to-fish-out-bodies/article34546986.ece
13 May 2021||New delhi,||Delhi sees 300 COVID-19 deaths, over 13K cases||The Capital reported 300 COVID-19 deaths and 13,287 new cases on Wednesday, while the positivity rate came down to 17%. There are now 82,725 active cases in the city. The number of cumulative cases stands at 13,61,986 and the death toll at 20,310.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-sees-300-covid-19-deaths-over-13k-cases/article34546988.ece
13 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Positivity rate in three Haryana districts dire||Though Gurugram tops the table for number of active cases in Haryana, followed by Faridabad, the top three districts in terms of test positivity rate in the State are Sonipat, Panipat and Rewari where every second person is testing positive for the deadly virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/positivity-rate-in-three-haryana-districts-dire/article34546987.ece
13 May 2021||MANGALURU,||Cyclone may hit coastal region by Sunday||The Coast Guard on Tuesday swung into action to alert fishermen in high seas to return to the nearest shore in view of a possible cyclonic storm hitting Karnataka and Kerala coasts by Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyclone-may-hit-coastal-region-by-sunday/article34546581.ece
13 May 2021||PATNA,||Net spread in Ganga to fish out bodies||A day after 71 bodies of suspected COVID-19 victims were retrieved from the Ganga at Chausa in Buxar district of Bihar, the authorities on Wednesday spread a big net in the river to catch bodies floating in from the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. Taking cognisance of the bodies being found floating in the river, the Patna High Court asked the State government to file an affidavit on it by Thursday. Earlier, the Buxar district authorities said the 71 bodies that were retrieved on Monday and Tuesday had washed ashore at downstream Chausa village from the neighbouring districts of eastern U.P. However, U.P. officials had denied the claim. “We’ve placed a big net at Ranighat, bordering Bihar-U.P., in the river. Some bodies floating in from the U.P. side were found tangled in it on Wednesday. We’ve informed the U.P. administration about it and now whatever action is to be taken on this, the U.P. administration will take,” a top government official in Bihar told The Hindu , requesting anonymity. “We are in regular touch with the U.P. officials of the bordering districts on this issue and patrolling along the border has been intensified so that people cannot throw bodies in the river.” Earlier, Bihar’s Water Resources and Information and Public Relations Department Minister Sanjay Jha tweeted, “Last rites of 71 bodies performed as per protocols. A net has been placed in Ganges in Ranighat, bordering U.P. & Bihar. We’ve advised U.P. administration to be vigilant; our district administration is keeping vigil too. Advise all to give all respect to those dead, and Maa Ganges.” Doctor’s warning Civil surgeon of Buxar Dr. Jitendra Nath has advised people to be cautious and refrain from using the river water to protect themselves from the infection. “People living in the riverine areas should keep strict caution and vigilance, as the bodies that were found floating in the river at Chausa were decomposed. Though, until reports come, it cannot be said that they were infected with COVID-19, people should not use the river water for bathing or other religious purposes, as chances of infection increases with it,” he told local presspersons in Buxar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/net-spread-in-ganga-to-fish-out-bodies/article34546407.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||DRDO’s oxygen supply units to be procured for Rs. 322.5 crore||The PM CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) Fund has sanctioned the procurement of 1.5 lakh units of the Oxycare system, developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), at a cost of Rs. 322.5 crore. Separately, a four lakh litre capacity oxygen production plant supplied by Germany started functioning at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel COVID Hospital set up by the DRDO in the national capital while naval ships continued to bring in emergency supplies from friendly foreign countries. The Oxycare system was developed by Defence Bio-Engineering and Electro Medical Laboratory (DEBEL), Bengaluru, of the DRDO for soldiers posted at extreme high-altitude areas. “The Oxycare system delivers supplemental oxygen based on the SpO2 levels and prevents the person from sinking into a state of hypoxia, which can be fatal,” a DRDO statement said on Wednesday. Under this sanction, 1,00,000 manual and 50,000 automatic Oxycare systems along with non-rebreather masks (NRBM) are being procured, it stated. The automatic system also provided audio warning for various failure scenarios. The DRDO had transferred the technology to multiple industries, which would be producing the Oxycare system, it added. Supplies from West Asia As part of operation ‘Samudra Setu II’, launched by the Navy, INS Tarkash arrived at Mumbai with two Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) filled (20 MT [metric tonne] each) cryogenic containers and 230 oxygen cylinders. “The oxygen containers were facilitated by the French Mission as part of the “Oxygen Solidarity Bridge” and oxygen cylinders were gifted by Indian diaspora in Qatar,” the Navy said. The consignment was handed over to the Maharashtra civil administration. On Tuesday, INS Kochi and INS Tabar reached the New Mangalore Port carrying 100 MT LMO in five containers and 1,200 oxygen cylinders from Kuwait. A second Canadian flight carrying medical supplies is on its way to India and is scheduled to arrive in New Delhi on Thursday. “Collective action is the only way to defeat COVID-19. The second Canadian Armed Forces flight is on its way to India with 300 ventilators in support of the people of India,” said Nadir Patel, Canadian High Commissioner in India. As on the early hours of May 12, Indian Air Force aircraft airlifted 403 oxygen containers of 6,856 MT capacity along with other equipment of 163 MT capacity, in 634 sorties from different parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdos-oxygen-supply-units-to-be-procured-for-rs-3225-crore/article34546378.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Drop GST for key medical items’||A GST (Goods and Services Tax) waiver on vaccines, Remdesivir and oxygen concentrators can save Rs. 6,000 crore for the State governments and individuals, the Congress said on Wednesday, reiterating its demand that the tax must be waived on all goods necessary to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Accusing the Union government of displaying “opportunism in crisis”, party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the second wave of the pandemic was brought upon people only because of the failure of the government. The GST collection by the Centre for two doses of vaccines for the entire population would come to Rs. 3,000 crore. And as per the current rate of sales, almost an equal amount of GST would be collected by the Centre on sale of Remdesivir and oxygen concentrators. There is 5% GST on vaccines and 12% on Remdesivir and oxygen concentrators. Quoting these calculations, Mr. Vallabh asked, “When the States and the citizens have such an enormous fight on their hands, why can’t the Centre waive GST for all essential COVID-19-related medical items? Is this the opportunity to be making money or providing relief to citizens?” Nirmala’s explanation Several Chief Ministers have requested the Centre to waive or reduce the GST rates on key medical items. In response to a latest request from West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a long thread on Twitter said that any GST waiver would only contribute to increasing the cost of these products. “If full exemption from GST is given, vaccine manufacturers would not be able to offset their input taxes and would pass them on to the end consumer/citizen by increasing the price,” she stated. Reacting to the Minister’s comments, Mr. Vallabh said that the tax on input should also be reduced. “Why can’t the Finance Minister call a meeting of the GST Council to hear from the State Finance Ministers,” he asked. The pandemic had reached the rural areas, which kept the economy running in the first wave, said Mr. Vallabh. “Now, along with unemployment, the disease has reached our villages. So, I expect that the contraction in GDP in the first quarter of this financial year will be more than last year,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drop-gst-for-key-medical-items/article34546390.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ivermectin used despite WHO advice||Ivermectin, still listed in India as a possible treatment option for mild COVID-19 patients under home isolation, is not recommended for general use, according to a recent direction of the World Health Organization (WHO). This orally administered drug is included in India’s revised national COVID-19 treatment protocol for people with mild infection, even though its maker has now clarified that there is no evidence of its efficacy against the viral disease. Soumya Swaminathan, WHO’s chief scientist, tweeted earlier this week, “Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. WHO recommends against use of ‘Ivermectin’ for COVID-19 except within clinical trials.” Indian physicians who continue to use this drug state that it is an approved anti-parasitic agent. “It has shown, in laboratory settings, to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 replication. It may be effective for the management of early onset, mild COVID-19 for adult patients. In a clinical setting, it is observed that there is an early viral clearance in patients who are put on Ivermectin... There are no severe adverse effects noted in patients with non-severe COVID-19,” Vighnesh Naidu Y., consultant physician, Yashoda Hospitals, Hyderabad, said. Sheela Chakravarthy, director, Internal Medicine, Fortis Hospitals, Bannerghatta Road, Bengaluru, said: “Ivermectin is used for the treatment of two illnesses — onchocerciasis, responsible for blindness, and filariasis, which is debilitating.” Ivermectin was also found to be effective in reducing the multiplication of certain RNA viruses such as SARS and COVID RNA, she noted. “It has shown efficacy to bind to the spike protein site of the RNA virus, thereby reducing the multiplication and attachment of the virus to the ACE receptor in the nasal epithelium,” she said. Shafiq Ahmed, consultant, Urology, HCMCT Manipal Hospitals, New Delhi, said, “It is used for treatment of COVID-19 in mild to moderate cases. Since it is a safe drug, there are no major side effects reported till date.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ivermectin-used-despite-who-advice/article34546408.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||Most NGOs don’t have SBI account||Only 16% registered NGOs have active bank accounts with the State Bank of India’s main branch in Delhi, a compulsory requirement to receive foreign funds from April 1, according to submission made by a non-governmental organisation in the Delhi High Court on Wednesday. An Assam-based NGO has also moved the Gauhati High Court against another amended provision of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) that makes Aadhaar mandatory for opening and operating the account in Delhi. The Gauhati High Court on May 5 sent a notice to the SBI asking it to explain why Aadhaar was necessary to open a bank account, when in 2018, the Supreme Court in the K.S. Puttaswamy (Aadhaar) case had ruled that mandatorily linking Aadhaar to a bank account “does not satisfy the test of proportionality”. According to the amended provisions of the FCRA enacted in September 2020, the NGOs registered under the Act were asked to open a designated bank account at the SBI, Delhi and compulsorily register the Aadhaar details of the chief functionaries, trustees and office-bearers. The amendment stated that all the existing FCRA accounts of the NGOs will be linked to the SBI account in Delhi, and while they may not be able to receive fresh foreign funds from April 1 in the existing accounts, they could utilise the money that already exists in the old account. Pandemic poses hurdles Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many NGOs could not complete the stringent paper work, making it impossible for foreign donors to send help during the second wave that has now spread to rural areas. Many said that they did not fulfil the eligibility criteria as they did not possess an Aadhaar card as a “matter of principle”. An Andhra Pradesh NGO that had moved the Delhi High Court last week seeking exemption from the March 31 deadline to open an account in Delhi, informed the court on Wednesday that out of the 22,457 NGOs with active FCRA licences, only 3,616 have active bank accounts with the SBI Main Branch, Delhi (NDMB). The NGO said that despite applying before March 31, their papers were not processed. “The court on Wednesday directed the Ministry to expedite the necessary approvals for opening the petitioners’ New Delhi FCRA account and has listed the matter for compliance in a week’s time,” said Abishek Jebaraj, the NGO’s counsel. Three more Andhra NGOs have approached the court with the same plea. The Ministry of Home Affairs did not comment on whether the government was considering to extend the March 31 deadline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-ngos-dont-have-sbi-account/article34546384.ece
13 May 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal CM calls for urgent import of COVID-19 vaccines||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging the Centre to import vaccines on an urgent basis to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. In her letter, Ms. Banerjee said “vaccines are the real antidote to the prevailing COVID pandemic”. “With the aid of scientists and experts, it is possible to identify the reputed and authentic manufacturers who have international reputation and credibility and it is possible for us in this country to speedily import vaccines from those ends across different parts of the world. I urge you to embark upon this endeavour without any further delay,” Ms. Banerjee said in her communication to Mr. Modi. She emphasised that “liberal, proactive and discerning import of vaccination (vaccine) is the paramount need today”. Pointing out that production (and hence the supply and distribution) of vaccines in the country is extremely inadequate and insignificant in the context of the massive population, she added that about 10 crore people in West Bengal and 140 crore people in the country “needed vaccination, here and now, but only a microscopic percent has been covered”. Ms. Banerjee also suggested that both national and international vaccine manufacturers may be encouraged to open franchises in West Bengal and other parts of the country. “Also, it may kindly be considered if we could encourage the world players to open up franchise operations in the country. Even the national players could be inspired to go for the franchise mode for bulk production of vaccines. We, in West Bengal, are ready to produce land and support for any manufacturer in/ franchise operation for authentic vaccine manufacturing,” she said, urging the PM to accept the proposition. In an earlier communication to the Prime Minister, the West Bengal Chief Minister had said that the Centre must ensure universal free vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-cm-calls-for-urgent-import-of-covid-19-vaccines/article34546397.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Child marriages may go unnoticed amid lockdown’||Last year, as the pandemic took grip of the world and India went into a lockdown, child rights activists were alarmed to see a slew of child marriages being reported in Karnataka. Now, with another lockdown in place and weddings being restricted to houses because of tough guidelines, there are fears of child marriages going unnoticed. Fr. Antony Sebastian, Chairperson of the Karnataka State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR), told The Hindu that a total of 2,180 child marriage cases were reported in Karnataka as per reports of Childline (1098) from April 2020 to January 2021. In December last year, of the 1,598 complaints, 365 were related to this category. The other complaints ranged from illegal adoptions, child trafficking and child labour to the need for medical help or shelter. Last year, 579 complaints were received in May by Childline in Karnataka when India was observing the national lockdown imposed by the Central government. The number of complaints eased when lockdown restrictions were relaxed, but were still worrying. As many as 214 complaints were received in August and 111 in September 2020. The number of such complaints for October 2020 was 190 and for November 321. Number may go up This year, in January alone (up to when data are available), 1,947 complaints were received overall in the State, of which 288 were related to child marriages. Fr. Sebastian said with another lockdown in place and marriages being allowed in homes, the number of cases might go up. Some activists and organisations have raised the issue with the Ministry and the Department of Women and Child Development (DWCD). “Earlier, when child marriages happened at wedding halls, temples, etc., there were people who would alert the relevant authorities or activists who would be able to reach on time to stop them. But now, with marriages happening at homes, we may get fewer alerts and our going there could be treated as trespassing,” said Nagasimha G. Rao from Child Rights Trust, who has written to Minister Shashikala Jolle, under whom the Department falls. However, she is yet to respond. P. Lakshapathi, founder and executive director of APSA (Association for Promoting Social Action), which collaborates with Childline in Bengaluru, said during the last lockdown, many child marriages were reported in Bengaluru Urban, too, probably due to the high number of migrants living in the city. This year, between January and April 2021, APSA had received complaints of 14 child marriage cases. “During the first lockdown, we saw child marriages for a variety of reasons, ranging from insecurity for the girl, wherein the parents assume their responsibility is over with her marriage, to the fact that they could get away with a simple marriage without calling too many people, resulting in less expenditure. When we get information, we try and create awareness. Many people don’t know what the punishment is for the offence. When they learn about it, they are surprised,” he added. He urged the people to alert Childline if they come across child marriages. “If people get to know about such marriages, please inform Childline. Cases are booked even after the couple has a child if they are under-aged... To prevent more such cases, the key is awareness among people,” Mr. Lakshapathi added. Anuradha K.N., Director, DWCD, said every district had a committee to tackle child marriages and they had been activated to conduct regular inspections. “In most cases, child marriage whistle-blowers are relatives or neighbours... Smaller marriage functions may not mean more cases going unnoticed,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/child-marriages-may-go-unnoticed-amid-lockdown/article34546413.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Relax spending norms, says Andaman & Nicobar L-G||Following a plea from the Andaman and Nicobar islands’ administration to relax the Rs. 10-crore limit on the Lieutenant Governor’s power to authorise direct emergency purchases amid an acute shortage of essential COVID-19 supplies, the Union Finance Ministry has asked the Port Blair top brass to take up the issue with the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Finance Ministry has, however, granted a one-month relaxation to the islands’ administration from several rules pertaining to procurement in the General Financial Rules, stating that procurement delays amid the national health emergency would result in loss of lives of citizens. Last Thursday, the Chief Secretary of the Andaman & Nicobar administration wrote to the Centre about “an acute shortage of essential COVID-19-related supplies, particularly of medical oxygen”. He had said they were “facing tremendous challenges in procuring supplies” due to the islands’ unique geographical location. Given these challenges and “the obvious surge in prices” of COVID-19-related supplies, the administration had sought flexibility in following the General Financial Rules for at least one month. The Chief Secretary also sought a relaxation in the powers for direct emergency purchases and negotiated contracts as per the powers delegated to the L-G, from the current limit of Rs. 10 crore. In a missive to the islands’ top brass on Friday, the Department of Expenditure in the Finance Ministry said: “With regard to the request to relax the powers for direct emergency purchase/negotiated contract of the Hon’ble Lt. Governor from the current limit of Rs. 10 crore, the Andaman & Nicobar administration is requested to place this before the competent authority in MHA for consideration.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/relax-spending-norms-says-andaman-nicobar-l-g/article34546386.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We will approach the Supreme Court for re-verification of the NRC’||The new Chief Minister of Assam,Himanta Biswa Sarma, speaks about his priorities under the new role, his relationship with his predecessor, Sarbananda Sonowal, and the big club of ex-Congress members who became Chief Ministers after leaving the party. What are your priorities with regard to your term as Chief Minister of Assam? Well, we are in the midst of a second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and there are some decisions of stricter norms, etc., that we have taken in the first Cabinet meeting and these will be implemented. Other than that, there were certain promises we made in our manifesto, like employment for one lakh young people. We have formed a committee under the new Finance Minister of the State [Ajanta Neog] to go into the modalities. Welfare schemes with regard to women are being sought to be expanded, with allowances for women in various situations to be raised to Rs. 3,000 along with increasing the number of beneficiaries from the current 22 lakh. Many joint liability groups run by women have taken loans paying interest up to 24% to 26%. We are working out a scheme to either partly pay these loans or the interest component. The cost to the government would be around Rs. 12,000 crore. As you know, Assam had been kept out of the delimitation exercise due to a High Court order, but now we want that this exercise should be concluded for our State as well and we will be taking steps to get that going. You have said you want a re-verification of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) as well? Yes, we will be approaching the Supreme Court again for re-verification of the NRC — up to 20% re-verification for areas bordering Bangladesh and 10% for interior areas. If the NRC checks out, then we shall do nothing. But if there are discrepancies, we will ask for the Supreme Court’s guidance on the issue. We have been saying this for a while and we stand by this. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) has been seen by many in Assam as a backdoor way of getting citizenship to Bengali-speaking Hindus, who may also find themselves out of the NRC. There were protests in Assam in 2019 on this. What is your government’s view? The CAA is a legislation that was passed by Parliament and as it stands, the State government has nothing much to do in this case, as rules are yet to be framed. We had approached the Union Home Minister [asking] that certain exceptions with regard to Assam be framed in the rules. Since due to the pandemic, the exercise to frame the rules is on hold, that is where the matter lies. We are, of course, steadfast on the request that as and when rules are framed, we be given a hearing and our concerns taken on board. Your predecessor, Sarbananda Sonowal, acquiesced in the transfer of the chief ministership to you smoothly. What has your interaction with him been since and has he confided his future plans to you? After our first Cabinet meet, my Council of Ministers and I went and met Mr. Sonowal at his home this morning [Wednesday] and took his guidance. We assured him that he was our leader and continues to be our leader. I will be visiting his constituency Majuli on Thursday to meet his constituents and party workers there and assure them that all the development works that he had initiated there will receive the same support from the government as before. As for his future plans, that is in the remit of the national leadership of the party and Mr. Sonowal, and I cannot comment on that. With you becoming the Chief Minister, it’s being said that many Congress persons (at least six) joined or formed other parties to get the role, but did not get the opportunity when they were in the Congress. Any thoughts on joining the club of Chief Ministers formerly in the Congress stables? I left the Congress in 2015-16, and with many grievances, pain and trauma. It was not an easy decision for me to make. But now, I have found a home in the BJP and I am no longer an outsider to it or the organisation or the ideological stream. That I belonged to the Congress at one time is now an event that is in history, of interest only to those who study history.  If the NRC checks out, then we shall do nothing. But if there are discrepancies, we will ask for the Supreme Court’s guidance on the issue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-approach-the-supreme-court-for-re-verification-of-the-nrc/article34546393.ece
13 May 2021||Kolkata,||Two Bengal BJP MPs resign as MLAs||Two BJP Lok Sabha MPs, who won in the recent West Bengal Assembly poll, on Wednesday tendered their resignations as MLAs before Speaker Biman Banerjee. Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik was elected from Dinhata and Ranaghat MP Jaganath Sarkar from Santipur. While Mr. Pramanik won by a margin of only 57 votes, Mr. Sarkar won by a margin of over 16,000 votes. Both said they were resigning as MLAs as per the instructions of the party leadership. “It’s not possible to hold both these positions. The party asked us to resign as MLAs,” said Mr. Sarkar. Mr. Pramanik said the Constitution did not allow anyone to hold the posts of both MP and MLA. Speaking to The Hindu, the Speaker said the process of holding bypolls to the two seats could start.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-bengal-bjp-mps-resign-as-mlas/article34546398.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,||3.46 lakh new COVID-19 cases recorded||India recorded 3,46,150 new COVID-19 cases until 9.40 p.m. on Wednesday. As many as 3,868 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 2,36,86,742 cases and 2,58,093 deaths. Maharashtra reported 46,781 infections, followed by Kerala (43,529) and Karnataka (39,998). Maharashtra also recorded 816 casualties, followed by Karnataka (517) and Uttar Pradesh (329). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. As many as 19,83,804 samples were tested on Tuesday (the results for which were made available on Wednesday), the highest number of tests conducted in a day in the country. This was 1.33 lakh more tests than those conducted on Monday and 4.42 lakh more than those conducted the previous Tuesday (May 4). Over 24.46 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Wednesday, which was around 57,000 doses lesser than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, this was 8.85 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the same period one week ago. Only about 3.8% of India’s adult population have received both doses of a COVID-19 vaccine as on May 10. Among major States/U.T.s, the three with the highest coverage of both doses were Gujarat (7.08%), Delhi (7.06%) and Kerala (6.93%). On the other hand, the three with the lowest adult coverage of both doses were Uttar Pradesh (1.94%), Bihar (2.12%) and Jharkhand (2.4%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/346-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-recorded/article34546419.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||SC rejects bail plea of activist Navlakha||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused bail to activist Gautam Navlakha in the Bhima Koregaon violence case. A Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and K.M. Joseph had reserved the case for judgment on March 26. The case was listed for judgment on Wednesday morning. Justice Joseph pronounced the verdict saying Mr. Navlakha’s period of house arrest cannot be counted as ‘custody’ and, hence, he was not eligible for statutory bail. The Bench had heard arguments raised by senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocates Nitya Ramakrishnan and Shadan Farasat for grant of default bail to Mr. Navlakha. They argued that the 34 days of his house arrest from August 28, 2018 to October 1, 2018 amounted to ‘custody’ under Section 167(2) of the CrPC read with Section 43(D)(2) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. He had crossed the 90-day period of investigation in custody and he should be granted default bail. “The period of custody begins not from the time of arrest but from time the accused is first remanded… The concept of house arrest, though familiar in the law relating to preventive detention, therein the underpinnings are different. House arrest in the law of preventive detention is one which is permitted under the law itself and such orders are made in fact by the executive. Also, detention under Section 167 would not embrace preventive detention in the form of house arrest,” Justice Joseph noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-bail-plea-of-activist-navlakha/article34546369.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||Tarun Tejpal case verdict postponed||The Mapusa District and Sessions Court in Goa on Wednesday postponed the verdict in the 2013 sexual harassment case against journalist Tarun Tejpal to May 19 due to a staff shortage. Judge Kshama Joshi was to pronounce the judgment. Mr. Tejpal is accused of raping a colleague in the elevator of a five-star hotel. He was arrested on November 30, 2013 by the Goa Crime Branch. He was granted bail on July 1, 2014 by the Supreme Court. In February 2014, the Goa Crime Branch filed a 2,846- page chargesheet against him. The trial began in September 2017 but kept getting delayed because Mr. Tejpal moved the High Court and the Supreme Court to challenge the charges levelled against him. In August 2019, the top court declined his plea and ordered that the trial be completed in six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tarun-tejpal-case-verdict-postponed/article34546382.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra pauses COVID-19 vaccination for 18-44 age group||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday decided to pause the COVID-19 vaccination drive for individuals in the 18-44 age group for the time being. The government decided to prioritise available vaccines for individuals above 45 years, who have their second dose pending. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said after the Cabinet meeting, “We are doing this for the time being. It is because we have no vaccines left. Presently, we get vaccines from two companies only. Therefore, the Central government cannot supply enough vaccines for the vaccination of those above 45 years. It is mandatory to give second dose to ensure effectiveness of first. As a result, the vaccine the State government purchased for 18 to 44 [years] will be diverted to those above 45 years.” Mr. Tope said Adar Poonawala, CEO of the Serum Institute of India, had informed the Chief Minister that he would deliver 1.5 crore vaccines per month after May 20. “Decision on 18 to 44 [years] will be taken thereafter, considering the availability of vaccines,” he said. The Minister said the decision to divert vaccines for those above 45 years was a scientific decision. The Minister said the government was prepared to place a global tender but the Centre needed to approve vaccines from other companies such as Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson. “Once it is done, we will issue global tenders. We have decided that the Chief Minister will write to the Prime Minister, explaining to him the situation about vaccines,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-pauses-covid-19-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group/article34546370.ece
13 May 2021||Srinagar,||J&K govt. to look into viral video of officer thrashing people||The J&K administration will look into a viral video where an Additional Deputy Commissioner-level officer is seen beating people, including women, to implement the lockdown in Baramulla, an official said on Wednesday. “We will look into it. We will see in which context the officer has done it,” said Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, P.K. Pole. The video apparently shot on Tuesday shows the officer holding a stick and beating shoppers, pedestrians and office-goers, including women. The viral video came under criticism from netizens and political parties. “When a district-level civil servant beats civilians with a stick, it rekindles the memories of the ‘Begaar’ [forced labour] era. It also demonstrates how inefficient and ill-trained an administrator could be. Though J&K has no dearth of sensitive, efficient and humane administrators, such behaviour also highlights how even to this day some strands persist with the medieval and dehumanising ways of public administration,” Arjimand Hussain, a columnist and author, wrote on the social media. A spokesman of the J&K Apni Party said it has taken a strong exception to the incident. “We demand strong action against the erring officer. The ADC Baramulla has outraged the modesty of women folk as he doesn’t even spare the females from his wrath. The officer needs to be brought to book and even an FIR needs to be registered against him for insulting, thrashing and manhandling the women.” Dilbag Singh, DGP, on Wednesday reviewed security arrangements for Id. “Lockdown is being enforced to safeguard the lives of the people,” the DGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-govt-to-look-into-viral-video-of-officer-thrashing-people/article34546989.ece
13 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Compensation to polling officers’ kin very less: HC||The Allahabad High Court has said the compensation provided to the kin of polling officers who died on duty during the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh due to the “deliberate act on the part of the State and the State Election Commission to force them to perform duties in the absence of RT-PCR support” should be at least Rs. 1 crore. The U.P. government had recently told the court that it would provide a compensation of Rs. 30 lakh to the family members of the deceased polling officers. “It is not a case that somebody volunteered to render his/her services during the election, but it was all made obligatory to those assigned with election duty to perform their duties during election even while they showed their reluctance. The amount of the compensation, in our considered opinion, is very less,” a Division Bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar said on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the court also directed the government to form a three-member pandemic public grievance committee within 48 hours in all districts to look into reports of complaints made by people directly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/compensation-to-polling-officers-kin-very-less-hc/article34546414.ece
13 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Bombay HC bars public functions by politicians||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court ordered on Wednesday that no politician, Minister or people’s representative will hold any public function till the lockdown restrictions are lifted. A Division Bench of Justices Ravindra Ghuge and Bhalachandra Debadwar passed the order after it was brought to its notice that Maharashtra’s Cabinet Minister for Employment Guarantee & Horticulture, Sandipanrao Bhumre, held a series of public functions recently in his constituency in Paithan where people gathered in large numbers and most of them, including the Minister himself, did not follow COVID-19 hygiene protocols. “We are pained to note that Cabinet Minister Mr. Bhumre physically held ceremonies in his constituency,” the Bench said. “Is he not duty-bound to obey the diktats of the Chief Minister who, in the interest of the public at large, has appealed to both the public and people’s representatives to refrain from holding functions physically?” the court remarked. The Bench is scheduled to hear the matter on May 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-bars-public-functions-by-politicians/article34546416.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Litterateur Homen Borgohain passes away||Noted Assamese litterateur and journalist Homen Borgohain, 88, breathed his last on Wednesday at a hospital here. Doctors attributed the death to cardiac arrest. A former president of the Assam Sahitya Sabha, Mr. Borgohain tested positive for COVID-19 on April 24. He was discharged from a Gauhati hospital after testing negative on May 7. His body of work includes 11 novels and four non-fictions. He won the Sahitya Akademi in 1978 for his novel Pita Putra but returned the award in 2015 to protest the growing intolerance in India. He was serving as the editor-in-chief of Assamese daily Niyomiya Barta until his death. “Deeply pained by the demise of eminent litterateur and veteran journalist Homen Borgohain,” Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/litterateur-homen-borgohain-passes-away/article34546376.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,||SRMIST- The Hindu meet on cybersecurity||The SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) along with The Hindu Group will organise a webinar on ‘How cybersecurity concerns are topping the headlines today due to pandemic and its impact on students’ on May 15 at 4 p.m. It would be the fifth session in the 15-part webinar series — ‘SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021’, which focuses on science, engineering and technology courses and their relevance to workplaces. The panellists are Pankit Desai, co-founder and CEO of Sequretek Cybersecurity Firm; N.S Nappinai, advocate and cyber law expert; and Revathi Venkataraman, chairperson, School of Computing, SRMIST. The webinar would be moderated by Anand Venkateswaran, Steward of Metapurse Fund. The session would conclude with a question and answer session with the speakers. The dates for SRMJEEE are May 23 and May 24 for Phase 1 and July 25 and July 26 for Phase 2. To register for the free webinar, visit http://bit.ly/SRMTHE5 or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srmist-the-hindu-meet-on-cybersecurity/article34546381.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Need 6 to 8 more weeks of lockdown: ICMR chief||Dr. Bhargava’s comments are the first time a senior government official has outlined how long lockdowns, which already encompass large parts of the country, need to continue to rein in the crisis in India. Several States have introduced varying levels of curbs on economic activity and public movement to stop the spread of the virus, which are mostly being reviewed and extended on a weekly or fortnightly basis. “The high positivity districts should remain (shut). If they come to 5% from 10% (positivity rate), we can open them, but that has to happen. That won’t happen in six-eight weeks, clearly,” Dr. Bhargava said in an interview at the New Delhi headquarters of the ICMR, the country’s top medical research body. Capital hit hard Referring to the capital, one of India’s hardest hit cities, where the positivity rate reached around 35% but has now fallen to about 17%, Dr. Bhargava said: “If Delhi is opened tomorrow, it will be a disaster.” India is in deep crisis in the current wave of COVID-19 infections with around 350,000 cases and 4,000 deaths being reported daily. Hospitals and morgues are overflowing, medical staff is exhausted, and oxygen and drugs are running short. Many experts say the actual case tallies and deaths could be five to 10 times higher. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top political leaders have faced a public backlash for addressing mass election rallies where no major COVID-19 safety protocols were followed. ‘Slight delay’ Dr. Bhargava did not criticise the Modi government but conceded there had been a delay in responding to the crisis. “I think the only discontent we have was there was a slight delay accepting the 10% (recommendation), but that did happen,” he said. He said an April 15 meeting of the National Task Force on COVID-19 had made the recommendation to the government to lockdown areas with a 10% positivity rate or higher. Yet, in a televised speech on April 20, Mr. Modi dissuaded States and said a lockdown should be used as the “last resort” and the focus should remain on “micro containment zones”. On April 26 — more than 10 days after the task force meeting — India’s Home Ministry wrote to States, asking them to implement strict measures for “large containment areas” in hard-hit districts, but only for 14 days. India’s Home and Health Ministries, as well as Mr. Modi’s office, did not respond to requests for comment. Reuters reported earlier this month that the head of the National Centre for Disease Control had privately told an online gathering that strict lockdown measures were required in early April. Two senior ICMR officials told Reuters that the organisation was frustrated about political leaders addressing large rallies and allowing religious gatherings, saying the actions publicly flouted required safety measures. “Our messaging has been completely incorrect, not in sync with the situation,” said one of the officials, referring to the government. “We have miserably failed.” Dr. Bhargava denied there was any discontent within the ICMR and added the agency was on the same page with policymakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/need-6-to-8-more-weeks-of-lockdown-icmr-chief/article34546387.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Start free, universal vaccination: Opposition||The budgetary allocation of Rs. 35,000 crore for vaccines should be immediately spent, the parties said. As of now, only close to Rs. 5,000 crore had been spent. ‘Scrap Central Vista’ The parties demanded that the construction of the Central Vista project should be stopped forthwith and instead the money used to procure oxygen and vaccines. “Release all money held in the unaccounted private trust fund, PMCares to buy more vaccines, oxygen and medical equipment required,” they stated. They reiterated the demand of giving a basic sustenance allowance of Rs. 6000 a month to the vulnerable families who have lost their jobs during the pandemic. First raised by the CPI(M), this demand has been raised by the Opposition parties since last year when the pandemic first hit. They demanded that free foodgrains be distributed to the needy, with nearly one crore tonnes of grains present in the Central godowns. Lastly, they reiterated the demand of repealing the farm laws. “Though it has not been the practice of your office or government, we would appreciate a response to our suggestions in the interests of India and our people,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/start-free-universal-vaccination-opposition/article34546388.ece
13 May 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata flays Governor’s planned Cooch Behar visit||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, describing his scheduled visit to Cooch Behar on Thursday as “unilateral proceedings”, which is “violative of long-standing norms of procedures”. She urged the Governor to desist from abrupt decisions with regard to field visits. Mr. Dhankhar was scheduled to visit Cooch Behar and meet those affected by post-poll violence. “I find from social media that you are unilaterally proceeding to the district of Cooch Behar on 13.05.2021 and sadly, I find that to be violative of the long-standing norms as evolved over several decades. I, therefore, would expect that you will kindly follow the well-established norms of protocol as stated above, and desist from abrupt decision with regard to field visits,” Ms. Banerjee wrote. Referring to an earlier communication with the Governor on September 26, 2020, Ms. Banerjee said she had requested him “to refrain from surpassing the Chief Minister and her Council of Ministers and communicating with and dictating the State official, in excess of your power under the Constitution and directing them to attend before you”. Governor’s response Responding to the Chief Minister remarks, Mr. Dhankar said on social media, “In response@MamataOfficial urged her to revisit her stance & commit to constitution that by oath she is obligated to uphold & follow. This is time to address issues being faced by people in deep distress. Assured her of my fullest cooperation within constitutional parameters.” He also wrote back to Ms. Banerjee. “I am appalled that a leader of your stature should be even contemplating that in making visits the Governor has to obtain orders from the Government,” Mr. Dhankhar wrote.  Mr. Dhankhar had announced about his visit to Cooch Behar on social media a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-flays-governors-planned-cooch-behar-visit/article34546395.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC questions lack of prison doctors||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday questioned the Maharashtra government on the lack of doctors across prisons in the State and said, “We are not asking you to increase the sanctioned strength, at least fill the sanctioned posts.” A Division Bench was informed that for 47 prisons across Maharashtra, there are only 32 doctors, of which two doctors held the MBBS degree, and of the sanctioned 175 posts for the medical branch, 112 posts had been filled while 63 posts were still vacant. The issue was raised in a suo motu public interest litigation concerning the increase in the number of COVID-19 patients in prisons after the court went through an affidavit submitted by the State and found that it was silent on the issue of staffing. The Bench said “We had asked you to ensure that the prison manual is implemented in letter and spirit as far it provides for medical doctors in prison. But your affidavit is silent on this.” The Bench expressed surprise that there was not even a single doctor for the total of 5,907 inmates in Yerawada Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-questions-lack-of-prison-doctors/article34547073.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Antima kala smarana||The prime focus of spiritual literature is to make individuals aware of the main and ultimate purpose of life, salvation. In this context, great realised souls have spoken of the value of Antima Kala Smarana, that is, the thoughts that prevail at the moment when life leaves the body. In the Bhagavad Gita, the Lord emphasises that if one leaves the body thinking of Him, one surely attains Him. According to Upanishad statements that describe the way life departs from the body, it is shown that first speech or Vak stops and then the mind becomes still and then the prana gets ready to leave the body. Appayya Dikshitar explains the great truth behind this fact in a verse in his famous hymn Atmarpana Stuti, said Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. Though it is true that there is no greater asset for anyone than to remember God at the time of death, he points out that to attain this state of mind at that moment is very difficult. Unfortunately we all have to face the three main afflictions of life commonly known as Adyatmika, caused by the physical body and self, Adi Bhoutika, pertaining to the external forces of the elements like fire, air, water, etc, and Adidaiva, attributed to divine and supernatural causes. These tie us further in the bondage of life. So he confesses to Siva about the state of utter helplessness which is the lot of every jivatma. But luckily, there is tremendous hope when one takes refuge in Him. He prays with utter sincerity and asks God to be present at the crucial moment of one’s life. He claims that all other gods are absolutely incapable of relieving even the greatest of devotees from the cycle of birth. Siva is the only cure and He leads the jivatma out of this mess by administering the medicine of atma tatva jnana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/antima-kala-smarana/article34546401.ece
13 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Four more Cabinet Ministers demand action against Sidhu||Protesting against former Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s attacks against Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, four more Punjab Cabinet Ministers on Wednesday sought disciplinary action by the party high command against Mr. Sidhu. In a joint statement, Balbir Sidhu, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Gurpreet Singh Kangar said that Mr. Sidhu’s targeted attacks on Captain Amarinder over the past several days were an invitation for disaster for the Congress. The Ministers said, “It was quite possible that Sidhu’s targeted attacks on the Chief Minister were instigated by the AAP or BJP leaders to create problems in the Punjab Congress to further their electoral agenda in the State. This manner in which Sidhu had launched the offensive against the State government, particularly Captain Amarinder, suggested a conspiracy against the Chief Minister.” Two days after three of their Cabinet colleagues launched a counter-offensive against Mr. Sidhu, the four Ministers said his blatant defiance was an act of total indiscipline and such anti-party activities cannot be tolerated by any political establishment, and more so in a State headed for elections. “He [Mr. Sidhu] should be immediately suspended, if not expelled, as his continued presence in the Punjab Congress was creating a mess in the party’s State unit and diverting its attention from the more important task of gearing up for the polls,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-more-cabinet-ministers-demand-action-against-sidhu/article34546399.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘WHO has not termed B.1.617 Indian variant’||The World Health Organization (WHO) has not associated the term “Indian variant” with the B.1.617 mutant of the coronavirus in its 32-page document, according to the Union Health Ministry. In fact, the word “Indian” has not been used in its report on the matter, noted a release issued by the Ministry on Wednesday. It added that some reports had covered the news of classifying B.1.617 as a variant of global concern and termed the B.1.617 strain of the coronavirus an “Indian variant”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-has-not-termed-b1617-indian-variant/article34546410.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||States can buy 50% of vaccine doses directly||Every month, 50% of the vaccine doses of every manufacturer would be available for direct procurement by the State governments and private hospitals while the government of India would continue to procure its share of 50% which it would send to the State governments free of cost, said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday following an interaction with State Health Ministers and Principal Secretaries/Additional Chief Secretaries of eight States/UT, according to the Health Ministry. These States/UT are reporting a high growth rate in daily cases and mortality. These included Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-can-buy-50-of-vaccine-doses-directly/article34546371.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Monuments shut till May 31||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Wednesday extended the closure of all Centrally protected monuments to the public till May 31, due to the COVID-19 surge. It was on April 15 that the ASI closed all its monuments and historical sites till mid-May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monuments-shut-till-may-31/article34546372.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC judge Chandrachud tests positive||Supreme Court judge, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who was leading the Bench hearing cases on COVID-19 management, has tested positive for the virus. A crucial hearing on the COVID issue, listed before a three-judge Bench of Justices Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat for hearing on Thursday, has been deferred. Justice Chandrachud’s Bench had in the previous hearing constituted the National Task Force to scientifically study and recommend a foolproof mechanism for allocation of oxygen to States. Justice Chandrachud had made it clear to the Centre that the Supreme Court would not remain a “mute spectator” to a national calamity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-judge-chandrachud-tests-positive/article34546373.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Language not a ground for case transfer’||The inability to understand the language spoken in court is not a ground to seek transfer of the case, the Supreme Court has held in a judgment. “Convenience” of a person involved in a case had never been a criterion for transferring a case out of a State. Cases were transferred to serve the ends of justice, Justice Aniruddha Bose said. The recent judgment came on an appeal by Rajkumar Sabu, a merchant involved in a trademark violation case, who wanted to transfer the trial proceedings from a court in Salem in Tamil Nadu to New Delhi. He said he did not understand Tamil, besides the rival parties were influential in Salem. Justice Bose said Mr. Sabu could take a translator’s help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/language-not-a-ground-for-case-transfer/article34546374.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. fuelling vaccine hesitancy: Puri||The Twitter spat about the COVID-19 vaccination drive between Union Minister Hardeep Puri and Congress leaders continued on Wednesday, with Mr. Puri accusing the party’s leaders of fuelling vaccine hesitancy. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday morning retweeted a post of his on Twitter from two weeks ago saying Covaxin had been tested on enough people and proven its worth. This, he said, was for the “benefit of my friend”, Mr. Puri. The Minister had alleged earlier that Mr. Tharoor had spread vaccine hesitancy by saying Covaxin had not yet completed phase three trials in January. In response, Mr. Puri said in a series of tweets: “The Congress party’s narrative on the vaccines is getting increasingly bizarre by the day. Some of their leaders like Shashi Tharoor, to name one, are betraying an almost childish stubbornness in admitting their fault about India’s vaccine policy. The entire pack through statements & tweets fuelled vaccine hesitancy. They openly cast doubts about vaccine efficacy, choice of manufacturers & rollout...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-fuelling-vaccine-hesitancy-puri/article34546391.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 special ambulances launched||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched 250 COVID-19 special ambulances for the 15 zones of the city. Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru launched the project at Ripon Buildings in the presence of Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and other senior officials. The COVID-19 special ambulance are part of key initiatives taken by Mr. Bedi and his team of IAS officials after he took charge on Sunday. Modified private taxis The special ambulances were launched by modifying taxis of private operators with drivers insulated from the passenger cabin. Drivers would be vaccinated to reduce the risk of them getting COVID-19, the Corporation Commissioner said. The ambulances will be stationed at each of the 15 zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation. Zonal officials will send them to residents’ homes after they test positive for COVID-19. Residents will soon receive information regarding the helpline numbers for availing the services of the COVID-19 special ambulances. Each zone will have at least 15 ambulances to transport patients to screening centres, hospitals or COVID-19 Care Centres. Volunteers, sanitary inspectors and sanitary officers in each residential area will facilitate transportation of patients in the ambulances, based on the request from the control room in Ripon Buildings. The COVID-19 special ambulances will reduce the pressure on the 108 ambulance service. Currently, most patients are taken to hospitals in the 108 ambulances, leading to a delay in patients reaching hospitals. After the COVID-19 special ambulances are launched in each of the zones, the risk of COVID-19 spread by patients will also reduce. Transport issues Many of the patients have been visiting hospitals and triaging centres in crowded vehicles in the past few weeks. They have also been unable to reach hospitals and triaging centres on time. Of the 139 existing 108 ambulances, as many as 99 are being used exclusively to transport COVID-19 patients. All ambulances are fitted with double oxygen cylinders under the vehicle. The ambulances are equipped to treat patients for as much as seven to eight hours. In a day, each 108 ambulance transports nine to 10 COVID-19 patients on average, officials said. The daily number of COVID-19 cases in the city has crossed the 6,000-mark in the past few weeks.  In a day, each 108 ambulance transports nine to 10 COVID-19 patients on average Corporation Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-special-ambulances-launched/article34546571.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Remdesivir supply from Centre inadequate, Govt. tells HC||The State government on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that it required at least 20,000 vials of anti-viral drug Remdesivir every day for treating COVID-19 patients but the Centre had been allotting only 7,000 vials a day, that too without any assurance on allocation and supply. In a status report filed before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, who were seized of a suo motu public interest litigation petition to monitor COVID-19 situation in the State, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the State required about six lakh vials of Remdesivir a month whereas the Centre had been allocating only 2.1 lakh vials a month by posing several challenges due to the absence of an assured allocation and supply schedule. The report, filed through Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram, also stated that the State was facing shortage of COVID-19 vaccines too, especially considering the fact that it was a massive exercise being undertaken at about 3,000 active vaccination sites across the State. At this point, the Chief Justice suggested that the vaccination centres could be moved out of hospitals since the people feared that they might get exposed to the virus on visiting hospitals. He stated that the vaccination centres could be established in places other than hospitals in order to avoid crowding and confusion. The A-G readily agreed to convey the concerns of the court to the State government so that an appropriate decision could be taken in consultation with the experts. The Chief Justice also insisted upon making some special arrangements to get the differently abled vaccinated without causing much inconvenience to them. The observation was made since advocate M. Karpagam had filed a public interest litigation petition, through her counsel R. Prabakaran, seeking a direction to the State government to undertake a door-to-door exercise to inoculate the differently abled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remdesivir-supply-from-centre-inadequate-govt-tells-hc/article34546596.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘My first concern is liquidity, which is the biggest risk’||Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, who has been given the task of reviving and restructuring the State’s economy by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, says he is first getting his liquidity model worked out while focusing on releasing a White Paper on the State’s finances as early as possible. In an interview at the Secretariat on Wednesday, he said that as per preliminary studies, a substantial amount of revenue the State used to earn from excise was no longer coming in. “What happened? Is there that much corruption in Tasmac? Where does the excise disappear,” he wondered. Edited excerpts: As an Opposition MLA, you demanded a White Paper on the economy, alleging that the State’s finances were in bad shape. As the Finance Minister, what are you planning now? My first step is to release a White Paper myself. If I, as an MLA and a former banker and managing director of a bank, do not understand how the State’s finances add up, how will the ordinary citizen understand? I could carry out an internal review and not release it to the public. But my leader [M.K. Stalin] is very clear. This is a transparent government and a government that takes the people along. So, we have decided to prepare a White Paper and release it to the public as soon as possible to show the true state of affairs. How are you planning to overcome the current crisis? My first concern is liquidity. We should not have a liquidity problem. I am not saying that there is a risk. You start with your highest risk first. The highest risk for anybody is always liquidity. When you have so much debt and your interest cost and fixed cost are so high, the first question you ask is whether your liquidity is adequate. A State can never really go bankrupt. A State owns a lot of assets. It is only a question of cash flow and timing. The worry is whether we have enough liquidity to pay our bills on time. Do we have the flexibility to prioritise what we need to do when we need to do it? For example, in a crisis like this [COVID-19 pandemic], our first priority is to get cash into the hands of the people and get demand back up. What we have done is classic macro-economics. It is perverse to call this freebies. After getting my liquidity model worked out, my next concern would be current-year revenues and expenses. Then, I have to look at how we restructure for the long term. How do we come back to the good state we had in Tamil Nadu between 2004 and 2014, when we were in compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act (FRA), 2003? The revenue of the State should be 10.5% to 11% of GSDP. Then, we should get 3.5% from the Centre. Our interest payment to revenue ratio should go back to 12% or lower. We have to take our debt to GSDP [ratio] back to the 20% level. It is now around 25%. My main priority is revenue, interest containment and debt containment. If debt can be brought back to 18% or 17% of GSDP, as it was in 2014, then we can say we have done the restructuring of Tamil Nadu’s finances. You used to allege that the AIADMK government used borrowings mostly to finance interest payments... What FRA envisages is borrowing for capital investment: borrowing to build hospitals, schools, bridges, roads and ports. Even before the pandemic, if the AIADMK government borrowed one rupee, it used 50 paise to settle the revenue deficit and only 50 paise for capital investment. For the first time in the history of Tamil Nadu, we used borrowing to pay compulsory expenses and non-discretionary expenses like salary and interest. We have to get out of that business. I have to fix that. You once said that while Odisha and Chhattisgarh were able to generate revenue through the mining sector, Tamil Nadu, which was blessed with natural resources, could generate only Rs. 900 crore through mine royalties... Look at their Budgets and see what percentage of their income comes from the mining sector. I am asking one thing. I have already started this project. Between 2004 and 2014, the revenue was good, when we used to get between 10% and 11% of GSDP as revenue. How did we get it? How much did we get from Tasmac [liquor sale], mines, commercial tax, professional tax and registration and stamp duty? You need to have tables for different heads. Then, we would know from where it came and understand what has gone wrong. My preliminary studies suggest that a whole chunk of it used to come from excise, and that is now gone. What happened? Is there that much corruption in Tasmac? Where does the excise disappear? I do not know. I have to find out. So you’re saying we are not getting it? Yes. I am not saying anything in rupee terms, but in terms of percentage of the economy. If the State is not getting 3% or 3.5% of GSDP into its hands, does that mean it is evaporating and going up in smoke into the sky? Of course not. It means it is staying with the wealth segment of society and not coming to the State. If the State collects it and spends it on public good, it is redistributed. If the State is not collecting [it], it is automatically creating inequality and denying inclusive growth. On the one hand, you want to increase revenue, and on the other, you are expanding welfare measures.... There are two things. One is scale. There is a difference between giving Rs. 1 and Rs. 1 lakh to a person. The second is intent and circumstances. All these — what you call freebies or discounts — may add up to Rs. 10,000 crore or Rs. 20,000 crore in the worst case scenario. How much revenue am I missing? Rs. 70,000 crore. It was a lack of revenue management which resulted in this. How much interest am I paying every year? Rs. 45,000 crore. If I give money when there is a [COVID-19] lockdown, when demand has fallen off a cliff, most macro-economic professionals would say you are doing the right thing. Given the serious financial constraints caused by the changes in taxation after the implementation of GST, what are the avenues available to mobilise revenue? I am going to find out where all these leakages are happening and fix it. Once we discover what the average income was as a percentage of GSDP from commercial tax, excise, mining, registration, stamps and different heads, the figures will be given to those departments as targets. They will be given as revenue targets to different Ministries. When was the last time this was done in Tamil Nadu?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/my-first-concern-is-liquidity-which-is-the-biggest-risk/article34546566.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘State needs 20,000 vials of Remdesivir a day’||The State government on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that it required at least 20,000 vials of anti-viral drug Remdesivir every day for treating COVID-19 patients, but the Centre had been allotting only 7,000 vials a day, that too without any assurance on allocation and supply. In a status report filed before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, who were seized of a suo motu public interest litigation petition to monitor COVID-19 situation in the State, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said that the State required about six lakh vials of Remdesivir a month whereas the Centre had been allocating only 2.1 lakh vials a month, leaving the State to face several challenges due to the absence of an assured allocation and supply schedule. The report, filed through Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram, also stated that the State was facing shortage of COVID-19 vaccines too, especially considering the fact that it was a massive exercise being undertaken at about 3,000 active vaccination sites situated throughout the State. Vaccination centres At this point, the Chief Justice suggested that the vaccination centres could be moved out of hospitals since people feared that they might get exposed to the virus on visiting the hospitals.  He stated that the vaccination centres could be established in places other than hospitals in order to avoid crowding and confusion too and the Advocate General readily agreed to convey the concerns of the court to the State government so that an appropriate decision could be taken in consultation with experts. The Chief Justice also insisted upon making some special arrangements to get the differently abled vaccinated without causing much inconvenience to them. The observation was made since advocate M. Karpagam had filed a public interest litigation petition, through her counsel R. Prabakaran, seeking a direction to the State government to undertake a door-to-door exercise to inoculate the differently abled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-needs-20000-vials-of-remdesivir-a-day/article34546670.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Grievance redressal mechanisms will be streamlined, says Police Commissioner||City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal is planning to streamline grievance redressal mechanisms so that the public can get their problems solved quickly. The Commissioner listened to the grievances of residents through Whatsapp video calls at his office in Vepery. The facility was launched in July last year for the convenience of the public during the lockdown. From 1 p.m. on Wednesday, he listened to residents’ pleas and passed on instructions to his subordinates to look into the complaints. Later talking to The Hindu , Mr. Jiwal said, “The grievance redressal through WhatsApp video call is popular. I want to ensure follow up action on petitions that were received regardless of whether they were filed in person, online or through video call. I have asked my officers to put before me whatever calls they received in the last month and what actions have been taken so far.” The exclusive mobile number for WhatsApp video calls is 63691 00100. Adding that the video call facility would continue, Mr. Jiwal said, “The public can call me directly on WhatsApp between 12 noon to 1 p.m. on Wednesdays. Other Additional Commissioners will attend the calls on Mondays and Fridays. I would like to streamline the redressal mechanisms. It is of no use to the public if their complaints are not acted upon. They should not lose faith in the system.” He said the round-the-clock lockdown help-desk had been well received by the public. “The help-desk receives 700-800 calls per day. We have been able to help a lot of people through this initiative. We help them with government guidelines, location of vaccination centres, and availability of beds in hospitals, among others,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grievance-redressal-mechanisms-will-be-streamlined-says-police-commissioner/article34546569.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre tells HC it has stepped up oxygen allocation to T.N.||The Centre on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court that it had increased the allocation of oxygen to Tamil Nadu, under the National Oxygen Plan, from 419 tonnes to 519 tonnes a day. Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan made the submission before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy during the hearing of a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court to monitor the fight against COVID-19. When the Chief Justice said the State’s requirement might shoot up to over 800 tonnes a day if the number of cases continued to rise, and sought to know of alternative arrangements, the ASG said he had discussed with officials concerned the suggestion made by the court on establishing oxygen generation plants in Tamil Nadu through the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Oxygen plants “If the Tamil Nadu government sends a request to the authorities in charge of the PM Cares Fund, they will make arrangements for the DRDO to set up oxygen generators,” he told the Bench, which in turn asked Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram to take note and make an appropriate request so that oxygen generation facilities in the State could be augmented and kept ready for exigencies that might arise in future. Thereafter, Mr. Sankaranarayanan presented before the court a revised oxygen allocation order issued by the Centre on Tuesday and said Tamil Nadu had been allotted 38 tonnes from National Oxygen Limited in Erode, 15 tonnes from JSW Steel Limited in Salem, 40 tonnes from Sicgilsol Gases Private Limited in Thanjavur, 140 tonnes from INOX Air Products in Sriperumbudur, 60 tonnes from LINDE St. Gobain, 30 tonnes from National Oxygen Limited in Puducherry and 44 tonnes from INOX Puducherry. Apart from this, 50 tonnes from Tata Steel in Kalinganagar, Odisha, and 50 more tonnes from the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) plant in Rourkela, Odisha, had also been allotted to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-tells-hc-it-has-stepped-up-oxygen-allocation-to-tn/article34546559.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More pregnant women are testing positive||Doctors have been seeing a significant rise in the number of pregnant women testing positive for COVID-19 during the second wave of the infection. But this is not the only cause of worry — there is also an increase in the severity of infection among them and many pregnant women have been requiring oxygen support. It is nothing like the first wave last year, say obstetricians and gynaecologists in the city. “Now, almost one in three pregnant women is testing positive for COVID-19,” said Jaishree Gajaraj, senior consultant, obstetrics and gynaecology. “At least 50% of them are having some symptom or the other. Last year, we never saw any pregnant woman going into the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). From April-end till now, we have seen one or two patients going into the ICU. There is rapid disease progression among pregnant women,” she said. Both pregnant women and lactating mothers are currently not eligible for COVID-19 vaccination in the country. “All major societies and gynaecologists’ bodies have represented to the government, seeking permission to vaccinate pregnant women as we are seeing mortality,” she added. S. Vijaya, director, Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Government Hospital for Women and Children, said since April, they had treated nearly 200 COVID-19 patients who were pregnant. Presently, there are 60 pregnant women who have tested positive for the infection. “In the first wave, we treated 800 pregnant women in a span of six months. Now we have already treated 200. We are seeing that many infected pregnant women are needing oxygen support. This was not the case during the last wave, when a majority of our patients were asymptomatic. Now we have patients coming in requiring oxygen,” she said. Most were in the fifth to eighth month of pregnancy, she said, adding: “As they are in these middle months, we have to continue the pregnancy. We cannot adopt a prone position. The severity of infection is also high in some of them,” she said. She added that they were waiting for recommendations on vaccination for pregnant women and lactating mothers. “In the meantime, we have discussed the need to shift women in households where any family member has tested positive to a separate facility. We have also cut down antenatal visits and asked them to come for checkups during the third, fifth, seventh and ninth month of pregnancy, instead of monthly visits,” she said. IOG has a separate ward for pregnant women with fever and cough, she said. At the Government RSRM Lying-in Hospital, two to three deliveries of infected pregnant women are conducted in a day, on average. At the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital, where high-risk pregnancies are being referred now, there are 30 pregnant women who have tested positive. “For women under the age of 25, it is better to postpone pregnancies. Getting infected during early pregnancy has its own risks. Pregnant women have to go for regular medical checkups. They should avoid crowds and take adequate precautions,” P. Vasanthamani, Dean of KMC, said. On conception, Dr. Gajaraj said, “I tell couples that we are so much in the dark, and they could wait for a couple of months.” She said pregnant women should avoid going out. “If they have to, they should wear masks,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-pregnant-women-are-testing-positive/article34546561.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily case count crosses 30,000, 293 die||Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 case count surpassed the 30,000-mark on Wednesday, with 30,355 more people testing positive for the infection and 293 succumbing to it. The overall tally touched 14,68,864 and toll 16,471. Four districts — Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Tiruvallur — accounted for 46% of the fresh infections. More than half the fatalities were reported in these districts. Chennai accounted for 7,564 cases and 89 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu with 2,670 cases and 28 deaths. As many as 2,636 people tested positive and 18 died in Coimbatore, while there were 1,344 cases and 21 deaths in Tiruvallur. While Madurai recorded 1,172 cases, Kanniyakumari saw 1,076. There were 961 cases in Erode and 879 in Tiruchi. Of the 293 deceased (131 in private hospitals and 162 in government facilities), 226 had co-morbidities. Four of the deceased were in their 20s. This included a 23-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai, who had mitochondrial cytopathy, cerebellar ataxia and seizure disorder, and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 1. He died on May 10. A 28-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital, Walajapet, on April 30 with complaints of fever, cough, cold and difficulty in breathing. He died on May 7. Fifteen people in their 30s and 37 in their 40s succumbed to the infection. As of date, 1,72,735 people are under treatment in the State. This includes 40,613 people in Chennai, 15,178 in Coimbatore and 13,290 in Chengalpattu. The State discharged 19,508 people after treatment on Wednesday. This included 4,782 people in Chennai, 2,406 in Chengalpattu and 1,766 people in Coimbatore. In the last 24 hours, 1,56,356 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 2,44,67,287. Bed vacancy A total of 11,500 beds are vacant in COVID-19 hospitals and health centres as on Wednesday. In Chennai, only 1,013 beds are vacant — 222 oxygen-supported beds, 764 non-oxygen beds and 27 ICU ones. Eleven districts, including Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Kancheepuram, have run out of ICU beds. Another 82,582 people, including 43,716 people in the 45-59 age group and 26,694 senior citizens, were vaccinated in the State. With this, the State’s coverage reached 66,70,927.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-case-count-crosses-30000-293-die/article34546564.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. readies for likely 50% jump in active cases||Tamil Nadu is gearing up to handle a possible 50% jump in its active casesload before the end of this month. According to the projection prepared by the State’s Medical and Family Welfare Department for an internal discussion, the number of active cases may go up from 1.72 lakh at the moment to over 2.5 lakh. With the daily medical bulletin indicating that 92% of all oxygen-supported and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds are occupied with the present caseload, despite a steady increase in the State’s bed capacity, the jump will need a significant ramping up of capacity and deployment of alternative strategies. “We are preparing for the worst and hoping for the best. The present lockdown can help break the chain of transmission and bring down cases, with proper cooperation from the people,” a senior official said. As part of measures with the primary objective to reduce the number of fatalities due to the infection, Collectors have been asked to take full control of the district-level Unified Command Centres and deploy all possible resources for the effective allocation of beds and transportation of patients to hospitals. Another top official from the department said instructions had been given to them to immediately implement at all levels the revised triaging and treatment protocol released on Monday. “The idea is to treat as many people as possible outside COVID-19 hospitals, without compromising on care,” the official said. He said similar to the revised treatment protocol, another protocol to optimise oxygen utilisation was also being prepared to meet the increasing demand. “Meanwhile, feedback has been received on the revised treatment protocol, which is being studied to examine the need for further revision. It is, however, important to keep in mind that the protocol is only for 14 days to manage the crisis situation,” the official added. All primary health centres, taluk hospitals and district headquarters hospitals that have not been treating COVID-19 patients so far have also been asked to ready themselves for treating the infected. The department has also stressed the need for more focus on strengthening community engagement, with additional deployment of staff to screen, refer and conduct follow-ups on the patients at risk.  The idea is to treat as many people as possible outside COVID-19 hospitals, without compromising on care Official Medical and Family Welfare Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-readies-for-likely-50-jump-in-active-cases/article34546555.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to chair meeting of party leaders||The DMK government has convened a meeting of leaders of all legislature parties on Thursday evening at the Secretariat to discuss steps to be taken to control the spread of COVID-19 in the State. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who would chair the meeting, has sent invitations to the leaders of all legislature parties, an official release stated. Two representatives from each of the parties that have a representation in the Legislative Assembly have been invited, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-chair-meeting-of-party-leaders/article34546948.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco staff want to be included in the frontline workers category||The employees of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) have once again requested the State government to include them under the frontline workers category in the fight against COVID-19. The various employees unions had earlier urged the State government to announce the Tangedco engineers and other maintenance staff under the frontline workers category during the first wave of COVID-19. More than 150 electricity employees, including senior-level officers, have succumbed to COVID-19 in the second wave. As they provide round-the-clock power supply for hospitals, oxygen manufacturing industrial units and other places involved in COVID-19 prevention activities, the officials said they were disappointed that the State government, despite announcing them to be part of the essential staff category, had not treated them as frontline workers. Office-bearers of the TNEB Engineers’ Union, in a petition submitted to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, provided details of the engineers and staff who succumbed in the pandemic’s second wave and wanted the Tangedco employees to be announced as frontline warriors. S. Manoharan, president of the union, said nearly 20 staff of Tangedco, including a Chief Engineer, had died due to the pandemic in the city alone, with the Madurai region coming second with 15 deaths followed by the Coimbatore region with 10. The government should also take steps to allot a minimum bed facility exclusively for electricity staff in the hotspots, they demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-staff-want-to-be-included-in-the-frontline-workers-category/article34546573.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thiruvarur doctor, youth held for illegal sale of Remdesivir||The Civil Supplies CID on Wednesday arrested a 23-year-old who allegedly procured Remdesivir illegally from a doctor in Thiruvarur and was selling it for Rs. 23,000 per vial in the black market. They identified the accused as V. Dhinesh, 23, a resident of M.A. Nagar, Red Hills. Following a tip off about the illegal sale, a special Civil Supplies CID team deployed a decoy and caught the youth while he was selling the drug near Cholavaram High Road. He was receiving orders via WhatsApp calls and agreed to the sale only after medical records of patients were produced. Vials seized Police said Adeban, a doctor in Thiruvarur, and the main suspect in the case, was the one supplying him with Remdesivir. The youth delivered the drug to the customers’ residences on the doctor’s instructions. Eight vials were seized from him and Adeban was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-youth-held-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir/article34546567.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City-based start-up raises $3 million in seed funding||City-based firm SuperOps.ai, a professional services automation (PSA) and remote monitoring and management (RMM) platform, has raised $3 million in a seed stage funding round led by Elevation Capital and Matrix Partners India. Noted angel investors, including Kayako’s founder Varun Shoor, Kovai.co’s founder Saravana Kumar, Posist’s co-founder Ashish Tulsian, and Livspace’s founder Ramakant Sharma, participated in the seed round. SuperOps.ai also launched its beta platform on Wednesday. The company plans to use the funds to strengthen research and development. Founded in 2020 by serial entrepreneur Arvind Parthiban, SuperOps.ai is a modern take on disjointed managed service providers (MSP) tools (outsourced IT). He created the marketing automation software, Zarget, before selling it to Freshworks. “Our platform is tailored to cater to various segments of the MSP market,” Mr. Parthiban noted. Tarun Davda, managing director, Matrix India, said, “The $300 billion MSP market has the potential for growth and expansion with the right tools, resources and ideas.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-based-start-up-raises-3-million-in-seed-funding/article34546572.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former CBI SP passes away||Former Central Bureau of Investigation Superintendent of Police K. Ragothaman died in the city late on Tuesday. He was 76 and was admitted to a private hospital after testing positive for COVID-19, police sources said. He was part of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) that probed the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Mr. Ragothaman, who wrote a few books on the high-profile assassination case and crime investigations, retired as the CBI’s Special Unit SP in the mid- 2000s. His latest book, titled Rarest of rare case - Murder of an advocate, was published recently, police sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-cbi-sp-dies-due-to-covid-19/article34546574.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM: Rs. 25 lakh solatium for doctors’ kin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday announced solatium of Rs. 25 lakh each for the families of 43 doctors, who lost their lives while on the line of duty fighting COVID-19. In a statement, Mr. Stalin also announced incentives to doctors, nurses, sanitary workers, those working in laboratories, those operating CT scan equipment and people involved in operating ambulances during the second wave of COVID-19, for three months — April, May and June. As per his announcement, doctors, nurses, trained and qualified health workers and other medical staff will receive incentives of Rs. 30,000, Rs. 20,000, Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 10,000 respectively for the three months. “Doctors, nurses and health workers have been serving patients infected by COVID-19 with utmost hard work and dedication for the past year. Some have even lost their lives while in the line of duty,” Mr. Stalin said. Recognising their sacrifice, the State government has decided to grant the solatium to support their families, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-rs-25-lakh-solatium-for-doctors-kin/article34546553.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Speaker, Dy. Speaker assume charge||DMK legislators M. Appavu and K. Pitchandi were on Wednesday elected unopposed as Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively of the 16th Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, and they assumed charge in the House. As per tradition, Leader of the House Duraimurugan and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami escorted the Speaker to the historic chair in the makeshift Assembly at Kalaivanar Arangam on Wallajah Salai, Chennai. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said it was a matter of pride that both of them were elected unopposed. “We are humbled by the victory handed to us by the people. We will be humble and disciplined to protect the decorum and democracy of the House. It should not be misconstrued as weakness,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-dy-speaker-assume-charge/article34546562.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State needs 20,000 vials a day: govt.||The State government on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that it required at least 20,000 vials of anti-viral drug Remdesivir every day for treating COVID-19 patients but the Centre had been allotting only 7,000 vials a day, that too without any assurance on allocation and supply. In a status report filed before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, who were seized of a suo motu public interest litigation petition to monitor the COVID-19 situation in the State, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the State required about 6 lakh vials of Remdesivir a month whereas the Centre had been allocating only 2.1 lakh vials. The report, filed through Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram, also stated that the State was facing a shortage of COVID-19 vaccines too, especially considering the fact that it was a massive exercise being undertaken at about 3,000 sites situated throughout the State. At this point, the Chief Justice suggested that vaccination centres could be moved out of hospitals since laymen fear that they might get exposed to the virus on visiting hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-needs-20000-vials-a-day-govt/article34546578.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IAF brings empty cylinders||Three IAF aircraft brought over 200 empty oxygen cylinders from Singapore to Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. An IL-76 aircraft and two C-130s carried 248 oxygen cylinders, which were procured by the State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited, according to the official Twitter handle of the Indian diplomatic mission in Singapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iaf-brings-empty-cylinders/article34546944.ece
13 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nurses Day observance sees rare gesture from Dean||Senior nurses, who had gathered around the portrait of Florence Nightingale at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, on Wednesday were witness to a rare gesture by the head of the institution on International Nurses Day. The hospital’s Dean M. Raveendran knelt and bowed before the nurses who are at the forefront of fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. “You [nurses] are inspiring this institution [in COVID-19 treatment]. We [doctors] prescribe the treatment. But you remain with patients and console them. Nobody else can do the work you do. You are doing a real divine service,” he said. Hardly 20 senior nurses and officials from the hospital attended the nursing day observance as other nurses and doctors continued their duty in COVID-19 wards. At the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, senior nurses observed the day in the presence of Dean A. Nirmala. Meanwhile, sources said that both the medical college hospitals were functioning without adequate numbers of nurses to handle COVID-19 patients. Manpower shortage According to senior nurses, 150 to 200 nurses were handling COVID-19 cases at the ESI Hospital. CMCH has 314 nurses of which 98 are from the ESI Hospital on deputation. Recently nurses at the CMCH had urged authorities to appoint more nurses to tide over the manpower crisis. As of Tuesday, CMCH and ESI Hospital had 866 and 680 COVID-19 patients under treatment. The hospitals are also having non-COVID inpatients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-day-observance-sees-rare-gesture-from-dean/article34546595.ece
13 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen crisis imminent, say private hospitals||With COVID-19 cases going up and hospitals witnessing more admissions of people requiring oxygen support, private hospitals anticipate an imminent crisis. Of the 40-odd private hospitals that are treating COVID-19 patients, four major hospitals alone require about 12 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen a day in the current scenario. According to officials in the know of the requirement at the district administration, the total requirement for all the hospitals was about 20 MT a day. Sources said that the district received a consignment of five MT of oxygen from Salem and another consignment of 15 MT from Sriperumbudur on Wednesday. These were allocated to hospitals that were in dire need of oxygen. The consignments reached Coimbatore when oxygen stocks at a few private hospitals were about to be exhausted. The current crisis has hit smaller hospitals which were depending on a single supplier for medical oxygen before the pandemic, said a senior doctor. Such hospitals are now seeing erratic supply of oxygen, that too with the intervention of the district administration. Meanwhile, officials with the Health Department said that supply of oxygen to major government hospitals namely the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital was stable. District Collector S. Nagarajan was closely monitoring the situation and taking proactive measures to ensure that patients are not affected by oxygen shortage in any of the hospitals in Coimbatore, said a doctor from the management of a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-crisis-imminent-say-private-hospitals/article34546960.ece
13 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMCH to mobilise more beds for COVID-19 patients||The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) administration is in the efforts to mobilise more beds for COVID-19 treatment after it started witnessing patients waiting in ambulances for hours for admission. According to a senior official of the hospital, 40 beds with oxygen concentrators were kept ready for COVID-19 patients late on Tuesday. These beds were arranged in a ward which used to accommodate patients who undergo plastic surgery. As per details shared by the Coimbatore district administration, the hospital had a total number of 1,055 beds as of Tuesday evening. Of the total beds, 338 were normal beds, 504 were beds with oxygen supply and 213 ICU beds. Of these, all ICU beds were occupied and only three O2 beds were remaining vacant as of Tuesday evening. According to doctors working in COVID-19 wards, patients who require oxygen support and ICU care were being referred in large numbers to CMCH in critical stages. With all the ICU beds mostly remaining occupied, the hospital was facing a tough situation to admit such patients who are in critical condition, they say. On Wednesday, Additional Chief Secretary Atulya Misra visited CMCH along with Coimbatore District Collector S. Nagarajan and reviewed the preparedness of the hospital in handling COVID-19 cases that are on the rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-to-mobilise-more-beds-for-covid-19-patients/article34546953.ece
13 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries welcome announcements for MSMEs||Industries in Tiruppur and Coimbatore have welcomed the announcements by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs). According to M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, the assurance that steps will be taken to vaccinate all eligible workers, and time for statutory steps, will help the MSMEs at this juncture. The Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association (SIEMA) president K.V. Karthik said the State government had fulfilled the demands of the industry within 48 hours of the industries placing their requirements. Extension of the MOD charges exemption, release of Rs. 168 crore, etc., would benefit the industries, he said. A. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association, said in a press release that while the steps announced by the State government were welcome, the units had not received several relief measures announced last year. The units should get interest-free loans from banks and moratorium for repayment of interest. The MSMEs should be exempted from GST filing for three months. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, said in a press release that the concessions would go a long way for the Tiruppur knitwear exports sector, 95% of which was MSMEs. The units are struggling to sustain operation due to various adverse factors internally and externally. The Central government’s Amended Technology Upgradation Funds Scheme (ATUFS) provides 15% capital subsidy to the garment sector. In some States, the garment units could avail of both the Central and State government subsidies. However, in Tamil Nadu, the units could avail of only one. The units should be permitted to get the subsidies from the Centre and the State, he said.  The MSMEs should be exempted from GST filing for three months  A. Sivakumar President of Coimbatore and Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-welcome-announcements-for-msmes/article34546949.ece
13 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. to conduct medical camps at 37 places||Coimbatore Corporation is continuing regular medical camps in all the five zones to identify COVID-19 cases and people with symptoms of the disease. According to the civic body, camps will be held at 37 places on Thursday. In the north zone, camps will be held at S.P. Nagar, Sengal Thottam, Dharani Nagar, Ganapathy Managar, VOC Nagar, Balaguru Garden, PRP Garden, Anjugam Nagar, Ganesh Nagar, Kuppanna Gounder Street and ATR Nagar. Rangaswamy Chettiar Street, Sengappa Konar Street, Gandhi Nagar, Vadapatti Road, Bright Garden, Rose Avenue and U-Block are the camp sites in the south zone. In the east zone, the camps will be arranged at Sreepathy Nagar, Thippe Gounder Street, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Vinayagar Kovil Street, Income Tax Colony and Bharathi Nagar. Karunanidhi Nagar, Nalla Gounder Street, Mariamman Kovil, Mariamman Kovil at SN Palayam, Lanka Corner at Mecricar Road, Devanga Nagar and Lakshmi Nagar at Bommanampalayam are camp locations in the west zone. The camp in the central zone will be held at Gandhipuram 8th Street, Pasumpon Nagar, Uppara Street, Sengupta Street, Ukkadam housing unit and Sundar Street. For COVID-19 related queries, people can contact 1077, 0422-2302323 and 9750554321.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-to-conduct-medical-camps-at-37-places/article34546955.ece
13 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Theft attempt at bank||A theft attempt was reported at the State Bank of India branch at K.G. Street in Coimbatore between Monday evening and Tuesday morning. According to Srikanth Ramesh, manager of the branch, who lodged a complaint with police on Tuesday, he locked the bank at 5.30 p.m. on Monday and when he came the next day at 9.30 a.m. he found that a window and the cashier’s cabin broken. The police said that no property was reported stolen in the attempt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theft-attempt-at-bank/article34546956.ece
13 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Micro units seek financial support||The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations has appealed to the State government to provide financial support to micro units that have only current account. In a memorandum submitted to the Coimbatore District Collector, the Federation said the micro units did not receive financial support after the lockdown last year. Now, the micro units should get interest waiver for a year. The government should reduce electricity charges by 50 % for a year. The State government should also take steps to vaccinate all workers employed in the micro units. The government should take over hospitals for COVID-19 treatment and ensure free treatment to needy workers, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-units-seek-financial-support/article34546950.ece
13 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow essential industries to function at Sipcot’||Members of Perundurai SIPCOT Affected People Welfare Association have urged the district administration to allow only the essential industries to function at the Sipcot Industrial Growth Centre so that lockdown is effectively implemented. In a letter to the Collector, its coordinator S. Chinnasamy said that despite total lockdown, over 200 industries at Sipcot continue to function. “Mass gathering of workers paves way for spread of the virus”, he said and added that many workers are staying in the industrial premises which is against the law. The letter said that functioning of non-essential industries with full strength of workers has caused fear and panic among the people in villages located near Sipcot. Hence, only the oxygen manufacturing industries and gas filling industries should be allowed to function while industries involved in textile processing, tyre retreading, iron and asbestos, aluminium and other non-essential industries should be closed during the lockdown period. “Workers who will lose their wages due to the closure should be given compensation”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-essential-industries-to-function-at-sipcot/article34546962.ece
13 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Eight-year-old girl donates her savings for COVID-19 relief||An eight-year-old girl, S. Danshika of Edayankattu Valasu, in Erode donated her savings of Rs. 2,500 for COVID-19 relief here on Wednesday. With the State under the grip of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had appealed to the public to contribute generously to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to fight the pandemic effectively. The girl, a class three student of a private school, had saved the money given by her father in the last one year. After Mr. Stalin’s appeal to the public on Tuesday, she expressed her willingness to contribute to the fund and informed her father, Shanmugavel, a computer designer. He took her to the Camp Office and made her donate the money to the Collector C. Kathiravan who appreciated the girl. The girl told media persons that she would be happy if her contributions help the needy during the pandemic and requested the people not to venture out of their houses. “Let us all wear face masks and wash our hands with soap frequently and keep the virus away,” she added. Mr. Kathiravan said that the money would be transferred to the CM’s Public Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-year-old-girl-donates-her-savings-for-covid-19-relief/article34546968.ece
13 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Temporary vegetable shops come up in large numbers||With shops at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market closed at 7 a.m., and many people unwilling to visit the crowded Uzhavar Sandhais, temporary roadside shops selling vegetables and fruits have come up in large numbers across the city. Due to total lockdown and to prevent people from gathering in large numbers at the market, the corporation has allowed the wholesale market to function during night hours while the retail shops function from early morning to 7 a.m. every day. Hence, many traders started selling vegetables and fruits along the roadside ensuring personal distancing. Though the price is higher, many prefer purchasing from roadside shops that are not crowded. “It is more convenient for residents to purchase near our houses than visiting the markets”, said a resident at Chinnamuthu Street. Since many roadside shops have come up in residential areas, overcrowding at the markets was prevented, said an official. In Salem, shifting of the Suramangalam Uzhavar Sandhai to the Jawahar Mill Ground has not gone well with the traders and the public due to hot weather. In the absence of temporary sheds, shops function in the open ground and business was very poor, said a trader. “People are unwilling to come to the ground as the temperature is very high even at 7 a.m.”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-vegetable-shops-come-up-in-large-numbers/article34546599.ece
13 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Grocery items distributed||Members of Two-Wheeler Repair Mechanics Welfare Association distributed vegetables and provisions to 60 conservancy workers at Talavadi here on Wednesday. Block Development Officer Shanmugam Sundara Vadivel, Talavadi Police Inspector Anbarasan, Health Inspector Tamilselvan, and representatives from various panchayats distributed the provisions to the workers who were involved in maintaining the streets in the hill area. Members of the association said that the service of workers is very important during the pandemic and the assistance would fulfil their basic needs in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grocery-items-distributed/article34546597.ece
13 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||A family feeds the quarantined during pandemic||As the pandemic surges rendering entire families ill, incapacitated and quarantined, good Samaritans have stepped in to fill in the void with goodness and hope. The D.S. Pandian household has stepped in to feed home quarantined COVID positive persons, with three home cooked meals for the quarantine period free of cost. Until a year ago, Mr. Pandian, locally known as Guruji Pandian was running a nursery and primary school for special children. “The second surge in infections and the flooding of hospitals with patients got us thinking of helping out in someway,” says Mr. Pandian. So, it all started with a WhatsApp message forwarded in various groups offering home cooked meals to people in home quarantine. “We saw families, all members infected and no ability to cook, and no help to provide for.” For Mr. Pandian and his wife Kalpana, it was also a personal experience. “Our own daughter-in-law had conceived, when she got her infection and was quarantined during the first wave. There was no help. So we knew what it felt like,” he says. So, only a fortnight ago, just before the cases began to surge in Krishnagiri town, the Pandian household slowly started sending out food to the few families quarantined. “Initially it started with just about 10 to 30 packets for breakfast, lunch and dinner.” But soon, with the cases rising in leaps and bounds, the family got flooded with requests that they have started to send out close to 150 packets of food each meal of the day. Mr. Pandian’s family stood together to take up the initiative that demanded dedicated labour from dawn to dusk. “When we got a call from a quarantined family saying that was the first good meal they had eaten in 5 days, it showed a purpose,” says Mr. Pandian. The food is dedicated to nutrition with a healthy mix of eggs, kashayam, Kaba sura kudineeru, millets, sprouts, lenthil snacks, idly,dosa, idiappam, three types of coloured vegetables among others. When they started, it was the household groceries that was used. Slowly, as word spread, they got support from Olirum Krishnagiri, a local NGO that provided them with groceries. Saravana Bhavan, a hotel on the highway also helped to provide assistance. “Sometimes, when there is difficulty is cooking, they offer to cook,” says Mr. Pandian. As a rule, they refuse to collect donations. Instead, even a packet of salt can be donated to feed people, he says. While the household labour is no strain, the delivery is becoming difficult with quarantined families scattered across the town. For now, Mr. Pandian’s two sons are delivering food at the door of the quarantined houses. “They call each family upon arrival, and leave the food out.” Asked if he was concerned about the safety of his family, he says he does worry a bit. “I’m 61 and there is concern. But, this is larger than my worry. We should do something,” he quips. Volunteers to deliver food is what we need, he says. Mr. Pandian can be contacted on 98655 68355.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-family-feeds-the-quarantined-during-pandemic/article34546602.ece
13 May 2021||M. Soundariya Preetha COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bank staff for restriction on services, working hours||With banking services continuing even as COVID-19 cases surge across the district, bank officers and employees have sought restrictions on the services offered and working hours. Sources in the bank officers and employees’ unions here told The Hindu on Wednesday that the business hours is between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. on working days. Customers are walking in not only for remittances and withdrawals but also for passbook updates, account opening and PAN/Aadhaar updates. “The customers are not realising the risks involved when they come to a branch for services that are not urgent. They come in for even routine works and this increases the footfall. Every day there are reports of bank employees or officers getting infected and the respective branches are closed for three days,” says an employee of a nationalised bank. “We cannot tell the customers to not come to the branches. So, there should be specific guidelines from the State-level banking committee that only basic services should be offered. There should be restrictions on the business hours too,” the employee said. Sources in the bank officers’ union said that branches have been asked to work with 50 % strength. In some branches, if there should be four or five people, only two are present because some of the staff are already affected by COVID. Some branches have single officers. There are other challenges too that are affecting the bankers. For instance, most of the branches are air-conditioned and even if the ACs are switched off, ventilation is poor. Hence, when there is a crowd, the risk of COVID spread is high. Further, though business hours are reduced, working hours go on till 6 p.m. or so and women staff do not have proper transport facilities to go back home. In States such as Kerala and Karnataka, there are clear guidelines. Tamil Nadu should look at alternate working days and restrict the services provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-staff-for-restriction-on-services-working-hours/article34546966.ece
13 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Strengthening of old track under way||The strengthening old broad gauge track between Kovilpatti and Kadambur railway stations has been taken up. Madurai Division of Southern Railway planned to take up the work after loose black cotton soil in certain sections gave bumpy rides. “Permanent speed restrictions had to be imposed on some 12 km stretch of the track on either side of Kumarapuram railway station (between Kovilpatti and Kadambur) due to the clay nature of the soil,” said a senior railway officer. The work could not be taken up as the single line section was one of the busiest stretches so that officials reduced the speed of goods trains to 40 kmph and passenger trains to 70 kmph. Otherwise, the trains were allowed at a speed of over 100 kmph on Madurai-Tirunelveli section. As the second line work was completed between Kovilpatti and Kadambur in February-end, the officials planned to take up the work. While trains were operated on the second (new) line, the officials suspended operation of train on the old line between Kovilpatti and Kadambur. “All the rails and sleepers have been removed from the formation. Workers will dig up the soil for more than one metre depending upon the type of the soil at various stretches and refill with new soil,” an official explained. After strengthening the formation, rails will again be laid and allow double line operation. The work is likely to be completed by September. Rail Vikas Nigam Limited has so far completed 10- km stretch of doubling work on Madurai-Tirunelveli section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strengthening-of-old-track-under-way/article34546668.ece
13 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Case against bank manager, four others||The police have registered a case against five including the manager of a nationalised bank and a couple in Melur Taluk for forgery, cheating and criminal conspiracy based on a direction of Judicial Magistrate Court I. They are Shakila, 37, bank manager, D. Kalaiselvi, post woman, and Ganesan, 35, post master. The complainant L Govindarajan, 39, alleged that the nationalised bank had sent a notice through a registered post with acknowledgement in November 2018. But neither he nor his family received it. His enquiry with the post office revealed that his signature had been forged by his neighbour A. Sivaneswari. He could not respond to the notice as he was not aware of it. Subsequently, Sivaneswari and her husband, Ayyanar, who have been booked, had taken over the house in the auction, he said. A police officer said that enquiry into the case would begin after getting the documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-bank-manager-four-others/article34546671.ece
13 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC allows anganwadi construction in ‘oorani’||Bearing in mind the doctrine of sustainable development, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court allowed the authorities concerned to use two cents of land classified as ‘oorani’ to complete the construction of an anganwadi centre in Devakottai, Sivaganga district. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi made it clear that except for the construction of the anganwadi on the two cents of land no other construction should be made on the remaining portion of the land. “There shall be an order of perpetual injunction restraining the authorities from putting up any construction in the remaining portion of the land,” the court said and added that it was conscious of the fact that authorities might use the remaining land under the guise of developmental activities. Though the land had been classified as oorani, bearing in mind the doctrine of sustainable development and taking note of the fact only two cents have been used for public purpose, the court was not issuing an order to demolish the construction, the judges observed. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Karunakaran of Devakottai who sought a direction to forbear the authorities from proceeding with the construction of the anganwadi centre on the land in Pagayani village, Devakottai. The government was using two cents of land that was classified as oorani for the purpose of constructing the anganwadi centre. The petitioner apprehended that there was a proposal to put up a playground on the land. He said that one day the waterbody would be completely occupied. The government told the court that there was no such proposal for a playground and the anganwadi centre was being constructed for the benefit of the public. The construction was almost complete, it submitted. The petition was disposed of with the direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-allows-anganwadi-construction-in-oorani/article34546677.ece
13 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Conservation is essential, says High Court||Conservation is not an act of charity towards nature but a necessity, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed while dismissing a petition that had challenged a government order on creation of Srivilliputhur Megamalai Tiger Reserve. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed it was for experts to determine as to whether the area had to be declared a reserved forest so as to protect the environment not only for the present but also for posterity. “We do not agree with the petitioner who states that the people should be prioritised over wildlife. In the food cycle, the wildlife plays an important role and none should do anything to make it extinct,” the judges said. The court was hearing a petition filed by I. Andi of Andipatti in Theni district. The petitioner sought a direction to the authorities to resurvey the villages to confirm tiger population. The villagers were dependent on agriculture. Following the order, they would be evicted, he said. The judges said that the notification cannot be set aside and it was issued following a detailed procedure. The reason for the petitioner to approach the court was only to recognise the possession of the land which the villagers claim to be in occupation for several decades. They need not have any apprehension. If they have valid documents in support of their claim, they can approach the Forest Department. The court granted liberty to the petitioner and similarly placed persons to approach the appropriate authority to establish their rights to cultivate and carry on other activities in the place where they currently reside by submitting applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservation-is-essential-says-high-court/article34546678.ece
13 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Deceased prisoner’s kin refused to accept body’||The State on Wednesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the family of Muthu Mano, the remand prisoner who was murdered by a few inmates inside Palayamkottai Central Prison, had refused to accept the body. The State submitted before a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Sundar and T. Krishnavalli that the family members did not comply with the court’s earlier order directing them to receive the body and perform the last rites by May 1. Instead, they filed yet another petition before the High Court Bench seeking a judicial inquiry into the death by a sitting HC judge. Taking note of the submission, the court adjourned the hearing. The father of the deceased, A. Pavanasam, filed the petition. The court was earlier informed by the State that the Tirunelveli Collector had sent a communication to the Chief Secretary regarding compensation and government job to a family member. Muthu Mano, a history-sheeter, and his associates were arrested and remanded in judicial custody after they allegedly attempted to murder two persons. Following his murder, six prison employees were suspended. The CB-CID is conducting a probe into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kin-of-deceased-prisoner-refused-to-accept-body/article34546672.ece
13 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||11 centres set up for the homeless||The State on Wednesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that 11 centres in Madurai were set up to provide food, water and shelter to homeless persons during the COVID-19 lockdown. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Sundar and T. Krishnavalli adjourned the hearing after the State sought time to file a detailed report on the centres. The court was hearing the petition filed by S.Muthukumar of Madurai. He sought a direction to the government to take appropriate steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-centres-set-up-for-the-homeless/article34546673.ece
13 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Nominated MLAs issue: parties in U.T. flay Centre||The Congress, DMK and the Left parties have condemned the appointment of three BJP members as nominated legislators, even before an elected government could form its Cabinet. Pradesh Congress Committee chief A. V. Subramanian, in a statement on Wednesday, said the AINRC-led government was yet to form its Cabinet. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy was recovering from COVID-19 in hospital. Instead of waiting for some time, the Centre, in an arbitrary manner, appointed BJP members as nominated legislators. It was certain that the National Democratic Alliance government would not last in the Union Territory, he added. Regrettable move DMK legislature party leader R. Siva, in a separate statement, said it was highly regrettable that the members were nominated even before the elected representatives were sworn-in as legislators. The Centre had insulted the elected representatives by nominating three BJP members to the Legislative Assembly, he added. CPI secretary A.M. Saleem, in his statement, said the BJP had adopted “unethical” means to increase the party's strength in the Assembly. The party was trying to capture power against the mandate of the people, he added. The CPI(M) also flayed the move of the Centre to appoint BJP members as nominated legislators. Party secretary R. Rajangam termed the move as “undemocratic.”  The Centre has insulted the elected representatives by nominating three BJP members to the Legislative Assembly R. Siva, DMK legislature party leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominated-mlas-issue-parties-in-ut-flay-centre/article34546945.ece
13 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry logs 27 deaths||The COVID-19 toll in Puducherry rose to 1,045 on Wednesday with 27 more deaths reported in the last 24 hours, even as the Union Territory added 2,007 new cases from over 9,000 tests to its overall tally. Puducherry recorded 19 deaths, Karaikal three, Yanam two and Mahe three. The test positivity rate was 21.87% and case fatality rate 1.36% while the recovery rate stood at 78.44%. With 1,247 patients discharged, the active cases stood at 15,562. The overall caseload aggregated to 77,031. V. Kumar, 59, an assistant priest at the Arulmigu Manakula Vinayagar temple, died. Cuddalore Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri has tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-logs-27-deaths/article34546579.ece
13 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Steps taken to set up 12,000 additional beds for COVID-19 patients across State, says official||Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy on Wednesday said steps had been taken through the Public Works Department to set up 12,000 additional beds across the State for COVID-19 patients. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Reddy said there was a possibility of the number of COVID-19 positive cases coming down during the current lockdown period and sought the cooperation of the general public in curbing the spread of the viral infection. Instructions had been given to monitor oxygen stock in all hospitals in the State and a committee had been constituted in all hospitals. He said shops selling groceries, vegetables, medicines and other essential commodities were being allowed to open during the lockdown. Steps would be taken to curb the movement of those venturing out in public places without any genuine reason through police, revenue and public health officials. Earlier, Mr. Reddy chaired a meeting at the Collectorate here with officials of various government departments on preventive measures taken up in the district and offered advice to officials on curbing the spread of the viral infection. Collector P. Uma Maheswari was present. He inspected Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital and COVID -19 treatment centre at Government Backward Classes Boys Hostel in Pudukottai Town, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-taken-to-set-up-12000-additional-beds-for-covid-19-patients-across-state-says-official/article34547101.ece
13 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,600 liquor bottles seized||A special police team seized 2,692 liquor bottles illegally stocked in a house under Udayalipatti police station limits in Keeranur sub-division in the district on Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, the team headed by Keeranur police inspector went to the house of K. Kaliyaperumal at Anna Nagar and conducted checks. The police personnel found 2,692 liquor bottles kept inside 72 boxes and confiscated them. The value of the seized consignment was stated to be about Rs. 4 lakh, a police press release said. Kaliyaperumal and his two accomplices B. Arumugam and A Sakthivel were arrested and a case was registered against them in Udayalipatti police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2600-liquor-bottles-seized/article34547100.ece
13 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||3 patients die waiting outside Salem GH||Three COVID-19 patients, who were waiting at the triage zone of the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem, died on Wednesday. However, Dean R. Murugeshan said he was not aware of the issue and that all the 800 beds in the COVID-19 block were occupied. Sources in the hospital said that a 52-year-old man and a 40-year-old woman were waiting in ambulances while a 35-year-old woman was waiting in an autorickshaw near the zone. However, all the three patients died before being admitted to the hospital. On May 4, three COVID-19 patients died while waiting at the zone. Mr. Murugeshan said that though private hospitals had been asked not to send patients without confirming the bed availability here, they continued to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-patients-die-waiting-outside-salem-gh/article34546963.ece
13 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Trujet cancels flight service till May 22||In view of the total lockdown and drop in movement of passengers, flight operations by Trujet between Chennai and Salem and from Salem to Chennai stands cancelled from May 13 to 22, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trujet-cancels-flight-service-till-may-22/article34546961.ece
13 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||3 patients die near triage zone at Salem||Three COVID-19 patients, who were waiting in ambulances at the triage zone of the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem, died on Wednesday. All three patients died before being admitted to the hospital. Earlier on May 4, three COVID-19 patients had died while waiting in the zone. However, Dean R. Murugeshan said he was unaware of the incident but added that all the 800 beds in the COVID-19 block were occupied. Dr. Murugeshan said though private hospitals had been asked not to send patients without confirming bed availability here, they continued to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-patients-die-near-triage-zone-at-salem/article34546946.ece
13 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special trains cancelled||In view of poor occupancy, the following special trains were cancelled temporarily from May 15 to June 1. A release said that Train No.02083 Mayiladuthurai – Coimbatore (six days a week) special train and Train No.02084 Coimbatore – Mayiladuthurai (six days a week) special train, Train No.06321 Nagercoil – Coimbatore daily special train and Train No.06322 Coimbatore – Nagercoil daily special train, Train No.06323 Coimbatore – Mangalore Central daily special train and Train No.06324 Mangalore Central – Coimbatore daily special train will remain cancelled from May 14 to 31. Likewise, Train No.02685 Chennai Central – Mangalore Central daily special train will remain cancelled from May 14 to 31 while Train No.02686 Mangalore Central – Chennai Central daily service will remain cancelled May 15 to June 01, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-cancelled/article34546598.ece
13 May 2021||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||Despite lockdown, huge crowd gathers outside temple||Even as Virudhunagar district recorded over 7,000 new positive cases since April 1, hundreds of devotees gathered outside Badhrakaliamman Temple in Sivakasi for Chithirai festival celebration on Wednesday night. A huge crowd gathered outside the temple even as its gates were locked as no devotees were allowed inside temples for darshan in view of the lockdown. The devotees who started gathering around 6 p.m. swelled in numbers around 8 p.m. Social distancing went for a toss and many of the devotees were not wearing mask, according to local sources. Only a limited number of police personnel were posted there. After the violation of lockdown norms was taken up with Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar, local police forced the crowd to disperse around 8 p.m. “Despite all the sufferings of the infected people, the devotees still do not have awareness of the danger of crowding,” said a local resident, S. Velmurugan (52). Display of aerial fireworks was also conducted on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/despite-lockdown-huge-crowd-gathers-outside-temple/article34547057.ece
13 May 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Prohibitory orders clamped||Collector G.S. Sameeran has promulgated prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code until further orders in the wake of the sharp rise in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the district. In a statement, Dr. Sameeran said the people should not unnecessarily come out of their houses and avoid chit-chatting in public places and shops as the viral infection was spreading rapidly. Those who are suffering from fever, cold, cough, body pain etc. should come to the nearby COVID Care Centres or the government hospitals nearby to get screened. Senior citizens and children should be extremely cautious as moving around may lead to contraction of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prohibitory-orders-clamped/article34547058.ece
13 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SI, who objected to violations, shifted twice||A sub-inspector of police (SI) attached to the traffic wing was issued transfer orders twice within 24 hours in the wake of a face-off with a local political functionary while enforcing lockdown restrictions. The Sub-Inspector, Mohan, reportedly admonished the political functionary for taking up cudgels for a driver of a mini-goods carrier who allegedly violated the lockdown specifications. Political interference? The political functionary argued with the SI when the latter attempted to detain the vehicle. In the heat of the argument, the SI chided the political funcionary, saying the latter ought to instead show interest in solving problems pertaining to basic amenities. A departmental inquiry was held on May 10 after the video clippings went viral on social media. Subsequently, a transfer order was issued to Mr. Mohan at 10 p.m. directing him to report and continue his service in the same cadre in Armed Police, Thanjavur. However, sensing resentment among police personnel over the ‘punishment transfer’, a re-inquiry was ordered on May 11 and the SI was transferred on Tuesday to law and order wing in Thanjavur East Police Station. A section of police personnel appeared to have conveyed to senior officials that such actions, particularlywhen they were functioning as frontline warriors in the fight to contain the second wave of COVID-19, would sap their morale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/si-who-objected-to-violations-shifted-twice/article34547093.ece
13 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers blame PWD for poor upkeep of Sothuparai dam shutters||The poor upkeep of the shutters in the Sothuparai dam near Periakulam in the district by the PWD engineers has resulted in the depletion of water, farmers charged. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, the farmers said that the widespread rain in the catchment areas had led to rise in the storage level of the dam. The farmers said that over 5,000 acres of cultivable land depended on the water from Sothuparai dam and many habitations got drinking water from here. The Sothuparai dam, one of the biggest in the region, next to Periyar dam, has a maximum storage capacity of 126.28 feet. About two days ago, when the inflow was steady, water level in the dam had reached the maximum level. Since continuous rain was witnessed, the engineers had planned to discharge the inflow in full to the river. However, the shutters appeared to have not worked properly. As a result, at least five feet of water may have gone waste into the river due to official apathy, the farmers claimed. Attempts to repair the shutters failed and when the issue was taken up with the senior officers, they immediately organised manpower and the faulty shutters were repaired on a war-footing, a senior official said. According to the PWD engineers, the storage at 6 a.m. on Wednesday was 120.96 feet (max level 126.28 ft). The farmers appealed to the Collector H. Krishnanunni to direct the PWD engineers to keep a vigil and ensure that such mistakes did not recur and urged him to check the shutters in other dams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-blame-pwd-for-poor-upkeep-of-sothuparai-dam-shutters/article34547060.ece
13 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi reviews airport development works||Member of Parliament and chairperson of Thoothukudi Airport Advisory Committee K. Kanimozhi on Wednesday reviewed the progress of the ongoing development works in the airport. As the Thoothukudi Airport, which is handling only smaller aircrafts now, has started the work on extension, widening and strengthening of the runway from the existing dimension of 1,349 meters X 30 meters to 3,115 meters X 45 meters for handling wide-bodied aircrafts, perimeter road, compound wall, new terminal building, Air Traffic Control Tower, new fire station, car parking area etc., Ms. Kanimozhi reviewed the progress of these works. Moreover, the MP also emphasised the need for starting night flight services to and from Thoothukudi on an early note for the benefit of the public, especially the business community of the port town. Director of Thoothukudi Airport N. Subramanian and Manager S. Jayaraman explained the progress of all these works. Work on the expansion, widening and strengthening of the runway with Blast pad, runway end safety area (RESA), Taxiway, Apron, GSE area, Isolation bay and miscellaneous works was started on July 25 last for handling larger aircrafts. For the expansion of the runway, 600.97 acres of land free from encumbrances was acquired by the State Government and handed over to Airports Authority of India on December 31, 2018. Subsequently, runway extension work with blast pad, runway strip and runway end safety area, ground support equipment area, taxiway, apron, isolation bay and miscellaneous works for Rs. 96.77 crore was awarded to a Mumbai-based company on August 22, 2019. Concept and execution level safety case assessment and reporting approval for widening of runway was obtained from the regularity authority, Director General of Civil Aviation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-reviews-airport-development-works/article34547064.ece
13 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Only 8% vaccinated’||Only 8% of the residents of the district has taken the vaccination for COVID-19 so far even though vaccine in enough numbers has been stocked, Monitoring Officer Kumar Jayant has said. While addressing the vaccination camp organised by Thoothukudi District Small and Tiny Industries Association here on Wednesday, Mr. Kumar Jayant said only 8% of eligible population of Thoothukudi had been vaccinated while this number in Chennai stood at 53%. Even as the Thoothukudi district administration had stocked over 15,000 vaccines, only 900 persons were being vaccinated on an average every day, he said. Collector K. Senthil Raj said vaccination and the precautionary measures alone could protect everyone from the viral infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-8-vaccinated/article34547061.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Hotels offer isolation facilities in Tiruchi||Hotels in the city that have set up isolation facilities through tie-up with hospitals to house mild and asymptomatic COVID-19 patients have adapted the rooms to the requirement of patients. Many say it is a timely move to put the rooms, which will otherwise remain vacant during the lockdown period, to good use. Since the government's COVID Care Centres accommodate only patients who test positive, those who need isolation facilities after traveling, or after a primary contact has tested positive, would find hotel rooms to be ideal for isolation, they say. Plazza Hotels near Central Bus Stand and Hotel Highpoint in Cantonment have converted their facilities into isolation wards. Food, doctors on call, and fully sanitised rooms are part of the package. Speaking toThe Hindu, Mohammed Hakkim, who is coordinating the arrangements at Plazza Hotels, says t the initiative will help people to stay isolated till they are safe to return home. “We have travellers coming from different parts of the country and do not want to go home as they have senior citizens at home. Such facilities will help them," he points out. “If any patient shows symptoms, we immediately shift them to a hospital,” Dr. Hakkim adds. Hotel Highpoint too works in a similar fashion. Only COVID-19 negative patients who want to isolate, or patients who have recovered from the viral infection and want to isolate themselves for a few days before returning home can avail of our facilities, says V. Prabhu, joint managing director of the hotel. Attenders who accompany positive patients and require a place to stay also stay at the hotel, he adds. Meanwhile, hotels such as Hotel Rockfort View have become a COVID Care facility in association with a private hospital. While the hotel deploys its hospitality staff, the hospital manages the patient's health with doctors on call and nurses round-the-clock. At Rockfort view, all 44 rooms are being utilised by Apollo Hospitals as a step-down ward. When patients recover but still need to be in isolation, they are shifted here, according to a hotel representative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-offer-isolation-facilities-in-tiruchi/article34547085.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||As second wave rages, traders dig their heels in at Gandhi Market||The district administration is in a fix over its plan to shift traders of Gandhi Market to G.Corner on Tiruchi-Chennai Highway. Aimed at de-congesting Gandhi Market, the State government had directed the district administration to move retail trading to a separate location a few weeks ago. Going by the directive, Collector S. Divyadharshini asked Tiruchi Corporation to take steps to shift the retail operations to G. Corner, where wholesale traders of Gandhi Market functioned for eight months during the first wave of of COVID-19. Officials made arrangements at G. Corner to enable traders to start retail trading. But the move was met with stiff opposition from a section of traders, who claimed that it was a discriminative approach. They said they would move to G. Corner site if all traders, including wholesalers, were asked to shift. Though the local body tried to convince them, they refused to budge, leaving officials with the only option of talking tough. Since COIVD-19 infections continued to soar in the district, the authorities again made efforts a few days ago to shift both wholesale and retail trading from Gandhi Market. A senior official of Tiruchi Corporation, who met functionaries of trader associations, told them to move from Monday. It again failed to evoke a positive response from the traders. When the issue was taken to the notice of the Collector, she said efforts had been made to find a solution to the issue. It would be solved in a day or two. According to official sources, the district administration had begun fresh efforts to shift wholesale trading to G. Corner and retail trading to four or six different places in the city. Since the traders continued to resist the move, officials had reportedly referred the issue to Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru for an amicable solution. A senior official told The Hindu that the situation had turned grim. As per the latest trend, nearly one out of five persons, who were subjected to testing, were found positive in Tiruchi. It would become more dangerous if hundreds of people and traders were allowed to throng a particular place for trading. It was time to revert to last year’s scheme of wholesale trading at G. Corner and retail trading at different places in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-second-wave-rages-traders-dig-their-heels-in-at-gandhi-market/article34547095.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Making lockdown work in Tiruchi||The city police on Tuesday revealed elaborate arrangements made for enforcement of the complete lockdown clamped by the State government to curb spread of COVID-19 and create awareness among the people. A police press release said 919 officers and men would be deployed in shifts as part of the comprehensive arrangement. Vehicle checks would be carried out in important places identified by police personnel in shifts round-the-clock. While conducting such checks, the police personnel would initiate action as per law against those found venturing out in public places without any genuine reason. Police personnel deployed at the eight permanent checkposts within the city limits would check vehicles entering and leaving the city. Action as per law would be initiated if violations were found, the press release said. Eighteen special teams had been constituted to advise and caution traders selling essential commodities if they violated the lockdown guidelines. They would impose fines in case of violation. The teams would also advise the general public coming to buy essential commodities about the need to adhere to the guidelines. Police personnel had been deployed in shifts to monitor the different containment zones in the city and at COVID Care Centres set up at Bishop Heber College, Yatri Nivas and Srirangam Government Hospital. Patrol vehicles would move all over the city and create awareness of the protective measures to be taken by the public, including wearing masks, through the public address system. The strike force had been deployed at four locations for bandobust duty. Police deployed in shifts at the master control room would monitor violations of guidelines in public places through CCTV cameras across the city and alert the officers to initiate action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/making-lockdown-work-in-tiruchi/article34547092.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||MoU envisages strengthening of entrepreneurship ecosystem||M.A.M. College of Engineering and Technology (MAMCET) has signed a memorandum of understanding with IIT-Madras Incubation Cell (IITMIC) for strengthening entrepreneurship ecosystem in Tiruchi region. The MoU mandates the two entities to work together to provide incubation support/facilities to entrepreneurial ventures. IITMIC will support MAMCET in conducting training, and organising motivational/experiential talks to strengthen the entrepreneurial ecosystem, besides facilitating incubation, startup selection, support, mentoring and monitoring, and strategic and operational guidance. IITMIC will provide co-incubatees access to incubation space/infrastructure, business support services (accounting, tax, CS, legal, HR), networking and training support, mentoring (technical and business), seed funding and link-up with angels/VCs and ‘Startup Engine’, a press release issued by S. Susan Christina, Principal, MAMCET, said. The MoU documents were exchanged earlier this month between Tamaswati Ghosh, CEO, IITMIC, and Fathima Bathool Maluk, Secretary and Correspondent, MASTeR Group of Institutions, which also comprises M.A.M. School of Architecture and M.A.M. B. School. The Entrepreneurship Development Cell in the campus will promotes innovation and entrepreneurship by providing an eco-system with the right mix of infrastructure and technical knowledge to the pool of students who can bring fresh ideas. It will conduct awareness programmes, training, and mentoring.IITMIC had already made a mark incubating 220 firms valued at Rs. 11,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mou-envisages-strengthening-of-entrepreneurship-ecosystem/article34547082.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3,021 fresh positive cases, 31 deaths||The central region reported 3,021 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday and 31 deaths. Tiruchi reported the highest number of deaths in the region with 12 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Thanjavur reported seven, Nagapattinam four, and Karur reported three deaths. The casualty counts were two each in Tiruvarur and Pudukottai, and one in Perambalur district. Tiruchi also reported a marked increase in the number of patients who tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 879 patients tested positive for the infection in the district. In Thanjavur, a considerable fall in number of cases was reported, with 646 patients testing positive. Nagapattinam reported 322 fresh cases, while Tiruvarur recorded 310. Pudukottai reported 263 fresh cases. In Karur, there were 246 positive cases. Perambalur and Ariyalur continued to see an increasing number of cases with 206 and 149 patients testing positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3021-fresh-positive-cases-31-deaths/article34547089.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC bar owner murdered||Owner of a TASMAC liquor outlet bar was murdered by a four-member armed gang on Wednesday following suspected prior enmity. Police said T. Karuththapandi, 54, of Mayilapuram near Pettai, was running the bar nearby Thiruppanikarisalkulam. Karuththapandi used to offer prayers in the ‘puja’ room he had created in the bar even though the liquor outlets have been closed due to COVID-19 lockdown. When Karuththapandi was offering prayers in the puja room on Wednesday morning, four persons, who came to the bar on two bikes, hacked him. Even though he pushed them aside and ran out of the puja room, the armed gang hacked him to death in front of the bar. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, ASP, Cheranmahadevi, Pradeep, and team sent the body to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. After the goats of Karuththapandi’s relative were stolen recently, he reportedly played a pivotal role in the registration of case against four suspects, who might have murdered him, the police believe. Following preliminary inquiry, the police have picked up four persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-bar-owner-murdered/article34547067.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||From teacher to Speaker of T.N. Assembly||The Tirunelveli district, after giving three Speakers to the Tamil Nadu Assembly since 1962, has given the fourth one with Radhapuram MLA M. Appavu, 69, assuming office on Wednesday. After Chellapandian (1962–1967), P.H. Pandian (1985–1989) and R. Avudaiyappan (2006–2011), Mr. Appavu from the district has been handpicked for the coveted post. After serving in the Sacred Heart High School (now higher secondary school) at Kaavalkinaru, as mathematics and English teacher, Mr. Appavu voluntarily retired from teaching service in 1995 to enter politics in 1996. He was elected the MLA of Radhapuram Assembly segment as the candidate of G.K. Moopanar-led Tamil Maanila Congress. His political journey continued as MLA of the same segment with a hat-trick by him getting elected in 2001 and 2006 also. During his tenure as MLA between 2001 and 2006, Mr. Appavu’s aggressive approach put an end to sand mining in Nambiyar riverbed. Mr. Appavu’s sustained campaign for linking Tamirabharani–Karumaeniyar–Nambiyar rivers by digging 73 km-long flood carrier channel from Vellankuzhi near Cheranmahadevi in Tirunelveli district to M.L. Thaeri near Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district was approved by then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. This ambitious river-linking scheme, for which foundation stone was laid by Karunanidhi in 2007 to take the 13,758 mcft surplus water of Tamirabharani to the dry regions, was shelved indefinitely following change of guard in the Fort St. George after 2011. Then Mr. Appavu, after obtaining much-needed information through Right to Information Act, approached the High Court. After being rapped by the court, the then AIADMK government resumed the third and the fourth phases of the work. Though the legal battle over the 2016 election outcome in the SC agonised him a lot, Mr. Appavu, after winning the 2021 election , said: “I’m very much relieved as the Almighty has rendered justice to me… Now, I’m waiting for the Supreme Court’s verdict on the declaration of the result of recounting of votes polled in the Assembly election held in 2016.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-teacher-to-speaker-of-tn/article34546577.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Collector meets IPRC officials for oxygen||With the demand for oxygen to save the lives of patients battling with COVID-19 in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital is mounting every day, Collector V. Vishnu had a meeting with the top-brass of Indian Space Research Organisation’s Propulsion Research Complex (IPRC) at Mahendragiri on Wednesday to explore the possibilities of increasing the supply of the life-saving gas. As the IPRC has become a savior of the critically ill COVID-19 patients by supplying oxygen to the government medical college hospitals in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Aasaaripallam in Nagercoil, Mr. Vishnu met the officials of IPRC on Wednesday. The Collector reportedly discussed with the officials of IPRC on ensuring constant supply of oxygen to the TVMCH where more than 1,000 patients are undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi Pratik Tayal was present. Meanwhile, the Sterlite Copper’s oxygen plant, which started trial run on Wednesday, is expected to dispatch its first oxygen tanker before 9 a.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-meets-iprc-officials-for-oxygen/article34547062.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up district-level anti-corruption cells’||The Tirunelveli District Chamber of Commerce and Industry has appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to form district-level anti-corruption cells under his portfolio. Gunasingh Chelladurai, president, Tirunelveli District Chamber of Commerce and Industry, told The Hindu that corruption, which had been part of many government offices and the public sector undertakings owing to the rotten attitude of a few employees, should be wiped out for the benefit of people from all walks of life. The manufacturing sector, which had been hit hard over the past 10 years due to rampant corruption at all levels of the government departments, was struggling to achieve the predetermined growth owing to this menace. The delay in issue of permissions to manufacturing units for obvious reasons had seriously affected the growth and productivity of the industrial sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-district-level-anti-corruption-cells/article34547065.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Checks at doorsteps||The district administration has deployed teams to screen the people at their doorsteps. In a statement, Collector V. Vishnu said the district administration, as part of the anti-COVID-19 measure, has deployed the village health nurses, anganwadi workers and volunteers of women self-help groups to check the body temperature and the oxygen saturation level of the people having symptoms for the viral infection at their doorsteps. The team will also assist the individuals to reach the nearest government hospital for treatment. Hence, the people, who should not come out of their houses unnecessarily, should cooperate with the screening teams to prevent further spreading of COVID-19 in the district, Mr. Vishnu appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/checks-at-doorsteps/article34547066.ece
13 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen storage tank to come up at Ooty GH||An oxygen storage tank will become fully functional in the Government Headquarters Hospital here in the coming days. The six kilolitre storage tank will store liquid oxygen, which can be vaporised and used to treat patients requiring oxygen support. Speaking to The Hindu , Manohari Ramachandran, Dean-cum-Special Officer, Government Medical College and Hospital in Udhagamandalam, the Nilgiris, said that the installation of the oxygen storage tank had been commissioned last year, and will allow for more effective treatment of patients coming to the hospital for treatment, especially those undergoing hypoxia. “Currently, there are around 100 beds available at the government hospital in Udhagamandalam with oxygen support, as well as 20 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds,” added Dr. Manohari Ramachandran. The number of beds available in the district to treat patients is quickly filling up due to the increase in the number of cases, with patients also being referred to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, which has kept a few beds in reserve for patients from the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-storage-tank-to-come-up-at-ooty-gh/article34546964.ece
13 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Seal or demolish illegally functioning buildings’||Lawyer and environment activist “Elephant” G. Rajendran has urged the Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya to seal or demolish illegally-operating commercial buildings in the Nilgiris. In a letter, Mr. Rajendran stated that an “illegal” bar and lodge with two rooms was operating in Masinagudi in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). The building was constructed on Natham land with permission to operate only as a residence, and was later converted into a commercial one. “If it is on Natham or government poramboke land, it should be demolished,” he said. Mr. Rajendran also said another resort along Kalhatti Ghat Road was in violation of the Tamil Nadu Hill Areas (Preservation of Trees) Act of 1995. He also called for lock, seal and demolition of the illegal homestay of Mr. Mallan, whose two sons, one of whom is still absconding, threw the burning projectile at a wild elephant in MTR that led to its death. Mr. Rajendran contended that the building was built illegally along the elephant corridor. He also highlighted the illegal residential layouts in Ketti and as well as in Lamb’s Rock in Coonoor and appealed to the Collector to either seal the buildings or demolish them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seal-or-demolish-illegally-functioning-buildings/article34546600.ece
13 May 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT donates Rs. 1.25 cr. to CM’s fund||The Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) on Wednesday donated Rs. 1.25 crore to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (TNCMPRF) to help the State government in its efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. VIT founder and Chancellor G. Viswanathan said that the Rs. 1.25 crore provided to TNCMPRF comes from the one-day salary donated by faculty and staff of VIT (Vellore and Chennai campuses) and the contribution made by the management of the institution. “VIT will provide all necessary help and support to the State government in its fight against COVID-19 pandemic,” said Mr. Viswanathan. VIT Registrar K. Sathiyanarayanan and C.R. Sundara Rajan, director, Centre for Sustainable Rural Development and Research Studies (CSRD), handed over the online transfer receipt for VIT's contribution to the Vellore District Revenue Officer on Wednesday. The State government has already set up a 1,000-bed COVID-19 care facility on the VIT Vellore campus to treat COVID-19 patients with Siddha medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-donates-rs-125-cr-to-cms-fund/article34546947.ece
13 May 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||DCPUs, NGOs pitch in to help children||The District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) in charge of Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur will be starting awareness campaigns to educate people to contact Childline 1098 if they come across children who have been orphaned due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the DCPU and NGOs in the three districts have been giving psycho-social counselling to children whose parents have tested positive for the infection. “People can contact the DCPU and Child Line 1098 to provide information about children who have lost their parents to COVID-19. The children will be given care and support by the DCPU," said an official from Vellore. He said that the children who do not have any guardians would be accomodated in government homes and provided with food, shelter and education. “We are trying to identify children who have lost both their parents by working closely with the district health department officials. But till date we have not come across any. However, we will be educating people in the 744 villages under our DCPU on what to do if they come across such children," said another official. The DCPU has been identifying vulnerable families, where parents have tested COVID-19 positive, with the help of Village-level Child Protection Committees and rendering all needed help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dcpus-ngos-pitch-in-to-help-children/article34546943.ece
13 May 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals assured of oxygen supply||After few hospitals in the district raised concern over continuous supply of medical oxygen, Virudhunagar district administration has given assurance of uninterrupted supply. Doctors raked up the issue that they would soon run out of oxygen stock as they were told that fresh supply was unlikely to come by Sunday. “Doubts over replacement of oxygen cylinders was in the air till noon. However, we have got as many as 28 cylinders by afternoon and the pressure on hospitals has eased out,” said Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan. He said that the oxygen supply was being closely monitored and efforts were on to get it through new sources too. Meanwhile, the district health officials have been promised of oxygen from Thoothukudi as Sterlite Copper Plant has started production of oxygen. The daily requirement of oxygen for Virudhunagar district is over 80 cylinders. “We are getting fresh stocks on Thursday morning also,” Mr. Kannan said. Hospitals and patients need not panic over oxygen supply. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar MP, B. Manickam Tagore, said that Madurai and Virudhunagar districts were highly affected by the COVID pandemic and oxygen requirement was inevitable. Stating that the districts had urgent need for supply of oxygen, he appealed to Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, to deploy aircraft of Indian Air Force and Air India for airlifting oxygen. Meanwhile, Ministers for Revenue and Disaster Manager, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, and Minister for Industries, Thangam Thennarasu, would inspect the medical facilities for COVID treatment in Virudhunagar, on Thursday. Besides, they would review the preparations and facilities for COVID treatment with officials.  Three deaths The district on Wednesday registered three COVID-19-related deaths. The victims – all male, aged between 47 and 61 – died at different hospitals since May 9. With this, the death toll in the district rose to 269.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-assured-of-oxygen-supply/article34547069.ece
13 May 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Avoid greeting us: Ministers||Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, and Minister for Industries, Thangam Thennarasu, have appealed to Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam cadres not to gather in large numbers to greet them on their maiden visit to Virudhunagar district after assuming office as Ministers. In a joint statement issued on Wednesday, the Ministers said that Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin, imposed lockdown till May 24. Stating that gathering of large number of cadres to greet them will amount to violation of lockdown norms, the Ministers wanted them to avoid meeting them till lifting of restrictions for lockdown is announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avoid-greeting-us-ministers/article34547068.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||2,636 new cases, 18 more deaths in Coimbatore||A total of 2,636 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said the district had 15,178 active cases and 1,766 persons recovered from the disease on Wednesday. The department declared the death of 18 persons, between May 5 and 11, due to COVID-19 in the district. Of these, 10 were reported in private hospitals. The district’s death toll stood at 811 on Wednesday. Tiruppur district reported 647 new cases. As on Wednesday, the district had 4,314 active cases. The toll rose to 264 with the death of three persons. A total of 250 persons recovered from the disease on Wednesday. In the Nilgiris, 186 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The total number of cases so far in the district is 11,475. The toll touched 58, with the death of two more persons. The number of active cases is 983. Erode reported 961 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 29,346. While 566 persons were discharged, 4,815 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 179. Salem saw 664 fresh cases that took the district’s overall tally to 48,596. While 307 persons were discharged, 3,825 persons continue to be under treatment. Ten persons died, raising the toll to 632. Namakkal had 354 cases on Wednesday, which raised the district’s tally to 19,923. While 300 persons were discharged, 2,116 persons continue to be under treatment. Six persons died, raising the toll to 145. Krishnagiri recorded 497 fresh cases on a single day and one death.. The total number of cases in the district stood at 3,728 cases as of Wednesday. A total of 20,235 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 200 fresh cases, and one death. The total number of cases in the district was 1,679. As of date, a total 12,284 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2636-new-cases-18-more-deaths-in-coimbatore/article34546958.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lengthening queues for anti-viral drug in Tiruchi spark concern||Since the daily sale of Remdesivir through a counter has been capped at 300 vials by Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, those attending to COVID-19 patients find themselves in a compulsive situation of queuing up for lengthy durations spanning even two days for the anti-viral drug. TNMSC opened a counter at Government College of Physiotherapy opposite the District Collectorate here on Saturday. While the initiative was supposed to control the sale of the medicine in black market, the restricted sale has apparently led to panic buying. The counter has provision for two queues, one for tokens and another for purchase of the drug. Both queues are getting lengthier every passing day. “We have been standing for two days. We are helpless and require the medicine for the treatment of my father,” an attendant said. People from neighbouring districts, even as far as Nagapattinam, have travelled to Tiruchi despite the lockdown to purchase Remdesivir. Desperate to get it, they choose to remain in the queue. Manoj Dharmar, an activist in the city who also stood in line on Wednesday apprehends that the counter itself can become a hotspot for spread of the viral infection. “These are primary contacts of patients who have already tested positive. It is risky," he pointed out. Further, a large number of women have queued up, and there are no toilet or restroom facilities for them, he added. Mr. Manoj suggests that the people can be made to wait on the campus which has a large ground. “They are forced to sit by a drainage pipeline through the night. Opening up the ground will help them rest for a while. A doctor in the city posted to the COVID-19 ward echoes Mr. Dharmar's thoughts. He says the State government can distribute the medicine to hospitals directly, or allow them to book the tokens for the drug online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lengthening-queues-for-anti-viral-drug-in-tiruchi-spark-concern/article34547087.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Update bed availability data’||Collector S. Divyadharshini on Wednesday instructed private hospitals in Tiruchi to update bed availability data twice a day for the convenience of needy patients. Presiding a meeting with health authorities, she said though private hospitals had been asked to allot 50% of their capacity to treat COVID-19 patients, they could allot more beds. The hospitals should have the requisite infrastructure to provide quality treatment to patients. The Collector said it was important for the hospitals to update information on number of beds and availability of oxygen-supported beds twice a day. The State government had launched a portal for the general public to know real-time information on bed availability. Health authorities must make sure that the hospitals follow the instructions, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/update-bed-availability-data/article34547096.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Exclusive Siddha care centre sanctioned by State govt.||The State government has sanctioned an exclusive Siddha Care Centre for treating COVID-19 patients in Tiruchi district. It will come up on the city campus of Bharathidasan University at Khajamalai with 150 beds and all essential facilities. District Siddha Medical Officer Kamaraj toldThe Hinduthat measures were in place to treat the patients. The centre would start functioning in a day or two and a team of Siddha and Ayurvedic doctors had been deputed. The Siddha and Ayurvedic doctors would visit the COVID care centres at Government College of Engineering at Sethurapatti, Yatri Nivas in Srirangam and Nehru Memorial College at Puthanampati daily. Exercises to be taught Besides ensuring that the patients consumed herbal medicines, the doctors would initiate them into simple exercises to improve their health. Dr. Kamaraj said similar exclusive Sidhha Care Centres would be launched shortly in Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur to treat COVID-19 patients. Locations had already been identified, he said. Pitch for homeopathy The All India Students Federation (AISF), Thanjavur district unit, has called upon the State government to include homeopathy treatment for handling COVID-19. Welcoming the State government’s decision to open naturopathy centres in the districts to provide treatment to COVID-19 patients, AISF Thanajvur district president Sudhanthira Bharathi said in a statement that homeopathy treatment proved effective during the first wave of the pandemic. Homeopathy counselling must be extended at naturopathy centres to be set up in the districts, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exclusive-siddha-care-centre-sanctioned-by-state-govt/article34547098.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Motorcycles for SIs to spread awareness||The State government has provided new motorcycles, barricades, baton lights and other items for use by police personnel in the district. A total of 22 motorcycles have been provided to Sub Inspectors of Police to create COVID-19 related awareness campaigns and for carrying out patrolling to check crimes, according to a press release. Other aids Reflecting jackets, traffic equipment and solar sign boards have also been provided to the district police personnel. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, Annie Vijaya handed over the keys of the new motorcycles to the Sub-Inspectors at District Armed Reserve Ground on Tuesday in the presence of Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan and senior police officers, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/motorcycles-for-sis-to-spread-awareness/article34547099.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Many child marriages thwarted’||The District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) has thwarted around a dozen child marriages in Tiruvarur over the last four months. Most of the child marriages were well-planned and were stopped at the eleventh hour. The families involved were warned about the punishment under law: imprisonment for two years and a fine of Rs. 1 lakh, under the Child Marriages Prevention Act, 2006, officials said. The Act provides for punishment of all those involved in the marriage of less than 18-year-old bride or less than 21-year-old bridegroom. They include parents of bride/bridegroom, relatives, participants, printing press owner, solemnising priest, marriage hall owner and bride and bridegroom. The rescued minor girls have been lodged in homes run by government and private entities. On its part, DCPU has requested social service workers/organisations and the public to promptly pass on information about child marriages over tollfree phone number 1098/100 or mobile numbers 97505-70683 or 93455-60539.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-child-marriages-thwarted/article34547083.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects oxygen unit||Minister for Law S. Regupathy on Wednesday said the State government was acting in full swing to protect the people from COVID-19. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the oxygen storage unit at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital, he said people could protect themselves from the second wave of COVID-19 by remaining vigilant and cautious. A total number of 667 COVID-19 patients were undergoing treatment at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. Necessary oxygen stock for COVID-19 patients was available at the hospital till Thursday, he said adding that additional supply of oxygen would definitely be obtained. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and health and revenue department officials accompanied the Minister, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-oxygen-unit/article34547090.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||COIMBATORE   Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on alcohol use disorder, 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article34546951.ece
13 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||DCC Bank planning to set up two oxygen plants in Belagavi||The District Central Cooperative (DCC) Bank plans to set up two oxygen generation plants in Belagavi district. The bank’s board has agreed in-principle to set up the two units, one near Belagavi and the other near Chikkodi. But details are still being worked out, DCCB chairman Ramesh Katti said. “The bank is studying various proposals submitted by agencies to set up such plants. We will finalise a project that can be set up in the shortest time,” he told The Hindu on Tuesday. The bank officials are reading proposals and meeting technology providers. However, “we have a few unanswered questions, about expenses and the time line,” he said. According to him, the three technical support groups that the bank has contacted have said that they will require six months to set up such plants. “We have asked experts from Gujarat, Bengaluru and Chennai to see if the time line could be further reduced,” he said. “An entrepreneur from Mumbai has told us of the possibility of setting up captive plants on hospital premises. That can be done in 10 weeks, but the cost of production is higher compared to standalone plants,” Mr. Katti said. “We are also exploring various options such as financing sugar factories that are willing to convert their plants into oxygen manufacturing units. We have given loans to 21 of the 25 factories in the district till now. But they are reluctant to set up oxygen plants as it calls for some investment and there is no guarantee of the demand for oxygen continuing after six months,’’ the chairman said. “We are asking sugar factories to start production of medical oxygen now and later diversify into production of industrial oxygen, if the demand falls. But the response is not encouraging,’’ he said. He noted that some sugar factories in Belagavi were filling around 40-50 cylinders per day. “This falls short of our demand. Also, this cannot be scaled up,’’ Mr. Katti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dcc-bank-planning-to-set-up-two-oxygen-plants-in-belagavi/article34546582.ece
13 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Prakash Deshpande, journalist, dead||Prakash Deshpande, senior journalist and Kannada writer, died of COVID-19-related complications in Hukkeri of Belagavi district on Wednesday. He was 70. He served as a stringer and correspondent for various Kannada and English newspapers. He served as chairman of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat in Hukkeri. He organised some Kannada Sahitya Sammelan conferences and acted as a bridge between Kannada and Marathi communities in this border district. His interview with Indira Gandhi during her visit to the State after the Emergency was widely read. He had brought out a poetry collection and a book on his experiences as a journalist covering rural areas. He is survived by his wife and two children. Mangala Metgud, district president of the Sahitya Parishat, has mourned the death of Prakash Deshpande.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prakash-deshpande-journalist-dead/article34546585.ece
13 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BLDE deemed to be university V-C dead||Mallanagouda S. Biradar, Vice-Chancellor of the Vijayapura-based BLDE deemed to be university, died of COVID-19-related complications in a private hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Dr. Biradar was recovering from COVID-19 when he suffered a heart attack at his house. He was airlifted to Bengaluru two days ago. But he suffered another heart attack before admission. He had served the BLDE University for over 30 years as an educator and administrator. Hailing from a farming family, he studied MBBS in the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, and MD from VIMS Ballari. He served as a government medical officer in Ballari for a few years before joining B.M. Patil Medical College. He served as principal of the college before taking charge as the Vice-Chancellor in 2016. He was seen as a doctor with a humane touch and a teacher loved by his students, said M.B. Patil, chairman of BLDE Society. Thousands of his students are spread across the world. They have lost a mentor and the society has lost a great well-wisher and administrator, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blde-deemed-to-be-university-v-c-dead/article34546584.ece
13 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Anand Savadi passes away||Anand Parappa Savadi, nephew of Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, died of COVID-19-related complications in Belagavi on Wednesday. He was 45. He was admitted to the Lake View Hospital in Belagavi. The last rites will be performed in his native village of Naganur PK near Athani. He was a businessman and active in the field of cooperation. His father, Parappa Ajja, is the brother of Mr. Laxman Savadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anand-savadi-passes-away/article34546583.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No need of ID proof at Indira Canteen||When 60-year-old Thimmappa visited an Indira Canteen in Gandhinagar on Wednesday, he was not surprised to see others already in line availing of the free food that will be served to beneficiaries till May 24. But despite waiting for several minutes, he realised that the line was moving very slowly. This was because the food packets were being given away to beneficiaries only after marshals posted at the canteen had noted down their Aadhaar number and phone number. This was the scene across the 174 static Indira Canteens in the city. In some canteens, the staff were also taking photographs of beneficiaries with the food packets. Kamakshi, 58, who rolls agarbathis at her house in Nagammanagar in K.P. Agrahara objected to her photograph being taken. “I would have cooked a chicken meal for myself if the lockdown was not in place and I could roll agarbathis and earn a living. “I will pay for my meal, but will not allow my photo to be taken,” she said. Several activists working with the urban poor criticised the BBMP’s insistence on geo-tagging photographs, noting down their Aadhaar and phone numbers. BBMP intervenes Later in the day, BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta clarified that identification proof from the beneficiaries need not be collected. According to a senior official, the decision to maintain a register to record the beneficiaries’ names, number of packets given, contact numbers, identification proof was taken at a meeting with the three contractors providing food to the Indira Canteens on May 10. The meeting proceedings, a copy of which is with The Hindu , note that while an identity card was not compulsory, in the interest of accountability, service providers were advised to collect as many identity card details as possible. Service providers were also directed to maintain a record of geo-stamped photos of the beneficiaries and submit the same for auditing, prior to payment. Vinay Sreenivasa, an advocate, termed this as an affront to the dignity of beneficiaries. “The curfew and the lockdown have caused untold hardship to the urban poor. The High Court had to intervene for the State government to decide to provide free food to the needy through the Indira Canteens. For the sake of auditing, the civic body cannot take away the dignity of citizens,” he said. Lack of staff Rajesh, one of the volunteers who helped out at an Indira Canteen, pointed out another problem – lack of staff in the canteens to pack the food dispatched from central kitchens. “In some canteens, there were just two staff members. Most of the beneficiaries are old and infirm, who are not able to stand in queue for long,” he said. A senior official admitted that this was an issue in some canteens. “We held a review meeting, and service providers have been directed to depute additional staff to pack food,” he said. The civic body is also identifying slums and pockets where those belonging to lower socio-economic groups reside that are not close to any canteen. “On Wednesday, food packets were sent to three slums,” the official said, and added that BBMP aims to distribute three lakh packets per day -- one lakh each at every mealtime. Problems were also faced in other parts of the State. In Kalaburagi, contractors in all the seven Indira canteens were allegedly charging Rs. 10 for each meal and Rs. 5 for breakfast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-need-of-id-proof-at-indira-canteen/article34546512.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Experts asked to study cases of ‘black fungus’ and submit report||With an increasing number of ‘black fungus’ or mucormycosis cases being reported in the State, the Health Department has now asked experts to study the incidences and submit a detailed report. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said on Wednesday that the State will chalk out modalities on including this complication in the State’s free treatment protocols based on the experts’ report. “I discussed this with members of our Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Tuesday and asked them to submit a detailed report within the next two-three days,” he said. A rare but serious fungal infection, mucormycosis or ‘black fungus’ is being frequently reported as a post-COVID-19 complication among patients in some States. The disease often manifests in the skin and also affects the lungs and the brain. Most patients cannot afford the cost of treatment which runs into lakhs of rupees. While treatment has been made free of cost in Maharashtra, Karnataka is yet to consider it. City-based doctors said they are seeing several cases of ‘black fungus’. At the State-run Bangalore Medical College and Research Centre, eight cases were reported last September of which six died. “We have seen seven cases in the last one week alone. This is a post-COVID-19 infection seen in immunocompromised patients. As the ENT department in BMCRI is closed with the entire Victoria Hospital being converted into a COVID-19 facility, we do not have a separate ward or facility where we can treat these patients. I have asked the Head of the Department of ENT to provide us staff and space for treating black fungus cases,” said B.L. Sujatha Rathod, director of Minto Ophthalmic Hospital. “Treating this post-COVID-19 complication requires a multi-disciplinary approach and we are in the process of involving specialists from other departments,” she pointed out. C.N. Manjunath, member of the State’s expert committee, said the complication is associated with indiscriminate use of steroids. “Doctors should prescribe steroids judiciously and not for those with mild symptoms. Fungal infections are common in those with diabetes, Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD), Cancer and HIV, where immunity is compromised,” the doctor said. ENT specialist Deepak Haldipur, who heads the Department of Special Treatment of Mucormycosis at Trust Well Hospital, said he had seen over 65 cases in the last two weeks. “Over 15 patients, who came in an advanced stage, have also undergone surgeries here,” he said. Pointing out that the complication is mainly seen in COVID-19 patients with diabetes, Dr. Haldipur said the immunocompromised condition in such patients is conducive for the fungal growth. “Treatment is expensive and usually runs into lakhs. I have learnt that treatment has been made free in Maharashtra and there is a need for a similar approach in our State too,” he said. He added that the infection can also occur in some oxygen-dependent patients if hygiene and proper protocols are not followed while using the nasal mask and oxygen concentrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/experts-asked-to-study-cases-of-black-fungus-and-submit-report/article34546519.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Only 40k vaccine doses left’||A day after Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa assured citizens that they there was no reason to panic or fear about a shortage of supply, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta admitted on Wednesday that the civic body had only 40,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines in stock, which would be exhausted by the end of the day. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the central vaccine storage facility at Dasappa Hospital, Mr. Gupta said that though there was ample storage facility, both at Dasappa Hospital and the various Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs), there was not enough stock available with the civic body. “The 40,000 doses that we currently have will be distributed to the various UPHCs. We are likely to receive vaccines [for Thursday] later in the evening. This ‘just in time’ supply of vaccines is being made by the State government,” he said. Since May 1, the government has been allotting vaccines only to the BBMP’s referral hospitals and UPHCs while private medical establishments have been directed to directly procure vaccines from pharmaceutical companies. This has had a huge impact on the number of vaccinations in the city. On April 30, as many as 38,515 people were vaccinated in the city, but the number dropped by more than half to 18,116 on May 1. On May 2, 5,353 persons were vaccinated and on May 3, the number was 9,039. While the numbers were above 30,000 a day from May 5 to 8, vaccinations nosedived to 10,674 on May 9 and 15,179 on May 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-40k-vaccine-doses-left/article34546515.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State registers 39,998 new infections, 517 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 39,998 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 20,53,191. Of these, 16,286 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. With 517 deaths, the toll rose to 20,368. This is apart from 20 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 34,752 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 14,40,621. The State now has 5,92,182 active patients. CFR While the positivity rate for the day stood at 29.67%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.29%. As many as 1,34,792 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,24,232 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,73,93,360.  Meanwhile, on the third day after vaccination for the 18-44 age group began, 70,371 beneficiaries took the jab till 3.30 p.m. With the State running out of vaccine, most vaccination centres had put up “no vaccine stock” boards for 45 years and above who came to take first dose. Many, who had done prior registration too returned without taking the jab. So far, the State has administered 1,08,82,080 doses till 3.30 p.m. on Wednesday. This includes 70,371 in the age group of 18-44 years, 6,94,486 healthcare workers and 4,74,328 frontline workers who have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 4,53, 939 healthcare workers and 1,86,452 frontline workers have taken the second dose as well. On Tuesday, a total of 88,437 beneficiaries took the jab till 3.30 p.m. Vaccination for disabled Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, has written to all Deputy Commissioners and BBMP Special Commissioner to make special arrangements at the vaccination centres to vaccinate physically challenged beneficiaries. Asking the district officials to submit a list of eligible physically challenged beneficiaries to the health department, the NHM MD said in the letter that staff at the vaccination centres should ensure such beneficiaries are not made to wait in queues. Officials can involve NGOs to provide transport facility, if required, for such beneficences, the letter added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-registers-39998-new-infections-517-deaths/article34546521.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doreswamy beats COVID-19||Centenarian freedom fighter and citizen activist H.S. Doreswamy, who was hospitalised after being diagnosed with COVID-19 a week ago, was discharged on Wednesday. “COVID-19 is no demon to be afraid of. If you receive proper and timely medical guidance and care, it can be won over easily. I am a good example of that,” Mr. Doreswamy told The Hindu from his home on Wednesday. While he was lucky to have received timely medical care, he said he feels sad and angry at the chaos the society has been pushed into “by ill-prepared and inefficient governments across the country during the second wave”. “Scientific advice seems to have been given a go-by landing us in this helpless situation. The government is responsible for a lot of deaths during this second wave,” he said. Dr. C.N. Manjunath, Director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who treated him, said Mr. Doreswamy, with a history of cardiac issues, was admitted to the hospital, complaining of fatigue, cough and fever, and later tested positive for COVID-19. “He experienced fever and fatigue for a few days. His oxygen saturation never dipped and luckily he did not develop any complications. He was discharged on Wednesday in a stable state and is advised rest and a follow-up five days later,” he said. ‘Never anxious’ The centenarian’s calm mind, cool and composed manner has had a healing effect and aided his recovery, Dr. Manjunath said. “He was never anxious nor showed any apprehensions. He had the self-confidence that he would win this and that helped a lot, something other patients must try to emulate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doreswamy-beats-covid-19/article34546531.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wait could stretch for months||Karnataka, which has placed orders for three crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines, may have to wait for months before the supply could be completed. In the light of the delay, available doses will be given to those aged above 45 years who are due for the second dose. Acknowledging the delay, Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar indicated to reporters on Wednesday, “I cannot say how many days it will take. It may even take months.” Karnataka was not sure about the procurement of Russian vaccine Sputnik, and has sought clarification from the Centre if it can be procured, he added. He said of the total 3 crore doses that the State has ordered, just about 7 lakh have so far arrived. “The vaccine allotment for the first 15 days of the month is 13 lakh Covishield and one lakh Covaxin doses. However, we have received 7 lakh doses of Covishield and 80,000 doses of Covaxin,” he said. The State has placed orders for two crore doses of Covishield and one crore doses of Covaxin. Projecting the need of Karnataka to be about 6.5 crore doses, he said that the State had received about one crore doses since vaccination commenced four months ago. He said that it was now up to vaccine manufacturers to sustain supply. Mr. Ravikumar also said that if the number of vaccine suppliers increase in the country, the State, which has decided to import vaccines, will have more options. As the State prepares to float a global tender, the Chief Secretary was not sure of the response since several countries had banned export of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wait-could-stretch-for-months/article34546510.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With markets closed, farmers are dumping flowers||Bharath T., an engineering diploma holder who quit his job to become a floriculturist, has been turning away labourers coming to his farm in J. Venkatapura, Vijayapura, near Devanahalli, to harvest marigold flowers. The yellow flowers are in full bloom on four acres while buds in the remaining four acres will bloom in the next fortnight or so. But, with no takers for flowers, he is not sure if he can even afford to harvest the flowers this time. “I pledged my mother’s gold jewellery to raise money for the saplings and fertilisers. I even bought tankers to water the farm. I will not be able to recover the investment,” he rued. The city’s sole flower market in K.R. Market has remained closed since the government announced a curfew a few weeks ago. With flower vendors forced to do business outside the market for just a few hours, it has had a direct effect on floriculturists like Mr. Bharath. With no buyers, many floriculturists have resorted to dumping their produce by the roadside. Govinda Y.D., a floriculturist from Gerahalli in Chikkaballapura, told The Hindu that chrysanthemum (sevantige) that normally yields Rs. 100 a kilo was being sold for Rs. 20 a kilo. “It is not even worth hiring labourers to harvest the flowers. Best option is to let it rot and become manure,” he said caustically. Apart from chrysanthemum, he has also invested nearly Rs. 3 lakh on growing rose plants on one acre. “I am not sure what to do with the roses,” he said. Many floriculturists are in dire straits, says G.M. Divakar, president of the K.R. Market Flower Merchants’ Association. Just 10% of the flowers that used to come to the bustling K.R. Market are coming to the city now. “We used to get a variety of cut flowers, different varieties of roses, tuberose (sugandaraja), firecracker flower (kanakambara), jasmine, kakada, marigold (chandu hoova) and chrysanthemum (sevantige) from several areas surrounding the city, such as Kanakapura, Malur, Chikkaballapur, Doddaballapur, Anekal, Hoskote, Devanahalli. Now, floriculturists are not sending flowers,” he said. The 140 shops selling flowers inside the historical market have been closed. “Alternate arrangements were made for vegetable and fruit vendors, but not us. Vending from the road is unsafe and we are not able to ensure people maintain social distance,” he admitted. He sought to know why farmers and floriculturists were not a priority for the government. “The government allowed wine shops since revenue from them is certain. Farmers’ plight is being ignored,” he said. With the Karnataka government announcing a complete lockdown from May 10 to 24, the floriculturists are unsure of what to do with their produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-markets-closed-farmers-are-dumping-flowers/article34546518.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||33-year-old woman dies outside MIMS waiting for bed||Despite crossing districts in search for COVID-19 care, a 33-year-old resident of Tumakuru breathed her last on the footpath in front of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) late on Tuesday night waiting for a bed. Her oxygen saturation had dropped to 40 and the ambulance that carried her from Tumakuru to Mandya allegedly abandoned her in front of MIMS, disconnecting the oxygen supply. The woman, Sumaiya Siddiqa, lost her husband four years ago. Her three children, aged eight, seven, and five, are now with their maternal aunt in Mandya. Recounting the family’s search for a bed, her elder brother, Mohammed Ismail, told The Hindu that the family had asked her neighbours in Tumakuru to arrange for an ambulance and send her to Mandya as she did not have anyone to take care of her there after she tested positive. “The neighbours were helpful and brought her to Mandya. We first took her to MIMS as she urgently needed an ICU bed. But the hospital did not have any beds and the ambulance driver refused to continue the booking. We arranged for another ambulance by paying Rs. 7,000 and took her to the government hospital in Channapatna but were forced to return back to MIMS as there were no beds in Channapatna too,” he said, stating that they made her lie down in front of the emergency at MIMS waiting for a bed. Meanwhile, members of the Emergency Response Team (ERT), a volunteer group, who were following up the case, intervened and spoke to MIMS RMO Ravindra B. Gowda. “He told us that they had no oxygen or ICU beds available. We tried our best to arrange for oxygen but that was also not possible. Subsequently, although a doctor from MIMS came out and administered an IV injection, her condition had worsened by then and her saturation had dropped to 30. She died within half an hour after that around 10.30 p.m.,” said Tabraiz Amman, a volunteer from ERT. Dr. Gowda said there was no record in the hospital to show that the woman was brought to MIMS. “Maybe she was brought to the hospital and when the attenders were informed about non-availibility of beds, they may have taken her to any other hospital. However, all the 303 oxygenated beds including 30 ICU ventilator beds were full on Tuesday and there was no way we could take in any patient,” he said. “We also have a SARI ward with 150 beds and that was also full. We usually try to accommodate critical patients in other empanelled hospitals if our wards are full but are helpless if there are no beds available anywhere. If the woman was brought here we would have followed a simialr procedure,” the doctor added.  We took her to MIMS, but it did not have any beds and the ambulance driver refused to continue the booking. We arranged another ambulance and took her to the government hospital in Channapatna but were forced to return to MIMS. Mohammed Ismail, Victim’s elder brother||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/33-year-old-woman-dies-outside-mims-waiting-for-bed/article34546522.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prepare action plan to face third wave, HC tells State||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to prepare an action plan and vision statement to face the possible third wave of COVID-19 and consider having an audit on use of Remdesivir injection by hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients. A Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the directions during the hearing of PIL petitions on issues related to COVID-19. Beds The Bench issued the directions after noticing that there are only 45,754 oxygenated beds, 5,305 ICU beds, and 4,109 ICU with ventilator beds across the State as against the projected requirement of 66,333 oxygenated beds, 13,969 ICU beds and ICU with ventilator as per the formula prescribed by the Union government based on the active number of COVID-19 cases in the State. As it was alleged on behalf of some of the petitioners that hospitals were using Remdesivir injection indiscriminately though many COVID-19 patients did not require the injection, the Bench directed the government to seriously consider conducting an audit on use of this injection by hospitals. Earlier, it was pointed out to the court that the guideline of the Central government puts restriction on use of this injection and the World Health Organisation too had expressed its reservation on its use. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the State government to explain why the health facility created by the Indian Air Force in Bengaluru, and railway coaches readied for treating COVID-19 patients were not made use of by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prepare-action-plan-to-face-third-wave-hc-tells-state/article34546533.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress stages protest against govt. ‘failures’||Karnataka Congress leaders on Wednesday staged a protest in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue at the State Secretariat alleging that the BJP government in the State had failed in management of COVID-19 pandemic. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and several other legislators and party leaders participated in the protest and shouted slogans against the State and Central governments for their alleged failure in handling of the pandemic. The party alleged that the BJP government in the State had not been able to allot beds for infected patients and many people had died owing to shortage of ventilators, ICU beds, and oxygen supply. The Congress leaders demanded a financial package for providing compensation for the poor who were affected mostly by the pandemic and lockdown imposed by the government. The Congress has been demanding crediting of Rs. 10,000 each in the bank accounts of the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-stages-protest-against-govt-failures/article34546536.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: No proper facilities for pregnant women, children||Pregnant women and new mothers who have contracted COVID-19, especially those from lower income groups, are finding it difficult to get adequate care. Two pregnant women, one with a 11-month-old toddler, all of whom are COVID-19 positive and asymptomatic, struggled to find a facility where they could isolate themselves. They were admitted in a hospital for three days, but the staff wanted to discharge them as they were asymptomatic. The trio belong to the waste-picker community and are residents of Vinayaka Badavane community area, T.C. Palya, near K.R. Puram, where isolating themselves is difficult. Hasiru Dala, an organisation that works with the waste-picker community, tried to help them by checking if they could be admitted in COVID-19 Care centres (CCCs). However, they were told that since pregnancy is considered to be a co-morbidity, the women could not be admitted in CCCs. A volunteer with Whitefield Rising, who coordinated with Hasiru Dala, said “Where could these two women and the toddler go? The lockdown has severely depleted their earnings, and they cannot afford private rooms in hotels.” After a lot of effort, the women and the toddler have now been admitted to a private hospital. These cases have highlighted the need for separate facilities for women and children who have tested positive for COVID-19. Gosha Hospital in Shivajinagar has been directed to take in COVID-19 positive pregnant women at least two weeks prior to delivery. Lakshmi Karunakaran, programme director, Hasiru Dala, told The Hindu that there is a lot of confusion on handling such cases. “There are no specific guidelines for such cases, especially women and children from the under privileged communities. The CCCs are not equipped to take care of pregnant women and children,” she said. BBMP’s Chief Health Officer (Clinical) Nirmala Buggi said that the civic body was aware of the issues faced by pregnant women and was coordinating with officials of the Karnataka government. The BBMP had, in fact, identified three maternity hospitals in Austin Town, Gavipuram Guttahalli and Moodalapalya that could be converted to step-down hospitals for COVID-19 positive pregnant women. The proposal is awaiting approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-no-proper-facilities-for-pregnant-women-children/article34546513.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No decision yet on putting off SSLC exam’||The government has decided to monitor the COVID-19 situation before taking a decision on whether to postpone the SSLC examination, which is slated to be held between June 21 and July 5. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar held a videoconference with department officials on Wednesday. “We decided not to take any decision at the time being and will take a final call on this in about 15 days as we are expecting the cases to decline,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-decision-yet-on-putting-off-sslc-exam/article34546542.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||9 projects with Rs. 13,487 cr. investment cleared||The State government on Wednesday approved nine projects with a total investment of Rs. 13,487 crore. The approval came at the State High-Level Clearance Committee chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa here on Wednesday. The investments are expected to generate employment opportunities to 6,256 people. A release said that of the total investment proposal cleared on Wednesday, Rs. 13,174 crore pertains to fresh investments while Rs. 312 crore investment comes as additional investment in Vijayapura-based Mylar Sugar. Integrated township Among new investments approved are a Rs. 4,042-crore integrated township at Yelahanka being developed by Rasasri Tech Park Ltd.; a Rs. 2,527-crore glass and glass products manufacturing plant on 300 acres at MSEZ in Mangaluru by Gold Plus Glass Industry; Rs. 2,000-crore data centre services on 10 acres at Bidadi by NxtGen Datacenter and Cloud Technologies Ltd., and Rs. 1,000 -crore cutting tools plant on 40 acres at Chickballapur by YG Cutting Tools Corporation. Other investments include Rs. 892 crore to produce liquid oxygen, gaseous oxygen, liquid nitrogen, gaseous nitrogen, and liquid argon on an area of 8.27 acre in Ballari district by JSW Techno Projects Management Ltd. An investment proposal by public sector Indian Oil Corporation to set up a plant for storage and despatch of petroleum products on an area of 130 acres in Chitradurga district at a cost of Rs. 555 crore was also cleared. Besides these, a Rs. 731-crore paint factory on 102 acres in Chamarajanagar district being set up by Grasim Industries, Rs. 825-crore solar photovoltaic module manufacturing unit at Dobbspet by Emmvee Photovoltaic Power, and a Rs. 600-crore clinker grinding and cement bagging plant on 70 acres at Doddaballapur by Shree Cements were approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/9-projects-with-rs-13487-cr-investment-cleared/article34546539.ece
13 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Suspension of around 2,400 employees revoked: RTCs tells HC||The four road transport corporations (RTCs) in the State on Wednesday told the High Court of Karnataka that they had revoked suspension of around 2,400 employees of the about 2,760 suspended for their alleged illegal activities linked to participation in a strike during April this year. Details of revoking of suspension was submitted before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj during the hearing on PIL petitions related to a strike call given by the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees’ League. The proceedings of the meeting indicated that representatives of the league had agreed not to demand for implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission recommendation in view of financial situation of the corporations due to COVID-19 scenario. The RTCs also said that they had not withdrawn suspension of those employees who were facing criminal cases in relation to violence related to strike, forcing employees from attending to work, etc. When the counsel for the league raised objection to the claim related to demand on the Sixth PayCommission, the court asked the counsel to make submission after going through the documents submitted on behalf of the RTCs. Further hearing was adjourned till May 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suspension-of-around-2400-employees-revoked-rtcs-tells-hc/article34546534.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. allows MGNREGA works during lockdown||Following criticismover stopping of works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MGNREGA) scheme, the State government allowed such works in rural areas with COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to a maximum of 40 workers at any location. The order allowing these works came on Wednesday by the Principal Secretary, Revenue, N. Manjunath Prasad. Stopping of the works had affected about one lakh households in rural areas. Earlier, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa in Shivamogga had indicated that discussions had commenced whether to restart the works or not. He said that the number of people coming for work had seen an increase. “Where earlier 200 people would come to work, there are about 500 people. In that background, some people asked the works to be stopped,” he said. He said: “If works have to be stopped, how to deal with the supply of food.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-allows-mgnrega-works-during-lockdown/article34546537.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six booked||The J.B. Nagar police have registered an FIR against six employees of Manipal Hospital for negligence, which led to the death of a COVID-19 patient. In his complaint, nodal officer Ravindra Kumar stated that a patient was referred to the hospital by the BBMP on April 29. “After providing treatment, the hospital discharged the patient the next day,” Mr. Kumar stated. She succumbed two days later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-booked/article34546516.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||K.V.R. Tagore passes away||Retired IPS officer K.V.R Tagore died of COVID-19 at a private hospital here on Wednesday at the age of 72. Hailing from Chikkamagaluru, Mr. Tagore started his IPS stint as Deputy Superintendent of Tiptur in 1976 and served in many posts including DCP Bengaluru and Mangaluru . He also served as Additional Director-General of Police in the Directorate of Civil rights Enforcement, before retiring in 2008. He was living with his family in Jayanagar and contracted COVID-19. He developed complications and was hospitalised two weeks ago. Senior officials mourned Mr. Tagore’s passing, and remembered him as soft spoken, helpful, and good officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvr-tagore-passes-away/article34546527.ece
13 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Abandoned hospital to be made COVID Care Centre||Taking note of the growing need for expanding isolation centres for COVID-19 patients, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani directed Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna to convert the abandoned ESIC Hospital at Shahabad in Kalaburagi district into a COVID Care Centre (CCC). The hospital, which was built in 1994 on a four-acre plot to cater to the medical needs of over 7,500 workers of various cement factories and other industries in the area, was closed in 2004 after most of the factories and industries moved out of Shahabad. It has remained deserted since then. Ms. Jyotsna and other senior officials, including Shahabad Tahsildar Suresh Varma and Shahabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner K. Gurulingappa, inspected the site and took stock of the hospital’s condition. Upon the directions of the Deputy Commissioner, work for renovating the 30-room structure began on Wednesday. Mr. Nirani, in a media note, said that he had ordered officials to finish the renovation work on a war-footing and provide all medical facilities to treat COVID-19 patients, including beds with oxygen, ventilators, oxygen, pantry, drinking water and toilets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abandoned-hospital-to-be-made-covid-care-centre/article34546587.ece
13 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Instead of holding CET, consider II PU marks for admissions’||As the State is going through the second wave of COVID-19, various district associations of PU college principals, including Dakshina Kannada, have asked the government to bring in drastic changes in the the second PU examination and ease pressure on students who had fewer hours of offline classes and are facing stress during lockdown. In letters addressed to Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, the associations have said that it would be unscientific to hold the second PU examination in the regular format. The government should not hold the common entrance test (CET) this year and instead, admission to professional courses should be made on the basis of marks that students obtained in their second PU examination, the associations said. Apart from Dakshina Kannada District PU Principals Association (DKPUPA), associations from Belagavi, Chikkaballapur and Hassan districts have written letters to the Minister. The associations said that the government should provide students a question bank or a set of five model question papers from which questions should feature in the annual examination. The government can make use of a software for framing question paper from the question paper bank/model question papers. Instead of examination at different centres, which will pose difficulty in maintaining social distancing and adhering to other safety protocols, the government may consider holding the examination in colleges where students are studying. Deputy Directors of PU department should be given the responsibility to conduct the examination. Students, who have returned to their native places during the lockdown, should be allowed to write examination at centres closer to them. Evaluation of papers should be carried out at the district level. Students, especially those from rural areas, have found it difficult to follow online lessons. Most of the colleges have not completed the earmarked 70% of the portion during the three-and-a-half months of offline classes. Students who topped in first PU have not fared well in unit tests, half yearly and preparatory examinations conducted for the second PU course. They said that students may not do well if the examination was conducted soon after the lockdown and an instance of this is the way many students failed in their second PU English examination that was conducted after the long lockdown last year, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/instead-of-holding-cet-consider-ii-pu-marks-for-admissions/article34546591.ece
13 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cyclone, to be named Tauktae, may hit coastal region by Sunday||The Coast Guard on Tuesday swung into action to alert fishermen in high seas to return to the nearest shore in view of a possible cyclonic storm hitting Karnataka and Kerala coasts by Sunday. Karnataka Coast Guard Commander, DIG S.B. Venkatesh in a statement here said that the India Meteorological Department has forecast formation of a low pressure area over South-East Arabian Sea later this week. The low pressure area may intensify into a cyclonic storm, to be named Tauktae, over East-Central Arabian Sea by May 16 to 21. As such, the Coast Guard has issued instructions to Indian fishing boats not to venture out into the sea in view of the cyclonic alert. Indian Coast Guard ships and Dornier aircraft on patrol have been relaying weather warning to fishermen in sea on VHF channel asking them to return to the nearest shore, Mr. Venktesh said. Forecast India Meteorological Department has said that the low pressure area is likely to be formed around May 14 morning. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over Lakshadweep Islands and adjoining South-East and East-Central Arabian Sea by Saturday. The depression might move North, North-West and intensify further into a cyclone storm over East-Central Arabian Sea around Sunday and continue to move North, North-West for some more time with further intensification. The cyclonic circulation over the Comorin area and adjoining South Tamil Nadu now lies over Tamil Nadu and neighbourhood at 1.5 km above the mean sea level. India Meteorological Department, Bengaluru, has in its forecast said that squally wind with speed reaching 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph is likely along and off the coastal region in the State by Saturday. On Sunday, the wind speed might reach up to 80 kmph along and off the coast. The India Meteorological Department has asked fishermen not to venture into the sea at this time and urged those in the sea to return to the coast by Friday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cyclone-to-be-named-tauktae-may-hit-coastal-region-by-sunday/article34546524.ece
13 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Extend relaxation window by an hour, Mangaluru South MLA urges Minister||Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath on Wednesday urged district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari to extend the relaxation window for purchasing essential commodities to four hours in the district as in other parts of the State. Submitting a memorandum to Mr. Poojari, Mr. Kamath said that Mangaluru is a busy commercial hub. The 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. window is insufficient for people to buy their daily essentials. Traders too are facing difficulty in maintaining stocks and supplies, he said. As such, the lockdown guidelines applicable across the State should be made applicable to the district too, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/extend-relaxation-window-by-an-hour-mangaluru-south-mla-urges-minister/article34546590.ece
13 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kateel thanks Minister Nirani||State BJP president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel has thanked Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani for allowing Dakshina Kannada district administration to make use of funds available under Mineral Development Fund (MDF) for purchase of oxygen tanker. In a press release, Mr. Kateel said that he had recently made a representation to Mr. Nirani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-thanks-minister-nirani/article34546592.ece
13 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Trains cancelled||Southern Railway has cancelled the services of two pairs of trains temporarily due to poor occupancy. Train No 02685 Chennai Central-Mangaluru Central daily superfast special will remain cancelled from May 14 to May 31. Its pairing train, No 02686 Mangaluru Central-Chennai Central daily superfast special, will remain cancelled from May 15 to June 1. Train No 06323 Coimbatore Junction-Mangaluru Central special will remain cancelled from May 14 to May 31. Train No 06324 Mangaluru Central-Coimbatore Junction daily special will remain cancelled from May 14 to May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trains-cancelled/article34546593.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Oxygen shortage led to Chamarajanagar deaths’||The report also said that a detailed probe is essential to unearth omissions and commissions of individuals. “Had the hospital administration been vigilant, it could have had enough stock of oxygen by timely refilling cylinders from its suppliers,” the report stated. Interestingly, the report pointed out that there was not even a whisper about shortage of oxygen stock at the hospital by any of the Mysuru-based agencies, with whom CIMS had contracts, in the meeting held by the DC, Chamarajanagar on May 2. The report said the hospital was dependent on six kilolitre liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tank, commissioned only on April 29, 2021, though it was installed several months ago. Prior to commissioning of the tank, the hospital was using 250 jumbo cylinders along with 100 jumbo cylinders secured from taluk hospitals. “Refilling of jumbo cylinders took a nosedive after commissioning of the tank. The mismanagement in that regard is quite evident. Slackness appears to have set in probably on account of LMO tank being installed,” the report said. The report also pointed out that “oxygen in the LMO tank should have catered for a period of at least 40 hours. But it is reported to have been exhausted in less than 30 hours, which shows mismanagement of the lifesaving gas, even during critical time.” “Had the hospital administration been vigilant, it could have had enough of oxygen by timely refilling of cylinders. With the bottling plant at a distance of about 70 km, not having sufficient filled oxygen cylinders at Chamarajanagar is an act of callousness and led to loss of dozens of precious lives,” the report said. The report found that as the Mysuru district hospital dispatched 40 jumbo cylinders at midnight on May 2, the truck should have reached Chamarajanagar by 2 a.m. if it had not stopped anywhere. However, the truck waited for hours at a refilling agency to load another 30 cylinders and reached Chamarajanagar hospital only at 6 a.m. on May 3.   Had the hospital administration been vigilant, it could have had enough stock of oxygen by timely refilling cylinders from its suppliers,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-shortage-led-to-chamarajanagar-deaths/article34546528.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State to suspend jab for those in 18-44 age group||Although Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar had on April 30 appealed to people to refrain from visiting vaccination centres from May 1, hinting that the State had no stocks, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa symbolically flagged off the fourth phase of vaccination for the 18-44 age group on May 1. Subsequently, Dr. Sudhakar announced on May 9 that the drive would begin in all government centres from May 10. The demand for vaccination has been high in this age group with 74,105 beneficiaries taking the jab in the last three days. It is estimated that there are about 3.26 crore people in the State in this age group with a requirement of 6.52 crore doses of the vaccine for complete inoculation. The State government has already placed an order for two crore doses of Covishield and one crore doses of Covaxin in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-suspend-jab-for-those-in-18-44-age-group/article34546529.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police rescue woman||The police on Wednesday rescued a mentally challenged 47-year-old woman who was living with the highly decomposed bodies of her mother and brother in their house in BEML Layout in Rajarajeshwari Nagar. The police shifted the bodies for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of death. The woman, Srilakshmi, has been admitted to a hospital.  The incident came to light when the tenant of the deceased, Praveen, called the police to report a foul smell coming from the house, which was locked from inside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-rescue-woman/article34546526.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||The religious customs relating to the anointment ceremony of the new seer of Shiroor Mutt Anirudha Saralathaya will be held at the Shiroor Mutt in Udupi district itself and not as rendered in a report, ‘Anointment ceremony begins at Shiroor Mutt’, appearing in these columns on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/correction/article34546588.ece
13 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||More stern measures in Idukki containment zones||The district administration has enforced strict COVID-19 protocol in containment zones and imposed a ban on all kinds of works in plantations. Shops selling essential items are permitted to function only from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Residents have been directed to keep indoors and travel for purchasing essential items must be limited. Counter-measures In a meeting to review counter-measures adopted at the panchayats where the test positivity rate (TPR) was high from May 2 to 9, the District Collector said that local bodies experiencing staff shortage should be informed to the district disaster management cell. Door delivery Panchayats are required to promote door delivery of essential items. The functioning of ward-level committees should be reviewed and any shortage must be addressed. The grama panchayats having high TPRs are Elappara, Peerumade, Kokkayar, Vandiperiyar, Kumily, Velliyamattom, Manakkad, Vannapuram, Edavetty, Arakkulam, Karinkunnam, Karimannur, Kudayathur, Udumbannur, Muttom, Rajakumary, Bisonvalley, Udumbanchola, Vandanmedu Idukki and Kanjikuzhy. Oxygen plants A meeting of the district disaster management cell decided to set up more oxygen plants soon. Oxygen plants will be set up at the district hospital in Thodupuzha and taluk hospital at Cheruthoni. A second oxygen plant will come up at the Idukki Medical College. The government hospitals in the district had been depending on oxygen cylinders transported from Ernakulam and it was observed that the need had increased 10 times now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-stern-measures-in-idukki-containment-zones/article34547076.ece
13 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Two persons arrested on poaching charge||Two persons were arrested on Wednesday on the charge of poaching in Kondimoola forest under the Appapara forest station limits of the North Wayanad forest division. The accused were identified as Musthafa, 45, of Dwaraka near Mananthavady and P.M. Shafeer, 30, of Padikkathody at Ambalavayal in the district. The officials seized a country-made gun, pellets, knife, and venison of barking deer (Cervus unicolor) weighing 80 kg from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-persons-arrested-on-poaching-charge/article34546722.ece
13 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Steps to mitigate man-animal conflict||A meeting of forest officials of the South Wayanad Forest division convened by T. Siddique, designated MLA, Kalpetta Assembly constituency, decided to adopt long-term measures to mitigate man-animal conflict under the forest division. The meeting decided to intensify round-the-clock patrolling and erect power fence shields on the fringes of the forest to keep the wildlife, especially wild elephants, at bay. It directed the divisional forest officer to chalk out long-term strategies to tackle the menace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-mitigate-man-animal-conflict/article34546723.ece
13 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Pandemic spreading fast among tribespersons in Kannur, Kasaragod||More tribespersons are turning positive in the second wave of COVID-19 in Kannur and Kasaragod districts. There is a large population of tribespersons spread across the two districts. Except for a few colonies, most of them are in close proximity to semi-urban and urban areas. The spread of the disease is being reported from colonies close to urban areas. In the first wave of COVID-19, 11 tribespersons in Kannur and an equal number in Kasaragod died of the disease. More deaths have been reported during the second wave of the pandemic. According to the Scheduled Tribes Development Department in Kannur, there are over 550 active cases among tribespersons at present. Recently, a large number of cases were reported under the Peravoor and Koothuparamba tribal extensions. As of Wednesday, 143 active cases have been reported in Peravoor extension, which includes 58 active cases in Peravoor, 13 each in Kottiyoor and Kelakkam panchayats, 37 in Kanichar panchayat, 14 in Mozhakunnu panchayat, six in Maloor panchayat and two active cases in Thillankeri. Three tribespersons have died since the outbreak. In the Koothuparmba extension, there are 181 active cases. Here, four persons have died of the disease since the outbreak. It was no different in Taliparamba tribal extension, which includes 10 panchayats. A total of 122 active cases have been reported there. Since the outbreak, 239 tribals have been affected by COVID-19 and four persons have been reported dead there. Similarly, in Aralam, which is under Irrity tribal extension, there there are 29 positive cases while 79 tribespersons turned negative after treatment. A similar situation was found in Kasaragod district, where a total of 542 active cases have been reported among tribespersons. The highest number of cases were reported in Panathady tribal extension, where 210 persons are undergoing treatment and three have died. Similarly, in the Kasaragod extension, there are 145 active cases and four persons have died so far. In Nileswaram, 163 tribespersons were found positive in the second wave and two deaths were reported so far. In Enmakaje extension, where 4,318 tribal families live in nine panchayats, there are 24 active cases. A senior official in the Scheduled Tribes Development Department said that the reluctance in taking vaccination by members of the Paniya community in Kannur had raised concerns for the Health department and tribal development officials. Kannur District Medical Officer Narayanan Nayak said that the department was closely monitoring the cases. COVID-19 had increased among tribespersons but many had turned negative after treatment. The vaccination drive had been extended to these colonies, he said. Kasaragod District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj said that they were also monitoring the situation and regularly collecting details to ensure that the numbers were curtailed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-spreading-fast-among-tribespersons-in-kannur-kasaragod/article34546720.ece
13 May 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||In short supply, Kasaragod launches O2 cylinder challenge||Kasaragod district, which is facing an acute oxygen cylinder shortage owing to a surge in COVID-19 cases, is encouraging industries, small institutions, and companies to step forward and provide ‘D’-type cylinders (7,000 litre capacity) with them by initiating an ‘oxygen cylinder challenge’. District panchayat president Baby Balakrishnan said the challenge was suggested at a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday considering the growing requirement of oxygen cylinders in hospitals. None of the government or private hospital in the district has in-situ oxygen production systems and are heavily dependent on oxygen cylinders. With a surge in COVID cases, authorities fear this may lead to a similar crisis faced in many parts of northern India. On Monday, E.K. Nayanar Cooperative Hospital and the Kasaragod Institute of Medical Sciences Sunrise Hospital in the district were forced to shift patients to other hospitals due to shortage of oxygen cylinders. “There is a requirement of over 370 oxygen cylinders to mitigate the current crisis, but there are not enough cylinders to refill oxygen. If there are enough cylinders they can keep it as a buffer to meet the growing demand,” Ms. Balakrishnan told The Hindu . Now the situation is such that many hospitals, which are directly sending vehicles, have to wait for a long time to get the cylinders refilled. But that get exhausted quite soon as the cases are increasing rapidly. Even though there is enough capacity to produce oxygen, oxygen plants are unable to deliver due to shortage of cylinders. The other reason for initiating the challenge is to encourage the industries, companies, and other institutions that are using ‘D’-type cylinders but have kept them idle due to the lockdown to step forward and help the hospitals which require these cylinders. However, after the challenge was initiated, mainly through social media , several people have come forward. So far we have received 37 cylinders and many more are coming forward, says Ms. Balakrishnan. Interestingly, there are many who have expressed their wish to donate money for purchasing cylinders. But as we cannot directly take money, we have taken the issue with the District Collector to start an account or other ways to collect these amounts , she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-short-supply-kasaragod-launches-o2-cylinder-challenge/article34546752.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID cases cross 6,400 in Ernakulam||Ernakulam district recorded 6,410 new cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 35.10% on Wednesday. A total of 18,261 samples were sent for testing, and 5,653 tests done were RT-PCR. Fifteen health workers and four police officers tested positive. Thrikkakara recorded 246 new cases, followed by Kumbalanghi with 164, Mulavukad 157, Thripunithura 155, Cheranalloor 139, Sreemoolanagaram 134, Kottuvally 129, Vazhakulam 128, Kalamassery 118, Maradu 117, and Kadungalloor and Choornikkara 116 each. Alangad recorded 106 cases, Pallipuram 104, and Palluruthy and Varapuzha 103 each. A total of 4,474 people were considered to have recovered on Wednesday. While 241 people were discharged from hospitals and other centres, 321 were newly admitted to treatment facilities. As many as 1,26,098 people remain in quarantine. Under treatment The active caseload of the district is 66,899. Of those recovering from the infection, 55,830 remain at home. At private hospitals, 2,570 are recovering, while 87 are admitted at INHS Sanjivani. At government hospitals, 693 people are admitted, and 1,309 are at FLTCs, SLTCs, and domiciliary care centres. A total of 988 people sought medical help through telemedicine service. Vaccines arrive A total of 1,37,580 doses of Covaxin purchased by the State from Bharat Biotech arrived in Kochi on Wednesday. The doses that arrived have not been allotted to the districts yet. Covishield doses purchased by the State government too arrived on Monday, and they have not been distributed to the districts yet, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination. In the absence of sufficient doses at vaccination centres, none of them will be operational on Thursday, Dr. Sivadas said. Vaccination will resume when stock is made available. Only 16 vaccination sites were functional on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-cases-cross-6400-in-ernakulam/article34546732.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High prevalence of COVID-19 in prisons||Jail authorities in the State are keeping their fingers crossed with reports of high prevalence of COVID-19 being reported from some prisons. There has been a significant increase in the number of positive cases this week among the prisoners when compared to the previous weeks. Of the 175 prisoners in Ernakulam, 160 tested positive. In Kannur, 145 of the 800 inmates have been found infected. As many as 14 of the 20 prisoners of Thiruvananthapuram who were screened for the disease tested positive on Monday. Currently, the screening is being carried out only for those inmates who display some signs of distress. The revised testing protocol suggested screening only for the symptomatic cases, said a senior official of the Prisons department. The situation in the jails was better a fortnight ago when around 5,100 prisoners were screened for the disease. Mass screening The prevalence of the disease among the inmates was to the tune of eight to 10% of the total population during the screening carried out between April 20 and 26. However, there had been a spike in the numbers since the mass screening programme, the official said. The jail authorities hope to isolate and treat the ones who have been tested positive in the jail campuses itself and have speeded up the de-congestion drive in the jails as suggested by the courts. Around 800 inmates including the under trial prisoners were send out of the jails these days as part of the drive. The bail granted to some others were extended so as to delay their return to the prison cells, he said. At the same time, a few prisoners were reported to be reluctant to leave the jail, as they were unsure of the reception that awaits them at their homes. Prisoners are making contacts with their families to make sure that they could go back to their homes. More number of prisoners would opt for the amnesty scheme once the lockdown was lifted, hoped the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-prevalence-of-covid-19-cases-in-state-prisons/article34546728.ece
13 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Nurses hold their own in the pandemic times||From administering vaccines to monitoring critically ill patients, nurses, though tired themselves, are powering a health-care system stretched to the limits by COVID-19. “It is not just that the number of patients has grown, but they are also coming in more sick,” says Deepa T.V., a nurse on COVID ICU duty at Pariyaram Medical College in Kannur. “A typical day is around six hours. Both physically and mentally... we’re waiting for this to end, but the end seems to be nowhere in sight, the way it’s going now,” she says. “There is of course, the fear associated with COVID-19 itself. You want to save everybody, but then you also see deaths, which leave an impact,” says Deepa, who recovered from COVID-19 in October last year. “We are now posting nurses only for around three to four hours at a time in the ICU since standing around for hours in PPE kit can be difficult. Nurses are still testing positive, despite taking all precautions,” says Maya Sreekumar, a senior staff nurse at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, who is posted in one of the COVID wards. “Earlier, we used to isolate for a few days after COVID duty. But now there is no time for this isolation period, which means we’re worried about carrying the infection home,” she says. Majority women “Women continue to dominate this section of the workforce,” says retired nurse Molly O.S., president of the CITU-affiliated Kerala Nurses Union. Nurses have also been lauded for zero wastage of COVID vaccines. “Once a 10 ml vial is opened, it needs to be used in around four hours. We make sure that enough people are around before the vial is opened. ,” says Litto Kuriakose, a staff nurse who was part of a mobile vaccination unit in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nurses-hold-their-own-in-the-pandemic-times/article34547050.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MGU bats for common online platform for examinations||Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) has recommended a common online platform for holding exams of four universities in the State amid fears that the worsening pandemic may lead to an inordinate delay in the conduct of offline examinations. The proposal for a common online platform emerged as a possible alternative to overcome uncertainties over the timely conduct of offline examinations. “Our idea is to have a common online platform for Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi, Kannur and Calicut universities. We cannot rule out further delay in the conduct of offline exams in view of the possible third or fourth wave,” said Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor. The University Grants Commission (UGC) had also asked universities not to conduct offline examinations in May. A review will be done to decide whether it can be held in June. Maintaining that the varsity would place a detailed proposal before the incumbent Minister of Higher Education, Prof. Thomas said varsities could join hands in developing a common online platform internally or opt to buy software that enables the conduct of online exams. On the possible hurdles to the conduct of a common online exam, Prof. Thomas said all logistical issues could be worked out jointly by the partnering universities. “Universities will require financial aid from the government for either developing a common platform or purchase software for holding online exams,” he said. However, he clarified that the practical sessions for various courses could be conducted offline only. “It could be held as and when the pandemic situation improves. But we need not wait to hold offline exams for long and consider having them online considering the future of students,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-for-common-online-platform/article34546740.ece
13 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Production, supply being augmented||Responding to the steep rise in demand for medical oxygen in the State, steps have been taken to augment the production and supply of gaseous oxygen, says R. Venugopal, Deputy Chief Controller of the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) and nodal officer for supplying oxygen to Kerala and Lakshadweep. To address the scarcity of filled oxygen cylinders in Kasaragod, an air separation unit (ASU) plant lying defunct since 2015 at Vattaparambu in Malappuram’s Marakkara panchayat was reopened on Tuesday and the first load of 114 cylinders was dispatched to Kasaragod. The revamped plant can produce oxygen at the rate of 100 metre cube per hour (m3h) and a maximum of 300 cylinders a day. The ASU plant at Veli in Thiruvananthapuram and the liquid oxygen storage facility also started functioning and were able to fill 521 oxygen cylinders from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts, Mr. Venugopal said. Anand Oxygen India Private Limited, a company at West Hill in Kozhikode, was advised to amend its PESO licence for an additional 20 kilolitre of liquid medical oxygen and 30 oxygen filling points to cater to the demand for medical oxygen from the district. Mr. Venugopal said PESO had also approved a 970-metre gaseous oxygen line from the BPCL Kochi Refinery to the 500-bed CFLTC (COVID First Line Treatment Centre) being set up at the Kochi Refinery school at Jawlagiri, Ambalamugal, in Ernakulam. “This oxygen line will supply 93% pure oxygen from the refinery’s VPSI unit. The requirement of medical oxygen will be approximately 150 kg/hr for 100 patients at the rate 15 lpm (litre per minute) per patient,” he said. A new ASU plant owned by Auxillium Products LLP at Kizhakkancherry in Palakkad will start functioning in a week’s time. The plant can produce 235 litre of high purity liquid oxygen per hour besides high purity medical gases in cylinders at the rate of 260 metre cube per hour. A total of 700 cylinders of seven cubic metre can be filled here daily, Mr. Venugopal added. PESO has requested hospitals to use medical oxygen cylinders and admit non-COVID patients only in case of emergency. The agency has also asked them to install PSA (Pressure Swing Absorption) systems to become self-sufficient in oxygen production. KSRTC drivers The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will make available services of its drivers to run tankers that deliver liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from Thursday in the State. The Motor Vehicles Department will impart training to the first batch of 35 drivers of the KSRTC on Thursday at Palakkad and their service will be available from the evening. Chairman and Managing Director of the KSRTC Biju Prabhakar said idea for the bid came after the war room in the Secretariat approached the KSRTC seeking help to overcome the shortage of drivers and 450 drivers evinced interest so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/production-supply-being-augmented/article34546750.ece
13 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Textbook printing to resume on Monday||The pending work on printing school textbooks for the upcoming academic year is likely to resume on Monday. The printing had been stopped early this month after some employees of the Kerala Books and Publications Society (KBPS), which prints the textbooks, tested positive for SARS-CoV2. All printing works were halted on May 8, said M.M. Mahesh of the KBPS Staff and Workers’ Union, INTUC. Abdul Salam of the KBPS Employees’ Association, CITU, said that the remaining works would take only four to five days and could be completed next week itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/textbook-printing-to-resume-on-monday/article34547052.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Consultation with specialists live on FB||P. Rajeeve, MLA-designate from Kalamassery, has arranged a panel of specialist doctors to advise patients from his constituency in a live day-long online programme. Noted cardio thoracic surgeon, Dr. Jose Chacko Periyapuram, will inaugurate the Facebook live event at 11 a.m. on Friday by giving medical advice to callers. Physicians, gastroenterologists, dentists, cardiologists, ENT specialists, pulmonologists, oncologists, rheumatologists, paediatricians, and psychiatrists will advise patients at stipulated hours on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. Patients seeking to avail of the facility may dial 8589808111.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consultation-with-specialists-live-on-fb/article34546734.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Labour officer to probe complaint against company||The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has ordered the labour officer to conduct a probe into the working environment at the Kizhakkambalam-based textile company Kitex and submit a report. This was in the wake of alleged complaints circulating on social media and received over the phone, a release said. The rural police had reportedly brought the matter to the notice of the DDMA in the wake of social media messages that the pandemic was alarmingly spreading in the production unit of the company. The police haven’t received any complaints or registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/labour-officer-to-probe-complaint-against-company/article34546729.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vaccination for scribes||Special COVID-19 vaccination camps will be organised for media persons in the district. This was announced by District Collector S. Suhas while opening Vipin Chand commemorative meeting at the Ernakulam Press club on Wednesday. Vipin Chand, a chief reporter with a Malayalam television channel who had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, passed away at a private hospital the other day. Hibi Eden, MP; T.J. Vinod, MLA; District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju, and Press Club president Philipose Mathew spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-for-scribes/article34546733.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Restaurants’ Association launches food app Rezoy||Promising to home-deliver food at a price that’s less than what is charged while ordering food using food aggregators, the Kerala Food and Restaurants’ Association has launched its own mobile app named Rezoy. Mayor M. Anil Kumar launched it by ordering food using the app. Nearly 400 hotels in Ernakulam are part of the service network, according to a release. Besides Kochi city, it will be available in a 5-km radius area from Kakkanad and Kalamassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restaurants-association-launches-food-app-rezoy/article34546735.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Milma honours nurses||The Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) offered 750 kits, each comprising a good health drink, ‘peda’, and butter milk, to nurses at four district hospitals in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kottayam, and Idukki to honour them on the occasion of International Nurses Day. In Kozhikode, Milma honoured nurses by gifting around 900 of them with Golden Mix, a new product of the Federation’s Malabar Union, intended to improve immunity.As many as 2,000 packets of the 25-gram product backed by the technological know-how of ICAR were distributed for free at a function held at the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-honours-nurses/article34546736.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||54 held for flouting COVID norms||The Ernakulam Rural police registered 193 cases for violation of the COVID-19 protocol on Wednesday. Fifty-four persons were arrested on charges of flouting norms and restrictions. 140 vehicles seized Nearly 140 vehicles were seized and cases registered against 1,547 persons for not maintaining social distancing. Cases were registered against 1,200 persons for not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/54-held-for-flouting-covid-norms/article34546739.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat opts for digital route to hold exams||The Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has decided to opt for the digital route to hold its final semester postgraduate exams to overcome the possible delay in holding offline exams in view of the worsening pandemic situation. “We are planning to hold the final semester postgraduate exams online from next week,” said Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan. The varsity had postponed its examinations after Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, the Chancellor, had asked the authorities not to hold offline exams following the second wave. “The online exams for postgraduate courses will not be much of a logistical hurdle for us, as there are only 15 to 20 students each in a batch. Students will submit their projects online. The viva voce based on projects will also be held on the online platform,” said Prof. Madhusoodanan. On whether the final semester B.Tech exams will also go online, the Vice Chancellor said a decision would be taken by the end of this month. “We will review the situation. Students, especially those from the north, had left the campus owing to the pandemic situation. The varsity may have to go for online exam for B.Tech students, if the situation does not improve,” he said. Around 2,500 students are pursuing various B.Tech programmes offered by the varsity. The varsity has postponed its Common Admission Test (CAT) in view of the pandemic condition. “We are now planning to hold it in the second week of July. A final decision will depend on the COVID situation close to that time,” said Prof. Madhusoodanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-opts-for-digital-route-to-hold-exams/article34546738.ece
13 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Council seeks alignment details of NH||The Thripunithura Bypass Action Council has demanded that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) publish details of the revised alignment of Kochi-Theni NH 85 that would be developed as a four-lane corridor. Landowners who had surrendered land and those whose properties were frozen for the project over three decades ago are eager to know the revised alignment and allied details such as land acquisition notification and price negotiation, said Alias A.V., president of the action council, in a letter to the NHAI’s Kochi office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/council-seeks-alignment-details-of-nh/article34547078.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||OBC quota for Christian Nadars to continue||The reservation in government jobs provided to the Christian Nadar community recently by including them on the Other Backward Classes (OBC) list of the State would remain unchanged as the Supreme Court has upheld the State governments’ right to modify the list for providing reservation in employment to State services. “The apex court order will not have any impact on the Christian Nadar community’s recent inclusion on the OBC list as they would be provided reservation in employment from the general pool of OBCs. The caste-based reservation provided to the communities in the State would not exceed the 50% cap even with their inclusion. Hence, the Christian Nadar reservation will remain untouched by the apex court order,” said G. Sasidharan, chairman of the commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/obc-quota-for-christian-nadars-to-continue/article34546743.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC stays the release of film||The Kerala High Court has stayed for two weeks all further proceedings based on a certification given by the Central Board of Film Certification for Malayalam film Acquarium. The court passed the stay order on a petition filed by two nuns in Kochi seeking to restrain the producer and director of the film from screening it on the OTT platform. They alleged that the theme of the film offended the religious sentiments of Christians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-stays-the-release-of-film/article34546741.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC stays defamation case proceedings against Tharoor||The Kerala High Court has stayed all further proceedings in a defamation case pending before a magistrate court in Thiruvananthapuram against Shashi Tharoor, MP, for allegedly portraying Nair women in a bad light in his novel, The Great Indian Novel .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-stays-defamation-case-proceedings-against-tharoor/article34546742.ece
13 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Active caseload falls below 50,000 in Kozhikode||The active COVID-19 caseload has fallen below 50,000 in Kozhikode district with recoveries exceeding fresh cases. On Wednesday, 5,540 persons were discharged from various health facilities while 4,418 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to the District Medical Officer, 16,309 results were made available and the daily test positivity rate (TPR) is 28.69%. The active caseload in the district now is 47,158. There were 4,351 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of infection of 66 others was not known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-caseload-falls-below-50000-in-kozhikode/article34546718.ece
13 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||It’s curtains for Kozhikode Mahila Mall||Mahila Mall in Kozhikode, claimed to be the first mall in Asia with an all-women crew, will be shut down soon as the Unity Group of the Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree that has been managing the venture is unlikely to renew the contract, which is set to expire in June, with the building owners. Secretary of the Unity Group K. Vijaya said that a few entrepreneurs, who are still remaining in the mall, were not ready to function under the Unity Group. Publicity failure The mall was opened in November 2018 with an aim to promote women entrepreneurs and provide a permanent platform to professional ventures under the Kudumbashree fold. More than 70 women entrepreneurs had set up shops in the mall at that time, but despite the initial popularity, the mall failed to attract customers. The entrepreneurs locked horns with the management over failed publicity efforts and the rest is history. The exodus of entrepreneurs started just a few months after the mall began functioning, and before the national lockdown in March 2020, most of the entrepreneurs had left the mall in search of greener pastures. Management change The Kozhikode Corporation had initially claimed to have no connection with the mall, but during the last part of the previous council, then Mayor Thottathil Raveendran had convened meetings of entrepreneurs and had tried to resolve the issue by lowering the rent. However, the lockdown and lack of business had caught up with the entrepreneurs who expressed their wish to continue in the mall, but with a change of management. The Unity group had converted the top floors of the mall into a Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana training centre and hostel for trainees around 18 months ago, which was opposed by the entrepreneurs. The training centre was then shifted to the old corporation building near the beach. The mall may continue to function under a different management, but will certainly lose its speciality of being a ‘Mahila Mall’. “We could have gone ahead despite odds if the entrepreneurs supported us,” Ms. Vijaya said, adding that Mahila Mall certainly served its purpose, that of creating more women entrepreneurs. “All those entrepreneurs who left the mall have not dropped business, but moved elsewhere,” Ms. Vijaya added.  Before the national lockdown in March last year, most of the entrepreneurs had left in search of greener pastures||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-curtains-for-mahila-mall/article34546727.ece
13 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Use of Ayurvedic powder kicks off debate||The Alappuzha municipality recently got flak for its suggestion to use an Ayurvedic powder for fumigation to contain COVID-19 spread. Now, popular science activists and Ayurveda practitioners are engaged in a debate over the efficacy and scientific validity of the powder even as one more grama panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram district has conducted a similar event. The civic body in Alappuzha had urged all 50,000 households in its jurisdiction to observe ‘Dhooma Sandhya’ at 6.30 p.m. on May 8 by fumigating their surroundings with the smoke generated from burning ‘aparajita dhooma choornam’. The Malayinkeezhu grama panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram followed suit a couple of days later. When popular science organisations such as the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) point out the lack of scientific basis for this activity, Ayurveda practitioners retort saying two studies have been conducted to prove its efficacy. They claim that the results of one of them have been published in the journal Ancient Science of Life in 2007. In the study, ‘aparajitha dhooma choornam’ has been used as a fumigation powder for creating an aseptic condition in the critical areas of production and filling in the factory of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy, Coimbatore. Activists of the Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics (CAPSULE), a forum under the KSSP, say that Ancient Science of Life was an in-house publication of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy and their corporate social responsibility initiative. Those who held the study were the firm’s employees, they claim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/use-of-ayurvedic-powder-kicks-off-debate/article34546716.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||IRCTC offers ‘work from hotel’ package||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has launched a special ‘work from hotel’ package, providing professionals a ‘refreshing and soothing ambiance’ in hotel rooms in Kerala as an alternative to the ‘work from home’ set-up, a statement said on Wednesday. This is part of the Railways’ catering and tourism arm’s efforts to rekindle confidence among guests to step out for availing hospitality services in the post- COVID-19 world, the IRCTC said. The package per person on triple occupancy for five night stay starts from Rs. 10,126 and includes disinfected rooms, meals, Wi-Fi, secured parking place for vehicle, and travel insurance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/irctc-offers-work-from-hotel-package/article34547051.ece
13 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain causes heavy damage||The district has reported one death and widespread damage in the heavy thunderstorms and strong winds that lashed the region on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Satheesh, 17, of Pazhanada, Anchuthengu. The youngster died after he was struck by lightning while fishing out at sea on Tuesday night. The incident occurred around 9 p.m. around five kilometres off the Anchuthengu coast, according to the Coastal Police, Anchuthengu. Satheesh and four others had gone out for fishing in a small boat. The young fisherman was reportedly standing upright in the vessel when the lightning struck. None of the others was injured. The body has been transferred to the Taluk Hospital in Chirayinkeezhu. The coastal police have registered a case for unnatural death. The coastal regions of Vizhinjam and Adimalathura reported heavy flooding. The Gangayaar canal at Vizhinjam overflowed on Tuesday night, flooding the region with stormwater and causing damage to fishing equipment and sheds at the harbour. “Water began rising by about 7 p.m.,” said S. Cyril, a resident. Houses and the beach road at Adimalathura were waterlogged. Low-lying regions in Thiruvananthapuram city also experienced waterlogging. Houses destroyed The district administration said two houses were destroyed in Tuesday’s rain havoc while 26 others were heavily damaged in the district. Thiruvananthapuram, Neyyatinkara and Varkala taluks bore the brunt of the damage. One house was destroyed and 10 others damaged in Thiruvananthapuram taluk. One house was destroyed and two others damaged in Varkala taluk, while Neyyatinkara taluk reported damage to 14 houses. The administration completed the arrangements for tackling contingencies, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Buildings were identified for opening relief shelters. Domiciliary care centres would accommodate COVID-19 patients if they had to be evacuated. Thiruvananthapuram city recorded 16 cm of rainfall over a 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday, according to the IMD. Fishing remained prohibited along the Kerala coast from May 13. The State Emergency Operations Centre advised fishermen to make for the nearest coast by Wednesday night. According to the IMD, a low pressure area likely to form by Friday would intensify into a cyclonic storm in 48 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-causes-heavy-damage/article34546659.ece
13 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hurdles before Oxygen Express||Low clearance of rail overbridges, narrow tunnels, and speed restrictions in two stretches having tunnels are hurdles for the Railways in operating Oxygen Express trains, which deliver liquid medical oxygen, to the State. The rail overbridges (ROB) at Shoranur, Thrissur, and Angamaly lack the mandatory clearance of 4.67 m from the rail level, which prevents the movement of wagons on which liquid medical oxygen-laden tankers are transported as in the northern States. The ROB at Shoranur has clearance of 4.58 metre. The existing narrow tunnel in Kottayam also lacks the mandatory clearance. The second tunnel between Nemom and Neyyattinkara and restrictions in the Eraniel tunnel on the Kanyakumari-Thiruvananthapuram Central corridor are bottlenecks for Oxygen Express to be operated via Nagercoil. The rail network will have to be used as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has approached the Prime Minister for additional liquid medical oxygen for the State in view of the rising demand. He had also sought Oxygen Express trains to Kerala. The State has daily production of 219 tonnes of oxygen and is maintaining a buffer stock of 450 tonnes without any pressure on the national grid. No request A senior railway official said no request from the State had landed in the divisional railway offices in Palakkad and Thiruvananthapuram. The Railways have so far not finalised plans to operate Oxygen Express to Kerala. “Oxygen Express can be operated to Kerala with wagons that can carry tankers that need only 3.1 m clearance in the ROBs. To bypass the Kottayam tunnel constructed on metre gauge standards, liquid medical oxygen-laden trains can move via Alappuzha. The ramp used by the military in Kochuveli can also be used,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hurdles-before-oxygen-express/article34546745.ece
13 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cover as many people with first dose of vaccine: panel||The expert committee on COVID-19 in the State has recommended to the government that rather than prioritise the second dose of vaccine, the State’s efforts should be to cover as many people as possible with the first dose of vaccine, as even a single dose of vaccine has been proven to offer adequate protection to impact disease transmission and deaths. At the national level and in the State too, the governments have been giving priority to completing the vaccination of those who received the first dose. The idea has been that as many vulnerable people can be fully protected and prevented from dying. However, recent studies have come out with evidence that the maximum benefit of vaccination in the community is derived from the first dose and that with adequate coverage, it can bring down disease transmission and serious disease. Infections of SARS-CoV-2 fell by 65% after a first dose of the Oxford-AstraZeneca or Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines, preliminary results from a large U.K. surveillance study indicate, British Medical Journal reported on April 23, 2021. The study reported that the reduction in infections went up to 70% after a second dose of the Pfizer vaccine. (Not enough people had been vaccinated with the second dose of AstraZeneca vaccine to assess this). The survey, carried out by the University of Oxford in partnership with the Office for National Statistics and the Department of Health and Social Care for England, included data from 1.7 million self-reported swab test results. The study found that 21 days after a single dose of either the AstraZeneca or the Pfizer vaccine, the rates of all new SARS-CoV-2 infections had fallen by 65% , symptomatic infections by 72%, and asymptomatic infections by 57%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cover-as-many-people-with-first-dose-of-vaccine-panel/article34546749.ece
13 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Capital’s tally up by 4,284 cases||The district recorded another high with 4,284 more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The number of active cases rose to 41,644 and the test positivity rate (TPR) to 28.7%. A total of 14 deaths were reported, taking the district’s cumulative toll to 1,166. The deaths that occurred between May 5 and 9 were of people whose ages ranged from 35 to 98. The case fatality ratio (CFR) dipped slightly to 0.61 when 14,977 people were tested. Of those who tested positive, 10 were health workers. While most of the new cases were attributed to local transmission of the infection, the source was unknown in 308 cases. The administration put 5,632 in quarantine, taking the total number of people under surveillance for COVID-19 to 96,221. As many as 4,526 completed their quarantine successfully. Containment zones Meanwhile, new containment zones were declared in Kattakada, Vellarada, Kanjiramkulam grama panchayats. Nalanchira in the city Corporation limits; Kesavapuram, Chemmaruthumukku, and Enchamoola in Nagaroor grama panchayat; Cherunalpazhinji, Kulathoor, Uchakada, Perumpazhanji, Pozhiyoor, Viralipuram, Aruvallooor, Ooramvila, and Mavilakadavu in Kulathoor grama panchayat; and Thrikovilvattam and Moolapezhu in Pangode grama panchayat were also declared containment zones by the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capitals-tally-up-by-4284-cases/article34546657.ece
13 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Order to clean waterbodies, drains||With the IMD issuing heavy rainfall alerts, district administration has directed the departments concerned to ensure that the drains, canals and waterbodies in flood-prone areas in the capital city are cleaned and cleared of obstructions within 72 hours. Tuesday’s thunder showers had left many city areas waterlogged for hours. The Major Irrigation Department has been directed to complete the cleaning of the Karamana and Killi rivers, the Thekkinikkara canal, Amayizhanjan canal, and Ulloor canal within 72 hours. The Executive Engineer, Public Works Department, has been directed to clean the drains along the Attakulangara-Killipalam bypass road, Peroorkada-Mannamoola road, Gandhariyamman Kovil Road, Attakulangara-Thiruvallam Road, Kannamoola-Mulavana road, Manacaud-Perunelli road, and the Idappazhanji-Jagathy road. The secretary, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, has been instructed to ensure that the drains along the Chala-Attakulangara road, SK Timber-Yamuna Nagar Road, Mani Memorial Road, Vivekananda Road, Chala market, Valiyasala ward, Karimadom colony, Sasthamangalam ward, Jagathy and Karamana are cleaned quickly. The Minor Irrigation Department will soon start work on cleaning the Kuriathy canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-to-clean-waterbodies-drains/article34546663.ece
13 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM non-committal on extending lockdown||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was on Wednesday non-committal on Kerala extending the lockdown beyond May 16. However, he seemed to hint that the option was on the table. When pressed, Mr. Vijayan said the current pandemic situation held no prospect of sudden relief. There were some positive signs. Kerala had no clue whether the Central government would order a second national lockdown, he said. Mr. Vijayan asked citizens to brace themselves for a period of heavy rain, sea surges and lightning. People should be prepared for the inundation of low-lying areas. The Chief Minister examined the State’s disaster preparedness. The administration has placed the Indian Air Force, Navy, Coast Guard, BSF, CRPF, police, Fire and Rescue Services, Health and Revenue authorities on alert for rapid deployment. The IAF has agreed to station a helicopter at Thiruvananthapuram for relief and rescue work. Kerala would increase oxygen production. The Fire and Rescue Services Department would audit the usage of oxygen. He said the new government would be sworn in on May 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-non-committal-on-extending-lockdown/article34546747.ece
13 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Supplyco starts home delivery||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has started home delivery of household items as COVID-19 cases continue to surge. Supplyco and the Kudumbashree together will ensure the home delivery. In the first phase, home delivery services will be available at the Supplyco’s People’s Bazar at Pazhavangady and Sreekaryam and the Nalanchira super market. Orders received till 1 p.m. every day will be delivered to houses by the same evening. Orders for items up to 20 kg can be placed by calling over the phone or through WhatsApp. A service charge of Rs. 40 for 2 km, Rs. 60 for up to 5 km, and Rs. 100 for 5 to 10 km. Though subsidised items will not be available for home delivery, these can be purchased for market price or at reduced prices.  Contact For deliveries, call 9447419523 for Pazhavangady People’s Bazar, 9447090370 for Sreekaryam People’s Bazar, and 9496828150 for the Nalanchira supermarket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-starts-home-delivery/article34546653.ece
13 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probe opened into Canara Bank fraud||The State police have opened an inquiry into siphoning money off the accounts of Canara Bank customers in Pathanamthitta district. An official identified the accused as Vijesh Varghese, a bank official. He had joined Canara Bank following its merger with Syndicate Bank. The police have issued a lookout notice for Vijesh, who they claimed was absconding. The police said they had smoking-gun evidence in the case. Vijesh had used the passwords of the bank manager and others to transfer money from the accounts of customers to that of his wife and a close relative over several years. He had primarily tapped into the accounts of survivors of motor accident victims. The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal order insurance companies to pay compensation to survivors. The money was deposited in bank accounts and drawn only when the survivor was 18 years old. The police said Vijesh had primarily moved cash from such dormant accounts. However, the fraud came to light when he tried to manipulate the fixed deposit of a colleague. Investigators said bank officials knew the accused as a diligent employee who worked overtime. They suspected he had used the extra hours to raid the accounts of bank customers. The accused had also exploited the staff shortage at the bank to his advantage. Investigators said he had used a chunk of the cash to pay for his wife’s employment as a teacher in a government-aided private school. The Canara Bank suspended his supervisors pending an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-opened-into-canara-bank-fraud/article34546652.ece
13 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two more CSI priests die||Two more Church of South India (CSI) priests who had tested positive for COVID-19 after the CSI South Kerala diocese annual retreat held in Munnar in April died on Wednesday. The deceased are a 39-year-old from Amboori and another priest aged 59 from Arayoor. They died at a private medical college hospital in Karakonam where they were under treatment. Over 350 priests had attended the event which allegedly was held in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. Following the event, several of the priests had tested positive of whom two later succumbed. The toll has risen to four with Wednesday's deaths. The funerals of the two priests who died on Wednesday will be held on Thursday in accordance with the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-csi-priests-die/article34546661.ece
13 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man sustains burns in attack||A 44-year-old differently abled man sustained severe burns on Wednesday after a neighbour hurled a lighted petrol-filled bottle at him at Kunnathukal on Wednesday. The victim, identified as Varghese, who ran a coffin shop, had been admitted to the ICU of the Government Medical College Hospital, sources said. The police arrested Varghese’s neighbour, Sebastian. An argument over the coffin shop had led to the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-sustains-burns-in-attack/article34546660.ece
13 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DMO calls for steps to control mosquitoes||Health officials on Wednesday stressed the need for effective mosquito-control measures in the district to prevent vector-borne diseases during the rainy season. District Medical Officer (DMO) K.S. Shinu urged the public to prevent water from pooling in and around their homes as it serves as breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The Aedes mosquito, which spreads dengue and chikungunya, requires a small quantity of stagnant water to breed, he noted. Dr. Shinu urged the public to strengthen mosquito- eradication measures during the lockdown period. Use of mosquito repellent creams, clothes which fully cover the body and mosquito nets also should be adopted, he said. Similar symptoms The DMO advised the public to exercise caution as dengue and COVID-19 have similar symptoms. Fever, headache, body and joint pain, loss of appetite, vomiting, and skin rashes are the main symptoms of dengue. The DMO also advised the public to use the e-sanjeevani telemedicine facility for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dmo-calls-for-steps-to-control-mosquitoes/article34546662.ece
13 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Urgent steps to augment facilities in Thrissur||Urgent measures will be taken to increase the COVID treatment facilities in Thrissur district, Minister A.C. Moideen has said. He was speaking at a meeting of higher officials and elected representatives on Wednesday. Currently, there are 247 ICU beds, 139 beds with ventilator facility and 1,423 beds with oxygen facilities available in the district at government and private hospitals. The plan is to add 120 more ICU beds, 21 ventilator beds and 1,400 oxygen beds, the Minister said. There are 26 panchayats in the district that have more than 50% test positivity rate (TPR). There are even panchayats with a TPR of 86%. The number of COVID patients is more than 500 in three municipalities. As many as 72 panchayats in the district are containment zones. Lack of vigil is the reason behind the high test positivity rate, the Minister said. Currently, there are around 50,000 COVID patients in the district. Considering the possibility of an increase in the number of patients and the apprehension about a third wave of the pandemic, more oxygen plants will be set up in the district. Local bodies can take steps to improve the number of health workers directly or through the National Health Mission. Common facilities at hospitals will be kept apart for COVID patients in a phased manner. Functioning of ward-level Jagratha Samithis and Rapid Rescue Teams (RRTs) will be strengthened. A first-line treatment centre with 800 beds will be set up at Mathilakam. Of this, 500 beds will have oxygen facility, said Collector S. Shanavas. Food kits will be distributed to migrant workers. Steps will be taken to open more People’s Canteens. RRTs will bring essential goods to homes at containment zones. ASHA workers should take steps to provide emergency things at homes for COVID patients and those in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/urgent-steps-to-augment-facilities-in-thrissur/article34546725.ece
13 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||11 local bodies in district record TPR of over 50%||There is no let-up in the number of COVID-9 cases in Thrissur. There were 3,994 fresh cases in the district on Wednesday while 2,319 patients recovered from the pandemic. Those who tested positive included 23 health workers. The test positivity rate too remained high as the current TPR of the district is 31.42%. Eleven local bodies in the district recorded a TPR of over 50% on Wednesday. Punnayur panchayat registered the highest test positivity rate of 74.46 %. The other local bodies with high TPR are: Kadangode (64.09); Perinjanam (56.52); Avinissery (60.32); Kattoor (54.76); Mullassery (57.76); Kandanassery (50.76); Puthenchira (54.76); Desamangalam (66.18); Chelakara (5.72); and Edathiruthy (50.60). Active cases in the district are 53,874 and 90 people from the district are undergoing treatment in various other districts. So far, 1,91,788 COVID-19 cases were reported from the district and 1,36,915 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 3,962 people, including 23 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Wednesday. Of them, 583 were above the age of 60 and 289 below 10. In all, 46,832 people were in home care. As many as 12,795 samples were taken for the test on Wednesday. In all 5,94,267 people have taken the first dose of COVID vaccine while 1,56,567 have taken the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-local-bodies-in-district-record-tpr-of-over-50/article34546721.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Decision on cost recovery from flyover builder soon||The State government is soon expected to take a call on recovering the cost of rebuilding the pier caps, girders and slabs of the Palarivattom flyover from RDS Projects, which had constructed the structure that had to be pulled down following cracks. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which entrusted the Kozhikode-based ULCCS with the reconstruction work, had, in addition, strengthened the pillars of the structure by concrete wrapping. Official sources said the reconstruction cost could be recovered from RDS Projects, since the flyover developed cracks on its girders and a few pier caps within a year of its commissioning in 2016. ULCCS was awarded the contract to reconstruct the structure at a cost of Rs. 23 crore in 2020. The initial contract cost was Rs. 19 crore in 2019. The escalation occurred following a year’s delay in commencing the reconstruction work, after contractor bodies approached the High Court seeking a load test on the initial structure before deciding to pull it down. The State government went in appeal before the Supreme Court, which in October 2020 permitted the government to go ahead with its plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decision-on-cost-recovery-from-flyover-builder-soon/article34547077.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rain check||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-check/article34547081.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-time/article34547054.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festive spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festive-spirit/article34547047.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Relief camps in Ernakulam||The district administration has initiated steps to set up relief camps at the village level in view of the possibility of strong winds and heavy rain from Thursday to Saturday. The camps will be arranged in various sections to accommodate senior citizens, those with pandemic symptoms, and persons in quarantine. An official release said that Orange alert had been declared in the district for May 14 and 15. The Collector also ordered steps to mitigate the impact of sea erosion in Chellanam and other coastal areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-camps-in-ernakulam/article34546737.ece
13 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police create ‘green channel’, ensure oxygen reaches GGH on time||When the Government General Hospital and two other hospitals in the city were about to run out of oxygen at 11 a.m. on Wednesday owing to the non-arrival of the cryogenic tanker carrying liquid medical oxygen, Anantapur police personnel ensured timely arrival of a tanker creating a “Green Channel”. The oxygen was loaded into the tanker at Toranagallu oxygen producing unit in Karnataka left at 6 a.m. covering a distance of 150 km in three hours and reached the GGH at 9 a.m. The police ensured the vehicle did not stop anywhere and maintained adequate speed by clearing the traffic in advance. To ensure there was a substitute driver, the police personnel took one with them to the starting point and ensured that food was handed over to those in tanker’s cabin at Vidapanakal. Meanwhile, the Anantapur police began a new initiative of providing medical advice for pre and post COVID-19 management to the police personnel in the district. An expert doctor from the Government Medical College will be present at the Tele Medicine Centre from 7.30 a.m. to 8.30 a.m. every day at the District Police Office and the policemen can dial 6309913653 for clarifications any aspect of the COVID treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-create-green-channel-ensure-oxygen-reaches-ggh-on-time/article34547107.ece
13 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||People donate funds for purchase of oxygen||Over 4,097 individuals and associations have made donations, totalling Rs. 1 crore, for ‘Mission Oxygen’, a programme initiated by Rural Development Trust at Bathalapalli Hospital to overcome the financial challenge in providing oxygen support to at least 85% of its patients. The hospital has been treating 250 COVID patients daily this year . In the wake of financial constraints faced by the hospital in treating patients, the RDT had appealed to the public 15 days ago to make donations under the mission. “The hospital is running at full capacity and more number of people, particularly from the age group of 30-50, have been coming to the hospitals in a serious condition,” explains RDT’s Bathalapalli Hospital Director Praveen. Amid shortage in oxygen supplies, it has been managing with 6 KL LMO storage at the hospital and cylinders donated by charitable organisations. People can join ‘Mission Oxygen’ by visiting https://rdtfvf.org/covid-19/ or over phone- 9440075094.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-donate-funds-for-purchase-of-oxygen/article34547106.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka stalls jabs for 18-44 group||Having run out of vaccine stocks for 45 years and above, the State government on Wednesday announced that vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group (including those who have already booked appointments) will be temporarily suspended in all government vaccination centres from May 14 till further orders. According to an official statement, the State government has decided that the vaccine procured directly by the State for vaccination of persons between 18 and 44 years will now be utilised for vaccination of beneficiaries who are due for the second dose. The State has so far procured a stock of nearly 7 lakh doses of Covishield for the 18-44 age group and more consignments are awaited. “On May 7, the government decided to utilise the complete supply of vaccines provided by the Government of India only for vaccination of persons above 45 years and for vaccinating beneficiaries who were due for second dose,” the statement said. “Therefore, all vaccines available with the State government (i.e. supplied by Government of India and procured directly by the State) will be utilised for vaccination of beneficiaries due for the second dose,” the statement added. Although Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar had on April 30 appealed to people to refrain from visiting vaccination centres from May 1, hinting that the State had no stocks, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa symbolically flagged off the fourth phase of vaccination for the 18-44 age group on May 1. Subsequently, Dr. Sudhakar announced on May 9 that the drive would begin in all government centres from May 10. The demand for vaccination has been high in this age group with 74,105 beneficiaries taking the jab in the last three days. It is estimated that there are about 3.26 crore people in the State in this age group with a requirement of 6.52 crore doses of the vaccine for complete inoculation. The State government has already placed an order for two crore doses of Covishield and one crore doses of Covaxin in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-stalls-jabs-for-18-44-group/article34546422.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka to conduct CET in August||The Common Entrance Test (CET) 2021 for admission to professional courses has been postponed in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. The entrance exam will now be conducted on August 28 and 29, while the Kannada language test will be held on August 30. The test was originally scheduled to be held on July 7 and 8, and the Kannada language test on July 9. In a press release, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA), which conducts the test, said the decision was taken on account of COVID-19 cases rising in the State as well as the State government’s decision to postpone the second pre-university (PU) annual examination. For latest updates, candidates must check the KEA website. Welcomed The decision to postpone the entrance examination has been welcomed by many candidates. Ramesh S., a second PU student, said, “It has been an extremely stressful academic year for us and a prolonged one as well. I want to take two weeks off and later resume my preparations for the entrance examination.” Echoing the views of many PU students, Pooja S., an engineering seat aspirant, said, “We are worried about our health. There is no point in writing the exam if our health is at risk. We are glad that the authorities took the correct decision,” she said. A.H. Ninge Gowda, president of the Karnataka Pre-university College Lecturers’ Association, said that even lecturers were extremely anxious as many had tested positive and some had succumbed to the infection. “Lecturers do not want to venture out to conduct the test given the current situation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-to-conduct-cet-in-august/article34546434.ece
13 May 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Chintoor Agency raises its guard||The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Chintoor) authorities have shut down five weekly shandies in the Chintoor Agency of East Godavari district to contain the spread of COVID-19 along the tri-State borders of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. The weekly shandies in Chintoor Agency are thronged by tribals from neighboring Odisha and Chhattisgarh States where they purchase essential commodities. Speaking to The Hindu , ITDA-Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana said, “Traders of various commodities have been asked to visit the villages in the absence of the weekly shandies. It is mandatory that people returning from Chhattisgarh and Odisha States to Chintoor Agency undergo the COVID-19 test at the borders. Special medical teams are deployed at the State border to prevent the entry of people without undergoing the COVID-19 test.” As of Wednesday, Chintoor Agency has recorded 13 deaths due to COVID-19. The total number of positive cases are 865 reported from the mandals of Chintoor (367 cases), Kunavaram (142), V.R. Puram (132) and Yetapaka (212). “We are running two COVID Care Centres (CCC) at Chintoor and Kunavaram, each with 120-bedded capacity. Nearly 30% of the beds have been occupied at the CCCs. We have 10 hospitals including an Area Hospital and all of them are equipped with oxygen facility. At least eight ambulances are available to shift patients to Rajamahendravaram for critical care treatment,” said Mr. Venkata Ramana. On Wednesday, Backward Classes Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna and East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy inspected the healthcare facilities and vaccination drive in the Chintoor Agency. They are also holding talks with ITDA authorities for setting up a 300-litre capacity oxygen production plant to meet the needs of the Agency hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chintoor-agency-raises-its-guard/article34547143.ece
13 May 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister vows timely help in E.G. Agency||Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Wednesday promised timely healthcare support in the East Godavari Agency to minimise deaths owing to COVID-19. Mr. Gopala Krishna launched COVID vaccination drive and reviewed the steps to guarantee timely healthcare for those infected with COVID-19. “We are prepared to provide every support to be sought by the ITDA-Chintoor and Rampachodavaram authorities in the event of any health emergency. Sufficient ambulances have been attached to the hospitals in the Agency. More ambulances will be given based on the need,” Mr. Gopala Krishna said. The Minister inquired about the food being served to the patients, functioning of COVID Care Centres and vaccination drive in the Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-vows-timely-help-in-eg-agency/article34547140.ece
13 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu NRI doctors join fight against virus||A U.S.-based forum of Telugu NRIs – Telugu Covid Task Force - USA (TCTF-USA) – has come forward to donate essential equipment such as pulse oxymeters, sanitisers, gloves, facemasks, PPE kits, and medicines for the COVID Care Centres (CCCs), besides adopting some of the mandals in Andhra Pradesh. Deputy District Medical and Health Officer P. Ravi Raju told the media on Wednesday that the Boston-based forum, led by Telugu NRI doctors Saraswathi and Rudraraju, had sent the first consignment worth about Rs. 10 lakh and the same was distributed among the CCCs in Tirupati and Nagari. “The forum has promised us to send several such consignments by emergency courier services in the the days to come,” Dr. Ravi Raju said. Mandals adopted The TCTF-USA also adopted five mandals of Vadamalapeta, Puttur, Nagari, Vijayapuram and Nindra in Chittoor district and five mandals of Thondangi, Draksharamam, Injaram, Peddapuram and Annavaram in East Godavari district. “More number of medical personnel of the forum will be joining the fight against COVID-19 in several mandals of the State,” he said. “Members of the U.S. forum, will be in touch with the medical officers overseeing the COVID care operations in these mandals. The required equipment will be supplied to the medical and paramedical staff at the village level in these mandals. In case of critical cases, the medical team of the forum will the local staff through virtual sessions from the U.S.,” Dr. Ravi Raju said. “Donation of pulse oximeters is very crucial as they help in monitoring the condition of patients in home isolation. In the second wave of the pandemic, we are witnessing several patients in home isolation suddenly collapsing due to fall in oxygen levels. We appeal for more such donations,” Dr. Ravi Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-nri-doctors-join-fight-against-virus/article34547119.ece
13 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur GGH set for an overhaul||Collector Vivek Yadav set the ball rolling for a revamp of the oldest teaching hospital in the State — the Government General Hospital, Guntur — by initiating a slew of reforms. In the wake of major incidents at Tirupati and Anantpur, the reforms are expected to bring in change in the administration process and maintenance of the hospital. At the end of an exhaustive review on the functioning of the GGH, the Collector said that triaging should be scaled up and care taken to ensure that beds are allotted to only serious patients who present with symptoms like a drastic drop in SPO2 levels, high fever, and incessant cough. Senior officers would be deputed to supervise admissions and discharges and give daily status reports on the patients, while special officers will monitor the supply of oxygen, pressure and pipelines and conduct a daily audit of oxygen supply. Qualified biomedical engineers will handle sanitation and other officers will handle security. “I urge all doctors and staff to perform their duties with utmost care and urgency and ensure that we have sufficient supply of oxygen. Do not yield to pressure over admissions and refer each case on its merit. Only serious cases should be admitted to the ICU. If the patient shows mild symptoms and is recovering, he or she should be shifted to stepdown ICUs after counselling. It is better to counsel patients on proning positions and breathing exercises and display posters on these exercises,” said Mr. Vivek Yadav. A special drive should be done by Guntur Municipal Corporation at the GGH to get rid of all unwanted furniture, dilapidated vehicles and scrap, he said. The GGH is one of the oldest teaching hospitals in the State with a bed capacity of 1,200, and it is often teeming with patients from Guntur, Krishna, Prakasam and even West Godavari districts. Several new facilities have been added to the hospital over the years, but chinks remain. Lack of proper sanitation, security, biomedical engineering and mechanical engineers to maintain power and generators have ailed the hospital for years. The quality of food too has not improved. The lack of waiting halls at the hospital means that attenders of patients are often found sitting under trees or in the wards along with the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-ggh-set-for-an-overhaul/article34546481.ece
13 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu booked for ‘creating scare’ on COVID strain||A case has been registered against national president N. Chandrababu Naidu at the Arundelpet police station in the Guntur Urban Police District under IPC Sections 188, 505 (1), and 505 (2), and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005, basing on a complaint lodged by P. Anil Kumar, a lawyer. In his complaint late on Tuesday, Mr. Anil Kumar accused Mr. Naidu of trying to “scare people by stating that the COVID-19 strain, N440K, is 15 times more dangerous and the rate at which it spreads is far quicker than the normal variants.” “Mr. Naidu’s statement telecast in various channels has caused great agony and pain to the people,” he alleged. Stating that the CCMB had made it clear that the variant was not dangerous, Mr. Anil Kumar said the statements of Mr. Naidu were “intended to create panic among people.” The statements were in violation of the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Station House Officer D. Naresh Kumar said a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-booked-for-creating-scare-on-covid-strain/article34547120.ece
13 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyderabad streets deserted by 11 a.m.||It was a storm before the calm in Hyderabad on Wednesday as shops opened before the 6 a.m. lockdown time and shut down by 10 a.m. By 11 a.m, it was deserted streets, children cycling on main thoroughfares, gully cricket, police pickets, queues outside food kitchens, and delivery executives waiting outside half-shuttered shops before racing to deliver food. “We are not being stopped. The number of orders are fewer as all the restaurants were not functioning. We have to pick up the order from the rear and we are figuring that out,” said a delivery executive in Mehdipatnam waiting for getting orders. The number of restaurants on food-delivery apps dipped from a few hundred to under a dozen on Wednesday. Fruit vendors who tried to hawk their wares beyond the 10 a.m. deadline too were shooed away by the police when they tried to get onto the main roads. Police officials checked the documents of people travelling within the city. Citizens who could show their certificate of first vaccination shot were allowed to travel to the PHCs and hospitals for their second shot. “They are carefully checking the documents before letting people pass. If someone is not able to produce documents they were asked to go back where they come from,” said a government employee travelling to her office from Nalanda Colony to Secretariat. The impact of the lockdown was more mellow than the first lockdown, as the shops stayed open between 5 a.m. and 11 a.m. allowing people to shop for their daily needs. However, many of the supermarkets and vegetable outlets had a run and the shelves were stripped bare by 9 a.m. “During the earlier lockdown we gave free food for both lunch and dinner. There were days when 1,500-1,600 people had food. Today we had 120 people having lunch for which they had to pay,” said Srikar, who was manning the Annapurna food outlet near Lakdi-ka-Pul. “The number of people who came to have lunch here has dipped. Today we had 300 people who came to have the lunch here,” said Bablu, who runs the Annapurna food outlet near Attapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hyderabad-streets-deserted-by-11-am/article34546424.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Professional land grabbing gang busted||Cyberabad police on Wednesday busted a gang of professional land grabbers by arresting nine of its members. Several incriminating documents like fraudulently executed General Power of Attorney (GPA) document, forged sale deed, certified sale deed of an open plot in Tellapur were seized from the arrested persons. The prime accused in the case Mukesh Agarwal, 42, of Dharam Karam road, secured an order from the court not to arrest him, Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar told a press conference. Four other accused Shaik Mansoor, 30, Syed Feroz, 34, Dantham Rajesh Kumar, 30, and Md. Pasha, 40, were absconding. Mr. Sajjanar said the accused were into real estate business. They were facing financial difficulties and so decided to come out of the crisis by selling plots of others using forged documents. For this, they decided to identify open plots having good market value and secure certified copies of the sale deeds of the plots. The gang thus identified an open plot No. 131 in Tellapur Residential complex of Tellapur village in Sangareddy district. A member of the gang secured the certified copy of the plot’s sale deed. Using details like names of vendors and vendee mentioned in the certified copy, they prepared a forged sale deed looking like an original one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/professional-land-grabbing-gang-busted/article34547114.ece
13 May 2021||hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||KTR: Govt. in talks with vaccine manufacturers||Asserting that there was no scarcity of medical essentials relating to home isolation kits being provide free of cost to people, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said the State had stocks of Remdesivir and other medicines to meet current requirements even as steps had been initiated to secure additional quantities of essential medicines. Discussions were on with manufacturers of the vaccine and other medicines required for treating Coronavirus (Covid-19) patients and the government was trying to ensure effective coordination in getting adequate quantities to meet the requirements. Mr. Rama Rao spoke to reporters after chairing a meeting of the task force constituted on Covid-19, which was attended by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials. He said the meeting discussed the existing situation, including availability of medicines, bed strength and other infrastructure-related issues. There were more than 92 lakh people above 45 years in the State, of which, 38 lakh had already availed of the first dose of the vaccine. Close to 10 lakh people, including frontline warriors, were administered two doses of vaccination so far and the administering vaccine was progressing at a brisk pace. There was no shortage of home treatment kits that were being provided to people as part of the door-to-door survey under way while the government was assessing the use of oxygen as well as doses of injections available. “More than 60 lakh households have been surveyed so far as part of the survey, which is yielding fruitful results,” he said. The government had resolved to monitor the use of oxygen by government as well as private hospitals and details of injections and other medical essentials that were being used were being collected on a daily basis. Availability and use of medicine like Tocilizumab was also being assessed by officials while the government was constantly monitoring the reports related to black fungus. He lamented that an audit of oxygen revealed that private hospitals were using more oxygen than that was required while they were also procuring drugs in quantities over and the above the requirements. This was leading to artificial scarcity and the government was committed to avoiding such a situation. The director of public health had been in constant touch with private hospitals in this regard advising them to utilize only prescribed quantities of medical essentials. He said the task force met for the first time on Wednesday and it would meet regularly henceforth. It was resolved to hold discussions with manufacturers of vaccine and medicine essentials in the coming days to ensure that the State met its requirements. The task force, he said, received suggestions on setting up a single helpline number across the State and steps had been initiated in this direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-in-talks-with-vaccine-medicine-manufacturers-ktr/article34547037.ece
13 May 2021||Idukki,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Soumya was on video call with husband when she was killed’||Keerithodu, a little-known village near the district headquarters at Cheruthoni, on Wednesday mourned the unexpected death of Soumya Santhosh (32) in a mortar shell attack at Ashkelon on the border with Gaza in Israel on Tuesday evening. According to her husband Santhosh, Soumya had decided to quit her job as a housemaid in Israel and wanted to settle in Keerithodu. Soumya’s family had been in a shock since they heard that she was killed in the mortar attack. Mr. Santhosh’s brother Saji, who resides at Keerithode, told The Hindu that the shell fell on Soumya while she was talking to her husband. She told him that she was in the grip of fear as intermittent mortar shells from Hamas in Gaza were pounding the residential area in Israel. Soumya said she would soon move to the bunker inside the house for safety and would not know when she could speak to him again. Then the mortar shell fell and her voice was cut. What Mr. Santhosh could see on video was only the smoke billowing out and soon the video was cut. He anxiously waited for information from the spot and contacted his sister Sherly who was also working near Ashkelon. She made some enquiries and informed him that Soumya had died in the attack. Return postponed Soumya was working as a housemaid caring for an old woman at Ashkelon. She had visited Keerithode one-and-a-half-years ago after moving to Israel 10 years ago. She had planned to come home last year, but postponed the trip due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Saji said his sisters were still there and were waiting for official information on the incident and efforts were on to bring her body back. Mr. Santhosh and Soumya’s nine-year-old son Adon reside at Keerithode. Soumya had her schooling at Sree Narayana High School, Keerithode. Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose said that he had written a letter to the Union Foreign Affairs Ministry to speed up the process of bringing the body back. The officials assured that they would take necessary steps to bring the body to her native place as early as possible, he said. ‘Ensure safety’ Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has requested the Central government to ensure the safety of India citizens in Israel. In a Facebook post, Union Minister of State External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the Indian Embassy in Israel had received the body of Soumya Santhosh from local authorities. He said efforts were afoot to bring the body home at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/soumya-was-on-video-call-with-husband-when-she-was-killed/article34546425.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Unjust to delay solatium for air crash passengers’||Observing that it would be unjust to prolong the processing of claims, the Kerala High Court has directed Air India Express (AIE) to make offer of compensations to passengers injured in the Karipur air crash as expeditiously as possible. Justice N. Nagaresh issued the directive while disposing of a writ petition filed by Muhammed Musthafa and seven other passengers who were injured in the crash at the Karipur International Airport, Kozhikode on August 7, 2020. As many as 20 people, including two cabin crew were killed when the Air India Express flight from Dubai skidded off the runway and fell into a 35-ft gorge before breaking into two. The petitioner contended that they had incurred huge amount for treatment. In fact, most of the passengers had suffered physical disability apart from mental trauma. They should, therefore, be adequately compensated. However, no compensation had been offered to the petitioners as yet. The petitioners said Rules 17 to 71 of Schedule 3 of the Carriage by Air Act, 1972 provided for a two-tier liability regime. The AIE submitted that all the claims made by the petitioners were under process and the company was making every attempt to pay just and fair compensation to all the injured passengers. The compensation offer would be made to all the petitioners soon, it said. Disposing of the petition, the court observed “it has to be noted that the flight crash occurred on August 7, 2020 and about nine months have lapsed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unjust-to-delay-solatium-for-air-crash-passengers/article34546427.ece
13 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool Collector tests positive for COVID||Kurnool District Collector G. Veerapandian has tested positive for COVID-19 and is undergoing treatment at home, according to a statement released by him on Wednesday. Mr. Veerapandian has advised all the officers and people who had come in contact with him in the past three days to get themselves tested immediately and isolate themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-collector-tests-positive-for-covid/article34547108.ece
13 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 tonnes of oxygen sought from T.N. as virus rips through coastal A.P.||Coronavirus continued to rage with full fury in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh claiming the lives of 12 more patients and infecting close to 2,900 persons in a span of 24 hours. The virus showed no signs of loosening its vice-like grip as the active cases rose to a new high of little over 32,500 in the region, including 16,500-plus cases in SPSR Nellore district, in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. No day passed without deaths in double digits in the region where the toll rose to 1,368 with SPSR Nellore district accounting for eight deaths and Prakasam district for four deaths during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Meanwhile, 1,500 patients, including 906 in SPSR Nellore district, recovered during the period. However, the number of persons getting infected was higher by 1,400 when compared to those getting cured in the region. Review meeting Holding a maiden review meet in Nellore after recovering from COVID, State Industries Minister Goutham Reddy said he had taken up with his Tamil Nadu counterpart Thangam Thennarasu the urgent need for six tonnes of oxygen to augment its availability in Nellore. Special Chief Secretary to State Government R. Karikal Valaven was taking all steps to meet the increasing demand for oxygen, the Minister said. SPSR Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said that JSW in Bellary had offered to provide 12 tonnes of oxygen to the district. He said there was no shortage of essential medicines, including Remdesivir. The Minister directed the officials to ensure that the vaccination drive is undertaken from two places in each mandal, at spacious school buildings instead of congested public health centres. Medical kits donated In Ongole, Indian Red Cross Society Prakasam district chairman handed over 50 medical kits to Additional Superintendent of Police B. Ravichandra to treat increasing COVID patients among police personnel at the grassroots level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-tonnes-of-oxygen-sought-from-tn-as-virus-rips-through-coastal-ap/article34547112.ece
13 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic hits blood donations in Prakasam||Summer is when blood banks in Prakasam district usually face a shortage of blood. But this time, with the pandemic raging in the country, the situation has worsened leaving the health professionals worried. Curfew adds to the woes Blood banks depend heavily on members of GenX who volunteer to do the needful and offer a new lease of life to critical patients. Organising blood donation camps in colleges was one way through which NGOs got donors. However, with all degree and engineering colleges shutting down and many leaving for their hometowns, the important source of blood is now unavailable. With the partial curfew in force in the State, NGOs are finding it difficult to organise camps to rope in other sections of the society. The health staff, clueless on meeting the ever-increasing demand for blood to attend to trauma and other emergency cases, have no option but to postpone all elective surgeries. ‘Grave crisis’ “The IRCS blood bank has had zero stocks in the last 10 days. We did not face such a severe shortage even during the first wave of coronavirus,” Indian Red Cross Society Prakasam unit Chairman P. P. Prakash Babu said while taking stock of the situation. On top of that, with those falling in the 18-45 age group set to receive vaccine in the next few days, the shortage is only going to be accentuated. Youngsters, who just received the second dose of vaccine, have to wait for 28 before donating blood, he said in a conversation with The Hindu . “The demand for safe blood for patients is in the range of 150 to 200 units per month in the district headquarters alone,” he explained. The situation is no different at other blood banks in the district. “Even if relatives are ready to pay a hefty fee, there is no blood. Relatives of those requiring blood for complex surgeries run from one blood bank to another and get it in many cases only after arranging for replacement,” he said. The long-awaited automated blood component separator has not seen the light of the day. Though Rs. 80 lakh has been promised by the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation as part of its corporate social responsibility, the facility has not materialised yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-hits-blood-donations-in-prakasam/article34547110.ece
13 May 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Air pollution from crematorium irks residents of Gnanapuram||Residents of Gnanapuram in Visakhapatnam have been complaining about pollution problems due to the burning of a large number of bodies at the Chavulamadum crematorium. They say that daily about 60 to 70 bodies are being cremated, of which 10 to 11 are being cremated in the electric crematorium. Corporator of ward 41, Kodigudla Purnima, said the capacity of the crematorium was around 15 to 17 bodies a day. “And when we talk of capacity, they include space, infrastructure and manpower. But at present about 60 bodies are being lit in the traditional form with firewood and around 10 are being sent to the electric crematorium and this has been the scenario at least for the past 15 days,” she said. Smoke and fine ash from the funeral pyres were engulfing the area and there was also emission of thick black smoke from the electric crematorium. It appeared that the scrubbers were not functioning in the electric one, she added. With the residents claiming that they are witness to at least 50 to 60 bodies wrapped in plastic body bags, according to the COVID-19 protocol, being brought to the crematorium on a daily basis, a question arises from where they are coming. The district is reporting only 8 to 12 COVID-19 deaths, while the body count at the crematorium is at least five to six times higher. Whether the death count due to the COVID-19 is being underplayed, asks the corporator. A senior engineer from the GVMC confirmed that the crematorium has been receiving a huge number of bodies, which is much more than its capacity. When contacted, Health Department officials said the body count at the crematorium included those who had died of natural causes, accidents etc. But even then the count looks abnormal, said Joseph Betha, a senior advocate and resident of Gnanapuram. According to a GVMC official, as per the direction of the government, all COVID-related bodies are to be brought to one crematorium and Chavulamadum has been identified as the one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/air-pollution-from-crematorium-irks-residents-of-gnanapuram/article34547135.ece
13 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala woman killed in rocket attack on Israel||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muralidharan confirmed early on Wednesday that a Keralite woman was killed in a rocket attack on Ashkelon, near Israel’s border with Gaza. The deceased was identified as Soumya Santosh, a resident of Keerithodu in Idukki district. She was working in the coastal city as a housemaid. Her neighbourhood had come under rocket attack from militants in Gaza. The fighting between Israel and Palestinians has intensified recently. Mr. Muralidharan tweeted: “Spoke with the family of Ms. Soumya Santosh to convey my deep condolences at her tragic demise during the rocket attacks from Gaza today. Assured all possible assistance.” Embassy receives body Ms. Soumya’s husband Santosh and their son survive her. Some television channels reported that she was employed as a caretaker in an Israeli household since 2014. In a separate post on Facebook, Mr. Muraleedharan said the Indian Embassy in Israel had received the body of Soumya Santosh from the local authorities. The Minister said efforts were afoot to bring the body home at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-woman-killed-in-rocket-attack-on-israel/article34546421.ece
13 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala hits a new high of over 43,500 cases||Kerala hit multiple new highs in the pandemic on Wednesday, with the highest single day spike of 43,529 cases and test positivity rate (TPR) at a record 29.75% for 1,46,320 samples. Public health experts hoped to see cases peak by May 15 and for daily cases to stabilise at 30,000-35,000. On Wednesday, the State added a record 95 deaths. Kozhikode reported 24 deaths, Thrissur 20, Ernakulam 17, Thiruvananthapuram 14, Kottayam 11, Malappuram five while Alappuzha reported four deaths. The State had 4,32,789 active cases. COVID patients in hospital rose to 34,436 with 3,593 new admissions. Ernakulam had the highest number of active cases at 67,180 and new cases at 6,410. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 39,998 new cases, 16,286 of them from Bengaluru Urban. With 517 deaths, the toll rose to 20,368. The daily TPR stood at 29.67%. Meanwhile, on the third day after vaccination for the 18-44 age group began, 70,371 beneficiaries took the jab. With the State running out of vaccine, most vaccination centres put up “no vaccine stock” boards for the 45 years plus group for the first dose. Many, who had registered too returned without taking the jab. Andhra Pradesh reported 89 deaths and 21,452 new infections on Wednesday.The TPR of 90,750 samples was 23.64%. Visakhapatnam reported 11 new deaths, East Godavari, Krishna and Vizianagaram nine each, Chittoor, Guntur and Nellore eight each, Srikakulam seven, Anantapur six, Kurnool five, Prakasam four, West Godavari three and Kadapa two deaths. East Godavari reported close to 3,000 new infections. In Telangana, testing remained largely unchanged on the first day of a 10-day lockdown. On Wednesday, 69,525 people were tested. The State reported 4,723 fresh cases and 31 more deaths. Greater Hyderabad accounted for the most number of new cases at 745.                               (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Hyderabad bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-hits-a-new-high-of-over-43500-cases/article34546437.ece
13 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala, Lakshadweep brace for heavy rainfall from today||Kerala and the Lakshadweep Islands should brace for heavy to very heavy rainfall from Thursday onwards, indicated a Wednesday evening weather update by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD has also upgraded the alert levels for the two regions. The Lakshadweep Islands have been put on red alert on Friday and Saturday given the possibility of extremely heavy rainfall and on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Sunday. The IMD has warned that a low pressure area likely to take shape in the Arabian Sea by Friday is expected to become a depression by Saturday and brew into a cyclonic storm by Sunday over east-central Arabian Sea. Under its influence, heavy rainfall is likely over Kerala and the Lakshadweep islands over the next few days. The islands and seven southern districts of Kerala - Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki - are on yellow alert on Thursday for isolated heavy rainfall. Orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall has been issued for Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki and Thrissur on Friday, while Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram are on yellow alert. Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki and Thrissur are on orange alert on Saturday. The remaining districts can expect isolated heavy rainfall. The IMD has put Kannur and Kasaragod districts on orange alert on Sunday and the southern districts on yellow alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-lakshadweep-brace-for-heavy-rainfall-from-today/article34546429.ece
13 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD allows devotees to change date of darshan||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Wednesday resolved to allow the devotees to change their scheduled date of darshan at the Lord Venkateswara temple. The decision was taken in view of the rapid spike in coronavirus infections. Devotees who have booked their darshan tickets online between April 21 and May 31 can modify their scheduled date of darshan to any day before the year end. The TTD has brought down the issuance of online darshan tickets from 25,000 to 15,000 a day since May 1. Despite the availability of about 1,65,000 online darshan tickets, a meagre of 68,864 pilgrims visited the hill shrine during the past 11 days. Only 2,262 devotees visited the temple on Tuesday when compared to the per day average of more than 75,000. The highest footfall was recorded on May 2 when 10,824 devotees had darshan of the deity. The low turnout of devotees has a telling effect on the collection from the temple hundi. The average collection per day has come down to Rs. 11 lakh when compared to more than Rs. 2.75 crore in the pre-pandemic period. According to data available with the TTD, the hundi has generated a revenue of only Rs. 4.36 crore since the beginning of the month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-allows-devotees-to-change-date-of-darshan/article34547122.ece
13 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Authorities fudging number of deaths at Ruia’||Two days after the death of 11 COVID patients at the SVR Ruia Government Hospital owing to the reported disruption in oxygen supply, the opposition parties have accused the authorities of not releasing the actual number of fatalities. BJP leaders submitted a representation to the government through Chittoor Collector, demanding a judicial probe into the tragedy, apart from a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to the kin of the deceased. In the memorandum submitted to Revenue Divisional Officer Kanaka Narasa Reddy on Wednesday, they alleged that the authorities had fudged the death figures . ‘Make records public’ BJP State spokespersons G. Bhanuprakash Reddy pointed out that Chittoor president of BJP Dalit Morcha T.S. Rama Rao, who was undergoing treatment at the hospital, had been declared dead officially, but his name was not mentioned in the list of victims. “The State government is lying. The statement that only eleven people had died in the tragedy is far from the truth. The death number is being fudged to safeguard the government,” charged Telugu Desam Party (TDP) State spokesperson N.B. Sudhakar Reddy. He demanded that the authorities make the hospital records public. Telugu Yuvatha leader A. Ravi Naidu also took out a candle light rally. Congress Working Committee (CWC) member P. Chinta Mohan claimed that the hospital had admitted more patients than its full capacity. “The inexperienced administrators are to blame for the tragedy,” he said. CPI national Secretary K. Narayana claimed that 23 patients died in the mishap. “When we even have the names, how can you hide the facts under the carpet?,” he asked, while showing a list of names. TDP senior leader P.R. Mohan has filed a complaint at the Alipiri police station on Wednesday, demanding action against the SVR Ruia government hospital authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/authorities-fudging-number-of-deaths-at-ruia/article34547124.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan calls for steps to improve varsities’ ranking at national level||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday directed officials of the Department of Higher Education to draw an action plan to improve the quality of education in the universities and ensure that they are in the top position in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). Reviewing the key issues in the higher education sector, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked them to raise the standards of the IIITs in the State to the level of IITs. He asked the officials to work on an action plan to improve the affairs in the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological Universities in Kakinada and Anantapur, Andhra University, Sri Venkateswara University and Padmavathi Mahila University, along with the IIITs, and submit proposals for fund allocation. Pointing to the fact that Andhra University and S.V. University were in the 19th and 38th positions respectively in the NIRF, the Chief Minister wanted the officials to focus on measures to improve the rankings in the next two years. “Study the policies of the universities with top rankings and replicate them in the State with focus on development of infrastructure, pedagogy, quality teaching staff and other key issues,” he said, emphasising that talent should be given precedence. Partnerships with top universities abroad to help children gain academic exposure should also be explored actively, he said. The Chief Minister accused the TDP government of neglecting the IIITs by diverting more than Rs. 180 crore meant for their development for other purposes. Stating that the current strength of students in these institutions was 22,946, he directed the officials to complete the ongoing construction of the IIITs in Srikakulam and Ongole. He also wanted that good business and engineering courses be introduced in these institutions. Medical colleges The Chief Minister said, besides the existing 11 medical colleges, 16 new ones were coming up in the State, and this would increase the number of medical seats substantially. He said 70% seats would be offered under the convener quota, while the remaining would be in the management quota. He went on to add that increase in the number of seats would facilitate students from the economically backward sections to pursue medical education. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the education and health sectors were top priorities of his government, and it would not compromise on quality at any level. He said his government was in favour of reforms and, if necessary, related Bills would be tabled in the next Assembly session. Education Minister A. Suresh, Special Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Satish Chandra, Secretary, Finance, N. Gulzar, A.P. State Council of Higher Education Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy, and Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies K.C. Reddy attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-steps-to-improve-ranking-of-varsities/article34546431.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps taken to ramp up oxygen storage capacity to 600 tonnes: Health Minister||Minister of Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has said that steps have been taken to increase the oxygen storage capacity from the existing 517 tonnes to 600 tonnes to ensure its timely supply to the hospitals. Monitoring cells were being set up in all the hospitals to prevent wastage of oxygen and disruptions in its supply, which led to the death of many COVID-19 patients in the State, Mr. Srinivas told the media after a meeting of the Cabinet Sub-Committee on COVID-19 organised at the APIIC headquarters at Mangalagiri on Wednesday. The District Collectors had been instructed to get the condition of oxygen pipelines checked from time to time to avert leakages. Mr. Srinivas said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had requested the Centre to despatch 910 tonnes of oxygen to meet the demand. “Of the 49 new oxygen plants for which clearance has been given, some have already started production,” he said. “The government is trying its best to administer vaccine to the people free of cost. We stood as a model for others by distributing 60 lakh vaccines in a single day,” the Minister claimed. Mr. Srinivas said priority was accorded to check black marketing of Remdesivir injections. A task force had been set up for the purpose. Kits needed by patients in home isolation were being supplied as per guidelines, and the number of beds was being increased as the pandemic continued to spread, he added. Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu said ambulances bound for Telangana were not being stopped at the borders, and over 15,000 beds were provided at the COIVD Care Centres. He cautioned people against believing in rumours that COIVD-19 could be prevented by applying cow dung or by putting onion juice in the nose. “The ideal course of action is to consult doctors to ascertain whether a particular symptom is that of COVID-19 or not,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-taken-to-ramp-up-oxygen-storage-capacity-to-600-tonnes-health-minister/article34547129.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spend Ways and Means Advance on COVID fight only, Yanamala tells govt.||TDP politburo member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has suggested the State government to utilise the Ways and Means Advance (WMA) only to fund the expenditure incurred in the fight the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. In a statement on Wednesday, the former Finance Minister said that there were reports that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had permitted the State government to borrow Rs. 2,146 crore additionally as Ways and Means Advance. “The government must to utilise the amount for the management of pandemic situation instead of spending it on other purposes,” said Mr. Ramakrishnudu. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Cabinet colleagues were claiming that Rs. 87,000 crore had ben spent on the public welfare during the last two years. The TDP, when in power, had spent Rs. 1 lakh crore on public welfare, but did not hike taxes. “Now, every family is shouldering a burden of Rs. 2.5 lakh owing to the taxes and debts availed by the YSRCP government,” he claimed. Alleging that the YSRCP government is neck-deep in corruption, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said Rs. 6,500 crore was ‘looted’ in the name of cent patta and 10,000 acres of assigned lands were snatched away from the Dalits. “A scam of Rs. 307 crore in purchase of ambulances was reported. On one hand, the government is spending Rs. 14,000 crore on the Amma Vodi scheme and on the other, it is pocketing Rs. 36,000 crore from excise revenue. Hike in diesel price and fines imposed on drivers is a drain of Rs. 30,000 crore of public money, while the government is paying a meagre Rs. 10,000 crore under the Vahana Mitra scheme,” he said. Mr. Ramakrishnudu alleged that farmers were deprived of benefits by scrapping the Annadata Sukhibhava scheme. The farmers used to get Rs. 15,000 under that scheme, whereas only Rs. 7,500 is being paid to them under the Rythu Bharosa scheme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spend-ways-and-means-advance-on-covid-fight-only-yanamala-tells-govt/article34547126.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC to hear PIL on vaccine supply tomorrow||Reflecting the State government’s claim that certain anomalies in the Central government’s policy is hampering its COVID-19 vaccination drive, P. Subrahmanya Sastry, a Guntur-based paediatrician, has filed a PIL in the Andhra Pradesh High Court, appealing for a direction to the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to supply the vaccines directly without being hindered by the policy framework of the Union of India. The petition is scheduled to come up for hearing by a Vacation Bench on May 14. Dr. Sastry also prayed for a direction to the Union government to deregulate the supply of essential drugs such as Remdesivir to enable the State government to procure them from the manufacturers, or instruct the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and the Department of Pharmaceuticals to allocate sufficient number of vials of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, and to ensure the supply of 700 tonnes of oxygen per day keeping in view the anticipated increase in the COVID-19 infections. In his PIL, Dr. Sastry said the quantity and date of supply of vaccines to the States was under the firm control of the Central government, as a result of which the States were unable to procure the vaccines from the manufacturers in spite of their financial preparedness and readiness in terms of transportation and storage. ‘Disparity’ The State’s vaccination drive in two categories (people older than 45 years, to which priority is given, and those aged between 18 and 45) cannot be completed if the Centre continued to call the shots in the allocation of vaccines, the petitioner observed. Dr. Sastry argued that the allotment of essential drugs to the States was disproportionate to the respective caseloads. He said Gujarat, which had about 1,46,500 active cases last week, got approximately 4.19 lakh Remdesivir vials against 2.35 lakh allotted to A.P. for nearly 1.87 lakh active cases. “As far as oxygen availability is concerned, A.P. has a clear shortfall of 200 tonnes out of the total 428 tonnes allotted by the Centre,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-to-hear-pil-on-vaccine-supply-tomorrow/article34547130.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP blames YSRCP MLC for Kadapa quarry blast||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLC Mareddy Ravindranath Reddy has blamed his YSRCP counterpart C. Ramachandraiah and his wife Kasturibai for the blast in a quarry in Kadapa that claimed 10 lives. Addressing the media conference on Wednesday, Mr. Ravindranath Reddy (B.Tech Ravi) said that the government was taking a lenient view even though Mr. Ramachandraiah’s wife holds the main lease for the Mamillapalli quarries. “How can the YSRCP MLC now say that his family is not accountable for the blast as they have given the quarries on a sub-lease?” he asked. The TDP MLC also alleged that the police were looking for lame excuses to let go of Mr. Ramachandraiah’s family of the hook. “It is time the YSRCP government cleared the air as to why only the sub-lease holders were arrested while the main lease holders were let scot-free. There is proof that Mr. Ramachandraiah’s wife holds the main lease of the quarries for 2021 and 2022. ‘Will file case’ The TDP will file a private case in the court if the government does not take action against the main lease holders, the opposition leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-blames-ysrcp-mlc-for-kadapa-quarry-blast/article34547113.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 permanent vaccine sites set up across city||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said that 12 permanent vaccination centres have been set up across the city to provide the second dose of the Covishield vaccine to 6,000 persons daily from Thursday. Mr. Venkatesh conducted a meeting with all officials and Ward Secretariat staff here on Wednesday. The Commissioner said that 100 doses per slot will be administered and there will be five 2-hour slots at every centre. He added that only people with slips given to them by ward secretariats through local volunteers a couple of days before the date of second dose of vaccination will be allowed at the centres. Vaccination will be available only at the permanent vaccine centres in the city, he said. The centres are located at KBN College (for wards 37, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54 and 55), Shadhikhana, Bhavanipuram (wards 38, 39, 40 and 41), Kowtha Subbarao Municipal School, Poornanandapet (wards 32, 34, 35, 56), MLC MC Elementary Schol, Old HB Colony (42, 43, 44, 45), Rajiv Nagaar CHC (61, 62, 63, 64), AKTPM High School, SN Puram (23, 24, 25, 27, 33, 35), MK Baig Municipal High School, Singh Nagar (57, 58, 59, 60), Sadgathi Vidyanikethan, Madhuranagar (28, 29, 30, 31), GDET School, Patamata (4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14), APSRM High School, Krishnalanka (19, 20, 21, 22), Sample Building, Ranigarithota (15, 16, 17, 18) and Bishop Grassi High School, Gunadala (1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 26).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-permanent-vaccine-sites-set-up-across-city/article34546477.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. has not set its priorities right: TDP||TDP leader Nakka Ananda Babu has accused the State government of not having its priorities right in the pandemic times. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Mr. Ananda Babu asked the YSRCP government not to boast of spending thousands of crores on welfare programmes, but focus on providing oxygen and other medical facilities to the COVID-19 patients. “People are worried more about saving their lives. They are asking for oxygen and not Amma Vodi. They are waiting for hospital beds and not Vasathi Deevena benefits,” the former Minister said. “Their immediate need is health and not the Nadu-Nedu promises. What is the use of door delivery of ration when people are losing their lives due to lack of vaccines? Instead of finding ways to buy vaccines, the YSRCP government is focusing on spending on publicity and advertisements,” the TDP leader alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-has-not-set-its-priorities-right-tdp/article34546482.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to COVID victims||Leaders of Opposition parties on Wednesday paid tributes to people who had contracted the COVID-19 virus and died due to shortage of oxygen supply. Party leaders from the TDP, Congress, and Left parties lit candles at their homes and paid homage to the victims. A.P. Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath alleged that thousands of people had lost their lives due to the mishandling of the pandemic by the Centre and the State governments. Acute shortage of oxygen supply was resulting in deaths of hapless virus victims while the governments were trying to shirk responsibility by merely announcing ex gratia to the victims’ families, he said. The Congress leader said governments should take effective measures at least now to prevent further deaths by ensuring adequate supply of oxygen, hospital beds and medicines. The party’s working presidents N. Thulasi Reddy and Mastan Vali paid tributes to the COVID victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-covid-victims/article34546484.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buy vaccines at earliest, BJP urges State govt.||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pathuri Nagabhushanam, who was appointed in-charge of the party’s COVID-19 cell for Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and East and West Godavari districts, demanded that the State government immediately procure vaccines by paying an estimated Rs. 1,600 crore in advance. “For a government that spent Rs. 85,000 crore on welfare schemes in the last two years, purchasing the much-needed vaccines at a cost of Rs. 1,600 crore should not be an issue,” he said. Addressing reporters here on Wednesday, Mr. Nagabhushanam said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had given a commitment of administering the COVID vaccine to three crore people aged between 18 and 45 free of cost, but now seemed to be content with only writing letters to the Prime Minister instead of taking concrete action even as a huge number of people aged above 45 who had taken their first dose were struggling to get the second one. ‘Centre doing all it can’ Mr. Nagabhushanam insisted that the government take urgent steps to improve the functioning of the 104 helpline to help those in distress, and close wine shops which he said were contributing to a rapid spread of the pandemic. “The Centre is doing all it can — supplying medicines, vaccines, injections and oxygen — to help the States in tiding over the crisis,” Mr. Nagabhushanam said. “On their part, people should break the chain of transmission by staying indoors and following COVID protocols,” Mr. Nagabhushanam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-advance-of-rs-1600-cr-and-buy-vaccine-bjp-urges-govt/article34546485.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No fish markets on Sundays||VMC officials have said that fish markets in the city will be closed every Sunday hereafter as a precaution against COVID spread on Wednesday. Veterinary Assistant Surgeon Ravichand, in a release, said all the fish markets were ordered to close and no sale of fish will be allowed in and around them on Sunday. He said the sale of fish at open places, colonies and door to door vendors would be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-fish-markets-on-sundays/article34546478.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free service at VMC crematoria||Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi said that cremation of COVID victims will be carried out for free at VMC-run gas and electricity based crematoria. Ms. Lakshmi along with VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh reviewed arrangements on Wednesday. They said that people could avail themselves of the service without making any payment. VMC is running Bramarambapuram Swargapuri electric crematorium at Krishnalanka. In addition, it has taken over Muthavarapu Venkateswara Rao crematorium with gas facility. A crematorium at Ajith Singh Nagar would be opened on May 14, and one at Bhavanipuram was being built, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-service-at-vmc-crematoria/article34546479.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu lauds nurses for COVID duties||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday lauded nurses for working with courage and dedication to save the lives of people in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Naidu recalled how the nurses were risking their lives to extend selfless service to the patients. With the second wave causing an unprecedented health crisis, the nurses were discharging their services bravely, he said. In a statement on Wednesday, the TDP chief extended his greetings to the nurses on the occasion of International Nurses Day being celebrated all over the world. “It would not be possible for anyone to extend such matchless services and make supreme sacrifices like the nurses are doing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-lauds-nurses-for-covid-duties/article34546483.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID treatment: nine more hospitals booked in State||COVID hospital flying squads comprising Vigilance and Enforcement, Drug Control Administration and Health department officials registered criminal cases against nine more hospitals in the State on Tuesday and Wednesday on charges of various violations in treating COVID patients. According to a release from the Vigilance and Enforcement department, the hospitals booked include Chaitra Hospital, Eluru; Asha Hospital, Anantapur; SR Hospital, Anil Nirukonda Hospital and Ramya Hospital of Visakhapatnam; Achuta Enclave and Sriram Hospital of Vijayawada; Viswas Hospital, Guntur, and Dr. Prasad Hospital, Chittoor. Most of them were booked for overcharging patients beyond the rates prescribed by the government. A total of 15 hospitals were raided. So far, 37 hospitals were booked for various violations in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-treatment-nine-more-hospitals-booked-in-state/article34547105.ece
13 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 5,620 cr. for Rythu Bharosa, crop insurance||The government accorded permission to the Commissioner and Director of Agriculture for payment of Rs. 3,030 crore towards the first instalment of the Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan . The amount will be credited into the bank accounts of beneficiaries on May 13,said a G.O. issued by Special Chief Secretary (agriculture and cooperation) Poonam Malakondaiah. In another G.O., the government ordered the initiation of the payment of YSR Free Crop Insurance claims for the kharif season last year on May 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-5620-cr-for-rythu-bharosa-crop-insurance/article34547128.ece
13 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three arrested on theft charge||The city police cracked the house break-in that occurred at the house of Ganta Sai Pujitha, daughter of former Minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao, after arresting three persons here on Wednesday. The arrested were identified as Pendurthi Gowrish alias Raju, of Gopalapatnam, Putta Bharath kumar, Town Hall area, I Town, and Kommuri Veerabhadrarao, Kurupam Market, who was the receiver of the stolen property. The theft occurred at the villa belonging to Ms. Pujitha at Rushikonda, when she and her family members were away for a day, on January 10, this year. Valuables, including gold ornaments and diamonds rings, worth around Rs. 4.62 lakh, were stolen. The stolen property worth around Rs. 4.49 lakh has been recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-arrested-on-theft-charge/article34547138.ece
13 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second dose of Covishield today||The second dose of Covishield vaccine will be made available at the Primary Health Centres and Community Health Centres at Anandapuram, Anantagiri, Atchutapuram, Butchayyapeta, Cheedikada, Chintapalli Chouduwada, G. Madugula, Golugonda, GK Veedhi, Hukumpeta, KJ Puram, Kasimkota, KD Peta, KV Puram, Makavarapalem, Munagapaka, Munchingput, Nathavaram, Paderu, Payakaraopeta, Pedabayalu, Penugollu, R. Tallavasa, Rambilli, Ravikamatham, Revidi, Sabbavaram, Vemulapudi, Araku, Devarapalle, Dumbriguda and KV Puram on Thursday. In the city and surrounding areas, the vaccine will be available at the health centres at Allipuram, Butchirajupalem, One Town, Rammurthypanthulapeta, Sagar Nagar, Tagarapuvalasa, Vidyuth Nagar, Gajuwaka PHC (Dronamraju Kalyana Mandapam, Drivers’ Colony), Madhurawada, Urban Family Planning Centre, Anakapalle, China Waltair, Swarna Bharathi, Arilova, Sriharipuram and Pendurthy. District Medical and Health Officer P. Suryanarayana said in a statement on Wednesday that those who have to take the vaccine and have been informed of the same through SMS or given slips should go to the vaccination centre for the jab. Covaxin second dose will not be given at any of the centres on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-dose-of-covishield-today/article34547137.ece
13 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mayor lauds nurses for their service||The birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale was celebrated as International Nurses Day at various hospitals in the city on Wednesday. Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari extended wishes to the nursing staff at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). She led the staff in applauding the nurses for extending yeoman services during the COVID-19 pandemic, ignoring the threat to their own lives. The Mayor cut a cake and distributed it among the nurses. She felicitated some nurses to mark the occasion. VIMS Director K. Rambabu spoke on the importance of the day. Contract Staff Nurses, working in various teaching hospitals, staged a peaceful protest in KGH on Wednesday demanding regularisation of their services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mayor-lauds-nurses-for-their-service/article34547136.ece
13 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruia incident: JSP says CM should take responsibility||Jana Sena Party(JSP) general secretary Bolisetty Satyanarayana on Wednesday raised objection to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s statement that the government is being blamed for the issues not in its hands relating to the death of COVID patients due to oxygen problem at the Ruia hospital in Tirupati. Mr. Satyanarayana said that Chief Minister and his officers should take the responsibility for the incident, as it is the job of the officers to see that the tankers reach the hospital on time. It is their job to clear the hurdles en route and provide a green corridor to the tankers, he added. According to Mr. Satyanarayana, the oxygen tanker left Sriperambadur at around 11 a.m. and should reach the hospital by 2 p.m., whereas it reached at 7 p.m. If the delay of five hours could have been avoided by proper coordination, the deaths might not have taken place. He said that when five oxygen plants were sanctioned and funded by PM Care why only one plant has been established in the last four months. The plant construction time is only 45 days and if the CM is keen he could have seen that all the five plants were installed by March and it would have been of great help in saving the lives, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruia-incident-jsp-says-cm-should-take-responsibility/article34547115.ece
13 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI (Maoist) seeks better management of COVID||The Andhra Odisha Border South Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) of the banned CPI (Maoist) has condemned, what it called, the indifferent attitude of the Central and State governments in dealing with the crisis arising out of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. “Only 2% of the population of India have been vaccinated so far. The vaccination drive is being done in a callous manner,” said AOBSZC secretary Ganesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-maoist-seeks-better-management-of-covid/article34547131.ece
13 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 2,238 new cases, 11 deaths||The district recorded 2,238 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total cases to 1,04,558 and active cases to 21,002, in the last 24 hours, as on Wednesday morning. The district also recorded 11 deaths, taking the toll sto 730. As many as 1,815 persons affected with the virus were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-2238-new-cases-11-deaths/article34547139.ece
13 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scrap CBSE training for teachers: MLC||Member of the Legislative Council Pakalapati Raghuvarma on Wednesday strongly opposed the proposed introduction of CBSE syllabus in government schools, stating that it was not practical to impart lessons in English to children who are from a Telugu-medium background. Mr. Raghuvarma was the chief guest at a meeting convened by the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation in Vizianagaram on Wednesday. Speaking at the meet, he urged the government to postpone the training programmes for teachers as many of them were contracting COVID-19, with over a hundred teachers reportedly succumbing to the virus in the last one month across the State. APTF State president Koppara Bhanumurthy said that the proposed CBSE introduction was a failure, and claimed that this was seen in 2019 itself. APTF State secretaries B. Venkatapathi Raju and Dhavala Saraswati asked the government to relieve Mandal Educational Officers and headmasters from Nadu-Nedu works immediately. APTF Vizianagaram district president Bankuru Joginaidu and APTF district senior secretary Kuruhuri Srinivasan urged Mr. Raghuvarma to oppose the introduction of CBSE syllabus and National Education Policy in the next Council session. APTF leaders Karri Ravi and Shaik Bukhari Babu were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scrap-cbse-training-for-teachers-mlc/article34547145.ece
13 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl, boyfriend held on charge of killing mother||A 20-year-old woman and her boyfriend were arrested on charges of killing her mother allegedly for objecting to their relationship. According to the police, Rupa Sri and Korrutu Varun Sai allegedly smothered to death Savaravilli Lakshmi in Bhogapuram of Vizianagaram district, on May 6 and tried to portray it as a natural death. Lakshmi’s husband Srinivas Rao, grew suspicious and filed a compaint with the police, who began an investigation into the case. On verification of the call records of the accused and footage obtained from CCTV cameras in the vicinity, which showed Varun entering the house, the police zeroed in on the two and arrested them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-boyfriend-held-on-charge-of-killing-mother/article34547148.ece
13 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Addl. DMHO dies of COVID||Vizianagaram Additional District Medical and Health Officer Jennala Ravikumar (54), who was battling COVID-19 for the past one month, breathed his last due to severe health complications at a private hospital in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. Ravi Kumar, who hailed from Srikakulam district, is survived by his wife and two children. Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari expressed shock over his death and recalled his dedicated services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/addl-dmho-dies-of-covid/article34547147.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s toll inching closer to 9,000||The district-wise new infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,927), Visakhapatnam (2,238), Anantapur (2,185), Chittoor (1,908), Guntur (1,836), Kadapa (1,746), Nellore (1,689), Kurnool (1,524), Srikakulam (1,285), West Godavari (1,232), Prakasam (1,192), Krishna (997) and Vizianagaram (693). The district cumulative tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,69,999), Chittoor (1,45,814), Guntur (1,25,852), West Godavari (1,13,592), Visakhapatnam (1,04,046), Anantapur (1,03,593), Nellore (97,691), Kurnool (95,877), Srikakulam (89,396), Prakasam (85,929), Kadapa (76,786), Krishna (72,569) and Vizianagaram (60,347).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-toll-inching-closer-to-9000/article34547117.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Marginal fall in new infections||There was a slight reduction in the number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana with 4,723 cases detected on Wednesday as against 4,801 the previous day. However, it has to be noted that the number of tests conducted were 69,525 as against 75,289 the previous day. Results of 2,763 persons were awaited, informed Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao in the official bulletin. Number of active positive cases is now 59,133 with 5,695 persons having recovered in the last 24 hours. Total number of recovered patients is about 4.50 lakh whereas the number of infected in the last one year has been 5.12 lakh. The official death count is 2,834 with 31 more fatalities being logged. Dr. Srinivasa Rao said the fatality rate across Telangana has risen from 0.54% to 0.55% with national average being 1.1%. Recovery rate has risen to 87.89% more than the national average of 83%. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region continues to lead in the number of positive cases with 745 followed by Rangareddy at 312, Malkajgiri-Medchal at 305 and Sangareddy 114. Other districts with more than 200 cases were Karimnagar (215) and Khammam (205). Over 150 cases were reported from Nagarkurnool (194), Warangal Urban (194), Nalgonda (181), Siddipet, Mancherial (161 each), Mahaboobnagar (156) and Vikarabad (153). Relatively fewer cases came from the districts of Nirmal (27), Naryanapet (42), Adilabad (44) and Kamareddy (49). Dr Srinivasa Rao appealed to citizens to reach out to the nearest healthcare facility when symptoms surface as early treatment prevents complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/marginal-fall-in-new-infections/article34547025.ece
13 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Charminar bustle goes silent||Days to go before Eid, Charminar and its surrounding areas wore a deserted look on Wednesday as the lockdown kicked in at 10 a.m. Hawkers, vendors and buyers who reached the main shopping thoroughfare by 5 a.m. were sent packing by police. “Except for police personnel, medical shop owners and a few residents, we asked everyone to leave,” said an official of the Charminar police station. However, by afternoon, a video showing crowds near Gulzar Houz allegedly at 1.03 p.m. with communal messages was circulating in social media. Photographers dismissed the videos as dated by measuring the shadows. “The shadow is falling to the right of people walking towards Charminar from Gulzar Houz proving that the Sun is in the east. The video would have been shot between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. and not later than that,” said a photographer who was at the location at 1.30 p.m. “It is an old video with a different time stamp. It is being circulated to create trouble,” said a Charminar PS official. Finally, the Hyderabad City Police was forced to tweet a photograph showing the actual situation: “This is the present situation near the Charminar. Strict lockdown has been implemented here and some old videos are being circulated on social media showing that establishments are opened.” The eerie calm in the busy area was broken by the sound of azaan from the masjids. However, all the masjids in the city had notices about stoppage of regular communal prayers asking the namazis to pray at home. Only members of the masjid committee were allowed inside for the prayers limiting the number to under 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/charminar-bustle-goes-silent/article34546768.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City facing shortage of key drug used in Black Fungus treatment||The grim prediction of ENT surgeons about a possible shortage of a specific anti-fungal medicine used in the treatment of Mucormycosis or Black Fungus seems to be unfolding. The fungal infection, if untreated, could affect vision, and have life-threatening consequences. Although a rare infection, it is increasingly being detected among post-COVID patients, leading to a growing demand for the medicine called Liposomal Amphotericin B. The drug is now in short supply and people are posting SOS pleas on social media platforms requesting help in finding the injection vials. Senior ENT Consultant at Apollo Hospital, Jubilee Hills, K. Rambabu said that depending on a patient’s condition and other parameters, four to six vials of the medicine is required per day for each patient. “And it has to be given for minimum of 10 days. So, a minimum of 40 vials are required to treat a patient. This is first line of medicine used in the treatment. Improvement is better when the medicine is given in initial stages of Mucormycosis,” Dr Rambabu said. Other ENT surgeons agreed and said the cost of the medicine alone comes to anywhere between Rs. 1.2 lakh and Rs. 2.8 lakh. The specialist doctors stressed that it is important for people to know symptoms of Mucormycosis to avoid slipping into critical stage, leading to loss or vision, or, worse, death. National Task Force for COVID-19 and experts in their advisory stated that Mucormycosis has to be suspected in COVID-19 patients, diabetics and immuno-suppressed individuals when they have sinusitis – nasal blockade or congestion, nasal discharge (blackish/bloody) or local pain on the cheek bone. “One sided facial pain, numbness or swelling blackish discolouration over bridge of nose or palate. Toothache, loosening of teeth, jaw involvement. Blurred or double vision with pain; fever, skin lesion; thrombosis & necrosis (eschar).Chest pain, pleural effusion, haemoptysis, worsening of respiratory symptoms,” it further informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-facing-shortage-of-key-drug-used-in-black-fungus-treatment/article34547018.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 20 cr. liquor sale in just five hours||It was the most unexpected tsunami that hit the 460 odd wine shops in Greater Hyderabad in recent times. But, it also brought in a windfall of nothing short of Rs. 20 crore in flat five hours on Tuesday. Minutes after the lockdown announcement, a section of people devoted all their energies to buy their choicest liquor. From 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Tuesday, it was a mad rush at the liquor outlets in the city. On Wednesday too, people could be seen waiting from 6 a.m. onwards for the wine stores to open. Flood of customers “As it is the night curfew had hit our business so hard. Usually, the peak time for sale is 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. With the restrictions in place, our revenue had dropped in the last three weeks to 50%. But, yesterday we saw an unexpected flood of customers,” said a wine shop owner in Secunderabad. A wine shop licencee said that on an average, each outlet generates a sale between Rs. 4-5 lakh daily during normal times. The COVID-19 too had hit the business. If a former trade body representative is to be believed, one particular super liquor mall in the city selling premium brands raked in a revenue of Rs. 3 crore alone in few hours. The four-hour morning relaxation is of no use to liquor outlets in twin cities. “May be a few hundreds of labourers and others might make a beeline to the shops in the morning hours. For the shops located in prime areas, it is unusual for well-to-do family members coming and buying liquor between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m.,” a wine shop dealer wishing anonymity said. The licencees are a confused lot on how to get the stocks delivered after the lockdown timings begin. They are worried that their staff cannot venture out after 10 a.m. or stay put in the shops, which are closed. In the meantime, a senior official of the Telangana State Beverages’ Corporation Limited said that lockdown will not be applicable to the depots that will function at usual timings. Stock despatch “Arrangements are made to despatch stocks from depots from 4 a.m. onwards. Licencees can bill the stocks which shall be unloaded at their premises between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m.,” the order said. An TSBCL depot manager said they had decided to supply stocks to 26 outlets on Wednesday. “Except for some wine shops, none of the bars and restaurants in our limits placed orders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-20-cr-liquor-sale-in-just-five-hours/article34546762.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special passes to be issued for emergency travel: DGP||The State government has decided to issue special e-passes for those going to other States and other districts within the State in case of emergency during lockdown that became operational from Wednesday. People willing to obtain the passes in cases of emergency, should apply for them through the websitehttp://policeportal.tspolice. gov.in/, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy said. Passes would be issued to people during the lockdown only in cases of emergency and would be issued through the commissioners and superintendents of police concerned. People coming to Telangana from other States should obtain the necessary passes from their respective authorities. For movement between different commissionerates in the GHMC limits, passes would be issued by the commissionerate in whose jurisdiction the origin is located. The lockdown is being strictly implemented in the State, said Mr. Mahendar Reddy. Necessary instructions have been given to police personnel in this regard, he said. In a video message, he requested people to cooperate with the government’s decision and observe self restrictions. He further said that police would help people in cases of medical emergencies and vaccination. Also, traffic on inter-state borders is being regulated. Necessary measures have been taken for smooth passage of goods vehicles and other vehicles passing through the State through NHs, Reddy said. Police personnel were seen putting up barricades at several points in the city to check violators and senior police officials, including the police commissioners of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda, Anjani Kumar, V.C. Sajjanar and Mahesh Bhagwat respectively, were seen monitoring the situation. Meanwhile, the State government had said that certain activities were permitted while imposing lockdown in the State. Heads of departments, district collectors, commissioners/SPs and General Administration department were authorised to issue passes for permitted activities to appropriate staff and vehicles. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said the DGP should issue necessary instructions to the police authorities concerned to honour/allow the passes issued by the appropriate authority for permitted activities to appropriate staff and vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-passes-to-be-issued-for-emergency-travel-dgp/article34546766.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Enhance supply of medical essentials’||The State government has requested the Centre to enhance supply of vaccine doses, Remdesivir injections, oxygen and other essentials required for treating the Coronavirus (COVID-19) patients. The government asked the Centre to consider enhancement of supply of medical essentials in view of the increasing number of patients arriving in the State from other States for Covid-19 treatment rather than making allocation on the basis of population. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao explained to Union Home Minister Harshvardhan that the shortfall of medicine and other essentials in the State was on account of people coming for treatment to Hyderabad, which is reputed as medical capital of the country, for the quality medicare available here. The Minister made the requests during a video conference conducted by the Union Minister with States to enquire about the COVID-19 situation and the remedial measures launched by the respective governments. Mr. Harish Rao attended the video conference on the instructions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Harish Rao said there was variation in the number of actual people infected and those undergoing treatment in the hospitals as people from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and other States are preferring treatment in Hyderabad. This is in turn imposing burden on the State in terms of the medical requirements. Keeping the increasing rush to the State, the Centre should increase the quota of oxygen from 450 metric tonne to 600 metric tonne as also the doses of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections. Steps should be taken to move oxygen using cryogenic tankers from the nearby States as transport from far off places like Odisha is taking time, he said. Since the Chief Minister had also spoken to the Union Government, steps should be initiated to enhance supply of Remdesivir doses to at least 20,000 a day and the number of testing kits should be increased to 2 lakh daily. He explained that the State would require 1.29 crore doses of vaccine for vaccinating all the people above 45 years and the requirement this month alone is to the tune of 13 lakh doses. The State would also require 2,000 ventilators and the Centre should take steps to ensure immediate supply of the required material, he said. Mr. Harish Rao explained that the State government is conducting door to door fever survey to identify people with symptoms of COVID-19 and home treatment kits are being provided to those identified with positive symptoms. This is aimed at ensuring timely treatment and avoiding rush at the hospitals, he said. The Chief Minister initiated several proactive steps after the first wave to strengthen the medical infrastructure in the State. As a result, bed strength had been increased from 18,232 to 53,775, oxygen beds increased from 9,213 to 20,738 and ICU beds from 3,264 to 11,274 so far. This marked a three-fold increase in the available basic infrastructure. The Union Minister expressed satisfaction at the arrangements made in Telangana for effective containment of the virus. He said the Centre had noted down the requirements of the State and steps would be taken for supply of the required essentials with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/enhance-supply-of-medical-essentials/article34547035.ece
13 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Bolarum PHC will turn into COVID special in one week’||Malkajgiri MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has urged Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy to expedite the setting up of an oxygen plant at the Bolarum Primary Health Care centre in Cantonment area. Mr. Reddy has requested Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and DRDO chairman G. Satheesh Reddy for setting up the oygen plant on the hospital premises using PM-CARES funds. “I have already written to them and they have agreed in principle. In fact, the DRDO has already sent 50 cylinders to start with and once the oxygen plant is set up, the hospital can function in a full-fledged manner,” he said. The Congress MP is working on converting the little-used PHC, which falls under his Parliamentary constituency, into an exclusive COVID hospital. After donating Rs. 1 crore from his MPLAD funds, he has raised an equal amount through friends and well-wishers to procure equipment for the hospital Another Rs. 10 crore is being raised through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds of a number of companies in his constituency and they have been requested to contribute in the form of equipment needed to refurbish the 100-year-old hospital set up on a huge campus. He hoped that the hospital will start functioning for COVID patients within a week as the building has been refurbished and facilities like ICU, beds for wards and other rooms have been created and oxygen pipelines laid. “We will start with 50 beds now and upgrade it to 100 beds when the oxygen plant is set up,” he added. Mr. Reddy has also tapped the CSR funds from various industries in his Parliamentary constituency: “In fact, Bharat Biotech that produces Covaxin and pharma company manufacturing Remedesivir injections are also in the constituency and I have requested them for priority assistance and they have agreed”. The Congress leader, who is also on the Parliamentary Defence Committee, has impressed upon the DRDO to commit an additional 50 cylinders apart from the 50 they have already contributed since the hospital comes under the Defence Ministry. The Cantonment Board has also issued a notification for short-term appointment of para-medical staff. As of now, the hospital is functioning with eight doctors and eight nurses. “We want to make best use of their services by converting it into a COVID special hospital,” Mr. Reddy explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bolarum-phc-will-turn-into-covid-special-in-one-week/article34547027.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two held in ATM robbery case||Thirteen days after the robbery at a bank ATM in Patelkunta of Kukatpally and shooting down of a security guard, the Cyberabad police on Wednesday arrested two youngsters in the sensational daylight crime. The prime accused, Ajeet Kumar, 23, and his associate Mukesh Kumar, both from Bihar, were picked up from their room in Gundlapochampally, Cyberabad Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar told a press conference. Interrogation revealed that the two accused had earlier committed four crimes including robbing a person of Rs. 1.95 lakh at gunpoint. Ajeet had tried to rob a bank cashier by assaulting him with an iron rod in Dundigal in 2018, the Commissioner said. He returned to Hyderabad in 2020 and started working in a packaging company. Having been addicted to liquor, he wanted to make money by hook or crook. He secured a country-made pistol with five live rounds by sending Rs. 30,000 online to his friend Mukesh in Bihar. Mukesh joined hands with him to commit offences. Ajeet test-fired the pistol in the forest near Gandimaisamma area, the Commissioner explained. The duo committed their first robbery using the country-made short firearm on the night of April 16. They barged into the office of Laxmi Money Transfer Services in Qutbullahpur. They took away an iphone and Rs. 1.95 lakh from the office owner at gunpoint. While Ajeet kept Rs. 1.15 lakh of the looted money for himself, Mukesh took the remaining sum as his share. On March 24 and April 26, they stole two Pulsar motorcycles. On April 29, they noticed a vehicle used for loading cash in bank ATM centres. They followed that vehicle and closely watched how the staff were taking out the cash from the vehicle. After loading cash in an ATM centre near BJP office, the vehicle reached another ATM centre in Patelkunta. While three staffers stepped out of the vehicle and walked inside the ATM centre carrying currency bundles of Rs. 12 lakh, security guard Ali Baig stood guard outside. Ajeet, who wore a helmet, got off the bike and lunged at the security guard, threatening him with the pistol. The guard, an ex-serviceman, tried to grab the pistol when Ajeet fired at him. Alerted by the gunfire, the three staffers came out. Ajeet fired two more rounds at them, resulting in injuries to one of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-in-atm-robbery-case/article34546760.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Indo-Pak war veteran loses battle against COVID||Squadron Leader Anil Bhalla (retired), distinguished air warrior whose accomplishments during the 1971 Indo-Pak war was much acclaimed, died on Tuesday after battling COVID-19 in Hyderabad. The seventy-four-year-old former Indian Air Force officer not only proved his mettle as a young Flying Officer flying MiG-21 sorties during the war participating in attack missions, but also subsequently after voluntary retirement from the service, he became a successful businessman. Late Bhalla is survived by his wife Sita Bhalla, two daughters Shefali and Akanksha and son Akshay. According to Ms. Shefali, the retired officer had undergone RT-PCR test on April 23 which came positive but the HRT-CT scan did not show much of infection. “On doctors’ advice, he was in home isolation but on April 28, when he had difficulty in breathing, we shifted him to a corporate hospital for further treatment. During the course of the treatment he developed lung and heart related complications and breathed his last in the early hours of Tuesday,” Ms Shefali told The Hindu on Wednesday. Befitting a decorated officer, Station Commander of Air Force Station Hakimpet deputed Flight Lieutenant Malvika Gupta along with an Air Force van with nine service personnel to provide salutations to the departed officer. Widow of the departed officer Sita Bhalla was given the National Flag to place on the coffin box. A little over dozen direct family members and others attended the last rites at Swarg Vatika in Trimulgherry following the due COVID protocols, Ms. Shefali said. Sqn Ldr Bhalla, who joined the National Defence Academy’s 32nd course after studying at Sainik School Satara in western Maharashtra, was commissioned into the IAF’s fighter wing in 1968 and operated from the Tezpur-based 28th Squadron, flying the Russian-origin aircraft. The veteran air warrior native of Mumbai later settled at Hyderabad after his retirement and excelled in business. Beginning with agriculture, dairy and later diversifying into construction, late Bhalla turned out to be a role model for several, according to his family. Turning his 7.50-acre agriculture land into virtual experimental ground for farm production, the IAF officer grew vegetables, grapes and started a dairy with Jersey cows, Ms. Shefali said, recalling how her father made a mark. Wing Commander Anil Chopra (retired) termed late Bhalla as a person full of life, generous, humble, extremely social, always smiling, and an animal lover. P.Subba Rao of Meghna Constructions, a close friend of the air warrior, recalled his association with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indo-pak-war-veteran-loses-battle-against-covid/article34547031.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Accord priority to vaccination, Vidyasagar Rao urges Modi||Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra Governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accord “top priority” for vaccination, which should be taken up on a “war footing with special attention to be given to people below the poverty line and also those in the villages.” In a communication to the Prime Minister on Wednesday, a copy of which was shared with the newspaper, Mr. Rao called for constituting a special task force to tackle the vaccination programs in scheduled areas. States should be directed to notify an officer in each assembly constituency to share necessary information with COVID-19 patients. Opening of isolation centres in each Assembly/mandal segments where 90% of the patients could be treated, preparation of uniform treatment protocol by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - to be distributed widely and given high publicity, and availability of medical kids at each primary health for mild patients are the need of the hour, he said. Patients needing acute medical care can be shifted to districts/cities where facilities are available to reduce the pressure on hospitals. Further, ‘corona committees’ consisting of political parties, officials, non-officials, voluntary organisations should be formed at the Assembly constituency/mandal-wise to educate, counsel and give confidence to people, besides motivating para medical forces, said the former Governor. He said food, shelter and medical services can be easily provided, by this kind of “decentralisation and formation of committees.” Appreciating Mr. Modi for his “spirited fight against COVID”, he said “contradictory” statements of a section of medical fraternity and others are driving “people into frustration” with social media adding fuel to it. Reports like - “first wave attacked old people, second wave would attack the young and the third wave would attack children, should be rebutted,” he said. “Despite criticism from expected corners, people have tremendous have faith in you and they all hope that the situation will be restored to normalcy under your effective leadership,” added Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/accord-priority-to-vaccination-vidyasagar-rao-urges-modi/article34547033.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Geo locations according to vaccine availability uploaded||Hyderabad district authorities have posted geo locations of Government COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (GCVCs) according to the availability of Covaxin and Covishield. This information comes as a relief as people used to scurry from one vaccination centre to another, to know if the vaccine they were looking for was available. The map with geo locations was uploaded on Twitter handle @Collector_HYD on Wednesday morning. Upon clicking it, the option of seeing GCVCs, which has only Covaxin or Covishield, or both, is available. ‘Vaccination centre name’, type of vaccine available, and other details can be seen. The information is provided by State Health department. Since the availability of the vaccines varies from day to day, the information on the maps would be dynamic. It was learnt that Health officials in Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy are also trying to generate similar maps for the districts. “It would be uploaded in a few days. We have observed that beneficiaries were crowding at only a few of the GCVCs. This led to heavy rush as some centres and fewer beneficiaries at the remaining GCVCs. This information could help in distributing beneficiary load across all centres,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/geo-locations-according-to-vaccine-availability-uploaded/article34547016.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan’s bid to convert Cantonment Hospital to corona care centre||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Wednesday assured the people of Secunderabad Cantonment that he would speak with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and see that the Cantonment Hospital here is converted into a full fledged COVID care centre. The Minister was visibly irked with the Secunderabad Cantonment Board authorities for not making use of the new buildings kept under lock and pointed out that the government has given freedom to recruit retired or ex-paramedical staff and doctors to be employed again if there is a shortage of personnel. “What were you doing? What stopped the SCB from alloting funds?” he said in reaction to a complaint that the Health Minister had promised funds but it did not materialise. Later, talking to the media, he said efforts were on to ensure supply of oxygen, ventilators and medicines is augmented to the hospitals across the country. In the past 11 months, 51,000 ventilators have been imported and permissions have been given for 500 units to produce oxygen 24x7. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been communicating regularly with Chief Ministers of all the States, and the Home Ministry, too, is involved in providing life-saving equipment marshalling the trains and armed forces planes too. Many countries have also been rushing aid, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishans-bid-to-convert-cantonment-hospital-to-corona-care-centre/article34547022.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banks to work for 4 hours from today||Beginning Thursday, bank branches across Telangana will remain open for four hours, from 8 a.m. to 12 noon. This was decided unanimously by member banks at a special meeting of the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) that was convened on Wednesday in the light of a 10-day lockdown that came into force in Telangana. The new bank timings will be in force till May 20 and if required would be reviewed for further extension, a communication from SLBC after the meeting to Controller of all banks in the State said. Sources in banks said while the new timings also translated into a reduction in working hours, they are bound to benefit the customers given that the branches otherwise will remain open when the lockdown restrictions are in place (from 10 a.m. to 6 a.m.). Most of the bank branches at present function from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Thus, the decision to open the branches at 8 a.m. would result in customers getting a couple of hours to bank before the lockdown kicks in. On Wednesday, most branches across the State wore a deserted look with people preferring to stay indoors with traffic restrictions unless there is an absolutely unavoidable reason to step out. A communication from SLBC said, “It was felt that to provide banking services to customers, it is necessary to change the bank timings, so that the general population of Telangana is not put to any inconvenience and can carry out the banking transactions with ease.” The SLBC had last month too decided on a reduction in the business hours of the branches, amid the surge in number of COVID-19 positive cases, something the Indian Banks’ Association had also recommended. But it did no go ahead with the proposal pending approval of the State government. However, with the lockdown, the circumstances have changed, sources said about the latest decision. Besides, the SLBC meeting decided that “the staff at branches/administrative offices may be allowed to work on rotational basis complying with all COVID19 guidelines issued by Central and State governments from time to time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banks-to-work-for-4-hours-from-today/article34546763.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Day 1 of lockdown sees slight dip in testing||There was hardly any change in the number of people undergoing COVID-19 tests on the first day of a 10-day State-wide lockdown that began on Wednesday. The number of tests in the past one week ranged from 65,000 to 76,000 a day. On Wednesday, 69,525 people underwent testing. However, officials in some districts said a marginal drop in the numbers was observed. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, on Tuesday, had said that the lockdown will not affect any health services in the State and that people who suspect that they have contracted COVID can go to their nearest testing centre and avail the services. Private labs are anticipating an increase in the demand for doorstep collection of samples as movement of people will be restricted for most part of the day. COO of Neuberg Diagnostics, Aishwarya Vasudevan said the lockdown has pushed up the demand for COVID testing and other blood tests at home. “We collected 67 COVID samples from people’s homes till evening and we expect this trend to continue for a while as people don’t feel safe stepping out,” said Ms Aishwarya, adding that they used to collect around 50 samples at the doorstep before lockdown. Apollo Diagnostics representatives said the timings for drive-through sample collection in some parts of the city continue to be the same — 7 am to 12 noon. The footfall saw a small drop on Wednesday. But slots for their home sample collection service are completely booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/day-1-of-lockdown-sees-slight-dip-in-testing/article34547017.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID positive doc. dies a week after delivery||A 31-year-old paediatrician, who gave birth to a girl a week ago, died of coronavirus complications on Wednesday. Dr. Farah Niloufer was on COVID duty at Government Area Hospital, Gajwel, till she tested positive in May first week despite being in third trimester of pregnancy. Her husband, Dr. Syed Abdul Majid, could barely put in words after getting the news of her death. The medical fraternity was also shocked. Hospital superintendent T. Mahesh said that Dr. Farah was also on vaccination duty and worked in the out-patient department. Her close friend Dr. Nazia Tabassum said that though they had urged her to take leave due to pregnancy, the paediatrician wanted to be on duty. National secretary of Academy of Medical Speciality Dr. Sanjeev Singh Yadav said that a total of 21 doctors died in the State in the second wave, including Dr. Farah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-positive-doc-dies-a-week-after-delivery/article34546759.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registrations come to grinding halt||Registration of agricultural and non-agricultural properties has come to a grinding halt following the lockdown imposed by the State government. The Registration and Stamps Department said since the government had not exempted it from the lockdown guidelines, registration of documents at all sub registrar and other offices had been kept on hold till the lockdown ends at 6 a.m. on May 22. Similarly, registration of documents and other transactions through Dharani had also not been exempted. The department said registration of documents and other transactions of agricultural properties through Dharani would require the presence of at least four to five persons, buyers, sellers and two witnesses per transaction. This would result in the movement of people during the restricted hours and crowding in mandal offices that would not be in consonance with the lockdown restrictions. Accordingly, it was decided not to take up registration and other transactions through Dharani by Tahsildars cum joint sub-registrars in mandal offices during the lockdown period. In respect of people who booked slots in Dharani, it was decided to reschedule their appointments. Payment of registration fee and duties already made would be vaild and adjusted towards the rescheduled transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/registrations-come-to-grinding-halt/article34547036.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Transfer of TIMS doctors condemned||Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) have condemned the transfer of two senior resident doctors at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS). The institute’s director issued relieving orders on Wednesday stating that Wasey Wasim Kabir and Arundhathi were being shifted to RIMS, Adilabad, with immediate effect on administrative grounds. The TJUDAs said the transfers were effected for questioning lapses in administration and infrastructure in a democratic way. “TJUDAs demand immediate revocation of the transfer order. We will announce a plan of action if government fails to revoke the notices,” said TJUDA president V. Naveen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transfer-of-tims-doctors-condemned/article34547019.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pledging 16 cr paracetamol tablets||Drug-maker Granules India has pledged to donate 16 crore paracetamol tablets (500 mg) to Telangana government over the next four months. It will provide free one crore tablets a week, from May 12, Executive Director Uma Devi Chigurupati said in a communication to Industries, IT and Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao. Ms Chigurupati said cost of the 16 crore tablets would be Rs. 8 crore. Paracetamol is one of the important drugs forming part of the COVID-19 treatment regimen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pledging-16-cr-paracetamol-tablets/article34547020.ece
13 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Third Oxygen Express reaches city||South Central Railway (SCR)’s third Oxygen Express to Hyderabad reached Sanathnagar Goods Complex bringing 64.24 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) filled in five tankers on Wednesday. These empty tanks were sent to Odisha on May 9. The oxygen carrying tankers from Angul ran for a distance of 1,213 km in a short time of around 27 hours, with the train travelling at an average speed of 45 kmph from its starting station. A green corridor route was created for uninterrupted and fast movement of the special train operated on the request of the Telangana government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/third-oxygen-express-reaches-city/article34546765.ece
13 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||More police barricades set up on TS-Andhra border||Additional police barricades have been set up at the four border points in Madhira, Yerrupalem and Bonakal mandals along the inter-State border with Andhra Pradesh as part of stepped-up security arrangements to effectively enforce the lockdown in the State. Police have enhanced vigil at the entry points at Desinenipalem and Matoor cross roads in Madhira mandal in view of the ten-day lockdown, which came into force at 10 a.m. on Wednesday. Police sources maintained that inter-State movement of vehicles was being allowed in accordance to the stipulated lockdown norms. There will be no curbs on the inter-district movement of vehicles during the stipulated four-hour lockdown relaxation period from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. daily, a police officer on duty at a border checkpost in Madhira mandal said. The police official added that it is mandatory to possess e-pass for inter-State as well as intra-State travel during the lockdown subject to fulfilment of conditions laid down in the lockdown circular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-police-barricades-set-up-on-ts-andhra-border/article34547041.ece
13 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Khammam district comes to a halt||A ten-day lockdown to check the spread of COVID came into force at 10 a.m. on Wednesday across the old undivided Khammam district bringing normal life to a virtual halt with people remaining indoors, and shops and markets remaining shuttered. The 20-hour-a-day lockdown began amid heavy police deployment with senior police officials personally monitoring the enforcement of lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections. Essential service providers and other government and private employees of certain categories, notified in the lockdown circular, were exempted from the curbs. Those bound for COVID-19 vaccination centres for receiving second doses of the vaccine were allowed after checking their certificates of first dose of the vaccine, sources said. Perhaps for the first time in the State, liquor outlets opened at 6 a.m. and made a brisk sale in various parts of the district till the stipulated time frame of 10 a.m. on the very first day of the lockdown. People were seen standing in queues in front of shops and supermarkets to buy groceries and at several shops milk packets were sold out by 8 a.m. in Khammam. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple closed its doors for devotees on Wednesday in compliance with the lockdown regulations to prevent the spread of coronavirus infections. The streets encircling the temple complex and other thoroughfares of Bhadrachalam wore a deserted look with the police strictly enforcing the lockdown measures. Hotel owner fined Sources said that the mandal revenue officials imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000 on the owner of a hotel at Vinayakapuram village in Aswaraopeta mandal for allegedly violating lockdown regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-district-comes-to-a-halt/article34547039.ece
13 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BRF||The task force sleuths busted yet another Remdesivir injection black marketing racket by arresting a male nurse of a private hospital here on Wednesday evening. The team seized two Remdesivir vials from the accused identified as Sai Krishna, a male nurse of a town-based private hospital, sources said. He allegedly procured the two anti-viral injection vials from patients of the hospital in which he was working and tried to sell them at Rs. 33,000 each in the black market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34546769.ece
13 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Lockdown forces migrants to return to native places||K. Mohan and his five friends were walking on the national highway 65 at Pothireddypally at the district headquarters town. All of them are from Kohir and surrounding villages near Zaheerabad and working at a function hall in Attapur in Hyderabad. They were on foot to their destination, about 40 km from here, unable to find transport. Till Tuesday afternoon, they were in a relaxed mood as both Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar had repeatedly said there would be no lockdown in Telangana as it was of no use to arrest the spread of corona pandemic. All of a sudden, lockdown was announced by the government. Though they made efforts to start on Tuesday evening itself, their employer said money could be arranged only the next day. By the time they got money, it was too late to get a transport. By catching some vehicles they were able to reach Sangareddy. From here, they had to walk till they got their next vehicle. The case of Naresh, Nitish and Hareesh is not much different. Natives of Odisha, they had been working in a restaurant in the district headquarters for the past few years. On Wednesday morning, they were walking towards the highway from the town as even auto-drivers were not stopping. “For the time being, we are going to our restaurant head office located at Lingamapplly where they are having a bigger branch. Temporary accommodation is being provided there. We will go to our native villages from there if the lockdown is extended further,” Mr. Naresh, who was walking with friends carrying bags on the back, told The Hindu . Lakshmi, in her 40s, ran for about half a kilometre to catch a bus while her husband walked fast and stopped the bus going to Narayanakhed at the old bus stand. The bus driver was kind enough to wait till she reached there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-forces-migrants-to-return-to-native-places/article34547044.ece
13 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,TELANGANA||Pollution from crematorium irks locals||Residents of Gnanapuram in Visakhapatnam have been complaining about pollution problems due to the burning of a large number of bodies at the Chavulamadum crematorium. They say that daily 60 to 70 bodies are being cremated, of which 10 to 11 are being cremated in the electric crematorium. Corporator of ward 41, Kodigudla Purnima, said the capacity of the crematorium was 15 to 17 bodies a day. “And when we talk of capacity, they include space, infrastructure and manpower. But at present about 60 bodies are being lit in the traditional form with firewood and around 10 are being sent to the electric crematorium and this has been the scenario at least for the past 15 days,” she said. Smoke and fine ash from the funeral pyres were engulfing the area and there was also emission of thick black smoke from the electric crematorium. It appeared that the scrubbers were not functioning in the electric one, she added. With the residents claiming that they are witness to at least 50 to 60 bodies wrapped in plastic body bags, according to the COVID-19 protocol, being brought to the crematorium on a daily basis, a question arises from where they are coming. The district is reporting only 8 to 12 COVID-19 deaths, while the body count at the crematorium is at least five to six times higher. Whether the death count due to the COVID-19 is being underplayed, asks the corporator. A senior engineer from the GVMC confirmed that the crematorium has been receiving a huge number of bodies, which is much more than its capacity. When contacted, Health Department officials said the body count at the crematorium included those who had died of natural causes, accidents, etc. But even then the count looks abnormal, as before the pandemic, the body count at the crematorium very rarely exceeded 10, according to the GVMC records, said Joseph Betha, a senior advocate and resident of Gnanapuram. The residents who gathered at a community hall recently demanded that the bodies be distributed to other crematoriums in the city. According to a GVMC official, as per the direction of the government, all COVID-related bodies are to be brought to one crematorium and Chavulamadum has been identified as the one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pollution-from-crematorium-irks-locals/article34546433.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||In pandemic wave, non-COVID patients too are feeling the heat||Many non-COVID patients have embraced online consultation, but what has made their plight worse is that government hospitals are not venturing into online consultation on a large scale, said doctors in the city. Furthermore, most hospitals are treating COVID-19 patients, some are now dedicated centres. People are afraid to go to hospitals where COVID-19 patients are also treated, doctors said. “Non-COVID patients are facing a lot of difficulties. There are a limited number of hospitals providing treatment only to non-COVID patients,” Girish Tyagi, Secretary of the Delhi Medical Council, said. This is true especially for pregnant women and heart patients. “For Heart patients or pregnant women, it is very difficult to get admission. In private hospitals, tele-consultation is strong. But in govt. hospitals, it is not happening much. There should be more govt. hospitals, exclusively for non-COVID patients. We get many calls for non-COVID emergencies. People are confused a lot. Emergencies are filled with COVID patients, others can’t go in there,” said Dr. Tyagi. Limited reach At the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), there is no online consultation for non-COVID-19 patients and at Lok Nayak Hospital, it is very limited. “For non-COVID patients, there are ILBS, GB Pant, Delhi State Cancer Institute and other hospitals. But we do not do an online consultation,” a doctor at the RGSSH said. When asked whether people who had been undergoing treatment for non-COVID health problems are contacting the hospital, the doctor said: “Many of them are taking the medicine and are at home. Most of them know that we are a COVID-19 facility now. People are afraid and they are not coming to enquire. Even for vaccinations, people do not want to come to hospitals. They only want to go to schools.” A Delhi govt. spokesperson said that government hospitals are not doing online consultation as “non-COVID patients can be seen in person”. Suresh Kumar, Medical Director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said that at the hospital they were attending to certain patients during COVID-19 too. “Those with HIV, hepatitis C, hemophilia, thalassemia, etc. we have been seeing them as they needed regular treatment,” he said. About online consultation, he said they help the patients a “little bit”. “If the patient contacts individual departments [we do], but we do not do it on a large scale,” he added. Surgeries postponed Harsh Vardhan Puri, Senior Consultant, Thoracic Surgeon of Medanta Hospital, said they have postponed most surgeries and were seeing patients mostly on tele or video consultation. “We are doing cancer-related surgeries, which cannot wait. Even in this case, most of the patients are told to do an RT-PCR test and 10-15% of them turn out to be positive,” Dr. Puri said. Dr. Puri also said that the government hospitals are not conducting online consultation at the scale it was being done by private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-pandemic-wave-non-covid-patients-too-are-feeling-the-heat/article34546993.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three held for selling oxygen flow meters at exorbitant rates||Three men were arrested for allegedly selling oxygen flow meters at exorbitant rates in north Delhi’s Burari, police said on Wednesday. With the arrest of Karanjeet Singh (20), who worked at a medical store, and Bhanu (21), both residents of Burari, police claimed to have recovered 36 oxygen flow meters, which were being sold for Rs. 5,000 each, they said. Since there is an acute shortage and high requirement of oxygen flow meters in the market due to COVID-19, the duo took advantage of the situation to make a quick buck. They purchased oxygen flow meters from a resident of U.P.’s Meerut named Shafiq and later sold the equipment at Rs. 5,000 per piece, according to police. Another accused Arun Gupta, (25), a resident of Delhi’s Roshanara Road, pursuing Bachelor of Architecture from a reputed institute in Gurugram, was also arrested in the case, police officers said. The police said that a special team was formed after an information was received that a person was selling oxygen flow meters for Rs. 5,000 per piece in Burari. An enquiry was conducted and during investigation, Assistant Sub Inspector Yashpal Singh posed himself as a customer and contacted the accused. He requested him to provide oxygen flow meter urgently, said Anto Alphonse, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka). The accused agreed but kept on dodging and finally, he agreed to meet at petrol pump, opposite Transport Authority in Burari, he said. “A strategic trap was laid and accused Karanjeet and Bhanu were apprehended. Also, 32 oxygen flow meters were recovered from their possession along with a motorcycle,” the officer said. On their instance, another accused Arun was arrested from Shastri Nagar Metro Station and four oxygen flow meters and one scooty was recovered from his possession, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-held-for-selling-oxygen-flow-meters-at-exorbitant-rates/article34546994.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman, friend arrested for killing husband following tiff||A 43-year-old woman and her male friend were arrested for allegedly killing her husband following a quarrel between them in outer Delhi’s Alipur, police said on Wednesday. The accused were identified as Sangeeta and her friend Rinku alias Nikhil John. The woman told the police that her husband Phoola Ray forced her into prostitution and also abused her physically and sexually. A day after the murder, Sangeeta reported to the police that her husband, a vegetable vendor, had been missing since May 8. The next day she told the police that Ray’s body was found at a cremation ground in north-west Delhi’s Khampur village. When the police team reached the spot, they found her husband’s body with injury marks lying there. The body seemed to be two days old and had started to decompose. The scene of crime was inspected by the officers, a senior police officer said. A case of murder was registered and an investigation was taken up, said Rajiv Ranjan Singh, DCP (Outer North). During enquiry, police found that Sangeeta was his second wife. Ray got married to a woman named Rekha in 2005. Later, after coming to Delhi, he started living with Sangeeta who was a divorcee. The duo got married in 2017, the officer said. Investigation revealed that around three months ago, Rekha along with her children came to Delhi following which Ray left Sangeeta and started living with them. ”During investigation, Rekha told police that around three days ago, Sangeeta had a quarrel with her husband. The call detail records of Sangeeta and deceased were analysed and CCTV footage of the area was also analysed. Sangeeta became the prime suspect. After thorough interrogation, she committed to the offence. She said that her husband forced her for prostitution and also abused her physically and sexually,” the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-friend-arrested-for-killing-husband-following-tiff/article34546996.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Foreign national held for fraud||Police have arrested a foreign national for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing Remdesivir injections, officers said on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Ashwingwo Ashelly Azenmbuh, a resident of Kumba, Cameroon, they said. Forty names and phone numbers of victims were found in the message box of the recovered phone. Police have identified 23 victims who have been cheated of around Rs. 7.50 lakh and further efforts are being made to trace the remaining victims, they said. Twelve bank accounts of the accused have been identified that are located across India. These accounts have been blocked with an overall existing balance of over Rs. 85,000, police said. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused charged Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 10,000 for one injection and did not supply a single shot to the victims. Police recovered 10 SIM cards and five mobile phones from the accused, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/foreign-national-held-for-fraud/article34546995.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Humble recognition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/humble-recognition/article34546991.ece
13 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||237 of 320 ventilators received through PM CARES Fund ‘defective’||As COVID-19 cases continue to surge in Punjab, putting its medical infrastructure to test, at least 237 of the 320 ventilators received through the PM CARES Fund at the three government medical colleges are defective and non-functional. Professional adviser to Punjab’s COVID-19 response and procurement committee, Dr. Raj Bahadur, told The Hindu on Wednesday that the government of India has been providing ventilators to States which are allotting them to various medical institutions. “The medical college in Patiala received 98 ventilators from the PM CARES Fund. Though 48 of them were made functional after repair, they are still not put to use because the anaesthetists are not confident lest they should break down at critical times. Another 50 are non-functional there. The college is using its own 61 ventilators,” he said. “At the medical college in Amritsar, only 12 of the 109 ventilators provided by the Centre are functional. Similarly, at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot, 90 of the 113 ventilators are non-functional. Tremendous pressure “..as the number of COVID-19 patients is increasing, there is tremendous pressure on the institutions for providing ventilators to critically ill patients. We have been regularly informing the State regarding the malfunctioning and the Health Department has conveyed the same to the government of India in loud and clear words. It is to be inquired whether the other States have received functional ventilators or not from the PM CARES? I believe other States too might be facing a similar situation,” he said. Mr. Bahadur said it is imperative that the Centre should have provided a long-term annual maintenance contract for these ventilators. “Currently, we are working with State-owned resources to fight the pandemic,” he said. The Opposition parties have demanded a probe into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/237-of-320-ventilators-received-through-pm-cares-fund-defective/article34547001.ece
13 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||3 Haryana districts in dire straits||Though Gurugram tops the table for active cases in Haryana followed by Faridabad, the top three districts in terms of positivity rate in the State are Sonipat, Panipat and Rewari with every second person testing positive for the deadly infection, as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s latest weekly statistics for districts with more than 10% positivity rate. Nuh with highest 55.8 % positivity rate for May 4-10 week has dramatically slipped to twelve position with the positivity rate of 32.4% for May 5-11 week. ‘Not the right picture’ Deputy Commissioner, Nuh, Dhirendra Khadgata, said that Union Health Ministry data did not reflect the correct picture due to discrepancies in data uploading. He said the current positivity rate in Nuh was around 25 %. Mr. Khadgata conceded that the number of tests being conducted daily was low, but added that efforts were on to increase it substantially. The Nuh health department collected only 1,216 samples on May 11. Mr. Khadgata said the lone laboratory in Nalhar with a capacity of 1,500 tests daily catered to Mahendergarh and Rewari as well, along with Nuh. However, the locals claimed the health infrastructure was in shambles and a large population was left at the mercy of the quacks. “I went to Nalhar Medical College after my oxygen levels dropped two days ago, but they turned me away saying there was no bed. Every day I get calls from Mandikhera Hospital saying that a team would visit me, but no one showed up till date. Many in my village have fever, cough and breathlessness. With no help from the administration, they are forced to consult the quacks,” said Saleem Khan, a resident of Madhi village, who contracted the infection a week ago. Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislative Party and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed said nothing had changed even two weeks after the visit of Chief Minister Manohar Lal. “Nuh conducts the least number of daily tests in the State. We have been demanding that it should be increased. The vaccination coverage is also very low. The government has failed to instil confidence among the locals regarding vaccination,” said Mr. Ahmed. Though Union Health Ministry website shows positivity rate of 46.4% for Sonipat for May 5-11 week, District Surveillance Officer Sonipat, Dinesh Chillar, claimed that “those were the figures for the last month”. He said the positivity rate in the district had now drastically come down to 17.79% from 41.40 % on May 1.  Situation grim Former Delhi Police officer Ramchander Sangwan, a resident of Sonipat, said the situation in villages was grim. “Many villages in the district report deaths every two-three days. People in villages don’t adhere to social distancing caused the spread. They don’t even get themselves tested thinking that it is just a viral fever.” Deputy Commissioner, Panipat, Dharmender Singh, said the number of tests were doubled to 2,000-odd over the past couple of days and the positivity rate had now come down to 25-30%. The Union Health Ministry, however, claimed that Panipat had positivity rate of 48.1%, the highest in the State, for May 5-11 week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3-haryana-districts-in-dire-straits/article34546999.ece
13 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam adopts odd-even vehicle formula||The Assam government has added the odd-even vehicle formula to its stricter partial lockdown for 15 days from Thursday, while allowing security forces to be “ruthless” if people are found crowding, and violating guidelines to stay indoors for 15 hours a day. Assam Chief Secretary Jishnu Barua said all government and private offices, religious places and weekly markets in urban and semi-urban areas of the State will remain shut for 15 days from May 13 in view of the rising COVID-19 cases. To ensure fewer people on the roads, the government has decided to allow vehicles with even and odd registration numbers to ply on alternate days. “All vehicles other than government vehicles will be allowed to ply in accordance with an odd-even formula between 5 a.m. and 2 p.m.,” a notification from the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said. There are exemptions for people using personal vehicles for medical emergencies, as well as media persons. Public vehicles have been allowed operation with 30% seating capacity during non-lockdown hours, while the number of people for funeral or last rites has been restricted to 10. Director-General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said the police would implement the restrictions very strictly. “We will be ruthless and chargesheet if people are found crowding at any place. We won’t care if people file cases against us,” he said. He warned that attempt to murder case would be lodged if anyone organised any function secretly at home and invited people. Under-reporting The East Khasi Hills district administration in Meghalaya has issued a notification saying every citizen should consider themselves to be asymptomatic carriers of COVID-19 and wear masks even at home, for 14 days from Wednesday. District Deputy Commissioner Isawanda Laloo said a report by public health experts said COVID-19 cases in the State could be up to 25 times the actual numbers being recorded. “According to the experts, the under-reporting is primarily because most people are asymptomatic and hence in denial mode while others are not coming forward for testing due to fear of stigmatisation,” she said from State capital Shillong, also the district’s headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-adopts-odd-even-vehicle-formula/article34546621.ece
13 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||High Court relief for U.P. hospital||Booked on charges of allegedly issuing a false alarm for oxygen shortage, a private hospital in Lucknow has been granted interim protection from coercive action by the Allahabad High Court, which also sought a report from the district magistrate. The hospital submitted in court that in the wake of the FIR lodged against it, its management was being subjected to harassment and it was not able to treat COVID-19 patients admitted there.  ‘No coercive steps’ The court said that until it decided the matter on the question of a show-cause notice issued to the hospital by the administration, the hospital’s reply and the action against it, “no coercive measures” should be taken against the hospital and its staff under the FIR. A Division Bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar directed the District Magistrate, Lucknow, to file an affidavit in response to an intervention application filed by Sun Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/high-court-relief-for-up-hospital/article34547000.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||State Congress demands national policy for COVID-19 vaccination||The Maharashtra Congress on Wednesday demanded a national policy for the COVID-19 vaccination programme, as the State faced an acute shortage of vaccines and lakhs of individuals were awaiting their second shot. “This is not the first time that India is faced with a pandemic or an epidemic. For many years, the nation has successfully fought diseases like polio and has run widely-acclaimed vaccination programmes. But the intent and courage shown by the previous governments are lacking in this Central government led by Narendra Modi,” State Congress president Nana Patole said at a press conference. Mr. Patole said the nation was fighting COVID-19 without vaccines, medicines, oxygen, and using sub-standard equipment provided under PM-CARES. “The mishandling of this situation has spread the message that the Modi government cannot handle this pandemic,” he said. Mr. Patole said as Maharashtra continued to face a shortage of vaccines, it was important for the Central government to announce a national policy on vaccination. Maharashtra had been leading in the vaccination numbers till Tuesday. But the pace of the vaccination drive in the State had to be slowed down due to a shortage of vaccines. As per the data till 7 a.m. on Wednesday, Gujarat had surpassed Maharashtra in terms of the actual number of individuals given the second shot of the COVID-19 vaccine. Gujarat had completed two doses of the vaccination of around 36,47,949 beneficiaries, while Maharashtra had completely vaccinated 36,44,405 people. Maharashtra, however, topped the total number of vaccinations among all others, with the State delivering 1,86,48,538 doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-congress-demands-national-policy-for-covid-19-vaccination/article34546638.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||Families of Bhima-Koregaon case accused urge CM for their release due to pandemic||Family members of all the accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case have written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, requesting him to release them in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The letter has been written by blood relations of all the 15 accused — advocates Arun Ferreira, Surendra Gadling, Sudha Bharadwaj; professors Shoma Sen, Hany Babu; and Dr. Anand Teltumbde, Mahesh Raut, Rona Wilson, Sudhir Dhawale, Gautam Navlakha, Father Stan Swamy, Vernon Gonsalves, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor and Jyoti Jagtap. They are lodged at Taloja Central Jail and Byculla District Jail. The appeal said, “Our anxieties have intensified on learning about the death of a Taloja jail inmate due to COVID-19 following the delay in provision of medical attention. Another news report in the recent times indicated that eight staff members at the Taloja jail had tested positive for COVID-19 and 40 such cases had been confirmed in the Byculla prison.” The note said they were increasingly worried about the medical assistance that would be available to the prison inmates should they contract the deadly disease. “Many of the undertrials are over 60 years, with co-morbidities and are susceptible to rapid deterioration of health in the event of COVID-19 infection. Although vaccination is believed to reduce the lethality of the infection, it is seen that only four of the detainees — Mr. Navlakha, Mr. Gonsalves, Ms. Bharadwaj and Ms. Sen — have received a single dose of the vaccine as of last week of April,” the letter said. The letter further said that physical meetings had been stopped due to the pandemic and phone calls were allowed once in 10 days for four to five minutes. It urged the CM to recommend the high-powered committee constituted to release undertrials in the wake of COVID-19 to also release them on interim bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/families-of-bhima-koregaon-case-accused-urge-cm-for-their-release-due-to-pandemic/article34546635.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||After PMC assurance, control room denies availability of beds in Pune||After the counsel for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) assured the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that ICU and ventilator beds were available, the control room denied it. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a bunch of petitions on shortage of beds, oxygen, Remdesivir, crematoriums, and others. The counsel for PMC told the court that Pune had done maximum testing in Maharashtra and the recovery rate of patients in Pune was 90%. He said, “We are independent about the generation of oxygen and by June-end, all municipal hospitals will be self-reliant when it comes to oxygen. There are currently five ICU beds and ventilator beds vacant.” One of the advocates interrupted him and said there were no beds available in Pune, especially ICU and ventilator beds. The court directed that he call the helpline and put the phone on speaker. The control room then said no beds were available. To this, the counsel said officers were not doctors and details of the patient had to be given to retrieve information. The court was then informed that the dashboard by the PMC was not really providing real time updates on beds. The court directed the corporation and the Association of Doctors to file an affidavit on the same. Chief Justice Datta, upon perusal of the note submitted by Maharashtra counsel Akshay Shinde, said there was a shortage of Remdesivir. There was a demand for 70,000 vials daily, but merely 45,000 vials were received, he said, and asked how the State arrived at this figure for Remdesivir. The hearing will continue on May 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/after-pmc-assurance-control-room-denies-availability-of-beds-in-pune/article34546639.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||HC to Maharashtra: list steps taken to control spread of virus among children||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Maharashtra government about the steps it had taken to check the spread of COVID-19 among children. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni said experts had cautioned the nation about the third wave and said that children might be the most vulnerable and that authorities must take pre-emptive steps and strengthen health infrastructure in the State. The court directed the State to file an affidavit elucidating all the measures by May 19. Anil Sakhare, senior advocate and counsel for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, informed the HC that till April 2021, a total of 10,000 children under the age of 10 had contracted COVID-19 and 17 of them had died of the infection. He added that at least 33 children between the age of 10 and 18 had died of COVID-19 in Mumbai so far. The court then said the State must consult experts to strengthen the healthcare infrastructure for children and their caregivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-to-maharashtra-list-steps-taken-to-control-spread-of-virus-among-children/article34546636.ece
13 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC starts OPD at three hospitals for patients with mucormycosis symptoms||After six cases of mucormycosis were reported, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation on Wednesday started outpatient department at its three hospitals in Nerul, Vashi and Airoli. “Post recovery from COVID-19, patients who have diabetes, kidney ailments, or history of organ transplant are at a higher risk of contracting mucormycosis. Hence, the NMMC call centre will keep tabs on all the recovered patients,” Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said.Raina Assainar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nmmc-starts-opd-at-three-hospitals-for-patients-with-mucormycosis-symptoms/article34546634.ece
13 May 2021||Geneva,||COVID-19 catastrophe could have been avoided, says report||The catastrophic scale of the COVID-19 pandemic could have been prevented, an independent global panel concluded on Wednesday, but a “toxic cocktail” of dithering and poor coordination meant the warning signs went unheeded. The Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response said institutions “failed to protect people” and science-denying leaders eroded public trust in health interventions. Early responses to the outbreak detected in Wuhan, China, in December 2019 “lacked urgency”, with February 2020 a costly “lost month” as countries failed to heed the alarm, said the panel in its long-awaited final report. Requested by the World Health Organization (WHO) member states last May, the report, “COVID-19: Make it the Last Pandemic”, argued that the global alarm system needed overhauling to prevent a similar catastrophe. “We have identified failures at every stage and we do believe that it could have been possible to prevent this pandemic,” panel co-chair and former Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said. “We cannot simply point to one individual who is ultimately responsible,” she said. The panel said the WHO could have declared the situation a Public Health Emergency of International Concern — its highest level of alarm — on January 22, 2020. Instead, it waited eight more days before doing so. It was only in March after the WHO described it as a pandemic — a term that is not officially part of its alert system — that countries were jolted into action. As for the initial outbreak, “there were clearly delays in China — but there were delays everywhere”, said former New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark, the report’s other chairwoman. To tackle the pandemic, the panel called on the richest countries to donate a billion vaccine doses to the poorest. The WHO and the World Trade Organization should also get major vaccine-producing countries and manufacturers to agree to voluntary licensing and technology transfers for vaccines. It also proposed an over-haul of the WHO to make it less cautious and give it more authority to send expert missions into countries immediately without waiting for their approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-19-catastrophe-could-have-been-avoided-says-report/article34546363.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Did Israel misjudge Hamas’s response?||The crisis escalated quickly this time. From a raid by Israeli armed forces in Al-Aqsa Mosque in the occupied Old City on Monday morning to rocket attacks from and airstrikes on Gaza in the evening. At least 53 Palestinians, including 14 children, were killed in Israeli strikes on Gaza, while the rocket and anti-tank missile attacks from Gaza killed five civilians one soldier in Israel. It is too early to say which side the conflict would turn. But one thing is certain: that this is the most dangerous escalation since the 2014 war on Gaza. Since the beginning of Ramzan last month, Israel, faced with political instability at home, has been using force to prevent Palestinian movement and gatherings in East Jerusalem. But did it expect the Jerusalem violence to take the country to the brink of a full-scale war? Pressure from within For Hamas, the Jerusalem conflict unfolded at a critical time. The coastal strip, under Israeli blockade for years, faces mounting economic challenges. Earlier when Hamas was a resistance movement, it could blame both the occupation and Palestine’s political leadership for the day-to-day miseries of Palestinians. But now, Hamas has been in charge of Gaza since 2007 and its governance faces criticism from within. Hamas also largely stayed away from directly provoking Israel in the past seven years, while smaller militant groups fired rockets occasionally. This also led other Islamist groups to challenge Hamas’s commitment to “resistance”. In the larger Palestinian political theatre, the struggle for leadership between Fatah, which runs the Palestinian Authority (PA) in the West Bank, and Hamas has never been settled. Hamas wants to emerge the main force in the political spectrum. In January, the PA, headed by President Mahmoud Abbas, had called for parliamentary elections in the occupied territories — the first poll in 15 years. Fatah, faced with infighting and allegations of corruption and incompetence, was expected to do poorly in the election, scheduled for May 22, while Hamas was prepared to play a bigger role post the polls. In late April, Mr. Abbas announced that he was delaying the elections indefinitely. An angry Hamas called Mr. Abbas’s decision “a coup”. Anger towards Israel There is also widespread anger against the way Israel treats Palestinians in East Jerusalem and the tightening of the occupation. Mr. Abbas, 85, seemed unable to counter Israeli measures. His decision to resume the PA-Israel security cooperation in January was also unpopular. Hamas termed the move “a stab in the back of efforts toward building a national partnership”. So, when Israeli troops raided Al-Aqsa and protests were spreading in East Jerusalem against the eviction of dozens of Palestinians from their houses, Hamas seized on the moment. Its codename for the rocket operation was ‘Sword of Jerusalem’. Clearly, it wants to project itself as a protector of Jerusalem and the only force that can stand up to Israel and thereby consolidate its position among the Palestinians.  More rockets Israel has vowed to intensify its airstrikes on Gaza. It is capable of carrying out deadly attacks. But there is a difference in the way Hamas fought this time. In 2014, it fired almost 4,000 rockets over 50 days, and most of them were intercepted by Israel’s rocket defence system. This time, Hamas launched about 1000 rockets in the first two days, some of them piercing through the Iron Dom defence umbrella. If in 2014, six civilians were killed in seven weeks, Hamas rockets have killed five civilians in the first 24 hours this time. It is not sure whether Israel anticipated Hamas to escalate the Jerusalem tensions to an open conflict. But Hamas, given the way it is firing rockets, seems to be prepared for this moment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/did-israel-misjudge-hamass-response/article34546365.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Bangladesh rebuffs China on Quad warning||Bangladesh’s government has asked foreign envoys in Dhaka “to maintain decency and decorum” after public remarks from China’s Ambassador to the country provoked a sharp response. The strongly-worded statement from the Foreign Ministry followed remarks by China’s envoy in Dhaka, Li Jiming, who warned Bangladesh to not consider joining the Quad grouping and said doing so would “damage” relations. While the informal India-Australia-United States-Japan framework has no plans as yet to expand, Mr. Li’s remarks were seen as an advance warning and followed similar recent comments by China’s Defence Minister, General Wei Fenghe, who on visits to Colombo and Dhaka last month urged countries in South Asia to not join any military alliances. Some Chinese officials have described the Quad as an “Asian NATO” and as a military alliance, a label that its members have rejected. “Obviously it will not be a good idea for Bangladesh to participate in this small club of four because it will substantially damage our bilateral relationship,” Mr. Li said at a meeting organised by the Diplomatic Correspondents Association on Monday, the Press Trust of India reported. The comment brought a sharp response from the Bangladesh Foreign Ministry, which said in a statement that Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen told reporters “as a sovereign country, Bangladesh will determine the course of its foreign policy in the interest of its people” and “urged foreign envoys in Dhaka to maintain decency and decorum while speaking in public”. “We’re an independent and sovereign state. We decide our foreign policy. But yes, any country can uphold its position,” he was quoted as telling the media. ‘Treat as equals’ China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told reporters in Beijing she “had not seen any reports from our Embassy in Bangladesh” on the issue. “So about the protest from the Bangladesh Foreign Minister, I’m not sure what exactly the protest is and what the accurate words are. But we always treat other countries despite their size as equals. We always follow the peaceful coexistence principle in developing bilateral relations and we always support each other,” she said. “About the Chinese Ambassador’s remarks on the Quad we have made our position clear on this issue,” she said. “We believe it is an exclusive clique against China and trying to rally countries around China to work against China. So I believe you understand our position very clearly.” “It is not China who has been interfering in other’s internal affairs,” Ms. Hua added. “We follow the principle of non-interference in other’s internal affairs. India knows better than us about the Quad, what’s the true intention of the Quad, is it trying to exclude China, or to target against China. If so, then it is not about interference, it is about expressing opposition to this Quad group and expressing the hope it will stop doing so.” Chinese vaccine Beyond the spat over the remarks, Bangladesh and China have been deepening cooperation, including on COVID-19. China invited Bangladesh, along with Afghanistan, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, to a Foreign Minister-level virtual dialogue last month, the fourth such meeting organised with South Asian countries to discuss COVID-19 cooperation, and offered Chinese vaccines and a plan to set up an emergency reserve for supplies for South Asian countries. Foreign Minister Wang Yi said at the dialogue India had also been invited to the forum, but did not attend. A day after the Bangladesh Foreign Ministry’s statement on the Chinese envoy’s remarks, it expressed its thanks to China for “gifting 500,000 vaccines” and said a “regular supply of Chinese vaccines to Bangladesh is under way”, as the Ministry shared a photo of Mr. Momen receiving a package of Sinopharm vaccines from Mr. Li.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-rebuffs-china-on-quad-warning/article34546367.ece
13 May 2021||Kabul,||Taliban seizes district on outskirts of Kabul||The Taliban has seized a district from the Afghan government forces on the outskirts of Kabul, ahead of a three-day ceasefire agreed between the warring sides, officials said. Nerkh district is around 40 kilometres from the Afghan capital in the neighbouring Wardak province, which has long been used by militants as a gateway to reach Kabul. Violence has soared since May 1 when the U.S. military began formally withdrawing its last remaining troops, as peace efforts between the Taliban and the Afghan government have stalled. “Security and defence forces made a tactical retreat from the police headquarters of Nerkh district,” Interior Ministry spokesman Tareq Arian said. Zabihullah Mujahid, a spokesman for the Taliban, said the insurgents captured the area on Tuesday, adding that fighters seized the police headquarters and an army base. The Defence Ministry on Wednesday said it would launch an offensive to win back the district, home to more than 60,000 people. “Commando reinforcements are on their way,” said Fawad Aman, a spokesman for the Defence Ministry. Large swathes of Wardak and neighbouring Logar province have been controlled or contested for years by the Taliban fighters. The main highway that connects Kabul to southern Kandahar province — the former Taliban stronghold and the scene of intense fighting in recent weeks — goes through the district. Taliban fighters have been encircling major Afghan urban centres, spurring speculation that the militants are waiting for the U.S. to withdraw before launching all-out assaults on Afghan cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-seizes-district-on-outskirts-of-kabul/article34546361.ece
13 May 2021||Washington,||Republicans oust Trump critic from leadership||House Republicans voted on Wednesday to oust anti-Trump conservative Liz Cheney from her leadership role, confirming that the party is casting its lot with the former U.S. President. Eighteen months before crucial midterms and three years before the next presidential race, the Republican Party punished one of its own for refusing to embrace Donald Trump’s false claim that Democrats stole the 2020 election. Ms. Cheney, a Wyoming conservative and the daughter of former Vice-President Dick Cheney, was removed from her role as the number three House Republican in a closed-door vote by the party’s conference. After the vote Ms. Cheney told mediapersons: “I will do everything I can to ensure that the former President never again gets anywhere near the oval office.” “We must go forward based on truth. We cannot both embrace the big lie and embrace the Constitution,” she added. Republicans argue it’s about unity, and that Ms. Cheney hammering on about Mr. Trump and what she calls his “dangerous and anti-democratic cult of personality” has done nothing to bring a fractured party together following a contentious election that left them in the political hinterland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/republicans-oust-trump-critic-from-leadership/article34546360.ece
13 May 2021||Tehran,||Ahmadinejad submits name for presidential poll||Iranian ultra-conservative former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad put his name forward on Wednesday as a candidate to succeed moderate President Hassan Rouhani in elections next month. The 64-year-old populist was applauded by several dozen supporters as he arrived at the Interior Ministry to submit his application.  The build-up to the June 18 election comes as Iran and world powers wrangle over reviving a 2015 nuclear accord, from which the U.S. withdrew unilaterally in 2018, reimposing crippling sanctions. Hopefuls have until Saturday to register, and will then be vetted by the conservative-dominated Guardian Council before a list of approved candidates is published by May 27, after which campaigning begins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ahmadinejad-submits-name-for-presidential-poll/article34546358.ece
13 May 2021||Hong Kong,||HK legislature nod to China loyalty laws||Hong Kong’s Opposition-devoid legislature approved new powers on Wednesday allowing the government to sack public office holders and bar election candidates from standing if they are deemed “disloyal” to local authorities or China. The new laws are part of sweeping changes that Beijing has ordered for Hong Kong’s already limited electoral system which will dramatically reduce the number of directly elected politicians and ensure only “staunch patriots” enter politics. Quashing dissent Along with a sweeping national security law, the political changes are part of a broad campaign to quash dissent after huge and often violent democracy protests rocked the finance hub in 2019. Forty legislators approved the new law with just one dissenting vote in a chamber cleared of Opposition members late last year ahead of the current political overhaul. Under the new powers, all public office holders will be required to make a “pledge of loyalty” that they must adhere to throughout their term. It includes principal government officials, Cabinet members, legislators and judges as well as members of the legislature. It also includes more than 470 district councillors — local neighbourhood officials who are the only people Hong Kongers can choose via universal suffrage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hk-legislature-nod-to-china-loyalty-laws/article34546357.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The science teaching and rationality India needs||A speeding autorickshaw driver once told me that slowing down might not be very useful to avoid an accident. He was responding to my unease, sitting behind him, feeling helpless about the consequence I might have to face on account of his reckless manoeuvres, especially at turns and roundabouts. He agreed to slow down because I asked him to, but he was not convinced that it would help avoid an accident. I was intrigued to hear this view and asked him to elaborate. He said that if another vehicle was going to collide with him in the coming few minutes, speeding might save you from that collision. The collision itself was a matter of destiny, not chance, for him and his logic was based on that perception. He wanted to persuade me to realise that an accident is something inevitable. When it is to happen, it will happen. Therefore, slowing down might invite it as much as speeding would. In academic parlance, this kind of logic has long been regarded as an expression of fatalism. This label does not allow nuances to be recognised in what is a broad framework for making sense of human life and its encounters with sudden changes, especially tragedies. Recalling this autorickshaw driver’s logic has helped me to make sense of arguments given in the context of diseases such as malaria and typhoid. When it comes to malaria, whether you get it or not depends on your ability to avoid being bitten by a mosquito. Of course not every mosquito, and not every bite, can cause malaria, but avoiding the proliferation of mosquitoes does prevent the chances of being infected by the parasite that causes malaria, carried by mosquitoes. Malarial mosquitoes breed in stagnant water, and that is where the imperative of avoidance begins. Logic of avoidance For many decades now, schoolchildren have scored marks by giving the correct answer to the question, ‘How can mosquitoes be stopped from breeding in our neighbourhoods?’ It is a rare school that gives children a task of going around noticing stagnant puddles formed during the rainy season containing visible mosquito larvae. The standard textbook line of action is to spread kerosene on stagnant water. That is what municipal workers supposedly do, and that is what is taught in the lesson on the services that municipalities provide. As the pedagogic calendar goes, once a lesson has been delivered and the test based on it taken, there is no reason to recall its content in the later parts of the year, except for the final examination. So, if malaria, dengue and chikungunya persist during the long autumn and winter months, it is unlikely that a teacher will relate them to the lesson taught earlier on mosquito prevention. Thus, while mosquitoes are avoidable, the diseases they cause take on an inevitable character, quite different from the inevitability that my autorickshaw driver was associating with an impending accident. Before the advent of antibiotics, typhoid fever and jaundice were life-threatening, and especially in the case of children. Doctors knew that it was possible to prevent both these diseases by avoiding contaminated water. And this could be done by boiling drinking water. But more usually, boiling of water only started after someone had been diagnosed as suffering from typhoid, or from jaundice. In any case, boiling was cumbersome and expensive. Along with antibiotics, water purifying devices and bottled water have distanced us from the grim experiences associated with water-borne diseases prevalent before the 1970s. Common diarrhoea is still a threat to the life and health of babies. Instead of preventing it by ensuring the supply of clean water in all geographical locations, India as a nation has ended up addressing the problem of drinking water by popularising personalised devices. No public systems The absence of public systems has proved costly both in health and in education. The teaching of science from the primary levels was a major policy initiative taken in the early decades of Independence through which the welfare state hoped to create general awareness on crucial matters of disease prevention and health. But the teaching of science is more than talking about science and telling students what ought to be done. In the case of boiling water, for example, it is hardly enough to say that high temperatures kill microbes. To achieve the belief that it actually does, one needs to see microbes with one’s own eyes. For an overwhelming majority of children, our system of education fails to provide them this kind of experience, even at the higher secondary level. The idea that boiling purifies water remains a matter of giving the correct answer in the examination, rather than a belief based on evidence seen through a microscope. This can hardly be described as a failure of education, because the seed of a capable public system was never sown, and, therefore, we could hardly expect a harvest. The novel coronavirus crisis has fully revealed the price that the neglect of education and health has wreaked. COVID compulsion Just this week I had the opportunity to talk to a city-based rickshaw puller who had booked a seat in a private bus which would take him to his native village in Uttar Pradesh. When I asked him why he was going, he gave me the obvious answer I had expected, referring to the sheer inadequacy of income to sustain himself in the city. But then he mentioned another reason why he had to go urgently, and this had to do with a wedding in the village. He had to attend it, he said, otherwise his relatives would feel upset with him. It did not help our conversation when I alluded to the risk of him contracting the novel coronavirus while travelling in a bus and later attending a wedding ceremony. He was not particularly interested in my concern that he must take every precaution, and especially make sure that he did not remove his mask during the journey and during the wedding ceremony. His response to my concern for his well-being reminded me of what the autorickshaw driver had said many years ago, namely, that the inevitable cannot be avoided. In this case, the inevitable was hardly a matter of fate. In fact, it is the wedding that was inevitable and therefore unavoidable, even if it posed the risk of getting sick. My interlocutor also shared with me the feeling that the pandemic is mainly in the big cities and that villages are free of it. Apparently, despite being on WhatsApp, he had not heard about the surge currently being witnessed across rural parts of northern India. But the most interesting part of this conversation had to do with the mask. If the mask, a bit like boiling water, prevents an invisible microbe from entering the human body, it is a matter of faith for someone who has no idea of the world of invisible pathogens. The mask and the citizen We may wonder why several western countries, where education is supposedly better, also failed to convince their citizens to wear masks. This argument is based on a positive stereotype of the West. Looking more closely at different countries that comprise the West, one noticed sharply differentiated levels of the quality of their school science. Over the last half century, some of the richest countries have allowed science at school to decline. India’s education system, which was already impoverished, suffered severe cutbacks under the repeated waves of lopsided economic reforms. New norms of public financing have undermined science teaching, robbing ordinary citizens of the intellectual resources they might have acquired during childhood. But science teaching alone cannot create miracles. For science to mean anything, a rational social environment is needed. Moreover, for science to acquire meaning during school life, it is important that children grow up in an ethos where dissent and debate are encouraged. It is obvious that the benefits of science and its teaching do not accrue when the democratic order, and the institutions on which it is based, are not in good health. Krishna Kumar is a former director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training and the author of ‘Education, Conflict and Peace’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-science-teaching-and-rationality-india-needs/article34546342.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||A bullet train to hunger||Pinki is a 28-year-old Dalit woman from Saharanpur, U.P. Her husband met with an accident during the national lockdown in April 2020. The two of them had to sell all their belongings for his treatment and subsequently became dependent on her parents. Such avoidable miseries were heaped on millions due to the unilateral national lockdown in 2020. The monthly report from the Finance Ministry in October stated, “From a trickle in not so distant past to now a sea of humanity coming out on the streets, the people of India have embraced the new normal where self-protection is inseparable from economic activity.” It attempts to poetically celebrate the spirit of resilience among the people by alluding to “self-protection” by shying away from the government’s responsibility of social protection. The experience for the poor is a kind of syndemic: a juxtaposition of the healthcare crisis due to the pandemic and the daily precarity of having to deal with hunger and uncertainty about livelihoods. The rural-urban divide As per the State of Working India report 2021 of Azim Premji University, nearly half of formal salaried workers moved into informal work between late 2019 and late 2020 and the poorest 20% of the households lost their entire incomes in April and May 2020. Considering the modest national minimum wage threshold of Rs. 375 per day (the Anoop Satpathy Committee), 23 crore individuals have been pushed below these minimal earnings. Poverty rates in rural areas have increased by 15 percentage points (pp) and by 20 pp in urban areas. A worse impact on the urban poor was also observed in other surveys. For instance, many organisations affiliated with the Right to Food campaign and the Centre for Equity Studies, under the banner ‘Hunger Watch’ (HW), conducted a survey of nearly 4,000 households in 11 States in October 2020. The respondents were equally split between rural and urban. The survey focussed on understanding the hunger and livelihood situation among marginalised communities such as daily wage workers, single women households, people with disability, etc. The differential impact on rural and urban populations came across in this as well. Incomes reduced by half/quarter for more than half the urban respondents while it was a little over one-third for rural respondents. In October, in rural areas, 26% had no income while 30% had no income in urban areas. For only one in five rural respondents, the nutritional quality of food remained “more or less the same” in October compared to pre-pandemic levels. This was doubly worse for urban respondents. While 54% in urban areas had to borrow money for food, it was 16% lower for rural respondents. Nearly two-thirds of the urban respondents had to skip a meal while it was lower (41%) for rural respondents. Urban respondents experienced at least 12 pp more reduction in consumption of grains and pulses compared to rural. In summary, across 13 key parameters, urban respondents were 15 pp worse off compared to their rural counterparts. The conditions are worse when data are spliced by caste, religion and other special forms of vulnerability. For instance, 60% of Muslims, 51% of Dalits, 58% of older persons without caregivers and 56% of single women-headed households went to bed without a meal at least once. This pattern holds true across other parameters too. The number of respondents in each of these categories varies so they are not strictly comparable. However, the uniformity of these numbers across surveys indicates the disproportionate impact faced by some of these more vulnerable communities. Two important laws Under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 75% of the rural population and 50% of the urban population are entitled to 5 kg of foodgrains each month at subsidised prices. Despite well-known exclusions from NFSA due to identification errors as well as using old population estimates, the additional measures announced by the Central government under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana after the national lockdown were restricted to only those already covered by the NFSA. An additional entitlement of 5 kg of foodgrains per individual and 1 kg of pulses per household for free was given to those who hold Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cards under the NFSA. AAY card holders fall under the extremely poor category. This was discontinued in November. Supplementary rations were available under various State schemes. In the HW survey, a higher proportion of respondents in rural areas (56%) had NFSA cards compared to urban areas (27%). Of the respondents, 36% in urban areas did not have any ration cards compared to 13% in rural areas. Similarly, as per official records, there was a 47% increase in persondays of work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in 2020-21 compared to 2019-20 and a record 72 lakh households completed 100 days of work in one year. The wider coverage of the public distribution system (PDS) and a promise for employment in rural areas have perhaps cushioned the blow to some extent compared to urban areas. While still a long way to go, NFSA and MGNREGA have at least demonstrated the importance of expanding the social security nets. PDS entitlements are basic survival kits and fall far short of minimal nutritional requirements for a healthy society. As per conservative estimates, there are at least 33 crore poor households in India. If even the basic survival needs of these households are not ensured, it is like plunging the combined population of Germany, France, the U.K., Spain, Portugal and Italy into irredeemable levels of starvation and malnutrition. With over 100 million tonnes of foodgrain stocks in the Food Corporation of India warehouses (as on May 1), not universalising rations at this stage is akin to taking a bullet train to hunger. The Central government must immediately expand the coverage and quantity under the NFSA for at least one year, increase MGNREGA entitlements to 200 days per household, initiate consultations for an urban employment programme and offer a wage compensation of Rs. 7,000 per poor household for the next few months. Rajendran Narayanan teaches in Azim Premji University, Bengaluru, and is with LibTech India. Dipa Sinha teaches in Ambedkar University, Delhi. Both are with Right to Food Campaign||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-bullet-train-to-hunger/article34546351.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Forget ‘play’, the machine needs to be scrapped||In its affidavit (https://bit.ly/3eHudlb) submitted to the Supreme Court on May 9 in the suo motu COVID-19 management case, the Union of India avers, in the words of Justice Holmes, that “play must be allowed for the joints of the machine”. Arguably, in this instance, such play is irrelevant because the machine needs to be scrapped. The Centre must revisit its policy by procuring 100% of the vaccine doses which can then be equitably disbursed to the State governments. Reasons to revisit policy The States were indeed thoughtless to ask for an immediate expansion of vaccination to all adults, beyond the 45-plus years priority group, but the affidavit shows the Centre as cavalier and spiteful. The submission provides three good reasons to revisit the new “liberalised” policy. First, it is indefensible and out of line with international practice; put bluntly, it is patently stupid. Second, it is incoherent and internally inconsistent — it alludes to liberalisation while controlling both price and quantity for every State — an inevitable consequence of the infeasibility of a liberalised policy at this time. Indeed, the Centre is currently threatening to penalise States that are not administering sufficient second doses. Third, the submission frequently resorts to legal legerdemain, obfuscating the argument, instead of constructively addressing the essential problem at hand. To begin with, at a time when the Centre is deciding which manufacturer of Remdesivir, hitherto a competitively marketed drug with multiple manufacturers, will sell how much to which State at what price, it is concomitantly deregulating the vaccine market, which currently has just two suppliers, in a situation of extreme shortage, exacerbated by adding 600 million 18 to 44-year-old citizens to 200 million unvaccinated people above the age of 45. This is far from using “differential pricing… to instil a competitive market”, a goal best left for later. In every other country, only the national government is buying vaccines, with odd exceptions such as Indonesia and the Philippines, where corporates are allowed to buy internationally, to vaccinate their workers for free. It is also perplexing why Covaxin is not more widely licensed, given that the affidavit makes it clear that much of the core work in developing the vaccine was done at the ICMR-NIV in Pune. The high price States will pay In the affidavit, the Centre baldly admits that “by nature of its large vaccination programme, [it] places large purchase orders for vaccines as opposed to the State Governments and/or Private Hospitals and therefore, this reality has some reflection in the prices negotiated” — i.e., it can buy vaccines cheaper than States or the private sector. If so, why should it not buy and distribute, as it was doing till April 30? Next, the Centre takes 50% (it may have booked more than its share) to give to States for the 45-plus age group, and the States get 25% of the total vaccine production for their use. Each State is “informed by the Central Government in writing about the number of vaccines it would receive....” Further, “by conducting informal consultations with the vaccine manufacturers, [it] ensured that the prices of vaccine is uniform for all the States”, i.e., the Centre has fixed both quantity and price. It is clearly not a liberalised policy. The balance 25% in each State “will go to the private sector based upon the contracts between private sector and vaccine manufacturers,” but how is the private sector in a specific State defined, since contracts are at a corporate level and not by State units? Also, what happens if the private sector cannot absorb the 25%? After all, in terms of CoWIN sites, the private sector, which earlier had about 10% share, is now under 3%. Day before yesterday, Bihar had nine sites, Chhattisgarh, 32 and Arunachal Pradesh had none. The private sector allocation actually privileges large urban areas, where it is more present. Thus, instead of the full production at zero cost, the States now get one quarter of the production at twice or more the price paid by the Centre. The private sector will access the other quarter, at a landed cost that, based on current reports, might be up to 10 times the price it paid earlier. Little did States know that their petulant insistence on immediate universal vaccination would come at such a high price. The Centre has little to show But, cannot States secure other supplies, e.g., via global tenders that many are now floating? The affidavit states, quite sensibly, that “efforts in the direction of procurement of other vaccines from other countries is essentially a responsibility of the Central Government” and “discussions for procurement of vaccines… has been going on since third-quarter of 2020… These negotiations are a complex undertaking which is currently ongoing on a war footing using all resources including diplomatic channels.” Effectively, the Centre has been trying for over six months, with little to show for it. Thus, States are either being led up the garden path — it is difficult to accept that States are so naive — or their global tenders are just grandstanding. Finally, legal legerdemain, that is most evident in the response to door-to-door vaccination. Yes, it is impracticable . But, the spirit was to make vaccination easier to access, e.g. through pop-up centres in communities, maintaining the necessary protocols. Instead, after expending five pages on creating and demolishing an unnecessary straw man of door-to-door vaccination, the affidavit dismisses the central question as to “whether the Central government will revisit its policy by procuring 100% of the doses which can then be equitably disbursed to the State Governments” with an airy “the answer has been already elaborated hereinabove”, when it has no such answer. Is there not enough residual trust between the Centre and States for such equitable distribution? If so, the need is to reinvigorate this trust, rather than accept policies leading to further Balkanisation. What then does this liberalised policy accomplish? It increases the vaccine maker’s revenue, with a weighted price of Rs. 477 per dose for Covaxin and Rs. 302 per dose for Covishield, based on prices to be paid by States and private firms. (On pricing, the weighted average is calculated based on a share of 50% for the Centre, 25% for States and 25% for the private sector for both vaccines, according to the affidavit. Covaxin and Covishield are both at Rs. 154 — https://bit.ly/2SBTwwa — for the Centre, and Rs. 400 for States and Rs. 1,200 for the private sector for Covaxin and Rs. 300 for States and Rs. 600 for the private sector for Covishield.) While this is possibly too high, their revenue can be raised more simply by increasing the Centre’s price, currently Rs. 154, and providing the comfort of large long-term orders for 100% of India’s needs, enabling firms to invest more and sell globally. States could bear the extra cost directly without this convoluted new policy. It could even be financed by special interest-free 50-year loans to States, as promised last year for infrastructure, by the Finance Minister. The Union Minister for Health has clearly stated that “those who can afford to get them at the private and corporate sector rates shall go ahead” (https://bit.ly/3y54hrd). Should such a policy be accepted, one that makes supplies less reliable and vaccination more expensive and less equitable across geographies and sends the marginalised to the back of the queue? One that delays vaccinating the vulnerable, by halving their allocation? Or should this “new” policy just be scrapped? Partha Mukhopadhyay is Senior Fellow, Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/forget-play-the-machine-needs-to-be-scrapped/article34546344.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||A hundred days after the coup||On February 1, Army trucks and tanks rolled into the streets of Naypyidaw and Yangon, signaling the military’s overthrow of a government in which it had a sizeable share of power. The generals felt insecure with the landslide victory of the Aung San Suu Kyi-led National League for Democracy (NLD) in the November 2020 elections. They decided to exert full control and terminate the experiment of transition to democracy that their wiser predecessors had initiated in 2010. Paying a hefty price The costs of this political U-turn have been high. People clashed with police and army units wielding batons, rubber bullets and live ammunitions. Youth, women, professional groups and ethnic minorities rose in unison to demand the release of their elected leaders and return of freedoms and democracy. People’s resolve surprised the military as much as the latter’s brutality shocked the largely non-violent protesters. In the end, unarmed demonstrators had to yield to the logic of the bullets fired. The civil disobedience movement began to lose momentum from early April. The people paid a heavy price: 750 were killed, thousands injured, and over 2,500 detained. One reality, however, remained unchanged: power still flowed from the gun in Myanmar. The Army offered a fundamentally unfair solution: the results of the 2020 elections were set aside, new elections were promised in a year or two and so was a ‘disciplined democracy’ (in which the military presumably would have more control). People opposing the military initially called for the restoration of the status quo ante i.e., undo the coup and let the newly elected parliament function, with a new NLD government. As there were no signs of the acceptance of this demand and violence escalated, positions hardened. The opposition then came up with a new, radical package, including rejection of the 2008 constitution, adoption of a new Federal Democracy Charter, and announcement of the ‘national unity government’ with representation from the majority Bamar and ethnic minority communities. The generals were not impressed. ASEAN mediation The ASEAN group, which includes Myanmar, was deeply concerned over the coup’s adverse impact. Its principles, credibility and much-touted but largely eroded ‘centrality’ were endangered. Although still wedded to the concept of non-interference in internal affairs of its member states, ASEAN followed its activist tradition to assist Myanmar in exiting from this quagmire. But first it had to bridge internal differences, with members like Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam inclined to be sympathetic to the military and others like Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore keen to mediate in the Myanmar crisis for the region’s larger good. Then, it had to navigate the chasm within the international community. The U.S., the U.K. and the European Union zealously advocated a policy of condemnation and strong sanctions against the military regime, while China and Russia were determined to protect the generals from excessive censure and opposition, on the ground that greater instability would jeopardise their interests. Fortunately, other Asian powers, notably India and Japan, preferred to support reconciliation. ASEAN also had to handle deftly the activism of the United Nations Secretary General whose special envoy strove to find a role for herself, even though Naypyidaw was opposed to her approach. ASEAN kept up consultations with her, even letting her visit Jakarta just when the momentous ASEAN summit was held on April 24 there. The summit’s ostensible agenda was a discussion on regional developments, but the single-most important item was to devise a classic way to defuse the crisis in Myanmar.  Two major features of the Jakarta summit outcome need to be appreciated. First, the Five-Point Consensus has the presumed concurrence of Myanmar’s new strong man, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing. Its contents include immediate cessation of violence; supply of humanitarian assistance; constructive dialogue; and ASEAN’s mediation through the visit by a special envoy of ASEAN’s Chair and the ASEAN Secretary General. Who the special envoy would be remains unclear so far. Second, the first part of the Chairman’s statement includes a para on the repatriation from Bangladesh of the Rakhine state’s displaced people. This part also contains a line that “calls for release of all political prisoners including foreigners” were “also heard”. It was evident that the Myanmar representation had reservations on these two elements, the reason why they were excluded from the Five-Point Consensus. The unstated message from Jakarta was that Ms. Suu Kyi’s political role might become a casualty of an eventual settlement. She could be released only when the situation normalises, perhaps on condition that she glides into a deserved retirement. What next? Critics in Myanmar underplayed the likely impact of the Jakarta agreement, with the key opposition leader, Dr Sasa, stressing that there would be no dialogue with the junta unless it agreed to the conditions put forward earlier, including the release of political prisoners. ASEAN has created a rare pathway to help Myanmar move forward. However, the road ahead promises to be difficult. The opposition in Myanmar would need to internalise the utility of a helping hand extended by the region. The military is perhaps grateful for the honourable opportunity to climb off the tiger it unwittingly rode on February 1. But it seems in no hurry to talk to the Opposition. International reactions to the Jakarta summit outcome have largely been positive. The UN and other global stakeholders appreciate Southeast Asia’s willingness to resolve its problems in its ‘family way’. As a neighbour with vital stakes, India welcomed the ASEAN initiative. New Delhi should unreservedly back ASEAN’s endeavours, helping it blossom further by extending requisite support to Jakarta and other capitals. Myanmar’s leaders should work for a lasting reconciliation, deriving inspiration from Lord Buddha’s ‘Middle Path’. A nation often let down by its leaders, Myanmar deserves a better future. Rajiv Bhatia is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House and a former Ambassador to Myanmar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-hundred-days-after-the-coup/article34546355.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||EdTech needs an ethics policy||The lack of a regulatory framework in India along the lines of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in Europe could impinge on the privacy of students who now use educational technology (EdTech) apps for learning. Since the onset of the pandemic, online education has replaced conventional classroom instruction. This has spawned several EdTech apps which have become popular. Schools and colleges have been able to move their content delivery, engagement and evaluation from offline to online and ensure minimal academic disruption. This exercise has forced teachers to become facilitators in learning rather than being content providers. The EdTech apps have the advantage of being able to customise learning to every student in the system. Storing the smallest details To perform the process of learning customisation, the apps collect large quantities of data from the learners through the gadgets that the students use. These data are analysed in minute detail to customise learning and design future versions of the app. The latest mobile phones and hand-held devices have a range of sensors like GPS, gyroscope, accelerometer, magnetometer and biometric sensors apart from the camera and microphones. These provide data about the learner’s surroundings along with intimate data like the emotions and attitudes experienced and expressed via facial expressions and body temperature changes. In short, the app and device have access to the private spaces of the learner that one would not normally have access to. Researchers dealing with human subjects need to comply with ethics rules that committees of their respective research organisations formulate, along with global standards. One of the cardinal rules that should never be broken is informed consent. Before any research on human subjects is undertaken, researchers have to submit detailed proposals to their respective ethics committees and obtain their permissions. Those proposals and permissions are subject to transparent external reviews. Further, a researcher working with children, for example, would also have to convince schoolteachers, parents, and school managements about the nature of the research to be undertaken, type of data to be collected, method of storage, the potential harmful effects of such data, etc. All this should be done in writing, while giving the learner the option to opt out of the study at any point of time without any repercussions. Minimal safeguards However, in the EdTech industry, where investments are pouring in, researchers and app developers are being pushed to be as intrusive as possible. The safeguards that traditional researchers are subject to are either missing or minimal in research that the EdTech industry promotes. Children use these apps without parent or adult supervision. Intrusion of privacy can happen unnoticed. The concept of informed consent is not meaningful since there are no proper primers to explain to stakeholders the intricacies in layperson terms. Further, there is no option to stop using the app without some repercussions. Since India does not have protection equivalent to the GDPR, private data collected by an EdTech company can be misused or sold to other companies with no oversight or protection. It is prudent to remember the 2014 study titled ‘Experimental evidence of massive-scale emotional contagion through social networks’, wherein Facebook manipulated the emotions of 7,00,000 users by changing the type of posts that were shown to the user. Given these realities, it is necessary to formulate an ethics policy for EdTech companies through the active participation of educators, researchers, parents, learners and industry experts. Such a policy draft should be circulated both online and offline for discussions and criticism. Issues of fairness, safety, confidentiality and anonymity of the user would have to be dealt with. EdTech companies would have to be encouraged to comply in the interest of a healthier learning ecosystem. Vikram Vincent holds a PhD in Educational Technology from IIT Bombay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/edtech-needs-an-ethics-policy/article34546352.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||State action||India’s national positivity rate, or the proportion of tested cases returning positive, is around 21%. Moreover, 533 of the 734 districts have reported positivity greater than 10%. There are 26 States that had more than 15% positivity, nine with over 25% and 10 with 20%-25% positivity. Couple that with the faltering vaccination drive, and the picture is far from pretty. On April 12, India administered 3.7 million doses of vaccine and after April 26, it has failed to administer over 3 million doses a day. Ever since the vaccine drive was expanded to all adults over 18, on May 1, the maximum number of daily doses administered has been 2.4 million. This, even as daily new cases added continue to be above 380,000 and deaths close to 4,000 a day. The oxygen crisis continues and the pandemic has now established itself in rural India in lethal proportions, with macabre reports of bodies surfacing in the Ganga in the stretch from Uttar Pradesh to Bihar. All of these point to the fact that there is a very large pool of those infected and prone to infecting those around, bringing up the question of whether a national lockdown should be reimposed. No fewer than 18 States have imposed various grades of lockdown or curfews. Some only lay stress on shutting down marketplaces whereas others are more reminiscent of the curbs of March and April last year. These restrictions are expected to be in force at least till the third week of this month. Many of the States with the highest positivity rates and growth in infections have already imposed restrictions on the main sources of continued spread. These include religious gatherings, social functions and leisure visits to public entertainment spaces. A ‘national lockdown’ at this stage has only cosmetic value. India’s economy was already in a nosedive before March 2020 and the sudden imposition wreaked havoc on the migrant workforce. The brutality of the second wave has burnished the importance of masking up and opting for a vaccine as early as possible. In the absence of newer effective treatments, these continue to be the mainstay in staying safe. A lesson that has emerged from the pandemic is that States are best equipped to take care of themselves with the Centre doing its job best while acting as a facilitator. Central Ministers, armed with the best medical experts, had declared early this year that India was in the ‘end game’ of the pandemic and that India had “shown the world” how to beat it. Instead, the Centre must focus on distributing equitably across States vaccines, oxygen tankers, testing kits and other critical medical equipment while also accounting for a potential third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/state-action/article34546337.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Protecting prisoners||If overcrowding of prisons has been a perennial problem in this country, high occupancy levels can only mean bad news amidst a pandemic. The Supreme Court has been intervening from time to time to address this problem, but its latest order directing the interim release of eligible prisoners acquires salience in view of the uncontrolled second surge in the raging pandemic. Last year, the Court had passed such an order quite early — the one of March 23, 2020 came even before the nation-wide lockdown. The Court had then ordered all States to take preventive steps as well as constitute high-powered committees to determine the class of prisoners who could be released on bail or parole for a specified period. In directing this week that besides identifying more prisoners for release, the same set of prisoners be given parole this year too, the Court continues its trend of seeking to protect prisoners as well as those guarding them from getting infected. There have been significant initiatives to prevent any uncontrollable spread within the congested jails, ranging from stopping the practice of transporting remand prisoners to court for periodical extension of custody and hearings to asking authorities to prepare readiness and response plans. The Court’s order is welcome, both as a move to decongest jails and a measure that protects the right to life and health of the prisoners. Now that the issue of reducing occupancy in the prison is once again under focus, and not merely for the usual reason of overcrowding, but also in view of the vulnerability of prisoners and prison staff to infection and disease, a comprehensive look at imprisonment practices in the country may be in order. There have been reports of prisoners testing positive and getting hospitalised. How far the regular testing and medical treatment available to inmates across the country is effective is unclear. Further, even political prisoners, such as those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case without any direct link to any act of violence, are being repeatedly denied bail, solely because stringent laws have been invoked against them. Some political activists in Delhi are also in jail under anti-terrorism laws for alleged complicity in riots early last year. The courts must take into account their vulnerability to infection and consider bail. In its order, the Supreme Court has rightly emphasised the need to adhere to the norms it had laid down in Arnesh Kumar vs State of Bihar (2014) under which the police were asked not to effect unnecessary arrests, especially in cases that involve jail terms less than seven years. In the past, the Court has also asked authorities in all districts in the country to give effect to Section 436A of the Cr.P.C., under which undertrials who have completed half of the maximum prison term prescribed for the offence may be released on personal bond. Effective follow-up action is needed to audit these measures so that these are not implemented selectively or arbitrarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/protecting-prisoners/article34546338.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Soviet and Education (From an editorial)||Bolshevism may be a serious menace to the welfare of man, but we find that the Bolsheviks too are human beings, with an even greater regard for human nature and kindly care in the treatment of children than their vilifiers. From an account of the Bolshevik system of education, we learn that an elaborate scheme is at present worked out in Petrograd as regards the taking care and training of children. There are, we note, two important departments organised with special duties in the matter, the People's Commissariat for Public Health and the People's Commissariat of Public Instruction, both working in close co-operation. The Commissariat for Public Health is responsible for the medical and dental inspection of various school children, and has a large and well-equipped staff of doctors and dentists. It is also responsible for the physical culture of the children and with the help of the Commissariat of Public Instruction organises games and gymnastics. It has also established one or two special schools for physical culture in which boys and girls live and are specially trained to develop their athletic ability or correct some physical defects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/soviet-and-education-from-an-editorial/article34546345.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Cauvery issue: chances of settlement||New Delhi, May 12: The chances of the Cauvery waters dispute being settled without being referred to a tribunal under the Inter-State River Waters Dispute Act have become bright, it is learnt. In fact, the complexion of the dispute between Tamil Nadu, Mysore and Kerala has undergone a complete change because of the modified attitude taken by Mysore. Mr. Dharma Vira, Governor of Mysore, who was here some weeks ago for high-level discussions with Central officials on matters pertaining to his State, had a meeting with Dr. K.L. Rao, Union Minister for Irrigation and Power, on the dispute. Mr. Dharma Vira got the impression that there was a greater understanding of Mysore’s stand on the part of the Centre and that was what he indicated when he met pressmen at the conclusion of his visit to the capital. Enquiries show that Mr. Dharma Vira gave an assurance to the Centre that Mysore would stand fully by the 1924 agreement on the sharing of Cauvery waters and that the State would not do anything which would directly or indirectly offend the provisions of the agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cauvery-issue-chances-of-settlement/article34546346.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Inflation eases to 4.29%; base lifts IIP||India’s retail inflation slowed to a three-month low of 4.29% in April, from 5.52% in March, helped by softer food prices as well as a base effect. Separately, industrial output surged by 22.4% in March, lifted by the statistical impact of the year-earlier period’s Index of Industrial Production (IIP) being significantly lower on account of the national lockdown to contain COVID-19 imposed that month, data from the National Statistical Office showed on Wednesday. Retail food inflation eased to 2.02% in April, from 4.87% in the preceding month, with rural India recording a mere 1.45% food inflation compared with almost 4% in March. Overall rural retail inflation was 3.82%, slower than the 4.77% pace averaged in urban areas. The March IIP data showed manufacturing grew by 25.8% and electricity generation by 22.5% over the year-earlier period, when industrial activity had collapsed 18.7% in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown. For 2020-21, industrial output shrank by 8.6%, compared with a 0.8% contraction in 2019-20. Manufacturing contracted by 9.8% in the year, while mining production shrank 7.8%. Electricity seemed to have recovered from the initial shock, dipping just 0.5% over the full financial year. Observing that the inflation and IIP data provided strong positive signals for the economy, EY India chief policy advisor D. K. Srivastava, however, stressed that the turnaround in manufacturing related to the period ‘just prior to the extensive rounds of lockdowns induced by the ongoing second COVID wave’. While inflation in fuel and light increased in April, indicating that cost-push inflation persists through petroleum prices, Mr. Srivastava reckoned lower demand for food and beverages and other consumption items drove overall inflation lower. “The policy message is that the government needs to support demand without getting excessively concerned about the pressure on prices of petroleum products,” he said. Little room for rate cuts Most economists expect the RBI to remain accommodative, but don’t see much room for rate cuts. “As the lockdown base fades away, we expect the CPI inflation to bounce back to an average of 5%” in the remainder of the first half, ruling out the possibility of further rate cuts, said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar. DBS Group economist Radhika Rao emphasised that inflation and IIP data over the next three months were likely to be ‘significantly distorted’ by base effects. “Focus has returned to inflation in light of the recent rally in commodity prices,” Ms. Rao observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/inflation-eases-to-429-base-lifts-iip/article34546322.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||WTO chief targets waivers for COVID vaccines in Dec.||World Trade Organisation (WTO) Director General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala on Wednesday said she was pushing for member-nations to reach some agreement by July and deliver a final outcome on the intellectual property (IP) waivers for COVID-19 vaccines at the next ministerial meeting in December. “There are times when we can’t afford to take months and years… We are talking about lives being lost. Someone told me I am very ambitious. Yes, I am very ambitious when there are lives,” she said, emphasising the urgency to arrive at a swift pact on the intellectual property waivers needed to vaccinate the world faster. During an interaction with Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and World Economic Forum president Børge Brende, she expressed anguish at the second wave that had engulfed India and hoped the situation would be resolved soon. “India has exported more than 40% of the vaccines… and we are very proud that India has been able to share when it had difficulties. And of course, all our hearts go out to the struggles that are there and I know that they will resolve very soon,” she said. Apart from India, China and the EU had also exported vaccines so far, she noted, thanking the three WTO members. Stressing that her objective would be to push members to come to the table quickly and start discussions on the IP waivers, she said: “I am hoping by July, we will start to see something, with a final outcome by MC12,” she added, referring to the WTO’s ministerial conference set to take place in Geneva from November 30 to December 3. Package on agriculture Expressing the hope that the conference would encompass agendas important to both developing and developed countries, she said there would be wide disappointment if the WTO could not come up with a package on agriculture in order to meet food security concerns on a permanent basis. “I very much like the food security angle because it’s real. We are experiencing it and so we will be trying to persuade our members to look at the issue of public stockholdings and making that permanent, with all the transparency that is required and I am sure India has no problems with that.” The Nigerian WTO chief added that domestic support issues and industrial subsidies also needed review. “We have our work cut out for us, because we still have deep divides. But guess what, I am optimistic. We have to get it done. We just need some successes for the WTO,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wto-chief-targets-waivers-for-covid-vaccines-in-dec/article34546320.ece
13 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Amrutanjan eyes bigger pie in personal hygiene||Amrutanjan Health Care, known for pain management products, is looking at a sizeable presence in the women’s personal hygiene space by supplying high quality sanitary pads at affordable prices under the Comfy brand. The company, set up 127 years ago, is committing investment to increase presence in this segment to be among the top three players in 2-3 years, said chairman and managing director S. Sambhu Prasad. “Accessibility and affordability of good quality products are major barriers to better health,” Mr. Prasad said. “We aim to offer high-quality hygiene solutions that are affordable and accessible across the country,” he added. He said sales of the Comfy range have grown fivefold in five years. In FY21, it generated a revenue of Rs. 54 crore compared with Rs. 40 crore in the previous year. “It has become a fast-growing brand in a highly competitive market dominated by premium brands,” Mr. Prasad added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amrutanjan-eyes-bigger-pie-in-personal-hygiene/article34546315.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||April fuel sales decline 9.4% on COVID wave||Fuel demand slumped 9.4% in April compared with the preceding month as lockdowns clamped in several States to curb the second wave of coronavirus sweeping the nation pummelled demand, official data showed on Wednesday. Consumption fell 9.38% to 17.01 million tonnes in April from 18.77 million tonnes in March, data from Oil Ministry’s Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) showed. India was under one of the world’s severest lockdowns in April 2020. Fuel sales had halved that month, plunging to the lowest since 2006. Comparing on a yearly basis, fuel demand surged 81.5% from April 2020 lows. Sales of petrol fell to 2.38 million tonnes in April, the lowest since August, and 13% lower than March 2021 and 3% lower than April 2019. Diesel demand fell to 6.67 million tonnes in April 2021, down 7.5% from the previous month and 9% from April 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/april-fuel-sales-decline-94-on-covid-wave/article34546325.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||Auto wholesales decline 30% from March: SIAM||Manufacturers’ sales of automobiles to dealers plummeted 30% to 12.7 lakh vehicles in April over March, according to data from the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM). Wholesales of passenger vehicles (PVs) fell 10.7% to 2.61 lakh units in April, due to restrictions in States that have seen a surge in COVID-19 cases. Two-wheelers slumped 33.5% to 9.95 lakh units while three-wheelers shrank 57% to 13,728 units. Comparisons are with March 2021 as there were no sales and production in April 2020 due to the nationwide lockdown. Exports in April 2021, though, increased. PVs rose 4.58% to 42,025 units, while two-wheelers and three-wheelers climbed 21.1% and 16.8%, respectively. “Demand has been... impacted by the second wave of COVID-19, in terms of low consumer sentiment and closure of dealerships due to lockdowns,” said SIAM director general Rajesh Menon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-wholesales-decline-30-from-march-siam/article34546335.ece
13 May 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Remote working spurs demand for cyber experts’||Demand for cybersecurity professionals, including chief security officers, has more than doubled now from a year earlier in the country after cybersecurity emerged as a key concern following the pandemic, data from executive search firm Kingsley Gate Partners showed. Remote working, new ways of managing workflows and efforts to ensure business continuity have only made these companies increasingly vulnerable to cyberthreats,” said Umesh Ramakrishnan, senior partner and co-CEO. “This has exponentially increased the risk of security failures,” Mr. Ramakrishnan said. “To combat this, global enterprises are beefing up their security to avoid possible catastrophes. As a result, we are seeing a 100% spike in demand for CSO jobs and other cybersecurity positions in India and abroad,” he added. On the outlook for jobs, Kamal Karanth, co-founder, Xpheno, a specialist staffing firm, said the demand for cybersecurity professionals was expected to rise 200% in the next four years. “In 2021 alone, the country will require some 70,000 people with crucial skills such as application development security, cloud security, risk management, threat intelligence, incident response, data privacy and security strategy,” he added.  Global enterprises are beefing up their security to avoid possible catastrophes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/remote-working-spurs-demand-for-cyber-experts/article34546326.ece
13 May 2021||MUMBAI,||JSPL Q4 net profit surges to Rs. 1,901 crore||Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSPL) reported its fourth-quarter consolidated net profit surged to Rs. 1,901 crore compared with Rs. 82 crore in the year-earlier period on strong operational performance and continued demand for steel. Net revenues increased to Rs. 11,881 crore from Rs. 6,795 crore in the previous year. Consolidated FY21 net profit was at Rs. 5,527 crore as compared with a net loss of Rs. 574 crore in the previous year. Net revenues increased to Rs. 42,745 crore from Rs. 34,265 crore in the previous year. Standalone net profit increased 12 times to Rs. 3,426 crore from Rs. 282 crore in the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jspl-q4-net-profit-surges-to-rs-1901-crore/article34546317.ece
13 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Multiples-led consortium to buy Zydus AH||A consortium led by private equity firm Multiples Alternate Asset Management, through an SPV, has signed definitive agreements to acquire Zydus AH, the animal health business of Zydus Cadila, for Rs. 2,921 crore. The consortium that includes Multiples, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and RARE Enterprises, is buying the business focussed on India and certain other countries on a going concern basis. The deal is via a slump sale from Zydus Animal Health and Investments Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Cadila Healthcare Ltd. Zydus AH is the second largest animal health businesses in India. It has a manufacturing facility in Haridwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/multiples-led-consortium-to-buy-zydus-ah/article34546318.ece
13 May 2021||MUMBAI,||DII stake in Nifty 500 stocks sees dip||Even as foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have increased their holding in the domestic stocks, domestic institutional investors (DIIs) have been net sellers, and their stakes in Nifty 500 stocks declined to a seven-quarter low of 14.2% in the March quarter, shows an analysis. On an annualised basis, the overall FPI ownership in Nifty 500 stocks rose 160 bps to 22.3% in the March quarter from 20.7% in March 2020, while that of DIIs declined 50 bps to 14.2% from 14.7%. On a quarterly basis, DIIs witnessed decline by 10 bps, data from Motilal Oswal Financial Services showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dii-stake-in-nifty-500-stocks-sees-dip/article34546329.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||Eroute receives RBI nod to offer prepaid instruments||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has authorised fintech firm Eroute Technologies Pvt. Ltd. to start operations of semi-closed, pre-paid instruments in the country. This would enable the firm to unveil payment solutions targeted at addressing the specific needs of various consumer segments. It is also pursuing co-branded payment solutions with consumer firms, Eroute said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/eroute-receives-rbi-nod-to-offer-prepaid-instruments/article34546316.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||NMDC hikes lump ore price by Rs 700/tn; fines by Rs 1,500/tn||The country’s largest iron ore miner NMDC on Wednesday announced a hike in the prices of lump ore by Rs. 700 per tonne and fines by Rs. 1,500 per tonne with immediate effect. Iron ore is a key raw material used in steel making. Any change in its prices has a direct impact on the rates of steel. The announcement has come at a time when steel is trading at an all-time high.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-hikes-lump-ore-price-by-rs-700tn-fines-by-rs-1500tn/article34546328.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||Tata Power Q4 profit rises marginally to Rs 481 cr||Tata Power on Wednesday posted a marginal rise of 1% in consolidated net profit to Rs. 481.2 crore for the March quarter. It had clocked a net profit of Rs. 474.7 crore in the year-ago period, the company said. Total income rose to Rs. 10,222.5 crore in the quarter from Rs. 6,794 crore in the same period a year ago. The board recommended a dividend of Rs. 1.55 per equity share of Rs. 1 each.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-power-q4-profit-rises-marginally-to-rs-481-cr/article34546330.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||Govt approves Rs 18,100 cr PLI scheme for promoting ACC battery manufacturing||The government approved the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for manufacturing advanced chemistry cell (ACC) battery at an estimated outlay of Rs. 18,100 crore. The National Programme on Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC) Battery Storage may attract foreign and domestic investment of Rs. 45,000 crore, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-approves-rs-18100-cr-pli-scheme-for-promoting-acc-battery-manufacturing/article34546331.ece
13 May 2021||LONDON,||Manchester City back as PL champion||Manchester City was crowned Premier League champions for the third time in four seasons after Manchester United crashed to a 2-1 defeat against Leicester on Tuesday. Pep Guardiola’s side are 10 points clear of second placed United and has wrapped up the title with three games to spare. With many City’s players watching on television, Luke Thomas’ 10th minute volley put Leicester ahead before Mason Greenwood equalised five minutes later. Caglar Soyuncu’s towering header in the 66th minute ensured City could pop the champagne corks for a title party that has seemed inevitable for months. City faithful took to the streets round the Etihad to celebrate, with flares and banners creating a colourful backdrop to the joyous chanting. The team joined the celebrations by unveiling a giant sky blue banner, with the slogan CHAMPIONS and a picture of the team celebrating, on the outside of the stadium once the final whistle blew in the United game. City, which has already won the League Cup in April, can savour a title triumph that is all the sweeter given the obstacles it has overcome this term. “This has been a season and a Premier League title like no other. This was the hardest one,” Guardiola said. “We will always remember this season for the way we won. I am so proud to be the manager here and of this group of players. “They are so special. To come through this season, with all the restrictions and difficulties we’ve faced, and show the consistency we have is remarkable. It is relentless.” Another hat-trick Guardiola now has three Premier League crowns to go with three LaLiga trophies with Barcelona and three at Bayern Munich in the Bundesliga.  The results:   Premier League: Manchester United 1 (Greenwood 15) lost to Leicester 2 (Thomas 10, Soyuncu 66); Southampton 3 (Ings 19, 75, Adams 48) bt Crystal Palace 1 (Benteke 2).   Serie A: Napoli 5 (Zielinski 28, Fabian 31, Lozano 56, Di Lorenzo 66, Insigne 90+1) bt Udinese 1.   LaLiga: Osasuna 3 (Budimir 38, 75, Torres 86-pen) Cadiz 2 (Saponjic 49-pen, Alfonso Espino 90+3); Elche 0 Alaves 2 (Joselu 40, Rioja 54); Levante 3 (Melero Manzanares 57, Morales 60, Limones 83) drew with Barcelona 3 (Messi 25, Pedri 34, Dembele 64) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manchester-city-back-as-pl-champion/article34546492.ece
13 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Arjuna-winning veteran paddler Chandrasekar passes away||Three-time National table tennis champion and former International paddler V. Chandrasekar passed away here on Wednesday due to COVID-related complications. He was the current president of Tamizhaga Table Tennis Association (TTTA). He is survived by his wife Mala and 20-year-old son C. Sanjay, a final year engineering student. The 63-year-old Chandrasekar, a 1982 Arjuna Award winner, was admitted to a city hospital recently for coronavirus, after which he developed lung infection. Chandra, as he was popularly known, has groomed many top-level players such as S. Raman, Arul Selvi, Chetan Baboor, N.R. Indu, M.S. Mythili and G. Sathiyan and teenager Preyesh Suresh Raj, to name a few. Coaching stint Chandra has been coaching young paddlers for the last two decades. Starting his coaching stint in early 2000 at YMCA (Royapettah), he established his academy with support from the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu in Arumbakkam and later [now] in Mogappair. Chandra, retired from State Bank of India, had a tumultuous journey, especially after a botched-up surgery on his right knee that cut short his career when he was just 26 years old. He fought a legal battle with the reputed hospital and eventually won the case. Despite his failing health and limited mobility — his peripheral vision was affected due to the after-effects of the surgery — he continued to coach youngsters with the same enthusiasm as his playing days. As a player, he was attacking, always willing to experiment and take risks. Whether he was playing in local prize money tournaments or the National championships, people flocked to see Chandra play. At the International level, Chandra had some success. He reached the semifinals and bagged a singles bronze in the 1982 Commonwealth Championships in Mumbai, and was instrumental in guiding the Indian men’s team from Group II to I in the 1983 World championships in Tokyo. Spoke for unity After the Tamil Nadu Table Tennis Association (TNTTA) split into two factions in 2018 — TNTTA and TTTA, Chandrasekar was made the president of TTTA. But he wasn’t entirely happy with the position and always spoke about unity in the TT fraternity. In fact, he and G. Jagannath, another former National champion, prepared a blue-print for the future of TT in the State. “We told the two Units that they can fight the cases in court but hold tournaments as one unit so that the players don’t get affected, but things didn’t work out,” said the 76-year-old. Chandra’s autobiography with Seetha Srikanth, My fightback from Death’s Door published in 2006, was well received as it frankly recounted in some detail certain important incidents in his playing career and his battle with the hospital, among other things. He wrote touchingly: “There are times when I stumble on the footpath, and people have thought that I was drunk. That is when it hurts for it is not my fault.” Outspoken during and after his playing days, Chandra was a trailblazer both as a player and a coach. His legacy will live on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjuna-winning-veteran-paddler-chandrasekar-passes-away/article34546460.ece
13 May 2021||ROME,||Disastrous day for higher seeds||World No. 2 Naomi Osaka crashed out of the Italian Open on Wednesday, losing 7-6(2), 6-2 to American Jessica Pegula. Osaka, a four-time Grand Slam winner, has often struggled on clay and her defeat in Rome followed a second-round loss at the Madrid Open this month. Later, Serena Williams, seeded eighth and playing the 1,000th Tour-level match of her glittering career, suffered a shock 7-6(6), 7-5 defeat by Argentina’s Nadia Podoroska. It was the American’s 149th defeat in her 1,000 career WTA matches. World No.1 Ashleigh Barty advanced to the third round with an easy 6-4, 6-1 win over Kazakh Yaroslava Shvedova. In the men’s section, third-seeded Daniil Medvedev lost 6-2, 6-4 to fellow Russian Aslan Karatsev. Beating rain and Fritz Meanwhile on Tuesday, World No. 1 Novak Djokovic overcame a lengthy rain delay to beat American Taylor Fritz 6-3, 7-6(5) to reach the third round. Title-holder Djokovic waited three hours to finish off the match despite Fritz’s efforts in the second set.  Important results (second round): Men: Alejandro Davidovich Fokina bt Cameron Norrie 6-2, 6-3; Dominic Thiem bt Marton Fucsovics 3-6, 7-6(5), 6-0; Lorenzo Sonego bt Gianluca Mager 6-4, 6-4; Roberto Bautista Agut bt Cristian Garin 7-6(5), 6-3; Andrey Rublev bt Jan-Lennard Struff 6-7(7), 6-1, 6-4; Federico Delbonis bt David Goffin 6-2, 6-1; Aslan Karatsev bt Daniil Medvedev 6-2, 6-4; Alexander Zverev bt Hugo Dellien 6-2, 6-2; Novak Djokovic bt Taylor Fritz 6-3, 7-6(5).   Women: Ashleigh Barty bt Yaroslava Shvedova 6-4, 6-1; Veronika Kudermetova bt Caroline Garcia 6-4, 6-4; Coco Gauff bt Maria Sakkari 6-1, 1-6, 6-1; Aryna Sabalenka bt Sara Sorribes 7-5, 6-1; Garbine Muguruza bt Bernarda Pera 2-6, 6-0, 7-5; Elina Svitolina bt Amanda Anisimova 2-6, 6-3, 6-4; Karolina Pliskova bt Anastasija Sevastova 6-2, 6-3; Vera Zvonareva bt Petra Kvitova 6-4, 3-6, 6-4; Jelena Ostapenko bt Ajla Tomljanovic 6-2, 7-6(3); Nadia Podoroska bt Serena Williams 7-6(6), 7-5; Petra Martic bt Kristina Mladenovic 7-5, 6-3; Ekaterina Alexandrova bt Jennifer Brady, walkover; Jessica Pegula bt Naomi Osaka 7-6(2), 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/disastrous-day-for-higher-seeds/article34546456.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI/CHENNAI,||‘A fighter all through his life’||Former players, including some contemporaries of V. Chandrasekar, and two current stars paid glowing tributes to the three-time National table tennis champion.  G. Jagannath: When I first saw Chandra, during the 1969 State championship, he was around 11-years old. He was confidence-personified and remained positive throughout his life despite all the setbacks he faced.  Kamlesh Mehta: A terrific fighter. Extremely stylish player to watch. Chandra was a great team man and played hard. Never gave up, either on a table tennis table or in life. Not just that, he gave back to the sport as a coach and produced a number of players.  Manjit Dua: Chandra was a very intelligent player. He never believed in giving up. He loved the sport and even though his career as a player came to a premature end, he gave it all in coaching. He gave the country a number of quality players, some of whom went on to win the Arjuna Award.  S. Ramaswamy: Very humble and soft-spoken, Chandra was from a generation that produced players with sound basics. He was a quick learner. Initially, he appeared to be a single-dimension player, relying mainly on his forehand, but later he improved his backhand play and did consistently well.  Monalisa Mehta: For me, his forehand drives were simply superlative. After his training in Japan (in the academy run by twice World champion Ichiro Ogimura), the way he executed those powerful forehand top-spin drives from the corner of the table, was a treat to watch.  A. Srinivasa Rao (Dronacharya Awardee): From 1976-83 he was mostly unbeatable in TN, he played the same strokes differently, and was really a crowd-puller.  S. Raman: Chandra was a fighter all through his life. My one-year stint, as his ward, was quite fruitful as I reached the final of the Senior National championships in Jaipur in 1991.  Sharath Kamal: Chandra Sir was a gifted sportsman and a hands-on coach.  G. Sathiyan: My entire junior career and the medals I won, I owe it to Chandra Sir. It’s a personal loss.  TTFI president Dushyant Chautala: It was very unfortunate that table tennis has lost another person to the dreaded disease. We recently lost Suhas Kulkarni and now Chandra. We all will miss his persona. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-fighter-all-through-his-life/article34546458.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Desperately need international competitions’||Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra missed qualifying for the Rio Olympics in 2016 by 12 days. Five years on, the uncertainty around Tokyo Olympics continues to nag India’s medal prospect. “In 2016, I was doing well and even a metre less than what I did at Poland (World Junior Championships) would have been good at Rio but you cannot do anything about it. Now again my training has been really good and I am getting into a good rhythm but there is uncertainty. It is frustrating to think that four years of effort will be in vain if something happens,” Neeraj said in an interaction on Wednesday. What’s the use? “2019 was lost because of injury, then from 2020 onwards because of COVID. I do feel that some of the best 2-3 years of my career have been lost for reasons beyond my control. How long can we keep thinking about staying positive? Everyone trains to show their efforts in competition, to test themselves against the best. Without that, training becomes meaningless,” he added. The 23-year old admitted that competitions were his biggest need at the moment. “I have not participated in a full-fledged international competition for more than two years and I have to get that experience to be comfortable and prepared for the Olympics. Even the best cannot go directly from training and perform,” he insisted.  While the AFI, SAI and the ministry are constantly trying to work out alternative foreign locations for training and competition amidst travel restrictions from India – Neeraj said he preferred Sweden or Finland – the athletes are trying to stay focussed despite the growing cases in the country. The increasingly hot weather at Patiala is not helping, though. “I do believe that there should be an all-purpose indoor track to train at least in Patiala which is the base for most of our elite athletes. There is enough space here also. “Even the smallest of countries abroad have one. Already the temperature is touching 40 degrees and it will get worse. An indoor track will help us train all year round without worrying about weather,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/desperately-need-international-competitions/article34546439.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Singapore Open cancelled due to COVID-19||With the cancellation of the Singapore Open, scheduled from June 1 to 6, former World No. 1 players Saina Nehwal and K. Srikanth are set to miss the Tokyo Olympic Games. The announcement, made by the Badminton World Federation (BWF) on Wednesday, has virtually shut the door on the two Indians making it to Tokyo. That leaves P.V. Sindhu, B. Sai Praneeth and the duo of Chirag Shetty and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy as the Indian qualifiers for Tokyo Games. After the cancellation of India Open and Malaysia Open due to recent surge in COVID-19 cases, Singapore Open was the last qualification event before the June 15 deadline. The BWF has confirmed that the Singapore Open will not be rescheduled. That means, there are no more qualification tournaments before the Tokyo Games. Further statement by the BWF is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/singapore-open-cancelled-due-to-covid-19/article34546440.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian shooters reach Zagreb||The Indian shooting team, in quest of Olympic preparation, was given a warm welcome in Zagreb, Croatia, as it landed in a chartered flight, on Wednesday. The 13 shooters, seven coaches, five physios and a two-member video crew will be in a week-long isolation. “We are happy and excited to be your host for your Olympic preparations. We will do all in our power to make your stay pleasant and memorable,” said a communication from the Zagreb Shooting Association. Two of the coaches, Neha Chavan, the guide for Elavenil Valarivan, and Pavel Smirnov did not accompany the team. “One of us will be there for the World Cup to iron out the chinks, if necessary,” said Gagan Narang as he explained the decision to let Elavenil be on her own. “We had planed for the camp in Delhi. When Croatia was decided, we had to rework the strategy. We have programmed Elavenil to be independent, in training and competitions. On the firing line in the Olympics, you are alone,” said Gagan. “Pavel’s visa application is pending with the Embassy,” said Rajeev Bhatia, Secretary, National Rifle Association of India (NRAI).  The team is scheduled to shoot the European championship from May 20 at Osijek, which will also host the World Cup from June 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-shooters-reach-zagreb/article34546489.ece
13 May 2021||KOLKATA,||India waits for clearance from Qatar||The Indian national team is waiting for a clearance from host Qatar before it could travel to play the remainder of the 2022 FIFA World Cup and 2023 Asian Cup qualifiers. Centralised venue In a decision taken early in March, the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) slotted all the remaining matches of Group E qualifiers at a centralised venue in Qatar owing to the pandemic. India was looking to travel to the venue early and start its preparations, which seems unlikely now. “We hope to get the clearance from the host (Qatar) in a couple of days. The process will start thereafter,” said an AIFF source. With the second wave of the pandemic currently putting a siege on India, it is assumed that the permission is delayed because of the misgivings arising out of it. India is scheduled to play its remaining three matches against Qatar (June 3), Bangladesh (June 7) and Afghanistan (June 15). The Indian team played its last group match in November 2019 (losing 1-0 against Oman). It was supposed to take on Qatar at Bhubaneswar in October 2020 but the pandemic forced a postponement of the fixtures. India is currently placed fourth in Group E with three points from five games. Qatar leads the table with 13 points while Oman is a point behind it in the second spot. Though virtually out of contention for a World Cup berth, India still has a chance to make it to the Asian Cup which will be held in China in 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-waits-for-clearance-from-qatar/article34546490.ece
13 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Lifters keeping their fingers crossed||Three Indian weightlifters are waiting anxiously to know whether they will be able to participate in the World junior championships to be held in Tashkent from May 21 to 31. Keeping in view the practical difficulties in sending athletes abroad for training and competition due to the COVID-19 situation, the Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) had selected only three lifters — Youth Olympics champion Jeremy Lalrinnunga (67kg), Achinta Sheuli (73kg) in men and Sneha Soren (55kg) in women’s section — for the World junior meet. However, now the IWLF is struggling to make travel arrangements even for the selected trio. “There are no flights available as of today. We are still trying to do something. We will get a clear picture in two-three days’ time,” IWLF secretary Sahdev Yadav told The Hindu on Wednesday. “Knowing well that it will be difficult to book flight tickets for a big squad, we had selected only three lifters who had a chance to qualify for the Commonwealth Games next year. We thought they would get some exposure in an international competition. Now we don’t know what will happen,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lifters-keeping-their-fingers-crossed/article34546503.ece
13 May 2021||KOCHI,||Karthik hopeful of picking a Tokyo ticket||Karthik Unnikrishnan has been following the Word Athletics’ Road to Tokyo rankings closely the last few weeks. Only 32 are allowed in a field event at the Oympics and in triple jump, the 27-year-old has dropped a rung and is now 36. But he is not overly worried. “I was 35 two days ago but I’m not trying to improve my ranking, my aim is to do the automatic qualification mark, something like 17.30m and I’m confident of achieving it,” said Karthik, the Federation Cup champion, in a chat with The Hindu from his Air Force base in Bengaluru. “I’m in good form but I need competitions, anywhere. If I get competitions next month, I can do it.” Romanian Bedros Bedrosian, the former Indian coach for jumps who has now moved to Bahrain, feels Karthik is capable of achieving the Tokyo standard of 17.14m. “Karthik should not think about rankings, in one month many may cross 17.14m and I’m sure he is capable of doing it too,” said Bedrosian from Antalya (Turkey). ‘Flat jumps’ “He can win at next year’s Asian Games. Last year, just before lockdown, he jumped 16.73m without full approach. In the Federation Cup (in Patiala, March, where he did 16.73m), I felt he was very tight, too much power, not much elasticity, his jumps were flat. “The long coronavirus break had hurt him. He is is an explosive jumper, is capable of doing a lot better.” Strangely, the country still does not have a national coach for jumps after Bedrosian left last July. “Had we had a coach for a continuous stretch, I would have crossed 17m. That's the main problem and that’s why many of our top jumpers are inconsistent,” said Karthik, who was hit by COVID-19 last month and is now training under M. Harikrishnan, a former national-level long jumper. Though there is uncertainty over next month’s national competitions in Bengaluru, he feels the AFI would hold some last-minute meets in Patiala and offer athletes another chance of picking a Tokyo ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthik-hopeful-of-picking-a-tokyo-ticket/article34546714.ece
13 May 2021||Chennai,||Avesh Khan — at the top of his game||He bowls what in cricket parlance is called a ‘heavy ball’. This is the result of this tall paceman hitting the ‘hard length’ which is just short of a good length. So the ball hits the bat hard. Before every IPL season, Avesh Khan pays a visit to the MRF Pace Foundation. Here, he hones his skill, trains hard and settles into a good bowling groove. This year was a breakout season for the 24-year-old Avesh in the IPL. Before the first game he remembers Delhi Capitals coach, the legendary Ricky Ponting, telling him, “This is your moment, seize it.” And after he produced a stellar performance, Ponting said, “Now that you have got off to a good start, continue in the same rhythm. We will back you fully.” Avesh Khan, bowling with fire and hostility, with the new ball and at the ‘Death’, finished with 14 wickets in eight matches at an economy rate of 7.70. Only Harshal Patel, with 17, grabbed more wickets. Aussie connection There is a strong Australian connection to Avesh’s success. Ponting, impressed with Avesh’s potential, spoke to him regularly about the day’s play and the game-plan for the next encounter. “Ponting is a very good motivator,” said Avesh to The Hindu . And Aussie pace bowling legend, Glenn McGrath, finetuned Avesh’s technique for longer duration matches, taught him the virtues of patience and made him bowl on the fourth stump at the MRF Pace Foundation. Head coach M. Senthilnathan constantly interacted with Avesh. One of the four ‘travelling’ standbyes for the tour of England, Avesh is looking at the future with optimism. Someone with a semi side-on release and a high-arm action, Avesh has strong shoulders and a good seam position. “When the shine was there, I was able to move the ball. Then I was able to send down yorkers,” he said, adding: “I can consistently bowl at over 140 kmph. And my slower delivery is around 120.”   Cherished wickets His most memorable wickets in this year’s IPL? “Bowling both Virat Kohli and M.S. Dhoni. Kohli was beaten by movement. And Dhoni attempted a pull.” Talking about his rapport with Delhi Capitals skipper Rishabh Pant, Avesh said, “We go back to our India under-19 days. He gave me complete freedom with my field placements. And we would discuss the day’s play.” Avesh Khan is at the top of his game now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/avesh-khan-at-the-top-of-his-game/article34546544.ece
13 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||A huge disappointment, says Srikanth||“The year has gone for me,” K. Srikanth said after the last of the Olympic qualifying events, the Singapore Open, was cancelled on Wednesday. “I had a chance of making the cut for the Tokyo Games if I were to compete in the Malaysian and the Singapore Opens. I have been training hard to regain peak form,” Srikanth told The Hindu . “I thought the BWF could have planned the qualifying events in a country with better quarantine rules. It is a huge disappointment if a player has to miss the Olympics for no fault of his/her because of these cancellations.” He added: “Like in tennis where the players’ views and suggestions are sought, in badminton too we should have players’ representatives. “The Games could have been rescheduled to a later date this year so that the qualifying events could have been planned better,” Srikanth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-huge-disappointment-says-srikanth/article34546442.ece
13 May 2021||Sydney,||Dravid created a solid pool for India: Chappell||Former India captain Rahul Dravid “picked” the Australian “brains” to create solid domestic structure which has served as a feeder line for his country’s national team, something Australia is missing badly, feels legendary Greg Chappell. Chappell also said that both India and England have overtaken Australia as the best side in recognising young talent and providing them a platform to succeed. “India have got their act together and that’s largely because Rahul Dravid has picked our brains, seen what we’re doing and replicated it in India and with their much larger base,” Chappell told cricket.com.au. He cautioned that talented Australian cricketers might find their careers at crossroads because of the domestic structure.  “Historically, we’ve been one of the best at developing young players and keeping them in the system, but I think that’s changed in the last couple of years,” he said. “I’m seeing a bunch of young players with great potential who are in limbo. That’s unacceptable. We cannot afford to lose one player.” The 72-year-old feels Australia has lost the bragging rights of calling themselves the best at talent identification. “I think we’ve already lost our position as the best at identifying talent and bringing it though. I think England are doing it better than us now and India are doing it better than us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-created-a-solid-pool-for-india-chappell/article34546444.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ankita not allowed to compete in Spain||With her intense game, sincerity of approach and cheerful demeanour, India’s No. 1 woman tennis player Ankita Raina is a perfect role model. Not being allowed to compete in the $60,000 tournament in Spain — despite her having fulfilled a week-long quarantine and tested negative for the virus — did not dampen Ankita’s spirit, as she interacted with a bunch of kids and shared her wisdom on Tuesday. “I had checked everything regarding the protocols and quarantine on the Spanish website. It says, 10 days, and if you test negative on the seventh day, you are free to go. But the tournament said it will be 10 days,” said Ankita from Spain. Yoga and meditation Addressing children online, as part of the Art of Living programme of yoga and meditation, Ankita answered the questions of aspiring young sportspersons, on the request of former international Shruti Dhawan. “Sports teaches one to stay in the present. At your age, it comes naturally. Kids have no thoughts about the past or future. You want to grow fast, but this is the best age,” Ankita Said. Explaining that yoga and meditation helped her to be sharp on the court, Ankita said, “Meditation for me is like tennis practice, or like eating. Whatever we do, with talent or skill, meditation helps us to do even better.”  Ankita stressed that the biggest stumbling block that prevented one from playing the best was the thought of the result. “Once you start thinking about the result, you stop thinking about the game and what you have to do,” she said. Conceding that she also felt anxious, tight or under pressure during matches, Ankita said that she would take a deep breath and get her concentration back. “The result is never in our hands,” said Ankita, adding that the best efforts, with full concentration enhanced one’s chances of being successful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-not-allowed-to-compete-in-spain/article34546502.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||Tendulkar’s tribute to the nurses||Sachin Tendulkar paid tribute to the nation’s nursing staff on the occasion of ‘International Nurses Day’, saying that the COVID-19 pandemic has made everyone realise their value more than ever. “Silently serving humanity forever. Sleepless nights, care and concern flow non stop for us when we aren’t well. The pandemic has made us recognise their value more than ever before. Grateful for everything you do for us. Happy International Nurses Day,” tweeted Tendulkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tendulkars-tribute-to-the-nurses/article34546448.ece
13 May 2021||LONDON,||UEFA opens probe against three clubs||UEFA has appointed Ethics and Disciplinary inspectors to conduct an investigation into Real Madrid, Barcelona and Juventus over their attempts to launch a breakaway Super League. The clubs have not distanced themselves from the project following an outpouring of criticism. The Super League was launched with 12 clubs as founding members, but nine of them — Manchester United, Liverpool, Manchester City, Chelsea, Tottenham Hotspur, Arsenal, AC Milan, Inter Milan and Atletico Madrid — have since reached a deal with UEFA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-opens-probe-against-three-clubs/article34546493.ece
13 May 2021||Heilbronn (Germany),||Nagal in quarterfinals||Sumit Nagal beat Antoine Hoang of France 1-6, 6-1, 6-4 in the second round of the €88,520 Challenger tennis tournament here on Wednesday.  In the Challenger in Croatia, Sriram Balaji and Ramkumar Ramanathan missed nearly a dozen match points, losing 6-7(6) 7-6(12), [11-9] to Roman Jebavy and Andrej Martin in the first round.  The results: €88,520 Challenger, Heilbronn, Germany: Second round: Sumit Nagal bt Antoine Hoang (Fra) 1-6, 6-1, 6-4.   €44,820 Challenger, Zagreb, Croatia: First round: Roman Jebavy (Cze) & Andrej Martin (Svk) bt Sriram Balaji & Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-7(6), 7-6(12), [11-9] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-in-quarterfinals/article34546500.ece
13 May 2021||Mumbai,||Kohli and Anushka raise nearly Rs. 11 crore||Virat Kohli and his actor wife Anushka Sharma have raised nearly Rs. 11 crore in their fund-raising campaign to support COVID-19 relief work. The pair contributed Rs. 2 crore and the funds raised through the campaign will be donated to Act Grants to aid COVID-19 relief. Their aim was to raise Rs. 7 crore through ‘Ketto’ but with two days still left, they have managed to surpass their target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-and-anushka-raise-nearly-rs-11-crore/article34546454.ece
13 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sree Lakshmi wins title||M. Sree Lakshmi (Ernakulam) won the Sethuvarma Aaadaram Chess Kerala's women Grand Prix tournament. Sree Lakshmi tallied seven points from seven rounds to win the title. A. Nafila (Malappuram), with 6.5 points, came second while R. Rithika (Alappuzha) was third with six points.  The standings: 1. M. Sree Lakshmi (Ekm 7 points), 2. A. Nafila ( Mlp 6.5), 3. R. Rithika (Alp 6.), 4. K. Megha (Koz, 6), 5. Jahnvi Ashok (Tvm 6), 6. P. Heera (Koz, 6), 7. Serah Jo Sam (Ekm 6), 8. S. Niveditha (Pkd, 6), 9. G. Anchu (Klm 6), 10. C.H. Megha (Koz, 5.5) .    The Basketball Federation of India's online education programme for coaches, referees, table officials and statisticians will be held from May 13 to 24 on Zoom platform. The classes will be conducted by Serbian coaches Veslin Matic and Zoran Visic along with FIBA technical commissioner Norman Issac. For coaches, the classes by Veslin Matic will be on 13th, 14th, 21st and 24th while the classes by Zoran Vissic will be held on 17th and 19th respectively. For referees, the classes by Norman Issac will be held on 17th and 22nd. For table officials, the classes will be held on 18th while for statisticians it will be held on May 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sree-lakshmi-wins-title/article34546715.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 09:19 IST,||Sudoku - May 13, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-13-2021/article34547519.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The life of an actor is unique’||Tamannaah has played the girl next door many times in films. And yet, she chose to play a girl next door again, in Tamil web series November Story , releasing on May 20. That is probably because her character, Anuradha, is not doing just everyday things but is also an ethical hacker with one aim: to solve a whodunit in which her father is the main suspect. “In films, my next-door-girl roles were still aspirational. In the web-series space, it feels more real,” says Tamannaah, over a telephonic chat from Mumbai, about her crime thriller series. Directed by Ram Subramaniam, November Story stars Pasupathy, GM Kumar, Aruldass and Vivek Prasanna. Excerpts from a chat with the actor, who has three Telugu projects ( Seetimaarr , the remake of Andhadhun and F3 ) lined up: How did November Story come about? I wanted to venture into the web space two years ago, when not many mainstream actors were doing it. I feel that it was a great progression because you explore a new medium and get exposure. November Story gave me the opportunity to collaborate with actors like Pasupathy and GM Kumar, who have very well-written parts. We finished most of the shooting before the pandemic but had to put it on pause during last year’s lockdown. Thankfully, we completed it after that and it’s ready now.  Do you think that web platforms give you the chance to play powerful female protagonists, something that might not happen in commercial cinema?  There have been great female-centric subjects even before these platforms came about. The rise in such content now is a reflection of society; people want to watch empowered women on the screen. Women are being celebrated now. There has been a patriarchal pattern in all industries, including films, but now, it is about trying to break through such patterns and tell stories through a woman’s perspective. Your social media bio describes you as an ‘intuitive actor’. How do you manage to retain that quality, after so many years in the film industry?  That’s the quest. You are trying to keep the child in you alive all the time. The life of an actor is rather unique... it gives you the opportunity of staying young in your head. That’s the only way you can stay relevant. Time should ideally not bind us from growth. Whatever your biological age is, the childlike quality should be intact. You tested positive for COVID-19 last year. What was the biggest learning from that phase?  I was in a shoot and all of a sudden, I was in a hospital with all the possible medication pumped into me. COVID-19 took me by storm. But I was lucky to have a producer and my family take care of me. I know many people who have tested positive; some of them take it lightly, while some panic. You need to be calm in this tumultuous situation, but you also need to be alert and vigilant. The biggest issue is that these are contradictory emotions. Timely action is of utmost importance, especially during this second wave. A decade ago, you were among the most popular heroines in Kollywood, paired with the big stars here. Do you miss that phase?  That was a fun phase of my career. I was playing characters that were age-appropriate and light-hearted. Cinema was different at that time, but subsequently, content has changed, and so have the methods of consumption. I would be worried if I have not evolved since then. You did manage to pick up a lot of Tamil. Going by recent social media posts, you seem to put in effort into speaking the language even now.  I just want to make it my own. Back then, I would falter, say something funny but I would still make an attempt to talk in the language. Even at press meets, I would speak in my broken Tamil or Telugu. Talking in front of the media was a great way to exercise my ability to talk the language. KV Anand, the director of one of your biggest Tamil films ( Ayan ), passed away recently. What are your most treasured memories abut that film?  That news was heartbreaking. He [KV Anand] was one of the first filmmakers who noticed me and gave me an opportunity. I was really scared when I did Ayan ; it had big names like Suriya and Anand. I remember Anand being so clear about his shoot sequences; he channelised what I had in the best possible manner.  Produced by Ananda Vikatan Productions, November Story will be launched on May 20 on Disney+Hotstar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-life-of-an-actor-is-unique/article34546262.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Isolate, with room service||As far as birthday celebrations go, this one at Sarovar Hotels and Resorts, Gurugram was unusual. A sexagenarian guest lay isolated in her hotel bedroom, as support staff in PPE suits walked in with a cake and a song. The 60-bed property is now a care centre for elderly COVID-19 patients with mild or no symptoms. The hotel houses five ambulances in the premises and has a dedicated team of 20 medical professionals. Relatives can monitor the patient’s vitals on a daily basis through Sarovar’s app. In the second wave of COVID-19 with increasing caseload, hospitals are collaborating with hotels, both luxury and budget, to provide additional beds and medical care for mild and asymptomatic patients. “Healthcare systems get crippled under the large volume of people approaching hospitals,” says Tejasvi Rao, Chief Operations Officer at Apollo Hospitals, adding that many have mild symptoms and may not need hospitalisation. Now, patients are screened by the hospital and only if deemed fit to be admitted in a care centre, are they encouraged to avail these services. By partnering with hotels, he says, “We can reserve admits for those that require acute care, while also helping others that need supervision.” Apollo has a tie-up with Lemon Tree hotels and IHCL Group, which, in Chennai, includes the Taj Club House atthe luxury end and Ginger Hotels at the economic end. It is a continuation of Apollo’s Stay I project started in March 2020 by partnering with OYO hotels. This time around, it has partnered with 24 facilities across 11 cities, including Chennai, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Guwahati. Apart from reducing the burden on the health care system, such services also support the hospitality industry and its employees. “The hotels provide hospitality services (including protein-heavy regional meals, thrice a day) and have been trained on the hygiene and cleaning protocol developed by a team of infectious disease doctors at Apollo,” adds Tejasvi. The medical supervision is done by the partnering hospital: “We have a tech platform that enables teleconsultation with doctors, and once the prescription is generated, our pharmacy and diagnostic teams make sure it is delivered.” Apart from this, nurses (one for every 20 beds) and ward boys are stationed at the hotel 24/7, along with a doctor to come in and check on the patient every day. In select hotels, oxygen cylinders and concentrators are kept on standby in case the situation deteriorates, and the patient needs to be moved to the partner hospital. But why not home isolation? Explaining why people may not be confident about home quarantine, Dr P Kuganantham, HOD, Infectious Diseases and Social Medicine, SIMS Hospital in Chennai, says, “Some COVID-positive patients who are isolating at home due to the lack of beds land up in complications by the seventh or 12th day because they are not able to monitor their CRP (a marker of inflammation in the blood). Early intervention on the third or fourth day, under medical supervision, reduces any chances of such complications.” This is where isolating at a hotel-turned-COVID care centre comes into play. With doctors, nurses and ambulances on call 24/7, daily checkups and blood tests, a sudden deterioration can be detected and treated immediately. Equally pressing is the concern for your immediate family. With joint families under one roof, and most of the younger lot still unvaccinated, people diagnosed with COVID-19 are afraid that they will pass on the infection to the ones taking care of them. It is what drove Rajeev Arora* (name changed on request) to be put up at The Pride Hotel in Kilpauk, Chennai, for the past week. “The doctor at VS Hospitals suggested I quarantine myself at home, but I was worried for the safety of my family. I have my mother, granddaughter, son and daughter-in-law living with me,” he says. Dr Aswin Sayiram SJ, COO, SIMS Hospital adds, “Most of them get anxious while at home and then fall sick. Now, even more so, we need such alternatives to work. It reduces the stress on the patient and the progression of the disease to a great extent.” This is all the more true for elderly people living away from their families, as Sarovar Hotels in Gurugram discovered. Apart from COVID-positive patients, those who are discharged from the hospital but have no one to take care of them are also welcome, says Ajay Bakaya, managing director of Sarovar Hotels and Resorts. The hotel, which has a tie-up with Fortis Memorial Research Institute, is equipped with ventilators, oxygen concentrators and cylinders and beds in case of emergencies, adds Ajay. “While the hospitals are filled to the brim in capacity, it is understandable that they can’t spare their medical professionals. In our case, Emoha Elder Care is the institution that brought in the medical support,” he says. While isolating, it is also important to have a physical presence next to one if need be. Which is why, the support staff is encouraged to enter the room, clean up, serve food and “hold their hands, if necessary”. Care within reach Such ‘courtesy calls’ are the norm at ITC’s Welcomhotel too that have partnered with Manipal Hospital in Delhi, and with G Kuppuswamy Naidu Memorial Hospital and KG Hospital in Coimbatore. “The hospitals send the patients to our hotel, and the guest is guided to their room where they stay for the entire duration. Everything is online and contactless,” says Erine Louis, general manager, Welcomhotel Coimbatore. “Doctors and nurses are stationed on the same floor, along with emergency oxygen, so that everything is within reach.” In a similar way, Ramada Plaza by Wyndham in Guindy now calls itself an extended arm of SIMS hospital. Last year, the hotel was serving doctors who had flown in from across the country to treat patients. But this year, they wished to play a larger part by partnering with the hospital. Keeping in mind the importance of fresh air and sunshine, the hotel opens up its rooftops in the morning and evenings for a quick, supervised stroll. Patients can carry out breathing exercises, light stretches and yoga. “We also have comforting teams, who are solely meant to comfort patients by talking to them and understanding their needs,” adds Sandeep Bhatnagar, general manager. Patients’ food preferences are catered to, by working with a menu developed by hospital dieticians, adds Sandeep. “We give them boiled amla, kabasura kudineer and sundal , as dietary supplements.” To make sure there is unobstructed air flow, windows in corridors are left open in addition to having fresh air units with viral filters through the day. The price for these services can start from Rs. 3,000 a night for single occupancy and go upto Rs. 10,000 a night for double occupancy (excluding lab tests and medicines). However, if you have been advised to stay at a hotel with COVID-19 care facilities, as part of your treatment by a medical practitioner, you can claim insurance against the treatment cost. This was made clear last year after the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India issued a notification recognising ‘makeshift’ and ‘temporary’ hospitals. This is why, says Rajeev, he can afford his seven-day stay. “I had to spend a lakh to save my family from myself,” he says. “I know how difficult it is to enter a hospital right now, at least this way there is space for those who need it more. Picking a hotel to stay was definitely the right call. If I went home and somebody got sick in the next two days, I would feel really guilty. It feels safer this way.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/isolate-with-room-service/article34546297.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Blistering barnacles ahoy||Another lockdown has begun, and people across Chennai are already missing their favourite beaches — not only for the sea and the sand, but also for a sight of the teeming little creatures that have made our shores their home. This love for Chennai’s coastal species, is what a team of six from Madras Naturalists Society is counting on, in its long quest to raise awareness about the coastal biodiversity around Chennai. To that end, M Yuvan, Nanditha Ram Satagopan, Anooja Anil, Aswathi Asokan, Vikas Madhav and Rohith Srinivasan have come up not only with a large body of documentation, but also fun ways to spread awareness. Among their latest attempts is a game of Beach Bingo. Illustrated by Anooja and designed by Nanditha, it is essentially a bingo sheet with drawings of 16 common beach sightings for people to tick off the next time they get a chance to visit the beach. Says Anooja, “All six of us decided to create some tools of awareness. People can take this Bingo [sheet] to the beach and cross out what they see. Many of these are things people have seen on beaches before, without knowing what they are. This game will help them identify what they are seeing.” Available free for download through a OneDrive link, the game features a mix of fauna, flora and man-made objects. A curious one among them is the sea tongue. According to Anooja, it is the “float” of a cuttlefish. “It is not the entire organism, but its internal shell, that can be commonly seen washed ashore on Chennai’s beaches.” Though Anooja has not seen one herself, her team mates have documented them. Based on their photographs, Anooja etched one out for the Bingo sheet. There are other creatures, however, that she has seen herself and drawn from memory, like sunset siliqua shells and barnacles. Ghost nets — fishing nets that have been lost or left behind in the sea — and single-use plastics are also things she has seen, strewn across parts of most beaches. The mundane, however, goes hand in hand with the unusual along this coastline. Anooja remembers the day she came across life in an unexpected place. “We once found a barnacle on an abandoned shoe. Barnacles are sessile or non-motile organisms, which means that they cannot move by themselves. They can be found anywhere, usually on rocks or other sturdy structures,” she says. But finding one on something as flimsy as a shoe was unique. Another unassuming beauty to keep an eye out for is the sunset siliqua, a purple-white shell that takes second place in the top row of the sheet. “It is a bivalve,” explains Anooja, “Bivalves are related to snails, but while snails have one shell, bivalves have two. They are molluscs, and this sunset siliqua is a common one. It is very pretty to see on the beach.”  The beach bingo sheet can be downloaded from the link in the Instagram pages of Anooja Anil (@anooja.anil) and M Yuvan (@a_naturalists_column).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/blistering-barnacles-ahoy/article34546293.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Tune in and kick back||Every night, Tamil Twitter users briefly pause work from home pressures and COVID-19 updates, then sing their heart out. No judge says, ‘Your pitching needs to be better’. All they get as feedback are hearts and 100-point emojis. Spaces has enabled the Twitterati to converse about many things, but music is definitely the one winning hearts at the moment. Over the last few weeks, spaces dedicated to composers Ilaiyaraaja, AR Rahman, Harris Jayaraj and Deva have had many users tuned in. “It never goes wrong with music. It’s not like a debate where you pick a side. Here, you can just be yourself and unwind,” says Sindhu Ganesh (@sinofagan), a Chennai-based brand development executive, who has hosted three Spaces sessions so far. That it is audio-only makes it a big winner, says Sindhu. “Listening to Ilaiyaraaja’s music on radio at night and going to sleep was my thing. I wanted to recreate that atmosphere,” adds Sindhu, who also plans sessions featuring the musical works of Karthik Raja and Kamal Haasan soon. But Twitter Spaces is not the pioneer of audio drop-in platforms — Clubhouse is. Over in Los Angeles, comedian-filmmaker Kiran Deol ( Sunny Side Up ) calls these formats “ways to socially acceptable eavesdrop.” She recalls her recent participation in a Clubhouse Room. On May 1, she had been invited by actor Fizaa Dosani ( Dear White People ) to a creator-first (no network-affiliated) pilot première of ‘Facial Recognition Comedy’ which had an audience of around 650 people. Here, the actors created skits around stereotypes about Indian appearances and how they relate to facial recognition technology. Drop-in audio platform Clubhouse, launched by Alpha Exploration Co in March 2020, observed a flocking of people as ‘screen fatigue’ picked up. The platform offers different interest-based Clubs to follow, such as ‘Startup Club’ which has more than 4,79,000 members or ‘What Are You Reading’ which has more than 90, 900 members. Each of these Clubs joined will set up Rooms (audio chatrooms) that host informal fireside chats, panel discussions, or performances. You can even start your own Club or your own Room. Clubhouse has been holding appeal for tech circles, motivational speakers and influencers but it has opened up avenues for filmmakers and comedians, agrees Deol. She explains, “Comedy, especially with the pandemic, has been able to connect people and these audio platforms can have so many people in their spaces. If you think about that in real-time, 700 people is a massive theatre.” Unfortunately, to the dismay of many, it was an iOS-only experience with an invite-only ‘pay-it-forward’ model where one can only join the free-to-use platform if an existing user sends an invite. However, after months of anticipation, Clubhouse also opened to Android users globally this past week, widening the audience reach for such projects and ‘Facial Recognition Comedy’ was keen to include Android-toting creators too. Why does Clubhouse still hold an appeal? Deol responds, “because it is a relatively young platform, the algorithms aren’t as curated as that of Twitter or Facebook (which have or are working on launching their own Clubhouse-like platforms). I like to be in control of what I am exploring and know I am not confined to my lane.” A good moderator for audio-only spaces, whatever the platform, is key. Deol points out a good moderator is one who periodically reintroduces the premise of what is happening so that for audiences just stepping in, it is easy to get on track. She adds that audio drop-in platforms are also a creative challenge since audience members are engaging just one sense in a wholly immersive way — so the audio content better be good. Deol elaborates, “moderated the correct way, it can create a level of intimacy that is hard to achieve. That is the same quality you are looking to do when you’re on stage as a comedian. Plus, in audio-only, people aren’t forced to look at an image of themselves; they can detach into this conduit into a different world. With comedy, you have to leave space for laughter, so the rhythm of talking is different. A lot of it depends on how engaged your audience is as well.” An intimate space While Clubhouse gets the ball rolling on chats on future projects and thinkers, Twitter Spaces has been engaging elements of nostalgia. Music lover and a senior executive in an IT firm, Ashwath Ram (@bultaulta), hosted a hit session too, called SPA, aimed to be a musical representation of the songs of Sean Roldan, Pradeep Kumar and Anirudh. While the session saw more than 500 people turn up, the big surprise was when singer-composer Sean Roldan joined the session, and enthralled people with a few songs, including an impromptu duet of his hit ‘Adiye Azhage’ song with a female listener. “Of late, we are used to seeing people sing in front of a camera. That reduces the mystery, which is an aspect that makes music beautiful,” says Sean who himself plans to host Spaces sessions soon. “As it is audio-only, it gives us a chance to relish the tune and music for what it is rather than banking on visual appeal.” It is the nature of the platform — to listen to different voices in a short time — that works for Ashwath. “Before the pandemic, we were used to frequenting many public places, like a bus stop, or a neighbourhood shop, where we hear so many people talk. Now, because we are largely indoors, we end up listening to only the voices of family members... and this is a great place that takes you back to a time when you were surrounded by people,” he explains. As more Clubhouse-like apps trickle in, Deol concludes that the experience, regardless of the platform, is universal — “it’s still intimate, it’s still about feel-good entertainment.”  Following the club  India-made FireSide has been launched by the team behind short video app Chingari  Homegrown platform Leher has drop in to audio and/or video live rooms. One can even monetise their content via subscriptions and brand collabs.  Facebook announced in mid-April that it is currently testing Live Audio Rooms . A day after that, Reddit, the ‘front page of the Internet’, unveiled Reddit Talk . Users keen on using this can add themselves to a waitlist to get in on the early testing schemes.  Ideal for your next job hunt or to grow your network, LinkedIn Live Audio Rooms opens up a space for networking events without needing to don a blazer, brush your hair or shake someone’s hand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tune-in-and-kick-back/article34546311.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Ship of thesis||At the end of the Second World War in 1945, Germany was on the cusp of facing another bout of unrest. Over the next decade-and-a-half, political, social and economic factors resulted in the formation of the Berlin Wall which divided the country into the German Democratic Republic (GDR, also known as East Germany) and the Federal Republic of Germany (FDR, also known as West Germany). During the Cold War (between 1947-1991), it was common for the two rival countries to offer development support to then developing and under-developed countries, in their larger goal to muscle their influences and to benefit from the bilateral relations they shared. One of the “largest and most successful educational projects” that emerged out of Indo-German relations during the Cold War, was the establishment of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) in 1959, which, when seen from the perspective of FDR, was largely driven by the Cold War foreign policy it shared with India. While the Sarkar Committee in 1946 recommended that India set-up “at least four technical institutions on the lines of the famous Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA, in the eastern, western, northern and southern regions of the country”, the IITs came into existence only post-Independence. The rationale behind setting up an institution as influential as IIT-M, which has been ranked as ‘The No: 1 Engineering Institute’ in the country for over five consecutive years by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), caught the attention of German Roland Wittje, Associate Professor, History of Science and Technology, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Madras. Anecdotal history In his latest research paper titled Engineering Education in Cold War Diplomacy: India, Germany and the Establishment of IIT Madras, a part of a series of papers published in Wiley’s journal under the title History of Science and Humanities, Wittje unearths this rather fascinating nugget of history, examining the social-political events and the motivation behind the formation of IIT Madras. Wittje stumbled upon IIT-M’s connection with the Cold War when he was doing the preliminary work for setting up the institution’s archive and was working with Kumaran Sathasivam of the Heritage Centre. A historian of science, Wittje says he was not too familiar with political history and wanted to understand the dogma behind science diplomacy between India and Germany. Just before West Germany made an offer for IIT-M, IIT Bombay was established in 1958 with support from the Soviet Union. “With [Jawaharlal] Nehru spearheading the Non-Alignment Movement during the Cold War, what West Germany wanted was that India shouldn’t acknowledge East Germany as a sovereign nation,” says Wittje, “During the early phase, Germany got what it wanted from India, in terms of the larger picture of development. In fact, IIT-M is its largest project as far as higher education was concerned worldwide, even though Germany did assist countries like Egypt and South America.” During the course of his research, which involved talking to German experts and their practices at IIT-M, Wittje found out that German faculties were quite specific on the type of character that IIT Madras should embody, as a technical institute. “The German connection continues to thrive at IIT Madras, and it is always interesting to learn various nuggets about how the relationship evolved in the initial years. IIT Madras has benefitted from the attention paid by the Germans in the formative years to foundational technical education and research, as well as to skill development,” says Professor Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT Madras. What has changed Wittje’s paper also brings to the fore the social-cultural relevance of Madras and what the institution meant for its people, though he admits that he is not an expert in South Indian history. He argues that the location for IIT-M itself had political reasons, “Madras was not the first choice for Germany and they preferred somewhere close to Delhi, also for political reasons,” he says, adding, “They were not opposed to Madras but they definitely didn’t want Kanpur, as they felt it was far more isolated.” Acknowledging that the paper is still a German perspective, Wittje says he wanted to shift the general narrative: of IIT graduates settling in the US and engaging with software. “That sort of mass exodus didn’t happen with Germany because of the immigration laws that made it a lot easier for Asians to move to the US,” he says, adding that a lot of students continue to reap the benefits of the Indo-German relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ship-of-thesis/article34546308.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Dosa with a twist||Pattu Subramaniamand M Bhagheerathi, managing partners at Dosa With A Twist in T Nagar, spent many weeks thoughtfully curating a healthy protein-rich COVID health package at their restaurant. With a focus on nutrition, they now cook two types of South Indian breakfasts, offering a herbal kashayam, peanut-cucumber salad and mangolassi. Lunch is a hearty collection of 11 items, including fruit salad, panagam and traditional dessert made with jaggery. Dinner is kanji plus a steamed tiffin item, with turmeric milk, fruits and nuts. “We developed the menu to ensure sufficient protein in all three meals. We try to give variety so they feel comforted and pampered. Which is why every meal comes with our signature traditional chutneys and dessert,” says Subramaniam. Launched on May 10, they offer meal packages at Rs. 600 per day, only on pre-order. All meal packages include breakfast, lunch and dinner for one person. Seven and 14-day packages are also available. Delivery is free within a six-kilometre radius. For details, call: 9940147611||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dosa-with-a-twist/article34546279.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||All about the bass||I first met Dr Samuel Grubb in 1964 when he was chosen as the bass soloist for a cantata called ‘Redemption’ which my father had composed with the legendary Richard Singh. I was still a boy singing alto in the YMCA Augumented choir then and Grubb was at least a decade older. The concert was a grand success and the stand-out performer was Grubb. Even though Grubb was a famous conductor later, he is still well known for his bass voice. Low G was a piece of cake. The GATT Quartet (then comprising Samuel Grubb — bass, Kalyan Subrahmanyam — 1st tenor, Allan Sathyadev — 2nd tenor, and James (Tony) Davids — 2nd tenor) was well known. GATT stood for Grubb, Allan, Tony and Theophilus (which was Kalyan’s middle name). When Kalyan joined medical college, I teamed up with him for our medical college gigs doing Simon and Garfunkel and a bit of Country. Kalyan introduced me to the GATT with me singing baritone, when Allan left for higher studies to the UK in 1974. People still called us the GATT so we let it ride. We rehearsed many times in my car as I drove ourselves to all our performances which were mainly in consulates for Christmas concerts and memorial services. Regular matinee concerts were held at Stella Maris College and Women’s Christian College. Grubb being the oldest was the unofficial leader of the GATT, and for 20 years we were a quartet till Allan rejoined in 1994. The quintet was now a group of three doctors, an aerospace engineer and a musician. A full life Born Samuel Grubb Dhanakaran Singh on March 12, 1940, in Pollachi to SR Sellaraj and Vadivammal, Grubb was the sixth of eight children. He schooled at Bain’s and Madras Christian College in Madras, did his pre-university at Pachaiyappa’s College and joined the Kilpauk Medical College for MBBS, topping it with a Diploma in Dermatology from the Madras Medical College. He was married to Pramila, an accomplished pianist and the couple has one son, Avinash Mario Grubb, who is the principal organist of St Marks Cathedral in Bangalore. In 1971, gospel singer and one of the most influential voices of the 20th Century, Mahalia Jackson came to Madras and after a sell-out concert in the Music Academy, was relaxing at the Connemara hotel. Organ maestro Handel Manuel introduced the GATT to her and she would not let them stop singing. She was fascinated by Grubb’s voice and called him the “bottomless bass”. This was also the time the GATT had started backing vocals for well-known singer Usha Iyer (later Usha Uthup). She took them to Bombay for a performance at the Shanmukanada Hall. The highlight — Grubb’s voice. Around the world By the late 1970s we had all graduated but still GATT was priority. Ilaiyaraaja asked Grubb to do the hit of the 1980s ‘Annae annae sippoy annae’ in Prabhu-starrer Kozhi Koovuthu . That was the only time Grubb sang for films saying he was not cut out for it. Grubb lived in Libya for a while and when he returned, took over the baton of the Madras Musical Association as conductor in 1989. Grubb was elected the emeritus conductor after his tenure ended. He had an uncanny sense of humour yet was a disciplinarian. I took over as president of the association in 1990 and it was a wonderful teamwork between us. Harmonising by his side will go down as one of the highlights of my life. Although Kalyan had settled in Bahrain we travelled the world singing together. In 2000, we were invited to perform with a 1,000-voice choir for the Sydney Olympics torch relay ceremony and for a concert at the Sydney Opera House. We sang for the Pope and at the Pantheon in Rome. Among our last concerts was one for Christmas 2018 at Emmanuel Methodist Church, Chennai, where Grubb had been conductor of the choir in the 1960s and ‘70s. The next day we performed at the Madras Gymkhana in what was to be GATT’s last outing. Watching many young people take to music today, reminds me of a song Grubb always sang, “I see babies cry, I watch them grow, they’ll learn much more than I’ll ever know, and I think to myself what a wonderful world.” Wonderful was the way Grubb saw it.  Dr Ravi Santosham is patron of the Madras Musical Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-about-the-bass/article34546271.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Flour power||When was the last time you went to the flour mill to grind your monthly supply of wheat or rice flour? For most of us it remains a childhood memory. Which is probably why the sleek flour mill at the newly launched Ekolyfe by Soul Garden Bistro is such a joyful experience. Jignesh Pujara, the owner of the store, says that an increased awareness among people about healthy eating, as well as sustainable living resulted in the launch of the store a month ago. “Our customers seem excited about grinding their flour at the store as it assures them quality without any contamination,” says Jignesh. The store, which focusses on offering sustainable alternatives for every day requirements, provides recycled glass containers to customers. They are, however, encouraged to bring their own containers and cloth bags. There are approximately 500 products at this eco-friendly store, ranging from pulses and legumes, spices, heritage rice varieties, cold-pressed oils, millets and wide range of flours. The vegan section includes mock meat, vegan milk, cheese, spreads sweets and savouries. “We grind chilli powder as well in a separate machine and our peanut butter, made in house, is one of our best-sellers,” says Jignesh. He adds that they stock a range of South Indian sweets made of palm jaggery. Then adds, “In our bakery section, the best sellers are whole wheatpavbuns and baguettes. Also, our gelatos are not to be missed.” Jignesh says that he sources all the indigenous rice and pulses from organic farms in Tamil Nadu, ensuring a fair price for the farmers and the consumers. For tea lovers, there is a selection of tea from Assam and the Nilgiris. The coffee beans are sourced from Pallakere estate in South Kodagu, and coffee roasting and grinding is done at the store once a week. “In our vegetable and fruits section, we stock both organic as well as non-organic produce, and we label them so our customers know,” says Jignesh. Peanut butter, sauces, dips, spreads anddosabatter are made in-house and available on pre-order. Jignesh has set up a community fridge outside the store, where anyone can leave fruits, vegetables and dairy products that are fit for consumption, so it can be accessed by the underprivileged.  Ekolyfe store is in Alwarpet. During the lockdown, they are open from 8am to noon. For details, 9080062885.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/flour-power/article34546274.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Whims and fancies||Amit Kumar announced his arrival with Monsoon Shootout (2013), his directorial debut that opened to critical acclaim. Following that, the filmmaker nearly disappeared, only to resurface in 2021 for The Last Hour , his debut web series for Amazon Prime releasing on Friday. In the seven years that transpired in between, Amit says he was living his life while also on the lookout for ideas that would excite him. He issues a clarification saying he is not in a hurry to make films, “It was not like, ‘Oh, I’m a filmmaker and I have to make a film next year.’ It was more about finding an idea and allowing it to take shape and associating with the right people. Whenever I find those conditions match, I’ll make films,” he says, over a patch call, alongside Academy Award-winning filmmaker Asif Kapadia, his long-time friend and the executive producer of The Last Hour . Though the “gestation period” may put a filmmaker in a lonely spot, it had the opposite effect on Amit. For, he believes he was overflowing with ideas. “The problem with me is, I have 10 ideas at the same time and I keep shuffling between them. In that sense, I would say the writing process was lonely,” says Amit, who has co-written The Last Hour with his wife, Anupama Minz. He adds, “It was a different experience with a co-writer on board. You cannot really fight with yourself but the moment you have someone in the room, you can. We are two creative people and I still remember the time in London where we were cooking and throwing ideas around.” Amit Kumar and Asif Kapadia go back in time. Asif was making a student film in India in 1996 when he first met Amit at Film and Television Institute of India (FTII). From scouting locations to finalising costumes, Asif says they were doing everything together. Amit was working on his short film, The Bypass (2003), when the duo met the late Irrfan Khan for the first time; the film was produced by Asif. “It has become normal for me to share whatever I have in my mind with him [Amit] and likewise. It is only unusual if we don’t work together,” he says with a laugh, adding, “ The Last Hour , which might be our eighth collaboration, is a continuation of the ideas and themes he discussed with me.”  The Last Hour,a supernatural thriller is anchored by actor Sanjay Kapoor, marking his return on the screen after a long pause. On casting him, Amit says, “I cannot choose an actor unless I see them performing. Sanjay auditioned for the role and only later revealed that he had never auditioned in his life!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/whims-and-fancies/article34546264.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The mudra of service||The Coronavirus is etching images in our collective consciousness, with painful mordants. Helpless gasps for oxygen is one. Equally indelible are images of a generous response to this crisis from the common people. Recently, Kadamai Education and Social Welfare Trust was featured in another section of The Hindu for how its members tuk-tuk around Chennai, with oxygen “on tap” in their modified autorickshaws. Another example: a fundraiser (#helpchennaibreathe) by classical arts-promoting NGO Samarpana, to add to the oxygen-related resources at five Government hospitals in Chennai — Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital; Stanley Medical College Hospital; Tiruvallur Medical College; Kilpauk Medical College Hospital; and the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate. As Samarpana’s founder Gayathri Suryanarayanan puts it, the fundaraiser seeks to “procure a minimum of 420 oxygen cylinders with regulators and trolleys; procure 240 oxygen concentrators; 500 oxygen masks, 500 NRB masks and nasal prongs. We have identified vendors and estimated a cost of Rs. 3 crore to procure these materials.” Emphasising that efforts are being made by the Government to increase these resources, which reportedly include introduction of 12,500 oxygen beds across Tamil Nadu by May 15, Gayathri explains in a telephonic conversation that with the need continually and exponentially rising above the available resources, small contributions from the general public will also make a difference. “We are ordinary people — neither influencers nor celebrities — and by largely connecting with our friends and family, we have so far managed to pool in nearly Rs. 50 lakh. As timely help is crucial, we decided to not wait till we reach the target-amount, and instead start buying supplies as and when a sizeable amount is collected. So, for now, we have already placed an order for 200 oxygen cylinders, 500 oxygen masks and 500 NRB masks from a dealer in Mumbai, and these would be delivered by the end of this week.” Gayathri underlines the millennial character of the group — “Samarpana volunteers are in the 30-and-below age bracket. Artistes make up 70% of this group.” Last year, during the first wave, Samarpana conducted online shows to raise funds to support daily-wagers and folk artistes. Gayathri observes, “Pandemic-related fundraisers through online shows do not make sense at this point of time due to a few reasons, the primary one being that the second wave has been hard on almost every family, and that includes those of classical artistes as well.”  (For details about the initiative, go to: tinyurl.com/help-chennai-breathe)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-mudra-of-service/article34546313.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Stepping up to the beat||About a week ago, when Chennai-based band The F16s released its latest single, it was special for two reasons. One: ‘To be there with you’ was the band’s first release in two years. Two: with the track, The F16s joined a growing tribe of artistes around the country who are using their creations to raise funds for COVID-19 relief. The laidback track has a slow paced techno vibe which makes for a startling contrast with the opening words being “judgement day”. It has been available for paid download on bandcamp.com since May 7 for four weeks, with 100% of the proceeds going to a different organisation each week. Though the minimum cost per download is $2, over $500 has been raised in the first five days alone. “I just hope we can keep the momentum going, so that next week’s charities benefit just as much,” says The F16s’ guitarist Abhinav Krishnaswamy. The current beneficiary is the Bengaluru-based non-profit GiveIndia, and others are the NGOs Goonj in Delhi, Milaap in Bengaluru and Feeding From Far in Mumbai. While GiveIndia, Goonj and Milaap have been working with humanitarian aid, fundraising and community development for years, Feeding From Far is a fairly new organisation that has been providing food to the poor and the unemployed hit by COVID-19 lockdowns since early last year. “None of these organisations reached out to us; we chose them,” clarifies Abhinav. He adds that the response so far has been unexpectedly encouraging: “People have paid up to five or 10 dollars for the song. And they aren’t just downloading it but also sharing it, so we are getting purchases from places we did not expect to.” Serendipitously enough, the song at the centre of it all has been ready and waiting to see the light of day for about six months. “We had the track done with around September or October last year. It was planned as part of something else that didn’t look like it was going to happen. We spoke to our label [US-based indie label HOUSE ARREST] about the situation in India, and about doing something for COVID relief,” says Abhinav, adding, “We took a cue from other artistes who were also trying to do the same thing; we thought it was time we did our bit.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/stepping-up-to-the-beat/article34546282.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Betty’s got a bit of NFT||It is official: classical music has a clout with the crypto world. ‘Betty’s Notebook’, a multi-layered, multimedia choral piece created by Dallas-based Verdigris Ensemble, has been snatched by Metapurse, the world’s largest NFT (non-fungible token) fund, which bid on the programmable master track for $2,15,989 (56.56 ETH). Chennai-based Anand Venkateswaran AKA Twobadour, the steward of Metapurse, along with Vignesh Sundaresan (AKA Metakovan), explains, “‘Betty’s Notebook’ has essentially given birth to crypto music, paving the way for a new and innovative medium of creating and experiencing music.” Twobadour compliments this unlikely convergence of classical music and the crypto world, “It breaks two stereotypes in 21 minutes [of ‘Betty’s Notebook’]. It proves crypto is not a space for EDM music alone, and that this is a viable and healthy way to make and engage with classical music.” Just like a programmable artwork, Stem (or individual programmable component) NFTs are effectively the same as Layer NFTs: they have the ability to change what the current master track both looks and sounds like. So, the ‘most hardcore fan’ will likely own the master track — in this case ‘Betty’s Notebook’ — with other fans owning the stems and choosing which ‘variant’ of their stem is currently active on the master track. So far, musicians including The Weeknd, Pink Floyd and DaBaby are delving into programmable stem NFTs, while other NFT music ventures have been pursued by Doja Cat, Eminem and Keyon Christ. The history behind ‘Betty’s Notebook’ has been the source of controversy over the years. In 1937, in St Petersburg, Florida, 15-year-old Betty Klenck recorded what she believed was pilot Amelia Earhart’s distress signals and final words breaking through her family’s shortwave radio, in a notebook alongside sketches of mid-century glamour models and other ramblings. The resulting work ‘Betty’s Notebook’ premiered in February 2019 in several Dallas venues. But what exactly comprises this creation? There are four stems, each sold as separate NFTs (MP3 files imbued in algorithmic code). One is ‘The Choir’, the 16-person Verdigris Ensemble singing the voice of Amelia Earhart and her disappearance. Then there is ‘Betty’s Voice’, a late-in-life interview with Klenck herself narrating what she heard. ‘Betty’s Radio’ is a piece of jazz songs, also composed by Reeves, that recall the music Klenck may have been listening to on that July evening. And finally, ‘Betty’s Choir’ sees Verdigris creating a choral complement from Betty’s voice, inserting pitches and overtones from a spectral analysis of her speaking voice into the overall texture of the piece. That said, ‘Betty’s Notebook’ is physically set up in a vintage 1930s wooden radio console repurposed to include an LCD screen displaying digital art and playing the latest iteration of the four-stems combined. Metapurse has confirmed that the physical component will be available to lend to museums interested in displaying this polychronic sound and digital art installation piece. When asked about what other genres Metapurse would be keen on investing in, Twobadour responds, “Jazz comes to mind, also rural South Indian music!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bettys-got-a-bit-of-nft/article34546289.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Swipe right for blood||Remember Tinder? In our pre-pandemic lives, the popular dating app had users swiping left and right in search of the perfect match. Now, despite the lockdown, people are swiping again. Only this time, it is to find blood. Recently, Bhavan, a two-month-old baby, was to have emergency heart surgery for a condition called Total Anamolous Pulmonary Venous Connection (TAPCV). Due to the pandemic and the havoc it has played on the city’s medical infrastructure, parents of the baby were unable to get the blood group required for the operation. It was 2am, which made it even more difficult to find people who would risk coming to a hospital to donate blood. In a panic, they made numerous calls to friends and put out a request on social media and on WhatsApp. Riya Gupta says, “As soon as I got the request from baby Bhavan’s parents, my friends and I scrambled to find a donor. We put out the request on my Tinder account and by 3am a donor was found. By 8am the surgery was completed successfully.” A medical student, Riya says, “My friends and I witnessed a number of requests for blood on social media over the last month, ever since the second wave of COVID-19 hit. We dug a bit deeper and found there was a shortage of blood in hospitals and blood banks.” Riya and her friends had accounts on Tinder, which they stopped using when the pandemic began. They decided to reactivate their profiles for a good cause. “We were inspired by a story we heard about a person who found a plasma donor via Tinder. We have since then got over 100 people to sign up as donors only through the information we provided on our Tinder accounts over the last week,” says Riya. She adds, “We are connected to Slack and WhatsApp groups of the blood banks of Egmore Children’s Hospital, Maternity Hospital, Egmore, Adyar Cancer Institute etc. Whenever we get an enquiry from there we put the request up on Tinder and send out messages to people we are connected on the app. Once a donor is found we connect them to the patients or the hospitals directly.” Her Instagram page, Blood Donor Connect, helps amplify the message. “It takes about 30-60 minutes each to find a donor after we get the initial request. We now do around 10 successful cases a day,” she adds. The initiative is garnering national attention; the group got a shout out from cricketer Suresh Raina recently. Riya hopes to expand all across Tamil Nadu. For baby Bhavan, and the many others they are helping with this repurposed dating app, every swipe is right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/swipe-right-for-blood/article34546299.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Catch up with Karnan||Missed watching the Tamil film Karnan , which was among the last big releases in cinema halls? Worry not, for the Dhanush-starrer will now have a digital premiere on Amazon Prime Video, on May 14. The film, which released to much acclaim, revolves around the life of Karnan (Dhanush), a brave young man who fights for the rights of the people of his village. The story chronicles the struggles, and the rise against casteism and police brutality. Director Mari Selvaraj said in a press statement, “With a strong storyline coupled with Dhanush’s incredible acting prowess, I knew the film had the potential to be a hit with fans. I am excited that the film is getting its digital debut.” Produced by Kalaipuli S Thanu’s V Creations, the film also stars Lal, Yogi Babu, Azhagam Perumal, Natarajan Subramaniam, Rajisha Vijayan, Gouri G Kishan, and Lakshmi Priya Chandramouli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/catch-up-with-karnan/article34546259.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Vijay Sethupathi to host MasterChef Tamil||Actor Vijay Sethupathi will be taking on a new avatar soon; that of a cooking show host when the latest version of the popular MasterChef series — MasterChef Tamil — airs soon on Sun TV. The Master star, who has anchored shows earlier, appeared in a promo on Sun TV’s official social media handle, confirming his presence on the upcoming cooking reality series. Reports indicate that the format of the show will follow the iconic MasterChef Australia series, which is currently in its13th season. There have also been six seasons of MasterChef India, as well as a Junior MasterChef India version too. After reality show Cook with Comali captured the fancy of audiences and made the likes of eventual winner Kani, Ashwin Kumar, Sivaangi and Pugazh household names, MasterChef Tamil hopes to follow in its wake. On the film front, Sethupathi has many upcoming projects such as Tughlaq Durbar, Maamanithan and Laabam among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/vijay-sethupathi-to-host-masterchef-tamil/article34546266.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Tune in and kick back||Every night, Tamil Twitter users briefly pause work from home pressures and COVID-19 updates, then sing their heart out. No judge says, ‘Your pitching needs to be better’. All they get as feedback are hearts and 100-point emojis. Spaces has enabled the Twitterati to converse about many things, but music is definitely the one winning hearts at the moment. Over the last few weeks, spaces dedicated to composers Ilaiyaraaja, AR Rahman, Harris Jayaraj and Deva have had many users tuned in. “It never goes wrong with music. It’s not like a debate where you pick a side. Here, you can just be yourself and unwind,” says Sindhu Ganesh (@sinofagan), a Chennai-based brand development executive, who has hosted three Spaces sessions so far. That it is audio-only makes it a winner, says Sindhu. “Listening to Ilaiyaraaja’s music on radio at night and going to sleep was my thing. I wanted to recreate that atmosphere,” adds Sindhu, who also plans sessions featuring the musical works of Karthik Raja and Kamal Haasan.  Screen fatigue  But Twitter Spaces is not the pioneer of audio drop-in platforms — Clubhouse is. Over in Los Angeles, comedian-filmmaker Kiran Deol ( Sunny Side Up ) calls these formats “ways to socially acceptable eavesdrop.” She recalls her recent participation in a Clubhouse Room. On May 1, she had been invited by actor Fizaa Dosani ( Dear White People ) to a creator-first (no network-affiliated) pilot première of ‘Facial Recognition Comedy’ which had an audience of around 650 people. Here, the actors created skits around stereotypes about Indian appearances and how they relate to facial recognition technology.Drop-in audio platform Clubhouse, launched by Alpha Exploration Co in March 2020, observed a flocking of people as ‘screen fatigue’ picked up. The platform offers different interest-based Clubs to follow, such as ‘Startup Club’ which has more than 4,79,000 members or ‘What Are You Reading’ which has more than 90,900 members. Each of these Clubs joined will set up Rooms (audio chatrooms) that host informal fireside chats, panel discussions, or performances. You can even start your own Club or your own Room. Clubhouse has been holding appeal for tech circles, motivational speakers and influencers but it has opened up avenues for filmmakers and comedians, agrees Deol. She explains, “Comedy, especially with the pandemic, has been able to connect people and these audio platforms can have so many people in their spaces. If you think about that in real-time, 700 people is a massive theatre.” Unfortunately, to the dismay of many, it was an iOS-only experience with an invite-only ‘pay-it-forward’ model where one can only join the free-to-use platform if an existing user sends an invite. However, after months of anticipation, Clubhouse also opened to Android users globally this past week, widening the audience reach for such projects and ‘Facial Recognition Comedy’ was keen to include Android-toting creators too. Why does Clubhouse still hold an appeal? Deol responds, “Because it is a relatively young platform, the algorithms aren’t as curated as that of Twitter or Facebook (which have or are working on launching their own Clubhouse-like platforms). I like to be in control of what I am exploring and know I am not confined to my lane.” A good moderator for audio-only spaces, whatever the platform, is key. Deol points out a good moderator is one who periodically reintroduces the premise of what is happening so that for audiences just stepping in, it is easy to get on track. She adds that audio drop-in platforms are also a creative challenge since audience members are engaging just one sense in a wholly immersive way — so the audio content better be good. Deol elaborates, “moderated the correct way, it can create a level of intimacy that is hard to achieve. That is the same quality you are looking to do when you’re on stage as a comedian. Plus, in audio-only, people aren’t forced to look at an image of themselves; they can detach into this conduit into a different world. With comedy, you have to leave space for laughter, so the rhythm of talking is different. A lot of it depends on how engaged your audience is as well.” An intimate space While Clubhouse gets the ball rolling on chats on future projects and thinkers, Twitter Spaces has been engaging elements of nostalgia. Music lover and a senior executive in an IT firm, Ashwath Ram (@bultaulta), hosted a hit session too, called SPA, aimed to be a musical representation of the songs of Sean Roldan, Pradeep Kumar and Anirudh. While the session saw more than 500 people turn up, the big surprise was when singer-composer Sean Roldan joined the session, and enthralled people with a few songs, including an impromptu duet of his hit ‘Adiye Azhage’ song with a female listener. “Of late, we are used to seeing people sing in front of a camera. That reduces the mystery, which is an aspect that makes music beautiful,” says Sean who himself plans to host Spaces sessions soon. “As it is audio-only, it gives us a chance to relish the tune and music for what it is rather than banking on visual appeal.” It is the nature of the platform — to listen to different voices in a short time — that works for Ashwath. “Before the pandemic, we were used to frequenting many public places, like a bus stop, or a neighbourhood shop, where we hear so many people talk. Now, because we are largely indoors, we end up listening to only the voices of family members... and this is a great place that takes you back to a time when you were surrounded by people,” he explains. As more Clubhouse-like apps trickle in, Deol concludes that the experience, regardless of the platform, is universal — “it’s still intimate, it’s still about feel-good entertainment.”  Following the club  India-made FireSide has been launched by the team behind short video app Chingari  Homegrown platform Leher has drop in to audio and/or video live rooms. One can even monetise their content via subscriptions and brand collabs.  Facebook announced in mid-April that it is currently testing Live Audio Rooms . A day after that, Reddit, the ‘front page of the Internet’, unveiled Reddit Talk . Users keen on using this can add themselves to a waitlist to get in on the early testing schemes.  Ideal for your next job hunt or to grow your network, LinkedIn Live Audio Rooms opens up a space for networking events without needing to don a blazer, brush your hair or shake someone’s hand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tune-in-and-kick-back/article34546606.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Ship of thesis||At the end of the Second World War in 1945, Germany was on the cusp of facing another bout of unrest. Over the next decade-and-a-half, political, social and economic factors resulted in the formation of the Berlin Wall which divided the country into the German Democratic Republic (GDR, also known as East Germany) and the Federal Republic of Germany (FDR, also known as West Germany). During the Cold War (between 1947-1991), it was common for the two rival countries to offer development support to then developing and under-developed countries, in their larger goal to muscle their influences and to benefit from the bilateral relations they shared. One of the “largest and most successful educational projects” that emerged out of Indo-German relations during the Cold War, was the establishment of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) in 1959, which, when seen from the perspective of FDR, was largely driven by the Cold War foreign policy it shared with India. While the Sarkar Committee in 1946 recommended that India set-up “at least four technical institutions on the lines of the famous Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA, in the eastern, western, northern and southern regions of the country”, the IITs came into existence only post-Independence. The rationale behind setting up an institution as influential as IIT-M, which has been ranked as ‘The No: 1 Engineering Institute’ in the country for over five consecutive years by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), caught the attention of German Roland Wittje, Associate Professor, History of Science and Technology, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Madras. Anecdotal history In his latest research paper titled Engineering Education in Cold War Diplomacy: India, Germany and the Establishment of IIT Madras, a part of a series of papers published in Wiley’s journal under the title History of Science and Humanities, Wittje unearths this rather fascinating nugget of history, examining the social-political events and the motivation behind the formation of IIT Madras. Wittje stumbled upon IIT-M’s connection with the Cold War when he was doing the preliminary work for setting up the institution’s archive and was working with Kumaran Sathasivam of the Heritage Centre. A historian of science, Wittje says he was not too familiar with political history and wanted to understand the dogma behind science diplomacy between India and Germany. Just before West Germany made an offer for IIT-M, IIT Bombay was established in 1958 with support from the Soviet Union. “With [Jawaharlal] Nehru spearheading the Non-Alignment Movement during the Cold War, what West Germany wanted was that India shouldn’t acknowledge East Germany as a sovereign nation,” says Wittje, “During the early phase, Germany got what it wanted from India, in terms of the larger picture of development. In fact, IIT-M is its largest project as far as higher education was concerned worldwide, even though Germany did assist countries like Egypt and South America.” During the course of his research, which involved talking to German experts and their practices at IIT-M, Wittje found out that German faculties were quite specific on the type of character that IIT Madras should embody, as a technical institute. “The German connection continues to thrive at IIT Madras, and it is always interesting to learn various nuggets about how the relationship evolved in the initial years. IIT Madras has benefitted from the attention paid by the Germans in the formative years to foundational technical education and research, as well as to skill development,” says Professor Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT Madras. What has changed Wittje’s paper also brings to the fore the social-cultural relevance of Madras and what the institution meant for its people, though he admits that he is not an expert in South Indian history. He argues that the location for IIT-M itself had political reasons, “Madras was not the first choice for Germany and they preferred somewhere close to Delhi, also for political reasons,” he says, adding, “They were not opposed to Madras but they definitely didn’t want Kanpur, as they felt it was far more isolated.” Acknowledging that the paper is still a German perspective, Wittje says he wanted to shift the general narrative: of IIT graduates settling in the U.S. and engaging with software. “That sort of mass exodus didn’t happen with Germany because of the immigration laws that made it a lot easier for Asians to move to the U.S.,” he says, adding that a lot of students continue to reap the benefits of the Indo-German relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ship-of-thesis/article34546603.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Isolate, with room service||As far as birthday celebrations go, this one at Sarovar Hotels and Resorts, Gurugram was unusual. A sexagenarian guest lay isolated in her hotel bedroom, as support staff in PPE suits walked in with a cake and a song. The 60-bed property is now a care centre for elderly COVID-19 patients with mild or no symptoms. The hotel houses five ambulances in the premises and has a dedicated team of 20 medical professionals. Relatives can monitor the patient’s vitals on a daily basis through Sarovar’s app. In the second wave of COVID-19 with increasing caseload, hospitals are collaborating with hotels, both luxury and budget, to provide additional beds and medical care for mild and asymptomatic patients. “Healthcare systems get crippled under the large volume of people approaching hospitals,” says Tejasvi Rao, Chief Operations Officer at Apollo Hospitals, adding that many have mild symptoms and may not need hospitalisation. Now, patients are screened by the hospital and only if deemed fit to be admitted in a care centre, are they encouraged to avail these services. By partnering with hotels, he says, “We can reserve admits for those that require acute care, while also helping others that need supervision.” Apollo has a tie-up with Lemon Tree hotels and IHCL Group, which, in Chennai, includes the Taj Club House atthe luxury end and Ginger Hotels at the economic end. It is a continuation of Apollo’s Stay I project started in March 2020 by partnering with OYO hotels. This time around, it has partnered with 24 facilities across 11 cities, including Chennai, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Guwahati. Apart from reducing the burden on the health care system, such services also support the hospitality industry and its employees. “The hotels provide hospitality services (including protein-heavy regional meals, thrice a day) and have been trained on the hygiene and cleaning protocol developed by a team of infectious disease doctors at Apollo,” adds Tejasvi. The medical supervision is done by the partnering hospital: “We have a tech platform that enables teleconsultation with doctors, and once the prescription is generated, our pharmacy and diagnostic teams make sure it is delivered.” Apart from this, nurses (one for every 20 beds) and ward boys are stationed at the hotel 24/7, along with a doctor to come in and check on the patient every day. In select hotels, oxygen cylinders and concentrators are kept on standby in case the situation deteriorates, and the patient needs to be moved to the partner hospital. But why not home isolation? Explaining why people may not be confident about home quarantine, Dr P Kuganantham, HOD, Infectious Diseases and Social Medicine, SIMS Hospital in Chennai, says, “Some COVID-positive patients who are isolating at home due to the lack of beds land up in complications by the seventh or 12th day because they are not able to monitor their CRP (a marker of inflammation in the blood). Early intervention on the third or fourth day, under medical supervision, reduces any chances of such complications.” This is where isolating at a hotel-turned-COVID care centre comes into play. With doctors, nurses and ambulances on call 24/7, daily checkups and blood tests, a sudden deterioration can be detected and treated immediately. Equally pressing is the concern for your immediate family. With joint families under one roof, and most of the younger lot still unvaccinated, people diagnosed with COVID-19 are afraid that they will pass on the infection to the ones taking care of them. It is what drove Rajeev Arora* (name changed on request) to be put up at The Pride Hotel in Kilpauk, Chennai, for the past week. “The doctor at VS Hospitals suggested I quarantine myself at home, but I was worried for the safety of my family. I have my mother, granddaughter, son and daughter-in-law living with me,” he says. Dr Aswin Sayiram SJ, COO, SIMS Hospital adds, “Most of them get anxious while at home and then fall sick. Now, even more so, we need such alternatives to work. It reduces the stress on the patient and the progression of the disease to a great extent.” This is all the more true for elderly people living away from their families, as Sarovar Hotels in Gurugram discovered. Apart from COVID-positive patients, those who are discharged from the hospital but have no one to take care of them are also welcome, says Ajay Bakaya, managing director of Sarovar Hotels and Resorts. The hotel, which has a tie-up with Fortis Memorial Research Institute, is equipped with ventilators, oxygen concentrators and cylinders and beds in case of emergencies, adds Ajay. “While the hospitals are filled to the brim in capacity, it is understandable that they can’t spare their medical professionals. In our case, Emoha Elder Care is the institution that brought in the medical support,” he says. While isolating, it is also important to have a physical presence next to one if need be. Which is why, the support staff is encouraged to enter the room, clean up, serve food and “hold their hands, if necessary”. Care within reach Such ‘courtesy calls’ are the norm at ITC’s Welcomhotel too that have partnered with Manipal Hospital in Delhi, and with G Kuppuswamy Naidu Memorial Hospital and KG Hospital in Coimbatore. “The hospitals send the patients to our hotel, and the guest is guided to their room where they stay for the entire duration. Everything is online and contactless,” says Erine Louis, general manager, Welcomhotel Coimbatore. “Doctors and nurses are stationed on the same floor, along with emergency oxygen, so that everything is within reach.” In a similar way, Ramada Plaza by Wyndham in Guindy now calls itself an extended arm of SIMS hospital. Last year, the hotel was serving doctors who had flown in from across the country to treat patients. But this year, they wished to play a larger part by partnering with the hospital. Keeping in mind the importance of fresh air and sunshine, the hotel opens up its rooftops in the morning and evenings for a quick, supervised stroll. Patients can carry out breathing exercises, light stretches and yoga. “We also have comforting teams, who are solely meant to comfort patients by talking to them and understanding their needs,” adds Sandeep Bhatnagar, general manager. Patients’ food preferences are catered to, by working with a menu developed by hospital dieticians, adds Sandeep. “We give them boiled amla, kabasura kudineer and sundal , as dietary supplements.” To make sure there is unobstructed air flow, windows in corridors are left open in addition to having fresh air units with viral filters through the day. The price for these services can start from Rs. 3,000 a night for single occupancy and go upto Rs. 10,000 a night for double occupancy (excluding lab tests and medicines). However, if you have been advised to stay at a hotel with COVID-19 care facilities, as part of your treatment by a medical practitioner, you can claim insurance against the treatment cost. This was made clear last year after the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India issued a notification recognising ‘makeshift’ and ‘temporary’ hospitals. This is why, says Rajeev, he can afford his seven-day stay. “I had to spend a lakh to save my family from myself,” he says. “I know how difficult it is to enter a hospital right now, at least this way there is space for those who need it more. Picking a hotel to stay was definitely the right call. If I went home and somebody got sick in the next two days, I would feel really guilty. It feels safer this way.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/isolate-with-room-service/article34546975.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||A beautiful life||Artist, philosopher, sculptor and writer Shakti Maira, 74, who died in Delhi left behind a multifaceted legacy. Maira saw himself as a realist, who explored and expressed the tangible. His observers saw a deep spiritual passion in his work, a Buddhism-inspired one. He will live on through his works that are at the National Gallery of Modern Art and private collections around the world. Through numerous exhibitions, talks, and writings, Maira took his work and ideas to audiences across the globe. “To integrate spirit and matter in an aesthetic presentation that opens the viewer to an integral moment is remarkable enough. But what is truly astonishing about Shakti’s work is the depth to which that intention is realised,” American philosopher Ken Wilber had said about him after their time together at Wilber’s Integral Institute in the late 1990s. When he was painting the Fallen Gods and Intimations of Transcendence series, Maira went beyond two-dimensionality and expressed himself via sculpture. His first sculptural series Sunyatta (1989) was made simply of papier mache and copper from discarded parts he had found in a junkyard near where he lived in New Hampshire at the time. “I am actually surprised that many more painters don’t sculpt…. Working three dimensionally has helped me understand form and made my drawings and paintings more perceptive, more spatial,” he had said in a 2017 interview with The Citizen. Since that first series, Shakti worked with multiple other mediums including stoneware in the Silent Witnesses (1995) series, bronze in the Intimations of Transcendence (1992), Sangha (2012), and Seekers (2010) series, as well as wood in the Formed Resonance (2016) series. “With paintings and sculpture I am able to go much deeper into the sensory and tactile world, and the emotional world, and the world where the conscious mind meets the subconscious mind. I am able to journey into a world of delight, and into the many dimensions where perception and understanding are wordless, and exist in different relationships and continuities,” he had said. Returning to India in 2001 after more than two decades in the US, he added writing to his toolkit of creative expression, his pieces appearing in The Hindu regularly. It was a response to the situation, he said later. “I felt compelled to write.... It seemed that contemporary art was lurching imitatively into western art constructs that had little relevance, and simultaneously the broader and integrative art traditions of India were being abandoned thoughtlessly,” he wrote, on his website. Maira also wrote two books: Towards Ananda: Rethinking Indian Arts and Aesthetics and The Promise of Beauty & Why it Matters .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-beautiful-life/article34546974.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The mudra of service||The novel coronavirus is etching images in our collective consciousness, with painful mordants. Helpless gasps for oxygen is one. Equally indelible are images of a generous response to this crisis from the common people. Recently, Kadamai Education and Social Welfare Trust was featured in another section of The Hindu for how its members tuk-tuk around Chennai, with oxygen “on tap” in their modified autorickshaws. Another example: a fundraiser (#helpchennaibreathe) by classical arts-promoting NGO Samarpana, to add to the oxygen-related resources at five Government hospitals in Chennai — Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital; Stanley Medical College Hospital; Tiruvallur Medical College; Kilpauk Medical College Hospital; and the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate. As Samarpana’s founder Gayathri Suryanarayanan puts it, the fundaraiser seeks to “procure a minimum of 420 oxygen cylinders with regulators and trolleys; procure 240 oxygen concentrators; 500 oxygen masks, 500 NRB masks and nasal prongs. We have identified vendors and estimated a cost of Rs. 3 crore to procure these materials.” Emphasising that efforts are being made by the Government to increase these resources, which reportedly include introduction of 12,500 oxygen beds across Tamil Nadu by May 15, Gayathri explains in a telephonic conversation that with the need continually and exponentially rising above the available resources, small contributions from the general public will also make a difference. “We are ordinary people — neither influencers nor celebrities — and by largely connecting with our friends and family, we have so far managed to pool in nearly Rs. 50 lakh. As timely help is crucial, we decided to not wait till we reach the target-amount, and instead start buying supplies as and when a sizeable amount is collected. So, for now, we have already placed an order for 200 oxygen cylinders, 500 oxygen masks and 500 NRB masks from a dealer in Mumbai, and these would be delivered by the end of this week.” Gayathri underlines the millennial character of the group — “Samarpana volunteers are in the 30-and-below age bracket. Artistes make up 70% of this group.” Last year, during the first wave, Samarpana conducted online shows to raise funds to support daily-wagers and folk artistes. Gayathri observes, “Pandemic-related fundraisers through online shows do not make sense at this point of time due to a few reasons, the primary one being that the second wave has been hard on almost every family, and that includes those of classical artistes as well.”  (For details about the initiative, go to: tinyurl.com/help-chennai-breathe)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-mudra-of-service/article34546607.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Betty’s got a bit of NFT||It is official: classical music has a clout with the crypto world. Betty’s Notebook, a multi-layered, multimedia choral piece created by Dallas-based Verdigris Ensemble, has been snatched by Metapurse, the world’s largest NFT (non-fungible token) fund, which bid on the programmable master track for $2,15,989 (56.56 ETH). Chennai-based Anand Venkateswaran AKA Twobadour, the steward of Metapurse, along with Vignesh Sundaresan (AKA Metakovan), explains, “Betty’s Notebook has essentially given birth to crypto music, paving the way for a new and innovative medium of creating and experiencing music.” Twobadour compliments this unlikely convergence of classical music and the crypto world: “It breaks two stereotypes in 21 minutes [of Betty’s Notebook]. It proves crypto is not a space for EDM music alone, and that this is a viable and healthy way to make and engage with classical music.” Just like a programmable artwork, Stem (or the individual programmable component) NFTs are effectively the same as Layer NFTs: they have the ability to change what the current master track both looks and sounds like. So, the ‘most hardcore fan’ will likely own the master track — in this case Betty’s Notebook — with other fans owning the stems and choosing which ‘variant’ of their stem is currently active on the master track. So far, musicians including The Weeknd, Pink Floyd and DaBaby are delving into programmable stem NFTs, while other NFT music ventures have been pursued by Doja Cat, Eminem and Keyon Christ. The history behind Betty’s Notebook has been the source of controversy over the years. In 1937, in St Petersburg, Florida, 15-year-old Betty Klenck recorded what she believed was pilot Amelia Earhart’s distress signals and final words breaking through her family’s shortwave radio, in a notebook alongside sketches of mid-century glamour models and other ramblings. The resulting work Betty’s Notebook premiered in February 2019 in several Dallas venues. But what exactly comprises this creation? There are four stems, each sold as separate NFTs (MP3 files imbued in algorithmic code). One is The Choir, the 16-person Verdigris Ensemble singing the voice of Amelia Earhart and her disappearance. Then there is Betty’s Voice, a late-in-life interview with Klenck herself narrating what she heard. Betty’s Radio is a piece of jazz songs, also composed by Reeves, that recall the music Klenck may have been listening to on that July evening. And finally, Betty’s Choir sees Verdigris creating a choral complement from Betty’s voice, inserting pitches and overtones from a spectral analysis of her speaking voice into the overall texture of the piece. That said, Betty’s Notebook is physically set up in a vintage 1930s wooden radio console repurposed to include an LCD screen displaying digital art and playing the latest iteration of the four-stems combined. Metapurse has confirmed that the physical component will be available to lend to museums interested in displaying this polychronic sound and digital art installation piece. When asked about what other genres Metapurse would be keen on investing in, and Twobadour responds, “Jazz comes to mind, also rural South Indian music!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bettys-got-a-bit-of-nft/article34546970.ece
13 May 2021||May 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Vijay Sethupathi to host MasterChef Tamil||Actor Vijay Sethupathi will be taking on a new avatar soon, that of a cooking show host when the latest version of the popular MasterChef series — MasterChef Tamil — airs soon on Sun TV. The Master star, who has anchored shows earlier, appeared in a promo on Sun TV’s official social media handle, confirming his presence on the upcoming cooking reality series. Reports indicate that the format of the show will follow the iconic MasterChef Australia series, which is currently in its 13th season. There have also been six seasons of MasterChef India, as well as a Junior MasterChef India version too. The international version made chefs Gary Mehigan and George Calombaris, and food critic Matt Preston celebrities. In India, after reality show Cook with Comali captured the fancy of audiences and made the likes of eventual winner Kani, Ashwin Kumar, Sivaangi and Pugazh household names, MasterChef Tamil hopes to follow in its wake. On the film front, Sethupathi has many upcoming projects such as Tughlaq Durbar, Maamanithan and Laabam among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/vijay-sethupathi-to-host-masterchef-tamil/article34546976.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||HC raps govt. for not operationalising hospital||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday questioned the Delhi government on why it has not yet fully operationalised its 1,241-bedded Indira Gandhi Hospital, which presently has only 80 beds available, that too for non-serious COVID patients. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said, “If a third wave comes, as many experts are warning it might, and your facility is not up and running [to full capacity], then again we would be back to this situation”. The High Court said that Delhi government should learn from the “bitter experience” of the people during the onslaught of the second wave of the pandemic. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said completion of the hospital was not a pressing issue as around 4,500 beds were available in the Capital at present. Responding to this, the court remarked that though situation may have “somewhat improved” with regards to availability of COVID beds, “we can’t forget the situation which existed just a couple of days ago, when serious patients were in need of hospitalisation”. The High Court directed the Delhi government to submit a detailed affidavit with the timeline of completion of Indira Gandhi Hospital, along with the reason for delay if any. It also remarked that the project appeared to have been not completed due to “lethargy of the State”. The court said the timeline for completion of the Indira Gandhi Hospital should be realistic and once placed before it, “should be adhered to”. The Delhi government will have to respond to the issue by May 24. During the hearing, the High Court told the Centre it was “high time” that maximum retail price (MRP) of oxygen concentrators and other equipment in demand for COVID treatment was fixed to immediately stop their hoarding and black marketing. The court also issued contempt notices to all the persons named in the FIRs lodged after May 2 in connection with hoarding and black-marketing of medicines and equipment required for treating COVID-19 and directed them to appear before it virtually on May 19. Black-marketing cases On May 2, the High Court had ordered that individuals, booked for black-marketing and hoarding be brought before it for taking contempt of court action against them. The HC was informed that in the hearings before the trial courts, in connection with these FIRs, the public prosecutors as well as the judicial officers appeared to be unaware of the May 2 order of the Bench to book those engaged in hoarding and black-marketing. It was also informed that a trial court has said that offences cannot be “made up” against such individuals and the option was to book them for contempt of court if they are selling medicines or equipment at exorbitant rates. It was shown media reports where the trial court, while hearing the anticipatory bail filed by businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his upscale restaurants, has said that first a law has to be made to regulate the prices and people cannot be penalised in a hurry because the High Court wanted steps to be taken.  If a third wave comes and your [Delhi govt.] facility is not up and running [to full capacity], then again we would be back to this situation HC Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-raps-govt-for-not-operationalising-hospital/article34546629.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||Bystanders share bed on the street, use unclean washrooms||Two men sat outside the gate of Lok Nayak Hospital on a bed sheet spread over a flex sheet. Behind them, from the hospital’s brick wall, hung a violet mosquito net. The arrangement is their bed for the night. “We used to sleep inside GB Pant Hospital till five nights ago. But the guards kicked us out and now we sleep here on the footpath. There are too many mosquitoes here and even Odomos doesn’t work. So we got this mosquito net four-five days ago for Rs. 150,” said Kirpal Singh (46), as he shared the bed sheet with Sandeep Dubey (50). Attendants of COVID-19 patients, who stay overnight at Lok Nayak Hospital and GTB Hospital, the largest and second largest Delhi government-run hospitals, are struggling. At Lok Nayak Hospital, attendants were found sleeping on the footpath outside the hospital’s gate and at GTB Hospital, they sleep on benches and even on the floor inside the hospital campus and have to adjust with two unclean washrooms. Most of them are financially backward and cannot afford a room and are forced to spend their nights in and around the hospitals. Friendship blooms When Mr. Dubey and Mr. Singh, both from Uttar Pradesh, met in a ward of GB Pant Hospital in Delhi in February, they didn’t know they would become friends, let alone share a bed on the street outside Delhi. Mr. Dubey’s mother was admitted at GB Pant Hospital on February 6, which is adjacent to Lok Nayak Hospital, and Mr. Singh’s brother on February 17. Later, both the patients tested positive and were shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital, a COVID-19 facility. “After being kicked out of GB Pant Hospital we found this place to sleep. But last night some of our hospital documents got stolen from here,” Mr. Dubey said. They duo spend their daytime talking about Uttar Pradesh, COVID-19 situation and reading Hindi newspapers. “In our villages people still do not wear masks,” Mr. Singh said. Unclean washrooms At GTB Hospital, the two washrooms for the attendants are unhygienic and do not have buckets. There is no latch on the door — a piece of rope works as a latch. A portion of the roof has fallen and there were flies inside both the washrooms. Mukesh Kumar, whose brother is admitted at the hospital, said: “I slept on the floor outside the clinic. The washrooms are really bad, but what can we do?”  Sarveshwer Rao, whose brother is admitted at the hospital, said he plans to spend the night on a bench while Vijay, who accompanied his father, shook his head when asked about the washroom. “The roof is leaking and it is very unhygienic. A plastic bottle is there instead of a bucket and a mug,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bystanders-share-bed-on-the-street-use-unclean-washrooms/article34546626.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||SOS calls from hospitals down||Daily SOS calls for oxygen from hospitals have reduced from a high of 49 calls a day on May 4 to one call on Monday and three calls on Tuesday, said Ashish Kundra, Officer on Special Duty, Health Department.  Supply ramps up The official said that the allocation of oxygen fixed to Delhi is 590 MT and on Sunday the city received 596 MT, 623 MT on Monday and 570 MT on Tuesday. Mr. Kundra said that the situation has improved and from May 4 to May 11, 42% of the total supply came via rail, which made the process smoother. He also said that the government is planning to cap prices of oxygen cylinders. The official said that the government has also reached out to private storage facilities outside the city. He said that there is no largescale oxygen production plan in Delhi. “Health Department is in the process of creating storage in the city too,” the official said. He also said that challans amounting to more than Rs. 3 crore were issued by the government in a week related to COVID-19 norm violations.  The Health Department is in the process of creating storage in the city too Ashish Kundra Officer on Special Duty, Health Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sos-calls-from-hospitals-down/article34546631.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU reluctant to start COVID centre on campus: teachers’ body||A day after the Delhi High Court rapped Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) for not responding to requests by students and teachers to set up a COVID Care Centre and oxygen production facility on the campus, the JNU administration called for a meeting to work out the formalities and protocols for creating the facility on the campus. The university was directed by the court to email reports explaining the feasibility, modalities and timeline for setting up of a COVID Care Centre, preferably with oxygenated beds, by 9 a.m. on May 13, the next date of hearing. Members of the JNU Teachers’ Association that attended the meeting said the JNU administration continued to be reluctant to the move as they did not have doctors and nurses to manage the facility. “There was a meeting scheduled on Wednesday morning by the JNU administration but the link to the online meeting did not have the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) of the area as mandated by the court. I pointed this out but the meeting continued without the official being present,” JNUTA secretary Moushumi Basu said. She added that instead of discussing how to set up a centre, the administration made the teachers make presentations of their recommendation that they had submitted on April 13. She added that the meeting was again reconvened at 3.30 p.m. with the SDM in attendance “All the administration needs to do is to start tele-consulting facilities and an isolation centre on the campus that even RWAs have been doing,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-reluctant-to-start-covid-centre-on-campus-teachers-body/article34546622.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Appeal to appoint kin of deceased DU employees||A group of Delhi University professors, who are also members of the academic and executive councils, has written to DU Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi asking the administration to grant appointments to family members of those who have lost their lives during the pandemic, to mitigate financial distress. In the letter to the V-C, the academics said: “The kin and family members of the deceased employees must be hired on priority basis so as to mitigate financial and mental agony that they are facing owing to the loss of their dear one to the virus.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/appeal-to-appoint-kin-of-deceased-du-employees/article34546627.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Missing report’ filed against Amit Shah||Nagesh Kariyappa, general secretary of the National Students’ Union of India on Wednesday said that he had filed a missing person report with the Delhi police against Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He said that politicians are supposed to serve the nation and look after its people and not run away when there is a crisis situation. National secretary of the NSUI and spokesperson Lokesh Chugh claimed that after filing the report, the Delhi police had come to question Mr. Kariyappa at the NSUI office. “Until 2013, the politicians were responsible towards the citizens but after that, the BJP government came to power and the dynamics have totally changed. Now, the second-most important person in the government after the Prime Minister is missing during the pandemic,” Mr. Chug said. “We all are suffering from this disastrous pandemic and what we need is a government to support its citizens and be answerable for their deeds. The current government has failed to do so and thus, the NSUI has filed a missing complaint and is waiting for the government to address to the nation,” the NSUI said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/missing-report-filed-against-amit-shah/article34546630.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||City records 300 COVID-19 fatalities||The Capital reported 300 COVID-19-related deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 20,310, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Also, 13,287 new cases were reported and the total cases stood at 13,61,986. A total of 78,035 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 12,58,951 people have recovered and there are 82,725 active cases. The test positivity rate was 17.03%. This means that about 17 out of 100 people taking the test are now COVID-19 positive. There was a sharp rise in positivity from 3.5% on April 1 to 36.2% on April 22. But since then, it has stayed below it. A decrease in positivity is a good sign, as per experts. The positivity rate has been below 20% for the past three days. Of the total 23,345 beds, 19.9% were free as on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-records-300-covid-19-fatalities/article34546633.ece
13 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jamia Teachers’ Association wants hospital on campus||The Jamia Teachers’ Association (JTA) on Wednesday appealed to Jamia Millia Islamia administration to start a fundraising campaign to build a 50-bed hospital on the campus. In a letter to the Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar, the teachers said they would extend all possible help to create a multi-specialty hospital fully equipped with modern medical tools and facilities. Stressing on the need for a hospital, JTA secretary M. Irfan Qureshi said: “This is heartening to mention that many teachers and staff members of Jamia have lost their lives to COVID-19 in want of good hospitals which they could not get even running from pillar to post. It is high time we secure the future of Jamia with better medical facility”. He added that it had been a dream for Jamia to have a full-fledged medical college, and establishing a 50-bed hospital will open the ways for Jamia Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jamia-teachers-association-wants-hospital-on-campus/article34546623.ece
13 May 2021||New Delhi,||BJP demands Delhi govt. to provide free ration under Modi scheme||The BJP on Wednesday accused the Delhi government of failing to provide free ration to 72 lakh ration cardholders in the Capital under a Central scheme during the lockdown and demanded its immediate implementation. BJP MLAs went to Chief Minister’s residence but were not allowed to meet him, they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-demands-delhi-govt-to-provide-free-ration-under-modi-scheme/article34546624.ece
