15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covishield and Covaxin are less effective against B.1.617 strain||Both Covishield and Covaxin, while effective at generating an immune response against the coronavirus, appear to generate only half as many antibodies against the B.1.617 strain, or the Indian strain, according to a series of early reports authored by scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). However, several scientists told The Hindu that this drop didn't diminish the fact that the vaccines continued to be a potent tool against COVID-19. Scientists at the ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, have since January been collecting samples from coronavirus-positive individuals and testing them for prominent variants — mostly the international variants of concern B.1.1.7 (the U.K. variant), the B.1.351 (the South African variant), the P2 (the Brazil variant) and B.1.617 (the Indian variant). Three related variants of the B.1.617 now make up an increasing proportion of cases in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covishield-and-covaxin-are-less-effective-against-b1617-strain/article34561950.ece
15 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Heavy rain batters State, red alert in five districts||Heavy rain and lashing winds battered the State on Friday under the influence of the deep depression over the Arabian Sea which is expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the weekend. Although Kerala is not in the track of the northward-moving weather system, sea erosion has been severe in the coastal districts, forcing district administrations, which are already burdened by the COVID-19 cases, to evacuate scores of families. Red alerts have been sounded for five northern districts — Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod — on Saturday given the likelihood of extremely heavy rainfall (in excess of 20 cm in a 24-hour period). Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki and Thrissur have been put on orange alert for scattered heavy to very heavy rainfall. Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad, which are on yellow alert, can expect scattered heavy rainfall on Saturday, the IMD indicated. Rainfall is likely to continue till at least May 18 in parts of the State. High alert Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government machinery was on high alert to tackle contingencies. Nine teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Kollam, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Pathanamthitta. One team of the Army’s Defence Service Corps (DSC) is stationed in Kasaragod and two in Kannur. Two teams of the army are on standby in Thiruvananthapuram, and an engineering task force in Bengaluru. The Indian Air Force has two helicopters on standby for emergencies. As per available data, 17 relief camps have been opened across the State, accommodating more than 300 people. Seventy-eight families have been evacuated to camps in Thiruvananthapuram district. Camps have also been opened in other districts, including Kollam, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-batters-state-red-alert-in-five-districts/article34562141.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||29 die as COVID cases fall to 4,305 in Telangana||There has been a further reduction in the number of COVID positive cases in Telangana at 4,305 on Friday as against 4,693 the previous day and it could also be due to the steep fall in tests — 57,416 conducted as against 71,221 tests conducted the previous day. Number of deaths is down to 29. The official bulletin by Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao stated that results of 1,714 reports is yet to come and the number of people recovered is 6,361 taking the number of recoveries so far to 4.63 lakh. Active cases has further come down to 54,832 as against 56,917 the previous day, taking the total number of those infected to 5.21 lakh. Total number of deaths is 2,896. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and surrounding districts top the charts although the cases appear to be coming down by the day with 607 cases in the main city, 293 in Rangareddy and 291 in Malkajgiri-Medchal. About 111 cases were reported from Sangareddy. Districts with more than 100 cases are Nalgonda with 246, Karimnagar having 229, Khammam 222, Siddipet 169, Vikarabad 158, Nagarkurnool 143, Peddapalli 134, Bhadradri-Kothagudem 130, Jagityal 125, Wanaparthy 125, Warangal Urban 128 and Warangal Rural 122. Fewer cases are from districts of Nirmal 25, Naryanapet 26, Komarambheem-Asifabad 29 and Suryapet 31. Fatality rate across Telangana continues to be 0.55% with national average being 1.1%. The recovery rate has risen slightly to 88.91% more than the national average of 83.4%. Spike in cases has been observed in Warangal Rural 92-122, Wanaparthy 79-110, Khammam 176-222, Bhadradri-Kothagudem 97-130 and Karimnagar 182-229. Dr. Srinivasa Rao urged to citizens to seek treatment early from the nearest healthcare facility when symptoms surface to prevents complications. Apart from children less than 10 years of age and elders above 60 years, those in the age group of 20-50 years have been advised not to venture out since they form the most vulnerable groups. Precautions like use of face mask and social distancing is a must outside.  Important numbers Central Helpline for telemedicine and grievances – 104  Complaints against private hospitals/labs WhatsApp – 9154170960 COVID Hospital bed status – https://health.telangana.gov.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/29-die-as-covid-cases-fall-to-4305-in-telangana/article34562367.ece
15 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State extends lockdown till May 23||The seemingly relentless and worrying rise in COVID-19 infections in the State has prompted Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday to extend the State-wide lockdown until May 23. He said the clampdown on life, mobility, socialising, production and retail business would be three-fold restrictive in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Ernakulam and Malappuram. The localities were witnessing an unacceptably high level of disease transmission. People have to remain sequestered indoors and venture out only to buy victuals or medicines from neighbourhood shops. The government was constrained to curb civic life rigorously to limit deaths and hospitalisations, he said. Weather change Mr. Vijayan said Kerala’s weather had changed for the worse given the impending cyclone. The rain could accelerate the spread of the pestilence. Mosquito-borne fevers and monsoon diseases could complicate the already fraught pandemic situation. The Chief Minister said the government resources were already stretched to the limit, fighting the pandemic. Rural areas have also recorded a sharp increase in infections. An extension of the lockdown was the only recourse open to the government. The month of May was crucial in the fight against the pandemic. It was too early to quantify the effect of the close down on curbing COVID-19, he said. The government would spare no effort in flattening the rising curve of infections. Mr. Vijayan urged people to prevent stagnant water from turning into mosquito hatcheries in their neighbourhoods. The lockdown would affect livelihoods. The administration would distribute free food kits to the entire population, including migrant workers, to ensure none starved. Community kitchens and fair price hotels would also cater to needy citizens. The government would support Anganwadi teachers and Kudumbashree units. The government extended the last date for remitting land and tourism tax and fee for various licences. Code violations Motorcycle patrols would scour neighbourhoods to detect pandemic code violations. The police on Thursday booked 27 persons for breaking quarantine. It booked 9,114 persons for not wearing masks and 4,791 for violating the physical distance rule. The police collected Rs. 33,30,250 as a fine from the violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-extends-lockdown-till-may-23/article34562138.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sputnik V vaccine rolled out in India at Rs. 995 per dose||India on Friday began using Sputnik V in its battle against COVID-19, with the first dose of the vaccine from Russia administered in Hyderabad. The vaccine is being sold at a maximum retail price of Rs. 995 per dose. “As part of a limited pilot, the soft launch has commenced and the first dose was administered in Hyderabad,” announced Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, the marketing partner for the Russian vaccine. Earlier this month, it received a consignment of 1.5 lakh doses. The use of the vaccine follows clearance for imported doses from the Central Drugs Laboratory in Kasauli on Thursday. The Drugs Controller General of India had last month accorded emergency use authorisation to the vaccine. It joins Covishield and the indigenous Covaxin in the immunisation programme that in recent weeks has been hamstrung by an acute shortage of vaccines. Senior officials at Dr. Reddy’s said the vaccine would be supplied at the same price — Rs. 948 plus 5% GST — to both the government and the private sector. For consumers, there would also be administering charges levied by hospitals. The doses of the vaccine that will be made in India are likely to hit the market in July and could be cheaper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sputnik-v-vaccine-rolled-out-in-india-at-rs-995-per-dose/article34561952.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Business of last rites: Pvt. operators charge as much as Rs. 30,000||Relatives of a 57-year-old man, who died of COVID-19 at St. John’s Hospital on Wednesday, were shattered when just a few hours later, another family member died in a road accident on the outskirts of the city. However, a helpline, launched that day itself by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the district administration for bereaved families, came to their aid. The helpline team not only arranged for an ambulance to ferry the body, but also ensured that the deceased were cremated as members of the family (names withheld on request) could not be physically present. In the absence of a regulatory body, fly-by-night operations have sprung up, charging people much as Rs. 30,000 to cremate their loved ones. People offering these services usually livestream the cremation or burial ceremony and send the death certificate to the family. Many private operators prey on the elderly or families where multiple members have COVID-19 and cannot perform the last rites themselves. A few days ago, an elderly woman and single mother from Chamarajpet lost her 28-year-old son to COVID-19. He had high fever and breathlessness and died before he could get medical aid. As the woman mourned her son and wondered what she could do as she was in isolation because of COVID-19, a private ambulance driver offered to take care of the last rites and formalities for Rs. 30,000. “In some instances, conmen are taking advantage of the bereaved and robbing them of their money. And because they are coping with personal tragedy and loss, most families don’t register complaints with the police, but we know that this is happening,” said a senior police officer. Ambulance shortage Though the BBMP offers this service for free, many say it is not easy to use it as ambulances aren’t available. “We could not get a government ambulance or a slot anywhere to cremate our cousin. Wefinally hired a private ambulance which went to T.R. Mill Crematorium and from there to the one at Tavarekere. It cost us Rs. 30,000,” said a family member. In some cases, ambulance drivers also demand money. A 39-year old private firm employee succumbed to COVID-19 while taking care of his father who had also contracted the virus. He died at their house on Bannerghatta Road last week and though the parents were able to call a BBMP ambulance, the driver asked them for Rs. 4,000. BBMP and district officials are aware of the problem, but can take action only if the relatives file a complaint. “We have displayed contact numbers on vehicles so that people can call and register a complaint if the driver demands money. However, we have not received a single complaint so far,” said a BBMP official. In the backdrop of an increasing number of reports of people being cheated by ambulance and hearse van drivers, having to waiting in queues outside crematoriums, and being unable to get a BBMP ambulance, the civic body launched a new helpline (8495 99 8495) on Wednesday. J. Manjunath, Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban district, said it has been set up to manage ambulance and hearse van services round the clock. Citizens can provide the details of the deceased on WhatsApp as well. They will be provided with a vehicle free of cost and given a fixed time so they don’t have to wait in queue for hours on end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/business-of-last-rites-pvt-operators-charge-as-much-as-rs-30000/article34561997.ece
15 May 2021||KURNOOL,||Two patients die as Telangana police stop ambulances at border||Two patients reportedly died when the Telangana police did not allow the ambulances carrying them to enter that State at the Panchalingala-Pullur inter-State border on the National Highway No.44. More than 60 ambulances with patients were turned away by the Telangana police at the check-post from Thursday midnight to 7 p.m. on Friday. While the details of the two victims could not be ascertained, it is learnt that they hailed from Nandyal and Kadapa and were proceeding to Hyderabad for treatment. By the time Kurnool Superintendent of Police K. Fakkeerappa was alerted about the tense situation, there were 18 ambulances waiting to enter Telangana at the check-post. “As the situation turned grave for four patients, we shifted them to the Government General Hospital at Kurnool, and sent back the remaining ambulances to various other hospitals,” the SP said. Telangana officers did not allow the ambulances from the A.P. side when reports last came in from the check-post at 7 p.m,. “I spoke to them in view of the Telangana High Court order, but they said they had not received a copy and hence did not have the permission to allow the patients in ambulances without e-permission,” Mr. Fakkeerappa said. One 55-year-old patient from Ballari and one from Proddutur were in critical condition and they are being shifted to the GGH here in Kurnool. “We do not have a paucity of beds, if needed we can accommodate some of them in the 25-bed Police Hospital that has oxygen cylinders too,” the officer added. Owing to severe shortage of oxygen-supported beds in Hyderabad and other towns of Telangana, patients from other States were not being allowed based on an executive order of the Telangana government, but that was stayed by the Telangana HC on Friday. Meanwhile, BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said it was a human rights issue and none should be stopped. “Will Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his A.P. counterpart Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy allow their kin to suffer like this if they were to travel to Hyderabad?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-ap-patients-die-as-telangana-bars-entry/article34561900.ece
15 May 2021||GUNTUR,||CID arrests Narsapuram MP Raghu Ramakrishna Raju||Member of Parliament from Narsapuram Raghu Ramakrishna Raju was arrested by a team of Andhra Pradesh CID police after high drama at his house in Hyderabad. Mr. Raju was at his house at a gated community in Gachibowli when a team of CID police issued a notice under Section 50(2). Cases were registered against the MP under Sections 124(A), 153(A) and 505 and 120(B) of the IPC. The notice issued by Additional SP, CID, R. Vijaya Paul said that a notice was being issued under Sections which were non-bailable. Additional DGP CID, P.V. Sunil Kumar said there was information against Mr. Raju, stating that he had been allegedly indulging in hate speeches against certain communities and promoting disaffection against the government. A press release from the CID stated that a preliminary enquiry ordered by the ADG CID revealed that through his speeches, Mr Raju was allegedly indulging in systematic, schematic effort to cause tensions among the communities and by attacking various government dignitaries in a way which will cause loss of faith in the government which they represent. In the backdrop of all these things, a case was registered on the orders of Mr. Sunil Kumar under Sections 124A, 153 A, 505 r/w 120 B IPC and an arrest was made, the release said. A team of CID persons, led by Mr. Paul, went to the MP’s residence on Friday afternoon and issued notices. The MP, who was provided with Y-category security, was guarded by CRPF. A video grab showed that the MP was surrounded by CRPF men and a brief argument ensued with the members of his family. The MP came to his residence at Hyderabad to celebrate his 54th birthday. The CID team , who served the notice, said they were arresting Raju. When the family members protested, the CID police asked them to cooperate with them and seek bail in court. The MP’s son, Bharat, said that his father had a cardiac surgery only four months back. The MP was seen shouting at the police, but the CID police soon took him away and brought him to the CID office in Guntur. Friction with party Mr. Raju, who won from Narsarapuram Lok Sabha constituency in May 2019, on a YSRCP ticket, fell out with the party, soon after the elections. Mr. Raju then allegedly began to launch a series of vitriolic attacks on the Chief Minister and the party over the decisions taken recently. In his latest post launched on a social media site, Mr. Raju was seen attacking Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy accusing the latter of instigating a social media cell to upload posts against him. Recently, Mr. Raju filed a petition in the special CBI court in Nampally in HYderabad to cancel the bail petition of Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cid-arrests-narsapuram-mp-raghu-ramakrishna-raju/article34561944.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID surge continues unabated with 96 deaths||For the fourth day in a row, the State reported more than 20,000 new infections and close to a hundred deaths due to COVID-19. In the 24 hours ending Friday morning, 96 deaths and 22,018 infections were reported taking the death toll to  9,173 and the cumulative tally to 13,88,803. The recovery rate remains at 84.67% as 19,177 patients have recovered in the past day. The total recoveries stand at 11,75,843  while the number of active cases slightly increased to 2,03,787. The positivity rate of the 89,087 samples tested in the past day was 24.7%. The daily positivity rate was only increasing over the past several weeks. The overall positivity rate of 1.77 crore samples tested was 7.81%. New deaths and cases Of the total deaths reported in the past day more than half occurred in five districts. They include Anantapur (11), East Godavari (10), Visakhapatnam (10), West Godavari (10) and Vizianagaram (9). Seven districts reported the remaining deaths while Prakasam saw no new death. They include Chittoor (8), Krishna (8), Guntur (7), Nellore (7), Kurnool (6), Srikakulam (6) and Kadapa (4). East Godavari has again reported highest single-day tally of 3,432 infections. It was followed by Chittoor (2,708), Anantapur (2,213),Visakhapatnam (2,200), Guntur (1,733), Nellore (1,733), Kadapa (1,460), West Godavari (1,436), Prakasam (1,265), Kurnool (1,213), Krishna (1,031), Viziangaram (899) and Srikakulam (695). Nellore’s infection tally crossed one lakh and it was the seventh district to witness over a lakh cases so far. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,76,803), Chittoor (1,51,168), Guntur (1,29,726), West Godavari (1,16,604), Visakhapatnam (1,08,310), Anantapur (1,07,886), Nellore (1,01,013), Kurnool (98,455), Srikakulam (90,915), Prakasam (88,683), Kadapa (79,693), Krishna (74,510) and Vizianagaram (62,142).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-surge-continues-unabated-with-96-deaths/article34561941.ece
15 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||U.S. slider turtles pose a threat in Northeast||A ‘cute’ American turtle popular as pet is threatening to invade the natural water bodies across the Northeast, which is home to 21 of the 29 vulnerable native Indian species of freshwater turtles and tortoises. Between August 2018 and June 2019, a team of herpetologists from the NGO ‘Help Earth’ found red-eared sliders in the Deepor Beel Wildlife Sanctuary and the Ugratara temple pond — both in Guwahati. They published the “grim” finding in Reptiles & Amphibians, journal of the U.S.-based International Reptile Conservation Foundation, in August 2020. But the alarm was raised after H.T. Lalremsanga and eight others from Mizoram University’s Department of Zoology published another report in the same journal in April this year. Their report said a red-eared slider was collected from an unnamed stream, connected to the Tlawng River, on a farm near Mizoram capital Aizawl. The red-eared slider (Trachemys scripta elegans) derives its name from red stripes around the part where its ears would be and from its ability to slide quickly off any surface into the water. “Native to the U.S. and northern Mexico, this turtle is an extremely popular pet ... But on the flip side they grow fast and virtually leave nothing for the native species to eat,” Mr. Lalremsanga toldThe Hinduon Friday. “Much like the Burmese python that went to the U.S. as a pet to damage the South Florida Everglades ecosystem, the red-eared slider has already affected States such as Karnataka and Gujarat, where it has been found in 33 natural water bodies,” said Jayaditya Purkayastha of the Guwahati-based NGO. “But more than elsewhere in India, preventing this invasive species from overtaking the Brahmaputra and other river ecosystems in the Northeast is crucial because the Northeast is home to more than 72% of the turtle and tortoise species in the country, all of them very rare,” he said. Catch-22 situation Mr. Purkayastha said the red-eared slider presents a Catch-22 situation. People who keep it as pets become sensitive about turtle conservation but endanger the local ecosystem, probably unknowingly, by releasing them in natural water bodies after they outgrow an aquarium, tank or pool at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/us-slider-turtles-pose-a-threat-in-northeast/article34562335.ece
15 May 2021||Pune,||State must be given preference for fresh Covaxin stock: Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the State must be given preference in terms of vaccine supply after Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech fulfils its commitment to the Centre of delivering Covaxin stocks that would be rolled out in the firm’s new Pune facility in three months. Mr. Pawar, who reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Pune on Friday, expressed hope that the firm would supply the vaccine to the State after it had fulfilled its delivery quota to the Centre. “Bharat Biotech is going to produce vaccines at the Manjari plant and the Pune district administration has been asked to provide them with all requisite help like ensuring power supply to help set up its facility. Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao and District Collector Rajesh Deshmukh have visited the place … it is estimated that the firm will be rolling out vaccines in another three months. While half of the vaccines being produced there will be given to the Centre as per norms, Maharashtra must get preference for the remaining vaccine supplies,” said Mr. Pawar. Biovet Private Ltd., an associate firm of Bharat Biotech, has said it was confident of making the Manjari plant fully operational within the next three months to produce Covaxin. The Bombay High Court had recently permitted Biovet to take possession of a ready-to-use vaccine manufacturing plant in the district. Meanwhile, the Deputy Chief Minister said the Maharashtra government has set a target of producing 3,000 metric tonnes of oxygen per day in readiness and anticipation of a possible third wave of the pandemic. At the same time, Mr. Pawar urged the BJP-ruled Central government to transparently declare the total oxygen amount supplied to each State thus far, addding that help ought to be given to each State based on the number of COVID-19 cases they have. “A lot of aid is flowing in from abroad and is being routed through the Centre. So, we expect transparency on the Centre’s part to declare how much of it is being distributed to the states,” the Minister said. “We are taking measures to shore up our health infrastructure in anticipation of a third wave. Experts are cautioning that children will be the most vulnerable group in this wave … while the State government’s current oxygen producing capacity is 1,200 MT, a decision has been taken to increase it further to 1,800 MT to ensure there is no dearth of oxygen. We are planning to ramp up this capacity further to 3,000 MT in the coming days,” he said. He also refuted the BJP’s allegations that the Chief Minister had not given permission to the Pune civic body, which is controlled by the BJP, to float a global tender to procure vaccines.   The Pune district administration has been asked to provide them with all requisite help Ajit Pawar Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-must-be-given-preference-for-fresh-covaxin-stock-pawar/article34562443.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Police question Youth Congress chief over COVID-19 assistance||The Congress on Friday attacked the Narendra Modi government after the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police questioned Indian Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas about the assistance being provided by him to COVID-19 patients. The party asked if providing oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs to patients was a “crime”. “Today every person has to decide if providing oxygen, helping people to get life-saving drugs, arranging beds or providing food to ambulance drivers is a crime. It seems to be a crime according to Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. “They [Delhi Police] wanted to know the details of how are we helping people. We answered all their questions,” Mr. Srinivas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-question-youth-congress-chief-over-covid-19-assistance/article34561955.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cases at 1-month low, fight not over: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the number of daily COVID-19 cases in the national capital had dipped to around 8,500 — the lowest in over a month — while the test positivity rate and number of hospitalised patients too had come down. He, however, added that Delhi’s battle against the virus was far from over. Mr. Kejriwal also announced that the State government will bear the cost of raising and educating children who have lost their parents to COVID-19. Financial help will also be extended to senior citizens and families who have lost their earning members to the pandemic. “In these times of despair, I wish to bring some good news. In the past 24 hours, less than 10,000 cases of COVID-19 have been reported. Delhi has recorded around 8,500 cases. There were over 28,000 cases on April 20. It is the first time in many days that the number of cases has been less than 10,000,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a video message. “The infection rate [test positivity rate] has also gone down and was only 12% over the past 24 hours. On April 22, the infection rate was 36%. A higher infection rate implies the virus is widely spread,” he added. Due to fewer people falling ill, the number of patients in hospitals has also come down, the CM said, adding: “In the past 10 days, the number has dipped by over 3,000 and an equal number of beds are now available in hospitals.” Most ICU beds are, however, still occupied, which means the number of serious patients has not declined by much. The government is working on setting up 1,200 more ICU beds within a day or two, he said. “We imposed a very strict lockdown but the battle is not won yet. We have to end the novel coronavirus entirely,” Mr. Kejriwal said, adding: “If we do not take precautions, cases will increase again. The lockdown has to be adhered to strictly.”  Future spurt The government is setting up more oxygen and ICU beds and buying thousands of oxygen cylinders to tackle a future spurt in cases, the Chief Minister said. Talking about families who had lost their earning members or children who had lost their parents to COVID-19, Mr. Kejriwal said: “They will all be helped by the government, but such children and families need love. They need empathy. I request their neighbours and kin to take care of them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-at-1-month-low-fight-not-over-kejriwal/article34562331.ece
15 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Three prisoners shot dead in U.P.||A prisoner lodged in the high security barrack in Chitrakoot Jail in Uttar Pradesh on Friday allegedly shot dead two other inmates, including western U.P. gangster Mukim Kala, before being shot dead himself by the police after he held five other inmates hostage and threatened to kill them, officers said. Kala had been shifted to the district jail in Chitrakoot from Saharanpur on May 7, while Meraj Ali, the inmate shot dead along with him, was moved to the jail on March 20 from Varanasi due to administrative reasons. The incident happened at around 10 a.m. when inmate Anshu Dikshit, who has been lodged in the jail since December 2019, shot dead Kala and Ali with a firearm, said a U.P. Prison Department spokesperson. Five held hostage Dikshit then allegedly held five other inmates hostage and threatened to shoot them dead, said the official, adding that the district police chief and District Magistrate reached the spot but failed to bring him under control as he continued to threaten the hostages. “Considering his aggression and stubbornness, police did not find any other option and fired at him in which he was killed,” said the spokesperson. A search operation has been launched in the prison. The Deputy Inspector General, Prison, Prayagraj Range, has left for the jail to conduct a probe into the incident. Kala’s mother Meena had earlier this year approached the Allahabad High Court seeking protection for him when he had been detained in a jail at Saharanpur, alleging that the police was harassing her elder son by trying to build pressure on her to withdraw a complaint filed by her against them after her younger son was killed. A Division Bench of Justices Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Shamim Ahmed on March 22 noted that the response from the government did not show any harassment of her son but directed the State to see that no harm was caused to Kala and conduct was as per the jail manual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-prisoners-shot-dead-in-up/article34562332.ece
15 May 2021||Panaji,||With 13 more deaths, toll in Goa hospital reaches 75 in four days||Thirteen more COVID-19 patients died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the early hours of Friday, taking to 75 the number of people who have succumbed at the government-run facility here in the last four days. The horror at the GMCH is continuing even as the Goa bench of the Bombay High Court is hearing petitions related to deaths at the premier hospital. While the state government has not revealed the exact cause of recent deaths at the GMCH, it has told the HC that there were “logistic issues” related to supply of medical oxygen to patients. Meanwhile, Goa Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Friday reviewed the coronavirus situation in the coastal State through an online meeting with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, officials said. Mr. Koshyari, who is also the Maharashtra Governor, enquired about vaccination planning, oxygen supply, awareness, testing, involvement of university students and volunteers and other relevant issues, his office said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-13-more-deaths-toll-in-goa-hospital-reaches-75-in-four-days/article34562109.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Shops will shut by 10 a.m. from today||Shops selling provisions, groceries and meat in Tamil Nadu will be allowed to function only from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. from Saturday, as part of the intense COVID-19 lockdown measures that will be in place till the morning of May 24. They were earlier allowed to function between 6 a.m. and noon. Even e-commerce companies can deliver provisions, vegetables and meat only till 10 a.m. As part of the new measures announced by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday, ‘e-registration’ on https://eregister.tnega.org will be mandatory from 6 a.m. on May 17 for not just entering the State but also for inter- and intra-district travel, including for treatment, elderly care, weddings and funerals. A senior official told The Hindu , “E-registration must not be confused with e-pass. E-registration is auto-generated based on documentary proof.” Whereas in the case of e-pass, one had to apply, and a government authority would approve, “which we felt was tedious,” the official said. Tea shops will remain closed and platform vendors will not be permitted to carry on their trade. Earlier, street-shops selling vegetables, flowers and fruits were allowed till noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shops-will-shut-by-10-am-from-today/article34562034.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Oxygen audit of hospitals is mandatory, says State||The State government has now prohibited the supply of medical oxygen to individuals by confining it only to hospitals. It has also made it mandatory to conduct oxygen audit at each hospital. These were part of the medical oxygen management guidelines issued by the government on the directions of the High Court of Karnataka. “The refillers or manufacturers shall not supply medical oxygen to individual persons and all medical oxygen supplies shall be only to hospitals,” states the list of guidelines, issued under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. Any violation would attract penalties as per these laws. “The oxygen audit would lead to identification of hospitals which may be consuming oxygen way beyond the norm and, therefore, to the plugging of leakage and sub-optimal usage of oxygen. The complete district and BBMP zone oxygen audit shall be completed within seven days and repeated every week,” states the list, issued on May 9 by the Chief Secretary and submitted to the High Court on May 12. Additional Advocate-General Subramanya R., citing expert views, told a Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar that allowing oxygen cylinders to be kept at homes would lead to serious consequences. The guidelines put restrictions on both private and government hospitals on increasing the number of oxygenated beds without prior tie-up for enhanced oxygen supply. “...the hospitals in the districts and Bengaluru are increasing their consumption beyond supply by increasing the number of oxygenated beds. This is the core reason for hospitals running out of oxygen,” it was pointed out. Buffer stock The Deputy Commissioners of every district and the Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) should ensure the setting up of 24x7 oxygen cells, which work out the requirement of oxygen per hospital and district/zone. The officers have been asked to create a buffer stock of 10% of their daily consumption at their disposal to meet any emergency situation. The guidelines also lay down the protocol for hospitals when they are unable to handle oxygen emergency on their own. They have to get in touch with the district/zonal oxygen cells through the 24x7 helpline and escalate to district-level nodal officers and State-level nodal officer when they are unable to resolve the issues at a lower level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oxygen-audit-of-hospitals-is-mandatory-says-state/article34561991.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Each member of a BPL family to get 10 kg rice||Following a spike in COVID-19 cases in the State and a month-long lockdown, the Food and Civil Supplies Department has announced that it would provide 10 kg of rice and 2 kg of wheat for free to each member of families belonging to the BPL category. This will be done for May and June. Officials in the Ministry of Food and Civil Supplies said the Centre has allotted extra rice to the State for providing an additional 5 kg of rice per person belonging to BPL families under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana for May and June. Till now, BPL family members have been receiving 5 kg of rice a month. Last year too, the Union government allocated additional rice to the State for three months (April, May, and June) for providing 10 kg per beneficiary. The new applicants who have applied for BPL cards are eligible to get 10 kg of rice free per family (not individual) by showing their application number, official sources said. All APL card holders have to pay Rs. 15 per kg of rice. Like other departments, the Food and Civil Supplies Department has stopped using biometric identification for beneficiaries in Public Distribution System shops, which have been kept open for the benefit of the public. There are about 20,000 ration shops in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/each-member-of-a-bpl-family-to-get-10-kg-rice/article34561992.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Change in vaccine schedule irks many||The State government on Friday urged citizens not to come to vaccination centres before completing the 12-week period after taking the first dose of the Covishield vaccine. The directive came a day after the interval between the first and second dose of Covishield was revised by the Centre. The State government said, “The interval of 6 to 8 weeks for Covishield vaccination between two doses is revised to 12 to 16 weeks.” The move has irked many citizens, who said their work schedules and travel plans have been affected by the change in vaccination schedule. “My son and daughter live in the United States and we wanted to travel in June after taking our second dose six weeks after our first shot. But now we will have to cancel our travel plans” said 50-year-old Sriram H., a businessman. Data analyst Krithika S., 47, said that she had planned to start resuming work at her office in June. “We had told all our employees that we could start working once all of us were fully vaccinated. Now we will have to once again revise our order,” she said. The Centre on Thursday accepted the COVID-19 Working Group’s recommendation for extending the gap between the two doses of Covishield. This revised time interval between two doses is applicable only to Covishield and not to Covaxin vaccine, said a press statement. But many people who were due to get their second dose are worried about the efficacy after a prolonged interval. “This decision was taken only because of the vaccine shortage. I am worried about how effective the vaccine will be if the interval is extended to 12-16 weeks,” said a senior citizen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/change-in-vaccine-schedule-irks-many/article34561995.ece
15 May 2021||Lucknow,||Ensure that bodies are not dumped in rivers: U.P. CM||In a bid to stop people from disposing of bodies in rivers, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday ordered patrolling by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC). The directions came after a number of bodies, believed to be of COVID-19 patients, were found floating in the Ganga. Officials should ensure that no bodies were disposed of in rivers, Mr. Adityanath ordered. ‘Deserve cremation’ “All those who died deserve cremation with respect. The State government has already sanctioned funds for performing the last rites,” the Chief Minister said, according to a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-that-bodies-are-not-dumped-in-rivers-up-cm/article34561953.ece
15 May 2021||Panaji,||Goa hospital reports 75 deaths in 4 days||Thirteen more COVID-19 patients died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the early hours of Friday, taking to 75 the number of people who have succumbed at the government-run facility here in the last four days. The horror at the GMCH is continuing even as the Goa Bench of the Bombay High Court is hearing petitions related to deaths at the premier hospital. While the State government has not revealed the exact cause of recent deaths at the GMCH, it has told the HC that there were “logistic issues” related to supply of medical oxygen to patients. Meanwhile, Goa Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Friday reviewed the novel coronavirus situation in the coastal State through an online meeting with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, officials said. Mr. Koshyari, who is also the Maharashtra Governor, enquired about vaccination planning, oxygen supply, awareness, testing, involvement of university students and volunteers and other relevant issues, his office said in a tweet. The Goa government had told the HC that during the process of attaching the oxygen manifold there was some interruption which resulted in low pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/goa-hospital-reports-75-deaths-in-4-days/article34562336.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Vaccination paused for two days||The government has suspended the drive for vaccination of second dose to people above 45 years on Saturday and Sunday in view of changes made by the Centre in CoWIN portal to factor in increased period of interval between first and second dose of Covishield. The interval has been increased from the present six to eight weeks to twelve to sixteen weeks in respect of Covishield only. To begin on Monday The vaccination campaign will resume on Monday (May 17) as per details of beneficiaries and modality to be intimated shortly, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-paused-for-two-days/article34562368.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Tough times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tough-times/article34562371.ece
15 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Two killed in Assam grenade blast||A grenade blast killed two people and injured two seiously in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district on Friday afternoon. This was the second such incident in the district in four days. A 12-year-old boy was killed in Jagun on May 11. On Friday, two motorcycle-borne men lobbed the grenade in front of a hardware shop at Tingrai Bazar in oil town Digboi, locals said. A customer died in the blast, while three were seriously injured. They were taken to the Assam Medical College Hospital in Dibrugarh. One of them died of his injuries later. “We have some clues. We are hopeful of nabbing the miscreants soon,” Tinsukia Superintendent of Police Nimbalkar Vaibhav Chandrakant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-killed-in-assam-grenade-blast/article34562112.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Praying at home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/praying-at-home/article34562329.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A quiet Id||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-quiet-id/article34561989.ece
15 May 2021||Mumbai,||2-day pause in vaccination due to cyclone warning in city||In view of the warning over Cyclone Tauktae, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said vaccination centres in the city will remain closed on the weekend. The BMC has issued directions to ensure safety around Covid Care Centres over the two-day period. Hospitals have been asked to maintain power backup as electricity connections are likely to snap due to strong winds. The Garden Department will cut 384 dangerous trees around jumbo Covid Care Centres. Alerts have been issued to colonies near the coastline and temporary shelters have been readied in case of emergency. Water pumps will be deployed to prevent waterlogging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-day-pause-in-vaccination-due-to-cyclone-warning-in-city/article34562439.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Deserted on Id||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deserted-on-id/article34562111.ece
15 May 2021||KOCHI,||Give deadline for vaccine supply: HC||The High Court has asked the Centre to suggest the date by which COVID-19 vaccines could be made available for Kerala. A Division Bench of the High Court consisting of Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan and Justice M. R. Anita issued the direction on a public interest litigation seeking to issue directions to the Centre to set aside its COVID-19 vaccination strategy, which, according to the petitioners, provided for differential pricing for the vaccine supplied to Centre and State governments. Free vaccines K.P. Aravindan and Praveen G. Pai, the petitioners, also sought orders to the Centre to procure and distribute vaccines to the State government for free for all age groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-deadline-for-vaccine-supply-hc/article34562137.ece
15 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Budget session from May 20||The Budget session of the Andhra Pradesh Legislature will commence on May 20. Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan convened the State Assembly and Council for one day on May 20. The Raj Bhavan issued a notification on Thursday convening both the Houses, which will commence their session at 9 a.m. The session is likely to adopt the 2021-22 annual budget, besides passing other government business. The 2020 Budget session of Andhra Pradesh Legislature was also a short affair in view of COVID-19 situation. The number of business days will be decided by the Business Advisory Committee (BAC). It is not certain for how many days the session will be in vogue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/budget-session-from-may-20/article34561947.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safety-first/article34561957.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Rural spread is worrying: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed concern that the COVID-19 pandemic was spreading to the rural areas but asserted that the government was working on a “war footing” to tackle the crisis.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rural-spread-is-worrying-pm/article34561939.ece
15 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||21 from vulnerable tribes infected in Odisha||With the second wave of COVID-19 sweeping across the rural heartland of Odisha, infections are being reported among the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs). As many as 21 tribals across eight different PVTGs in the State have so far tested positive, including two from the Bonda tribe, known for its secluded lifestyle. Bonda people live in highlands, 3,500-feet above sea level, in Malkangiri, the southern-most district of Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/21-from-vulnerable-tribes-infected-in-odisha/article34562115.ece
15 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM urges villagers to keep away outsiders||With rural areas of Punjab showing a spike in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday urged villagers to restrict movement to only those free of the virus. In a live Facebook telecast, Capt. Amarinder called for strict measures in rural areas over the next two months, which he described as extremely crucial. “Rural areas are seeing a surge in cases, so we need to be very careful,” he said, urging villagers to keep outsiders away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-cm-urges-villagers-to-keep-away-outsiders/article34562334.ece
15 May 2021||Chennai,||31,892 test positive for COVID-19 in T.N.||Tamil Nadu on Friday recorded 31,892 new COVID-19 cases and 288 deaths. Chennai registered 6,538 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/31892-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tn/article34562033.ece
15 May 2021||Chennai,||Govt. fixes rates for private ambulances||The Health Department has fixed rates for private ambu- lances to transport COVID-19 patients to hospitals across the State. Those found overcharging will face strict action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-fixes-rates-for-private-ambulances/article34562031.ece
15 May 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra registers over 50,000 recoveries||In its lowest single-day case surge in nearly a fortnight, Maharashtra reported 39,923 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to 53,249 recoveries as the State’s active case tally dipped further to 5,19,254.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-registers-over-50000-recoveries/article34562440.ece
15 May 2021||Mumbai,||Railway bomb blast case convict granted parole||The Bombay High Court has directed authorities of the Nashik Road Central Prison to release Aftab Saeed Ahmed Shaikh, convicted in the 1998 Mumbai railway bomb blast case, on parole for 30 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/railway-bomb-blast-case-convict-granted-parole/article34562441.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Discrepancies in recovery rates in various districts||The State’s recovery rate from COVID-19 infections as of Wednesday stood at 70.16%. However, there are huge discrepancies between the recovery rates in various districts. According to data from the State war room, the district with the highest recovery rate — 89.53% — is Chitradurga. Bengaluru Urban has the lowest recovery rate at 63.03%. Some of the other districts with low recovery rates are Tumakuru (67%) and Bengaluru Rural (64.17 %).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/discrepancies-in-recovery-rates-in-various-districts/article34561994.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Working on a ‘war footing’ to tackle crisis: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed concern that the COVID-19 pandemic was spreading to rural areas but asserted that the government was working on a “war footing” to tackle the crisis. Striking an emotional note, he said people had lost their near and dear ones to the “invisible enemy” of coronavirus. “The pain that the countrymen have endured for some time, the pain that many people have gone through, I want to say that I feel your pain,” he stated. Mr. Modi was speaking to a select group of farmers over video conference while releasing the eighth instalment of more than Rs. 19,000 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PMKSNY). Over 9.5 crore farmers are supposed to benefit from the income support scheme for farmers. Invisible enemy “After 100 years, such a terrible pandemic is testing the world at every step, we have an invisible enemy in front of us, which is in multi form…We are overcoming obstacles in resources in the fight against the second wave of coronavirus rapidly and efforts are being made to work on war footing mode,” he observed. Eighteen crore doses of vaccines had been given so far and the government “is making efforts that people get vaccinated at a fast pace.” He said, “India is not a country that loses courage and resolve, we will fight and win. This pandemic is now spreading in our rural areas too. Every government in the country is trying its best to deal with the situation. Our panchayati raj institutions and systems attached to them are key to fighting the pandemic. Our farmers have never let down the country in times of need, and I am sure that in these challenging times you will continue this. Please follow and ask communities to follow all precautions related to coronavirus, report symptoms early, get yourself tested, isolate and start treatment even while waiting for results of the tests,” he said. “The one main way of fighting against the pandemic is to get vaccinated and I urge all of you to get yourself vaccinated when your turn comes.” Medical professionals, scientists and armed forces were working day and night to fight against the pandemic and that supply of medicines was being increased by ramping up domestic manufacture and imports. “The government is setting up oxygen plants.” He asked the State governments to crack down on black-marketing of medicines and oxygen cylinders. In the video conference, six farmers from various parts of the country interacted with the Prime Minister. West Bengal, for the first time, received the first instalment of the PMKSNY for seven lakh farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/working-on-a-war-footing-to-tackle-crisis-pm/article34561865.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Congress flays Centre’s vaccine policy||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and P. Chidambaram on Friday slammed the Union government on the vaccination policy. Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter, “GOI’s vaccine policy is compounding the problem. Vaccine purchase should be centralised and distribution decentralised. India cannot afford this”. The former party chief pitched for centralised purchase and decentralised distribution of vaccines. In a series of tweets, Mr. Chidambaram pointed out the Narendra Modi government’s “flip-flops” on the issue of compulsory licensing to allow other manufacturers to produce the approved vaccines. The former Union Finance Minister tweeted to ask if people could trust “this government to protect one’s life and livelihood”. “We have heard of double-faced, but this government has three faces. Face 1: India joins South Africa and tells the world that IPR (patent rights) for Covid vaccines must be suspended. Face 2: On May 9, the government files an affidavit in the SC claiming that bringing vaccine patents under the statutory regime (that is compulsory licensing) will be “counter productive”. Face 3: On May 13, NITI Aayog member, Dr. V.K. Paul supports the manufacture of Covaxin by other private manufacturers (through compulsory licensing),” he said. In another set of tweets, he targeted the government on the Central Vista project that includes the construction of a new Parliament building and new homes for the Prime Minister and the Vice-President. “Cost of vaccines to vaccinate all people over 18 years (about 102 crores) is Rs. 35,000 crore. Cost of Central Vista is Rs. 20,000 — may be more. Cost of one person’s vanity = 60 per cent of the value of lives of the adult population of India. This is ‘sabka saath, sabka vikaas’,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-flays-centres-vaccine-policy/article34561883.ece
15 May 2021||COIMBATORE,||186 elephants killed on rail tracks in over 10 years||A total of 186 elephants were killed after being hit by trains across India between 2009-10 and 2020-21, according to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC). According to the data furnished by the Project Elephant Division of the Ministry, Assam accounted for the highest number of elephant casualties on railway tracks (62), followed by West Bengal (57), and Odisha (27). Uttar Pradesh saw just one death. Trains claimed the highest number of pachyderms in 2012-13, when 27 elephants were killed in 10 States as per the data accessed by activist R. Pandiyaraja from Tenkasi district in Tamil Nadu through the Right to Information (RTI) Act. K. Muthamizh Selvan, Scientist ‘D’ and Central Public Information Officer (Project Elephant), said in the RTI reply that various measures had been taken to avoid elephant casualties on railway lines. According to the Ministry, a Permanent Coordination Committee was constituted between the Ministry of Railways (Railway Board) and the MoEFCC for preventing elephant deaths in train accidents. Key measures The formation of coordination committees of officers of Indian Railways and State Forest Departments, clearing of vegetation along railway tracks to enable clear view for loco pilots, using signage boards at suitable points to alert loco pilots about elephant presence, moderating slopes of elevated sections of railway tracks, setting up underpass/overpass for safe passage of elephants, regulation of train speed from sunset to sunrise in vulnerable stretches, and regular patrolling of vulnerable stretches of railway tracks by frontline staff of the Forest Department and wildlife watchers are among other initiatives the Ministry has undertaken. The MoEFCC also stated that it released Rs. 212.49 crore to elephant range States under Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) of Project Elephant to protect elephants, their habitat and corridors, to address man-elephant conflicts, and for the welfare of captive elephants, between 2011-12 and 2020-21. Kerala stood at the top in getting CSS funds of Rs. 35.39 crore during the period. Punjab received the lowest of the funds — Rs. 1.82 lakh, according to the RTI document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/186-elephants-killed-on-rail-tracks-in-over-10-years/article34561893.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||TS-AP borders resemble war zone||Desperate cries from the families of patients to allow and save their near and dear ones rented the air. Earlier in the day, the State government had issued a series of guidelines to streamline admission of patients coming from other States into the hospitals here. Patients from other States should have prior tie-up with the hospital in Telangana for COVID admission. On receipt of the proposal from the hospital, the control room would issue authorisation to travel based on which the patient could come to Telangana for hospitalisation. The day witnessed sea-saw battle with the patients suffering in pain in the ambulances in the hot summer on the highways and the police bluntly refusing entry into TS. A ndhra Pradesh government tried its best to impress upon the TS government to act in a humanitarian manner but to no avail. As the issue escalated into full blown row, the Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao had asserted that the government was not stopping patients coming for treatment in the hospitals in Telangana with necessary approvals. He refuted charges that the State had imposed restrictions on the movement of people from other States. He said the process of admission in hospitals had been streamlined to ensure hassle-free transit of patients and their attendants. Amid this painful developments, a retired IRS officer moved the High Court of Telangana to issue necessary directions to the TS government. The house motion by the HC ensured that ambulances would rush to Hyderabad and turn out to be the much needed saviours on the wheels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ts-ap-borders-resemble-war-zone/article34562374.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers are returning to protest site||Protesting farmers on the Singhu border said crowds were coming back to the protest site after the harvest season and they were going strong despite the raging pandemic. Sukwinder Singh Barwa from Ropar said that though the crowd — as compared to the beginning of the protest — had less than halved during the harvest season, people were slowly starting to come back together. “A group with over 250 tractors and trucks reached on May 10 and another group came on May 12. People are coming back because the harvest season is over,” he said. Lockdown hurdle Guramrit Mehma from Ferozabad, who was at the protest till recently and was currently at home, said he had not been able to come because there was a lockdown in Haryana. “COVID situation in Delhi is bad but even if we want to go, we can’t because of lockdown,” he said. Mr. Barwa, however, said that even if people come in groups, they were not being stopped. “The COVID situation is indeed bad but for some reason, people at the protest are not getting infected. While we all take precautions but the older generation still doesn’t believe in them. They don’t keep washing hands and don’t sanitise. Some of them wrap their head scarfs around their nose and mouth,” he said. The main langars are continuing. “The speeches start at 11 a.m. and end at 3 p.m. after which there is a break for two hours and then religious chantings of all faiths continue,” said Parminder Singh from Ludhiana. Mr. Parminder Singh said there was “no question” of the protest coming to a stop at any point unless a solution in their favour was reached. “The BJP’s rule can end but not this protest till the demands are met,” he said. People at the protest sites continue to make concrete structures for their lodging. “It looks like they won’t leave for the next few years,” he said. Kamaljeet Singh from Patiala said it was unfortunate that the government was not ready to engage with the protesting farmers despite the pandemic. Referring to Haryana Chief Minister M.L. Khattar’s “appeal” to farmers to end the protest,the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, in a statement on Friday, said, “Instead of introspecting about his administration’s failure in setting up adequate healthcare facilities and services in the State, he chose to put the blame of COVID-19 spread on protesting farmers. The SKM condemns his statement .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-are-returning-to-protest-site/article34561859.ece
15 May 2021||UNNAO,||Asha workers struggle with pandemic surveillance in rural Uttar Pradesh||“People don’t take us seriously. Why would they, when I cannot even record their temperature and oxygen level for them,” says Veermati Singh, standing at her door in Nindemau, a village in Unnao. An Asha worker, among the thousands of frontline workers tasked with surveillance and monitoring of COVID-19 in rural Uttar Pradesh, Ms. Singh speaks of the obstacles faced by her in the absence of proper protective gear and equipment. In addition to its ongoing routine surveillance, the State government from May 5 to May 9 reportedly carried out a special drive for identifying symptomatic patients and testing them through village-level over 60,000 nigrani samiti or surveillance committees. Ms. Singh has neither a thermal scanner nor a pulse oximeter nor has she been provided with sanitizers. All she was provided was a medicine kit with some strips of tablets, mainly for fever, a face mask and a pair of gloves for the surveillance work. Her task requires her to go door-to-door and record the temperature and oxygen levels of residents, and send those with symptoms for self-isolation or testing to the local community health centre. She checks on 20-25 households in a day.  “How do I save myself with one mask? I can’t wear the same gloves daily when I go door-to-door. If I do, I would be bringing COVID to my house,” she says. Ms. Singh is particularly worried about her infant grandson. Besides the personal risk of coming in contact with a lot of untested people, Ms. Singh says the Asha workers do not get much cooperation from villagers as they lack the authority and resources, and also because many in rural U.P. are hesitant to reveal their symptoms. “Due to some fear, they say they are all normal even if they have cough, cold and chest infection,” Ms. Singh says. In Khapura Bhatt village, anganwadi worker Suman Sharma and Asha worker Manorama also lack thermal scanners and pulse oximeters. The one they used last year was taken back by the former village pradhan (village headmen) after a couple of days this year and they do not have replacement, they say. Rama Kanti, a ‘Super Asha’ who has 20 Asha workers under her in Hasanganj block, says that last July, COVID-19 kits were provided to the workers but some pradhans took the equipment back and did not provide anything this year. While a village may have 3-4 Asha workers — one for every 1,000 residents — only one of them gets the thermal scanner and oximeter, said Ms Kanti, admitting that if each Asha worker was provided a kit, the surveillance work would be more efficient and quicker. Ms. Kanti also claims that Asha workers are yet to get paid for last year’s surveillance work. “We are working with a lot of risks. What will happen to our families if something happens to us,” she asked. Geetanjali Maurya, State head of the Anganwadi Karmachari Association Uttar Pradesh, also says her workers were not provided any kit or equipment during the second wave. The Additional Development Officer (Industry, service and business) of Hasanganj, Lal Madhav Singh, a district block official, said all villages had already been provided one thermal scanner and oximeter each last year. But he pointed out that not all Ashas in the village are given the tools. “Only one of them gets it,” he said. The equipment from some villages was borrowed for the recently-concluded panchayat polls but were soon returned, he added. Mr. Singh said there were control rooms at the block and district levels to educate the Asha and anganwadi workers about spreading awareness. The government on May 11 informed the Allahabad High Court that under the special drive since May 5, a survey was done of 2.92 crore houses in the whole State, out of which 4.24 lakh persons were found with certain symptoms and considered as “suspected” cases and provided with medicine kits. The World Health Organization, which is supporting the State government in training and micro planning for the drive, said the State has deployed 141,610 teams and 21,242 supervisors from the Health Department to ensure all rural areas are covered. Swatanshu, a WHO official working in Unnao, said they had 17 members in Unnao. The WHO teams train the nigrani samiti members on how to cover the containment zones and also monitor their work, he said. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said apart from the special drive, under the routine surveillance in the State, they had contacted over 16.8 crore people in over 3 crore households.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/asha-workers-struggle-with-pandemic-surveillance-in-rural-uttar-pradesh/article34561881.ece
15 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||21 members of vulnerable tribes infected||With the second wave of COVID-19 sweeping across the rural heartland of Odisha, infections are being reported among the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs). As many as 21 tribals across eight different PVTGs in the State have so far tested positive, including two from the Bonda tribe, known for its secluded lifestyle. Bonda people live in highlands, 3,500-feet above sea level, in Malkangiri, the southern-most district of Odisha. “Three days ago, Malakangiri district administration conducted a mass testing drive at Mudulipada — a Bonda village. Two of them tested positive. Since they live in close proximity, we have isolated the two,” said P. Arthanari, Project director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement. To keep tribal communities safer during the pandemic, the State government had earlier stopped weekly markets where tribals come in contact with outside world. “It is difficult to prevent spread of highly infectious coronavirus. But, we are taking utmost precautions to keep tribal communities safe. We are taking help of community leaders to convey messages on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in their own dialects,” said Mr. Arthanari. Anthropologists and activists fear that the administration would find it very tough to stop faster spread if virus makes further inroad into tribal communities. Since many tribals live in tiny huts, it makes transmission very difficult to contain and isolate. According to reports, four members of Dongria Kondh, another PVTG, have tested positive in Parasali panchayat of Kalyansinghpur block in Rayagada district. Diverse tribes Odisha has among the largest and most diverse tribal populations in the country. Of the 62 tribal groups residing in Odisha, 13 are recognised as PVTGs. According to the 2011 Census, Odisha’s share of the country’s total tribal population was 9%. Tribals constitute 22.85% of State’s population. The PVTGs such as Bonda, Birhor, Chuktia Bhunjia, Didayi, Dongaria Kandha, Hill Kharia, Juang, Kutia Kondh, Lanjia Saora, Lodha, Mankirdia, Paudi Bhuyan and Saora have been identified on the basis of stagnant or diminishing populations, subsistence level of economy associated with pre-agricultural stages of hunting, food gathering and shifting cultivation, and relative physical isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/21-members-of-vulnerable-tribes-infected/article34562337.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Uphold dignity of the dead, NHRC tells Centre and States||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday issued an advisory to the Centre and States on “upholding the dignity and protecting the rights of the dead” in view of the “large number of deaths during this second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and the challenges in management of the bodies.” The advisory comes after several bodies, suspected to be of those who died of COVID-19, have been found floating in the Ganga in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in the past few days. The NHRC wrote to the Secretaries of the Union Home Affairs and Health and Family Welfare Ministries and Chief Secretaries of States to implement the recommendations. ‘Challenging process’ “As of May 9, 2021, globally 32,96,841 people have died on account of COVID-19 pandemic whereas in India 2,42,398 people have lost their lives due to this deadly virus. Due to this record number of deaths, the process of management of dead bodies while adhering to the COVID safety protocol, transportation of bodies and their burial or cremation, etc., has become challenging,” the advisory said. Despite various international and national guidelines, the “mismanagement” of COVID-19 affected bodies, thereby “lowering their dignity,” has been reported, it said. The NHRC recommended that the government enact legislation to protect the rights of the dead and set up temporary crematoriums to reduce the delay in performing last rites being seen today. ‘Sensitise staff’ The advisory also said staff of crematoriums and burial grounds should be sensitised to ensure dignity while handling bodies. “Further, they need to be provided necessary safety equipment and facilities so that they may perform their duty efficiently without any fear or risk ... In cases where family members or relatives are not there to perform last rites as they themselves may be infected or are not willing being afraid of getting infected, etc., or where the repatriation of the body to the family may not be possible, the State/local administration may perform the last rites of the body, taking into account the religious/ cultural factors,” the advisory said. The NHRC said bodies should not be piled up during transportation or at any other point and mass burials or cremations should not be allowed as it was a violation of the right to dignity of the dead. ‘Regulate services’ The advisory said the State authorities must handle information about the dead and missing persons properly. It added that the prices of hearse or ambulance services should be regulated. “Since the staff at crematoriums, burial grounds, mortuaries, etc., are working round the clock during this wave of pandemic, they may be paid fair wages to compensate their hard work. Further, they should be vaccinated on a priority basis keeping in view the risk they are exposed to,” the NHRC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uphold-dignity-of-the-dead-nhrc-tells-centre-and-states/article34561857.ece
15 May 2021||Srinagar,||BSF recovers arms dropped by drone||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday said it had recovered arms and ammunition dropped with the help of a drone from Pakistan near the International Border (IB) in Samba sector of the Jammu region. On specific information regarding crossing of arms and ammunition by a drone from Samba border area, the BSF said it launched a search operation and around 11.30 a.m. and recovered a wrapped packet. “The yellow colour polythene bag was spotted in a field. It contained 1 AK-47, 1 pistol, 1 magazine 15 round of 9 mm, 1 wooden frame (used to attach payload with drone) and wrapping material,” a BSF spokesman said. The packet was dropped 250 metres away from the IB inside the Indian territory. “The efforts of BSF troops have once again neutralized the designs of Pakistan ANEs activities with deep connivance of Pakistan Rangers,” Inspector General BSF Jammu N.S Jamwal said, in a statement. The location of the packet is the same area where a tunnel was detected on November 22, 2020 and a Pakistani intruder was killed on May 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsf-recovers-arms-dropped-by-drone/article34561867.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protect human rights of the marginalised, urge academics||Academics from the Social Science in Humanitarian Action Platform on Friday called on the government to protect the human rights of the poor and marginalised sections of society during the ongoing COVID-19 surge. “In the unfolding disaster, which recently passed 20 million reported COVID-19 cases, human rights, basic services and life-saving supplies must be prioritised for India’s poorest and most marginalised who are experiencing a COVID ‘stress multiplier’. The warning from researchers is based on evidence from the first wave in 2020 which identified the compounding impact the pandemic has on existing vulnerabilities for the most marginalised groups because of inadequate access to basic essentials — from food to water and sanitation, employment and health,” the academics said in a statement. Reviewing the impact of the first wave, the academics said the crisis was the most acute for marginalised and minority groups such as Dalits and informal workers. “Although the current outbreak appears far more pervasive with high infection and mortality rates across the population, including the middle-class and elites, researchers warn that so far, reporting has centred on India’s cities and the full scale of the impact on rural areas is so far unknown,” it said. Professor Lyla Mehta, Professorial Fellow at the U.K.-based Institute of Development Studies and co-author of the SSHAP briefing, said: “In India’s first COVID-19 wave we saw how the pandemic was politicised to target minority groups, suppress dissent and undermine constitutional values. It’s essential that discriminatory practises are halted, and that basic provisions, medicines and vaccines are made freely available to all.” A research fellow at the institute and co-author of the briefing, Dr. Shilpi Srivastava said: “The scale of lives and livelihoods lost now in India is overwhelming. For the most marginalised groups we know that the pandemic exacerbates existing inequalities and vulnerabilities and without support their futures will be in peril. They must be placed at the centre of future recovery plans and their voices, experiences and needs be put at the forefront of policymaking and preparedness plans.”  The scale of lives and livelihoods lost now in India is overwhelming Shilpi Srivastava Instiute of Development Studies, U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protect-human-rights-of-the-marginalised-urge-academics/article34561874.ece
15 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Deaths in Assam to be probed||Assam’s Minister for Environment and Forest, Parimal Suklabaidya, ordered an enquiry into the death of 18 elephants on a hillock in central Assam’s Nagaon district on Wednesday night. The probe was ordered after Mr. Suklabaidya and a team of senior officials, veterinarians and wildlife specialists inspected the site of the incident on Friday. The seven-member enquiry committee has been asked to submit a detailed investigation report within 15 days. “Preliminary investigation reveals the elephants probably died due to lightning ... But the exact cause for their tragic death will be known after the post mortem and inquiry report,” said Mr. Suklabaidya.   Locals said the hillock where the elephants died is close to Mikir Bamuni Grant, where Adivasi and Karbi tribal people have been protesting the takeover of 276 bigha s of farmland for a solar plant allegedly through doctored documents. “Assam forest officials were evasive when we went to the solar plant site for a fact-finding report. The death of the elephants indicates that the land where the private company is setting up the solar power project is part of an active elephant corridor,” said Leo Saldanha of the Delhi Solidarity Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deaths-in-assam-to-be-probed/article34561886.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. slider turtles pose a threat in northeast||A ‘cute’ American turtle popular as a pet is threatening to invade the natural water bodies across the Northeast, home to 21 of the 29 vulnerable native Indian species of freshwater turtles and tortoises. Between August 2018 and June 2019, a team of herpetologists from NGO Help Earth found red-eared sliders in the Deepor Beel Wildlife Sanctuary and the Ugratara temple pond – both in Guwahati. They published the “grim” finding in ‘Reptiles & Amphibians’, journal of the U.S.-based International Reptile Conservation Foundation in August 2020. But the alarm was raised after H.T. Lalremsanga and eight others from Mizoram University’s Department of Zoology published another report in the same journal in April this year. Their report said a red-eared slider was collected from an unnamed stream, connected to the Tlawng River, on a farm near Mizoram capital Aizawl. The red-eared slider ( Trachemys scripta elegans ) derives its name from red stripes around the part where its ears would be and from its ability to slide quickly off any surface into the water. “Native to the U.S. and northern Mexico, this turtle is an extremely popular pet due to its small size, easy maintenance, and relatively low cost. But on the flip side, they grow fast and virtually leave nothing for the native species to eat,” Mr. Lalremsanga told The Hindu. on Friday. “Much like the Burmese python that went to the U.S. as a pet to damage the South Florida Everglades ecosystem, the red-eared slider has already affected States such as Karnataka and Gujarat, where it has been found in 33 natural water bodies,” said Jayaditya Purkayastha of the Guwahati-based Help Earth. “But more than elsewhere in India, preventing this invasive species from overtaking the Brahmaputra and other river ecosystems in the Northeast is crucial because the Northeast is home to more than 72% of the turtle and tortoise species in the country, all of them very rare,” he said. Mr. Purkayastha said the red-eared slider presents a Catch-22 situation. People who keep it as pets become sensitive about turtle conservation but endanger the local ecosystem, probably unknowingly, by releasing them in natural water bodies after they outgrow an aquarium, tank or pool at home. “Although the red-eared slider is traded legally, the time has come for the government to come up with regulations against keeping invasive as pets,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-slider-turtles-pose-a-threat-in-northeast/article34561895.ece
15 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||21 members of vulnerable tribes infected||With the second wave of COVID-19 sweeping across rural heartland of Odisha, infections are being reported among the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs). As many as 21 tribals across eight different PVTGs in the State have so far tested positive, including two from the Bonda tribe, known for its secluded lifestyle. Bondas live in highlands, 3,500-feet above sea level, in Malkangiri, the southern-most district of Odisha. “Three days ago, Malakangiri district administration conducted a mass testing drive at Mudulipada — a Bonda village. Two of them tested positive. Since they live in close proximity, we have isolated the two infected persons,” said P Arthanari, Project director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement. To keep tribal communities safer during the pandemic, the State government had earlier stopped weekly markets where tribals come in contact with outside world. “It is difficult to prevent spread of highly infectious coronavirus. But, we are taking utmost precautions to keep tribal communities safe. We are taking help of community leaders to convey messages on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in their own dialects,” said Mr. Arthanari. Anthropologists and activists fear that the administration would find it very tough to stop faster spread, if virus makes further inroad into tribal communities. Since many tribals live in tiny huts, it makes transmission of the virus very difficult to contain and isolate. According to reports, four members of Dongria Kondh, another PVTG, have tested positive in Parasali panchayat of Kalyansinghpur block in Rayagada district. Odisha has among the largest and most diverse tribal populations in the country. Of the 62 tribal groups residing in Odisha, 13 are recognised as PVTGs. According to the 2011 Census, Odisha’s share of the country’s total tribal population was 9%. Tribals constitute 22.85% of State’s population. In terms of numbers of its tribal population, Odisha occupies the third position in India. The PVTGs such as Bonda, Birhor, Chuktia Bhunjia, Didayi, Dongaria Kandha, Hill Kharia, Juang, Kutia Kondh, Lanjia Saora, Lodha, Mankirdia, Paudi Bhuyan and Saora have been identified on the basis of stagnant or diminishing populations, subsistence level of economy associated with pre-agricultural stages of hunting, food gathering and shifting cultivation, and relative physical isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/21-members-of-vulnerable-tribes-infected/article34562118.ece
15 May 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal keeps vigil for corpses in Ganga||The West Bengal government has stepped up vigil in the areas where the Ganga enters the State, after reports of corpses of suspected COVID-19 patients found floating in the river in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Senior government officials on Thursday spoke to their counterparts in the Bihar administration and urged them that corpses should not come downstream. The Ganga enters West Bengal in Malda district, particularly in from areas in the Manikchak police station limits. Officials of the district police and the forest department have been patrolling the river in the regions over the past few days. Boats and speed boats have been kept ready. Malda District Magistrate Rajarshi Mitra has said that so far there are no reports of any corpses floating in the river in the district. If any corpse is found floating in the river, it will be disposed of as per COVID-19 guidelines, he added. The river enters Malda from Jharkhand and then flows in Murshidabad district where at Farraka, it bifurcates in distributaries, the Padma that enters Bangladesh and the Hooghly that flows southwards across several districts of the State before meeting the Bay of Bengal at the Sagar Island. West Bengal Minister and chairman of the board of administrators of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Firhad Hakim said it was a matter of great concern if corpses of suspected COVID-19 patients come downstream into West Bengal. “I am very scared. We are using the river water after proper treatment. Civic officials have been directed be more cautious. This is all because of the callousness of the Uttar Pradesh government,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-keeps-vigil-for-corpses-in-ganga/article34562119.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,||3.05 lakh new cases, 3,438 deaths recorded||India recorded 3,05,372 new COVID-19 cases and 3,438 deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Friday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,43,51,601 cases and 2,65,791 deaths. Karnataka reported 41,779 infections, followed by Maharashtra (39,923) and Kerala (34,694). Maharashtra also recorded 695 casualties, followed by Karnataka (373) and Uttar Pradesh (312). As many as 3,21,693 recoveries were recorded on the day, taking the total recoveries to 2,00,73,473. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab, Tripura, Nagaland, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 18.75 lakh samples were tested on Thursday (the results for which were made available on Friday). This comes to around 11,000 more tests than those conducted on Wednesday. India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) is showing signs of decline. It was 22.7% on May 9 and reduced to 20.1% as on May 13. Around 20.27 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Friday, which is 1.32 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. Among major States/Union Territories, the three with the highest coverage of at least the single dose among the adult population are: Delhi (26.3%), Chhattisgarh (25.6%) and Kerala (23.5%). On the other hand, the three with the lowest adult coverage of at least one dose are: Uttar Pradesh (7.9%), Tamil Nadu (8.8%) and Bihar (9.6%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/305-lakh-new-cases-3438-deaths-recorded/article34561870.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Defence production policy to be issued soon||The second negative import list, which has been now rechristened as the positive list, has been delayed due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and will be issued soon by the Department of Military Affairs (DMA), said Sanjay Jaju, Additional Secretary Defence Production. The final version of the ‘Defence Production and Export Promotion Policy (DPEPP) 2020’ will also be put out very soon, said Mr. Jaju, speaking at a webinar on “defence testing and certification for speedy procurement” by PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The draft DPEPP 2020 was released last August for public feedback. Once it comes into effect, it will serve as the overarching guiding document of the Defence Ministry for boosting domestic defence manufacturing as well as exports. The first negative import list issued last year had listed 101 military items that cannot be imported from abroad. Industry consultations As part of efforts to promote the role of private sector in defence manufacturing testing facilities of DPSUS and DRDO are being opened up for use by private sector, while new ones are planned to be set up under the Defence testing Infrastructure Scheme (DTIS). On this, Mr. Jaju said that the Request For Proposal is expected to be floated soon and industry consultations will also begin shortly. “Under DTIS, testing infrastructure is planned to be set up through public private partnership mode...” he stated, while listing a series of measures being taken to simplify the testing and certification procedures like self-certification and using simulations, among others. The RFI for DTIS was issued in February this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defence-production-policy-to-be-issued-soon/article34561889.ece
15 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Three prisoners shot dead in Chitrakoot||A prisoner lodged in the high-security barrack in Chitrakoot Jail in Uttar Pradesh on Friday allegedly shot dead two other inmates, including western U.P. gangster Mukim Kala, before being shot dead himself by the police after he held five other inmates hostage and threatened to kill them, said officials. Kala had been shifted to the district jail in Chitrakoot from Saharanpur on May 7, while Meraj Ali, the inmate shot dead along with him, was moved to the jail on March 20 from Varanasi due to administrative reasons. The incident occurred at around 10 a.m. when inmate Anshu Dikshit, who has been lodged in the jail since December 2019, shot dead Kala and Ali with a firearm, said a U.P. Prison Department spokesperson. Dikshit then allegedly held five other inmates hostage and threatened to shoot them, said the official, adding that the district police chief and District Magistrate reached the spot but failed to bring him under control. “Considering his aggression and stubbornness, police did not find any other option and fired at him, in which he was killed,” said the spokesperson. A search operation was launched in the prison. Deputy Inspector General, Prison, Prayagraj Range, left for the jail to conduct a probe. Kala’s mother Meena earlier this year approached the Allahabad High Court seeking protection for him when he was detained in a jail at Saharanpur, alleging that the police was harassing her elder son by trying to build pressure on her to withdraw a complaint filed by her against them after her younger son was killed. A Division Bench on March 22 noted that the response from the government did not show any harassment but directed the State to see that no harm was caused to Kala and conduct was as per the jail manual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-prisoners-shot-dead-in-chitrakoot/article34561896.ece
15 May 2021||Kolkata,||Dhankhar visits Assam areas bordering Bengal||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday visited areas of Assam bordering the State and said it was a matter of shame that the people of West Bengal had to take shelter in adjoining States to escape violence. “Nothing can be more shameful for us than people of West Bengal taking shelter in other States,” he told journalists in Siliguri. The Governor, who visited Cooch Behar district on Thursday against the advice of the State government, said the government had not done anything to contain the post-election violence. ‘Open secret’ “Even the media did not do anything. It is an open secret who the perpetrators were,” said the Governor. Asked about the law and order situation in the State, he said he was not in favour of confrontation but believed in cooperation. “We are heading in a wrong direction and there can be a point of no return...the State of West Bengal is witnessing two big issues — the pandemic and post election retributive violence.” Mr. Dhankhar said on Twitter, “Would urge @MamataOfficial to take to cooperative and constitutional stance and give up confrontationist approach as this alone can blossom democracy, promote rule of law and serve the people. Would take initiative to so accomplish by deliberating with CM.” The Trinamool Congress leadership and the State government has spoken against Governor's visit to areas in north Bengal. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has described the Governor’s visit to violence affected areas as “unilateral proceedings” against the established norms. ‘Transgressing role’ The Trinamool Congress leadership on Friday continued to target the Governor, stating that he is transgressing his “Constitutional limitations”. A section of TMC leadership raised question as to why the Governor did not visit the families of those in Cooch Behar who were killed on the polling day on April 10. Meanwhile, Mr. Dhankhar said on social media that he would be visiting post-poll violence affected areas in Nandigram on Saturday. Sharing his schedule for Nandigram on his Twitter handle, Mr. Dhankhar said that he would stop at Kendamari, Bankim More, Chillagram, Nandigram bazar and Town Club. SC panel visit In another development, a team of National Commission of Scheduled Caste led by its chairperson Vijay Sampla visited violence affected areas in Bardhaman and South 24 Parganas. In a press statement Mr. Sampla said that the police in West Bengal is taking action as per provisions of the Scheduled Caste Atrocities Prevention Act and that families affected by the violence did not receive any compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dhankhar-visits-assam-areas-bordering-bengal/article34561898.ece
15 May 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal farmers get benefits of PM Kisan scheme||The farmers in West Bengal on Friday got the benefits of PM Samman Kisan Nidhi even as Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accused of the Centre of delaying the transfer. About 7 lakh farmers in the State got benefits of the Central scheme where Rs. 2,000 were transferred to their bank accounts. During the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi released the eighth instalment of over Rs. 20,000 crore to more than 9.5 crore farmer beneficiaries under the scheme. The PM Kisan Samman Nidhi has been a matter of confrontation between the Centre and the West Bengal government for almost three years. The non-implementation of the scheme has dominated the discourse during the recently concluded State Assembly election. Mr. Modi in his election speeches had claimed that Rs. 18,000 will be transferred to the bank accounts of 70 lakh farmers from the first Cabinet meeting of the BJP government. The Trinamool Congress government had initially opposed the implementation of the scheme. It had said that the money should be disbursed through the State government. The TMC government had stated that the ‘Krishak Bandhu’ scheme of providing cash incentives to the farmers of the State is better that the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. Open letter In an open letter dated May 13, Ms. Banerjee accused the Centre of delaying the disbursal of money under the scheme and said the her had first started the ‘Krishak Bandhu’ scheme in 2018 which was a “model for entire country”. “You all were supposed to get Rs. 18,000 but have received a very small amount. Even this sum would not have been transferred had we not fought for it. We will continue this fight till you get the entire allocation,” Ms. Banerjee said in her letter. Meanwhile, the State Home Department in a tweet stated that West Bengal did not receive any invitation for the PM Kisan fund release programme. “Due to demand and actions of the CM and the GOWB, 7 lakh farmers of West Bengal got their due entitlement, the first instalment of Kisan Samman Nidhi today by direct transfer as per data submitted by the State. The State will fight for its farmers. It is clarified that West Bengal did not receive any invitation for the PM Kisan fund release programme.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-farmers-get-benefits-of-pm-kisan-scheme/article34562339.ece
15 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Two killed in grenade blast in Assam’s Tinsukia||A grenade blast killed two persons and injured two others in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district on Friday afternoon. This was the second such incident in the district in four days. A 12-year-old boy was killed in Jagun on May 11 after a grenade exploded. Locals said two motorcycle-borne men lobbed the grenade in front of a hardware shop at Tingrai Bazar in oil town Digboi. A customer died in the blast while three others were seriously injured. They were taken to the Assam Medical College Hospital in Dibrugarh. One of them succumbed to injuries later. “We have some clues. We are hopeful of nabbing the miscreants soon,” Tinsukia Superintendent of Police Nimbalkar Vaibhav Chandrakant said. Condemning the incident, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has instructed the State’s Director-General of Police, Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta to bring the culprits to book. The United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent has denied any involvement in the Digboi blast. “We had no hand in the death of a minor boy at Jagun either,” the outlawed outfit said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-killed-in-grenade-blast-in-assams-tinsukia/article34562340.ece
15 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Swapna Suresh arrested||The Kerala Police Crime Branch has formally arrested Swapna Suresh, a COFEPOSA detainee and accused in the UAE gold smuggling case, on the charge of forgery. A CB official said the agency had arraigned her on the charge of forging the signatures of 16 women employees of Air India SATs, a ground handling firm partly owned by the Central government, to foist a false case of sexual harassment against an AI official. The agency had earlier named former Air India-SATs vice president Binoy Jacob as an accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/swapna-suresh-arrested/article34562341.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccines less effective against B.1.617 strain||Like their global counterparts, the two vaccines authorised in India, Covaxin and Covishield, while made differently, were designed on the blueprint of the virus variant, called B1, that became the dominant strain in India by last April. With reports emerging from vaccine trials, across the globe, of certain mutations in the virus helping it evade immune systems and antibodies, several labs have been working to check the potency of vaccines against emerging variants. When the NIV scientists tested the virus, bearing the B.1.617 signature mutations, on antibodies that were extracted from the blood serum of those with two doses of Covaxin, they found roughly 55% fewer antibodies than the antibodies generated against B.1. Similar study When a similar study was done with those inoculated with Covishield, the Geometric Mean Titer (a proxy for the number of antibodies) with B.1 was 42.92 whereas with the B.1.617 it was 21.9, again roughly half. On the other hand, when antibody levels were compared against the B.1.1.7 (U.K. strain), there was only a 6% reduction whereas against Brazilian strain (P2) there was again a 50% reduction. Dr. Samiran Panda, who heads the Epidemiology Division at the ICMR, Delhi, and was a co-author of the papers, said while the reductions were roughly on these lines, they showed that both Covishield and Covaxin were “almost similarly” protective against the B.1.617. In those vaccinated, protection against a future infection isn’t solely determined by the number of antibodies and the extent to which they wax and wane over time, but also by the mobilisation of a class of defensive bodies called T cells, which it is believed direct a more specific kind of attack against the virus and destroys it unlike antibodies, which only block replicating virus cells. “The antibody tests don't account for the T-cell response. Moreover these tests were done on a very small number of individuals. The average level of antibodies don't always capture the true range of antibody production,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccines-less-effective-against-b1617-strain/article34561860.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Plea seeks SC probe into bodies floating in Ganga||A Supreme Court lawyer has moved the apex court seeking a probe by a special investigation agency into separate incidents of bodies washing up on the banks of the Ganga river in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav said the court should intervene and direct the authorities to conduct autopsies to determine the cause of death. Mr. Yadav said about 100 bodies were found “floating” in the river at Buxar in Bihar and Ghazipur and Unnao in Uttar Pradesh. “The petitioner, therefore, seeks the intervention of this court to investigate the suspicious death of 100 citizens whose bodies are flushed out into the river Ganga inhumanly. No FIR has been registered by the authorities. Even to the best of knowledge of the petitioner, no post-mortem was conducted,” Mr. Yadav submitted. He alleged that the “administration/police have buried the bodies by preparing verbatim false post-mortem reports, which was eye-wash to show that investigation was conducted”. “It is therefore, requested that each body be removed and proper post-mortem be conducted in order to verify the cause of death,” the petition sought. The plea said the court should appoint either a sitting or retired judge of the Supreme Court to head the special investigation agency. “The State governments of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have failed to provide the adequate resources to cremate the bodies of COVID-19 patients and also had not taken any action against the authorities responsible for this… No one knows or have checked if the bodies are really that of COVID-19 patients or whether they are murder victims,” Mr. Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-sc-probe-into-bodies-floating-in-ganga/article34561862.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Sputnik V rolled out in India at Rs. 995 per dose||Given that the vaccine must be stored at minus 18 degrees C and the lack of availability of such cold chain infrastructure, the company said, “We will begin with metros and tier 1 cities and scale up to the rest of India.” In the run up to the launch, the company’s leadership had said the cost of imported Sputnik V, which is a two-dose vaccine, in India would be around the $10 a dose at which it was priced in other global markets by the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF). Co-chairman and managing director G.V. Prasad said, “We are prioritising our efforts to launch Sputnik V vaccine across India.” Dr. Reddy’s was also in discussion with a couple of State governments for vaccine offtake. The vaccine price has been set taking into account the import, logistics and distribution cost, but it may come down once domestic manufacturing commences. The RDIF, which is bankrolling the vaccine developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, has tied up with six firms to manufacture an estimated 850 million doses of Sputnik V.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sputnik-v-rolled-out-in-india-at-rs-995-per-dose/article34561863.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Police question Youth Congress chief||“Today, Modi ji and [Home Minister] Amit Shah ji sent Delhi Police to the office of the IYC office to question Srinivas ji . Can there be a more despicable act than this? Is it a sin committed by the Youth Congress and the Congress to provide help that the Modi government has been unable to do,” Mr. Surjewala asked. The government should be “ashamed” of itself, he said, asserting that Youth Congress would continue to provide oxygen and other life-saving drugs to patients.  Using the hash tag #IStandWithIYC to express solidarity, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The one who saves is always greater than the one who destroys.” While former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted to call the Delhi Police’s move as “atrocious”, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too reacted on Twitter when former Rajya Sabha member Shahid Siddiqui informed that a police officer had also visited his residence to question how Ms. Vadra mananged to help him with Remdesivir injections for his wife. At an online press conference, All India Congress Committee in charge of Delhi Shaktisinh Gohil said Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee chief Anil Chaudhary and former MLA Mukesh Sharma also received notice for such questioning. A Delhi Police officer claimed that the questioning followed a direction from the Delhi High Court on a writ petition filed by Dr. Deepak Singh about politicians involved in illegal distribution of COVID-19 medicines. Several persons, including ruling Aam Admi Party lawmaker Dilip Pandey, would also be questioned, he added. Mr. Surjewala said the explanation by the police was “an after thought after getting exposed”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-question-youth-congress-chief/article34561871.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nearly 2 cr. vaccine doses to be given free to States||The Central government would supply 191.99 lakh doses of vaccines (162.5 lakh Covishield and 29.49 lakh Covaxin) free of cost to the States and Union Territories (UT) during May 16-31, said a release issued by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. “The delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared in advance. States have been requested to direct the concerned officials to ensure rational and judicious utilization of allocated doses and minimise the vaccine wastage,” it stated. Priority group The announcement was to ensure that the States/UTs prepared effective plans for judicious and optimum utilisation of the doses that were meant for the age group of 45 and above, and for HCWs and FLWs (healthcare workers and front line workers), it noted. Between May 1-15, more than 1.7 crore doses had been made available to the States free of cost. The allocation to the States/UTs was decided on the consumption pattern and beneficiary load of second doses in the coming fortnight. The cumulative number of doses administered in the country was nearly 18 crore (17.93 crore, as per a 7 a.m. provisional report). “COVID-19 vaccination drive has successfully completed 118 days wherein 17.89 crore doses have been administered to the identified beneficiaries through collaborative efforts of all States/UTs,” said the Ministry. India was the fastest country globally to reach the 17 crore target in 114 days. The U.S. took 115 days and China 119 days to administer the same amount of doses, it pointed out. India was implementing the ‘Liberalized Pricing and Accelerated National COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy’ from May beginning, wherein 50% of the available doses were earmarked for supply to the States/UTs, as free of cost supply from the Government of India channel,while the remaining 50% was available for direct procurement from the vaccine manufacturers by the States/UTs and private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nearly-2-cr-vaccine-doses-to-be-given-free-to-states/article34561873.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Ensure bodies are not dumped in rivers: U.P. CM||“All those who died deserve cremation with respect. The State government has already sanctioned funds for performing the last rites,” the Chief Minister said, according to a statement. He said in areas on the banks of rivers, committees should be formed, including Village Development Officers and village heads, to ensure no one dumped bodies in rivers. “No one should be allowed to dispose of bodies in rivers due to religious traditions,” the Chief Minister added, stressing that if need be, a fine may be imposed at the local level to prevent the practice. “Rivers get polluted due to bodies of human beings and animals. The government is also running a special campaign for the cleaning of rivers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-bodies-are-not-dumped-in-rivers-up-cm/article34561856.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Custodians of the tradition||The term ‘Sanatana dharma’ refers to the moral and ethical way of life that governs the overall individual and social development of people through the ages. The credit should go to the acharyas in the spiritual tradition who have imbibed the sacred teaching of the scriptures and handed it down without distortion to posterity, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. The Mundaka Upanishad captures the essence of the acharya or teacher as one who is well versed in the scriptures and is aware of the truth of Brahman; he follows the teachings impeccably even as he imparts it to his disciples. The disciples thus take in the salient aspects of disciplined learning and gradually qualify themselves to the role of the acharya for the next generation. So the lineage continues in a seamless manner. Vedanta Desika has described the lineage of acharyas in the Vaishnava tradition which venerates the divine couple Goddess Sri and Lord Narayana together as the foremost acharya. The line continues with Nammazhwar, Nathamuni and his disciples. Though Nathamuni came much later and was not contemporaneous with Azhwar, he became his direct disciple through divine grace. It is through his efforts that the break in the timeless tradition has been restored in its pristine state. Known for his multi faceted accomplishments in the areas of Vedic scholarship, yoga, etc and also as a devout bhakta, he propitiated Nammazhwar and inherited the teaching directly from him. Nathamuni entrusted this tradition to his grandson Alavandar who handed it down to Ramanuja through his immediate disciples. It was then left to Ramanuja to consolidate and propagate this valuable inheritance to posterity through his disciples. It is customary to pay obeisance to acharya parampara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/custodians-of-the-tradition/article34561884.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘No virtual meetings of House panels’||The parliamentary panels cannot meet virtually till the necessary rules are amended by both Houses of Parliament, the Rajya Sabha secretariat said in reply to a letter written by Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Friday. The standing committees of Parliament, which are non-partisan platforms to analyse the functioning of the government, have not met since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic. More than a year after the demands were first raised by the panels’ chairpersons, the changes in the rules have not been amended since their physical meetings were held for a few months when it was believed that COVID-19 was on the wane. Last week, in a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, Mr. Kharge asked to allow online meetings. Mr. Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla last year held a series of meetings where it was argued that the “confidentiality clause” dictated that only physical meetings of the panels can be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-virtual-meetings-of-house-panels/article34561868.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Reaching out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reaching-out/article34561876.ece
15 May 2021||Patna,||Pappu Yadav’s wife threatens to go on fast||Ranjit Ranjan, wife of imprisoned former MP from Madhepura and president of the Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, has said that if he is not released from jail within two days she “would sit on a fast-unto-death”. Mr. Pappu Yadav’s arrest, first for violation of lockdown norms and then under a 32-year-old kidnapping case from Madhepura on May 11, has also created fissures among the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) allies and opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). “Pappu Yadav’s fight for exposing lack of medical facilities in hospitals for COVID-19 patients will continue in the State”, Ms. Ranjan told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pappu-yadavs-wife-threatens-to-go-on-fast/article34561877.ece
15 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Plea seeks fewer curbs for tea workers||An association of tea planters has requested the Assam government to relax the COVID-19 restrictions for workers and vehicles of tea estates within a 5 km radius of urban and semi-urban areas. The government had issued an order on May 12 shutting down government and private offices, religious places and weekly markets in urban and semi-urban areas for 15 days. Agricultural and tea garden activities were allowed to continue with strict observance of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. But some tea factories and plantations are within the 5 km radius of urban and semi-urban areas, the North Eastern Tea Association (NETA) pointed out in a letter to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) on Friday. The association has requested the ASDMA to treat tea as an essential commodity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-fewer-curbs-for-tea-workers/article34561878.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC seeks vaccine trials’ data||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court to make public the segregated data of clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines administered under the Emergency Use Authorisation granted by the Drugs Controller General of India. Former member of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation Dr. Jacob Puliyel, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, asked the court to direct the government, its bodies and the vaccine manufacturers — the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — to transparently put out clinical trial and vaccination data, including the recording and reporting of adverse events. “Non-disclosure of this important data violates the basic ethics of clinical research that requires results of clinical research studies to be published and brought to the knowledge of the medical community, participants in the research and the general population,” the petition said. Further, the petition urged the court to direct the government to not issue any “coercive mandates” for use of “these inadequately tested vaccines”. Mr. Bhushan argued that courts should “reiterate that vaccine mandates are repugnant to the right of humans to autonomy and right to self-determine what may be injected into their bodies”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-seeks-vaccine-trials-data/article34561879.ece
15 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Malerkotla is Punjab’s 23rd district||Punjab Chief Minister, Captain Amarinder Singh, on Friday declared Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the State. The Chief Minister made these announcements during the State-level celebration of Eid-ul-Fitr, held virtually in view of the second wave of COVID-19 infections. He underscored India’s secular character, which he said was manifested in the defeat of communal forces in the recent Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Capt. Singh said the conversion of Malerkotla into a district, which was a long-standing demand of the locals, would ease their hardships and enable them to resolve their administrative problems seamlessly. Initially, the CM said, the sub-divisions of Malerkotla and Ahmedgarh, as well as the sub-tehsil of Amargarh, would be included in the newly created district. The process of bringing villages under the jurisdiction of Malerkotla district would begin later, after the conclusion of census operations, he added. The Chief Minister directed the Deputy Commissioner, Sangrur, to find a suitable building to immediately commence the functioning of the District Administration office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malerkotla-is-punjabs-23rd-district/article34561890.ece
15 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||HC dismisses live-in couple’s petition||The Punjab and Haryana High Court dismissed a petition seeking protection to a live-in couple, saying, “if such protection as claimed is granted, the entire social fabric of society would get disturbed”. The petitioners, a 21-year-old boy and an 18-year-old girl from Jind district in Haryana, had approached the court for protection of their “life and liberty” as they allegedly faced intimidation from her family since their elopement. The single Bench of Justice Anil Kshetarpal, in the order on May 13, said: “Petitioner no.1 is barely 18 years old whereas petitioner no.2 is 21 years old. They claim to be residing together in a live-in relationship and claim protection for their life and liberty from the relatives of petitioner no.1. In the considered view of this Bench, if such protection as claimed is granted, the entire social fabric of the society will get disturbed. Hence, no ground to grant the protection is made out.” Counsel for the petitioner, advocate Vishal Mittal, said they would challenge the order in the Supreme Court. In the plea, it was submitted that relatives of the girl wanted her to marry a boy of their choice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-dismisses-live-in-couples-petition/article34561891.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Congress prepares Rs. 100-cr. plan for procurement of vaccines||The Karnataka Congress on Friday announced that it has prepared a Rs. 100-crore plan to procure COVID-19 vaccines directly from manufacturers and administer them to the people of Karnataka. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar said the party would use local area development fund of MLAs and MLCs for vaccine procurement. A sum of Rs. 10 crore would be contributed by the KPCC. Another Rs. 90 crore will be mobilised from the Congress MLA/MLCs’ LAD fund. “Since BJP governments at the Centre and Karnataka have collectively failed to vaccinate the masses, we want to do it ourselves. We just need two small permissions, one from the Central government and one from the State government. My appeal to the BJP is to not let politics come in the way and in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat allow the Congress to directly procure and administer vaccines,” Mr. Shivakumar said at a press conference here. Currently, vaccine procurement rules in India allows Central and State governments, hospitals, and industries to directly procure vaccines. “I appeal to the Yediyurappa government to please allow us to use the MLA/MLC funds to procure vaccines directly in a transparent manner because the Narendra Modi at the Centre and State government have failed to do so for months now,” the KPCC chief said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said, “The government has miserably failed to protect people and vaccinate them. Hence, the legislators, who are 95 in number, have decided to donate at least Rs. 1 crore each to procure vaccines”. Mr. Shivakumar said the party legislators were ready to stop all development works in their areas. “It is our bounden duty to save lives rather than carry out development works,” he said. The KPCC chief said the party would write to the Chief Minister to utilise their funds for vaccine procurement. Both the Congress leaders criticised Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertiliser D.V. Sadanada Gowda for his “suicide by hanging” remark. Mr. Gowda on Thursday sought to know whether people in the government should hang themselves for their failure to procure vaccines. Mr. Shivakumar also urged the government to ensure transparency in placing global tenders for procurement of vaccines. The government procured COVID-19 equipment at prices higher than the market price last year, he alleged.  My appeal to the BJP is to not let politics come in the way and in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat allow the Congress to directly procure and administer vaccines. D.K. Shivakumar,KPCC president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-prepares-rs-100-cr-plan-for-procurement-of-vaccines/article34561910.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tele-medicine service for those in home quarantine starts today||Starting Saturday, doctors will provide tele-medicine services to all COVID-19 patients under home quarantine in the 15 zones of the city. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Friday announced that 135 doctors had been hired for a period of three months. A total of 300 doctors would be hired to provide tele-medicine services for over 30,000 COVID-19 patients in home quarantine. The remaining doctors were expected to join shortly. Each doctor is expected to call patients at least once a day to provide the services free of cost. According to data compiled by the Greater Chennai Corporation, over 4% of the patients under home quarantine have requested ambulances through the call centre in Adyar zone, which was the first professionally managed facility among the 15 zones. Other zones will start call centres shortly. Over 8% of patients in home quarantine were found to be depressed and have received counselling from psychologists. The civic officials have started taking initiatives to isolate those patients who lack facilities at home during quarantine. At least 3,700 beds in COVID-19 Care Centres are vacant and such beds will be used to isolate them. Corporation South Region Deputy Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara said the first zonal call centre had been set up at the Adyar zone office, with 24 callers for each of the two shifts. The call centre at the zones had facilitated in the identifying of worsening cases. “The callers ask if medicine kits have been given, if medicines have been taken, whether focus volunteer had visited, whether symptoms had reduced or worsened and whether sanitation has been done or not. It gives feedback about the Corporation’s work. Doctors will join the call centre on Saturday,” Mr. Sunkara said. Mr. Bedi on Friday ordered special vaccination camps at 152 locations to cover at least one lakh residents in three days. Over 11.42 lakh first doses and 5.06 lakh second doses had been administered so far. Kiosks were set up at 100 locations to distribute masks to the city residents. He visited the Injambakkam hospital and inspected oxygen beds. Three such facilities in Injambakkam, Tondiarpet and Nandambakkam have oxygen beds. The Chennai Trade Centre in Nandambakkam has admitted 69 patients so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tele-medicine-service-for-those-in-home-quarantine-starts-today/article34562038.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. hospitals staring at oxygen shortage||Many private hospitals across the State continue to grapple with shortage of oxygen and delay in supply. The demand for oxygen continues to be high in the State as fresh coronavirus infections continue to surge. As the number of patients requiring oxygen support is on the rise, private hospitals are facing a crunch. “Trucks transporting oxygen do not come on time. It is very stressful. Back-up cylinders are there to manage for 24 hrs,” an authority of a private hospital in Chennai said. “We are managing for the last few days. Today's refill is late or not coming. We may not be able to take new patients,” he added. Prithvi Mohandas, managing director of MIOT Hospital, said the hospital would run out of oxygen by Tuesday. “Our last supply was seven days ago. The regular vendor was told by the government not to supply directly. We gave our oxygen requirement twice to the government but have not got any response so far,” he said. He added that the hospital has increased the number of beds for patients with COVID-19 as per government instructions, but was not supplied with the required oxygen. P. Ramakrishnan, president of Indian Medical Association, Tamil Nadu, said that smaller private hospitals were facing oxygen shortages but were managing somehow. “Private nursing homes are managing by getting oxygen from nearby districts. The government can divert a small portion of oxygen that is supplied to government institutions to private nursing homes if there is surplus oxygen,” he suggested. In Coimbatore, authorities of a private hospital in Saibaba Colony with 58 patients said on Friday that their oxygen supply could only last till the early hours of Saturday. When The Hindu brought it to the notice of the district administration, a senior official said that even though the supply of oxygen was ensured to the hospital on Friday morning, the demand seems to be on the rise. Additional supply of medical oxygen to this hospital would be ensured by 8 a.m. on Saturday, the official said. With the anticipated supply of medical oxygen from Sterlite Copper’s oxygen plant in Thoothukudi to Coimbatore district failing to come through due to technical issues in the plant, medical oxygen is being sourced by hospitals from other means in Coimbatore district in the interim period, according to the sources. In Salem, a few private hospitals referred patients for COVID-19 treatment to government hospitals claiming shortage of medical oxygen and bed facilities for treatment. Relatives of a patient admitted to a private hospital were allegedly asked by the hospital authorities to arrange oxygen cylinders themselves for COVID-19 treatment. On Friday, the Salem Branch of Indian Medical Association wrote to the District Collector that they had decided to stop admission at private COVID-19 care hospitals due to inadequate oxygen supply. The IMA decided to refer ICU COVID-19 patients to Salem GH due to lack of oxygen. However, IMA members later said that the district administration has assured them of adequate supply of oxygen. N. Balamurugan, President of IMA here said, “patients are being referred primarily due to lack of beds. The bed capacity for COVID-19 treatment is almost full in the district at the moment and there is lack of adequate oxygen supply as well. While private hospitals require 15kl of medical oxygen, only 7kl is being supplied.” He added that as the oxygen supply is being controlled by the government authorities, they aren’t able to ensure sufficient supply from regular vendors as well. District Collector S.A. Raman said the oxygen requirement was assessed and supplied accordingly. Of the oxygen produced at JSW industries, 8 tonnes is supplied to Salem, 5 tonnes to Coimbatore, two tonnes to Erode and one ton each to Tiruppur and Namakkal. He added that 2 tonnes was additionally arranged on Friday following requests from hospitals and additional four tonnes have been requested for Saturday for supply to hospitals in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-hospitals-staring-at-oxygen-shortage/article34562048.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s daily tally dips for second day||For the second consecutive day, Chennai registered a decline in fresh COVID-19 cases with 6,538 people testing positive for the infection on Friday. Across the State, 31,892 people tested positive for COVID-19 and 288 persons died, taking the overall case tally to over 15 lakh and toll to 17,056. On Friday, 1,60,042 samples were tested in the State. This took the overall sample count to 2,47,85,458. The city’s daily COVID-19 cases dropped from 7,564 on May 12 to 6,991 on May 13. With this further dip in daily infections, the city’s overall tally stood at 4,25,603. Chennai recorded 74 deaths. However, Coimbatore reported over 3,000 COVID-19 cases. A total of 3,197 people tested positive in the district. While there were 2,225 cases in Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur recorded 1,410 cases. Madurai and Kanyakumari recorded 1,250 and 1,025 cases respectively. Vellore’s daily cases crossed 1,000 with 1,224 testing positive. With the fresh cases, the State’s overall case count surpassed 15 lakh at 15,31,377 as on Friday. A total of 20,037 people were discharged across the State. This included 4,533 people in Chennai, 2,593 in Chengalpattu, 1,503 in Tiruvallur and 1,171 in Coimbatore. As of date, a total of 1,95,339 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in the State. 288 fatalities Of the 288 deaths (130 in private and 158 in government hospitals), 220 persons had co-morbidities. Apart from Chennai, deaths were reported in 33 districts, including Chengalpattu (21), Salem (18), Kancheepuram (17), Tiruvallur (14) and Coimbatore (13). A 21-year-old woman from Chengalpattu, who had no co-morbidities, died at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital in Chennai on May 13 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Eleven persons in their 30s died of the infection. This included a 30-year-old man from Chennai, who had hypertension. He was admitted to a private hospital on May 11 with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennais-daily-tally-dips-for-second-day/article34562292.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IAS officers reshuffled||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday evening transferred 13 IAS officials and posted them to new posts. A G.O. issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu posted Neeraj Mittal Secretary of the Information Technology Department and posted R. Anandakumar as Commissioner, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection. N. Subbaiyan has been posted as Director, Disaster Management and Jayashree Muralidharan has been posted as Special Secretary to Government, Industries Department. While J. Kumaragurubaran, has been posted as Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, K. Nanthakumar was posted as Commissioner, School Education. V.P. Jeyaseelan has been posted as the Director, Information and Public Relations and ex-officio Deputy Secretary to Government, Tamil Development and Information Department. V. Rajaraman is to be posted as Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. M. Sai Kumar would be posted as Chairman and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDCO). S. Vijayakumar would be posted as Chairman and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Small Industries Corporation (TANSI). While G. Prakash would be posted as Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation, S. Sivashanmugaraja would be posted as Chairman and Managing Director of Poompuhar Shipping Corporation. A. Sivagnanam would be posted as Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Warehousing Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ias-officers-reshuffled/article34562039.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘A few days more needed to gauge lockdown impact’||It would take another five or six days to know the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on the chain of transmission, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Friday. To a question on whether the lockdown had helped in reducing COVID-19 cases, he said as there was increased movement of people during the lockdown, it was decided to intensify the lockdown during the all-party meeting. “People also want the same. Though livelihood is affected during the lockdown, this is about lives and we will have to face a huge impact. The traders’ association has said it is ready to accept the additional restrictions during the lockdown,” he said. With the Tamil Nadu Oxygen Container Express reaching the city in the early hours of Friday, the Minister, on conducting an inspection, said the 80 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen received from Rourkela would be distributed to various districts in the State. “Oxygen is the biggest need for patients with COVID-19. The State government has been taking several steps to improve oxygen supply in the State,” he said. Efforts would be made to ensure continued supply of oxygen from Rourkela and other places, he said. The deans of medical college hospitals were told to ensure optimum use of oxygen, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-few-days-more-needed-to-gauge-lockdown-impact/article34562295.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City will come under drone surveillance||In addition to the usual police presence, the city will be under the surveillance of drones, starting Saturday, to nab those in violation of lockdown guidelines. This arrangement will be in place in all city police districts under the orders of Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, said sources. The police intensified the enforcement drive against people flouting lockdown norms and roaming on vehicles or venturing out without any reason. In order to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the government announced a complete lockdown till May 24. Residents were advised to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, such as wearing masks, frequent use of sanitisers and maintenance of physical distancing in public places. For the last four days, police personnel have been campaigning via public address systems and distributing pamphlets. However, thousands were seen roaming on roads without reason. An all-party meeting chaired by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday decided to tighten the lockdown norms. In pursuance of the decision, the police intensified vehicle checks at important junctions on arterial roads such as Anna Salai, E.V.R. Salai, Kamarajar Salai and others from Friday. Iron barricades were erected on the roads to curb the movement of vehicles. Vehicle checks were being conducted at 200 places by Law and Order and 118 places by Traffic wing personnel. Flyovers were closed for vehicular traffic. Additional Commissioner of Police N. Kannan said, “We have divided the arterial roads into two lanes. Emergency vehicles are allowed in one lane and uniformed police personnel stop vehicles in the other lane and ascertain the purpose of moving on roads by asking the occupants to produce relevant documents. If anyone is found roaming without any reason, personnel impose a fine on the spot. Vehicles are detained if they are found moving around without a valid reason and are released only in the evening.” The police were also imposing fines on those found not wearing masks or failing to maintain physical distancing in public places. Meanwhile, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin held a meeting with Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, P. Thamaraikannan and City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal to chalk out a strategy for effective enforcement of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-will-come-under-drone-surveillance/article34562044.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State fixes rates for private ambulances||The Tamil Nadu Health Department has fixed rates for private ambulances to transport COVID-19 patients to hospitals. Those charging over and above these rates will face immediate cancellation of driving licences and the registration of vehicles, besides their immediate confiscation. For the patient transport ambulances, the Department has fixed Rs. 1,500 for the first 10 km. For every additional kilometre, Rs. 25 can be charged. For basic life support ambulances with oxygen, the fare is Rs. 2,000 for the first 10 km and Rs. 50 for every additional kilometre. The Department has fixed Rs. 4,000 for the first 10 km and Rs. 100 for every additional kilometre for advanced life support ambulances fitted with ventilator, defibrillator and multipara monitors. The users can lodge complaints with the State health helpline 104. The Project Director of the Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project had suggested fixing of rates for private ambulances. COVID-19 patients, especially in Chennai, were shifted from the testing and screening centres to hospitals through GVK EMRI 108 ambulances (1,303 vehicles) based on the calls received through the emergency response centre. The transit was done free by the 108 ambulance service. The official said that to ensure that more ambulances were available, private operators should be permitted to shift patients to the designated hospitals in time, and requested the government to fix the rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-fixes-rates-for-private-ambulances/article34562301.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Demand for freeing temples from HR&CE dept. is nonsense’||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, an ardent devotee of Goddess Meenakshi of Madurai, has dismissed as “nonsense” the demand from certain quarters for freeing temples from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. “Random people make random noise. These are the people who want to break the goodwill of society,” he told The Hindu in a recent interview. Asked about the demand made by certain persons, including Isha Yoga Centre founder Jaggi Vasudev, he said, “In the case of Jaggi, he is a publicity hound and charlatan who is trying to find another angle to make more money.” Those making the demand have contended that temples should be run by “bhaktas” (devotees). “Will a godman, who is focused on god, be selling Sivarathiri tickets for Rs. 5,00,000, Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 5,000? Is that a sign of a man of god? Is that the identifying mark of a spiritual man? He is a commercial operator pretending to use god and religion to get help,” Mr. Thiagarajan alleged. The Minister’s grandfather P.T. Rajan was the Chief Minister of the Madras Presidency and leader of the Justice Party, which was instrumental in creating the HR&CE Department. When a fire broke out at Sabarimala and the Ayyappa idol was destroyed, P.T. Rajan presented a new idol that is still in the temple. Mr. Thiagarajan said HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekar Babu had announced that he would investigate what was going on at the Isha Yoga Centre in Coimbatore. “He will investigate whether there are violations or issues. There are some serious issues he is seeing in the CAG report. He will look into them,” he said. The Minister rejected the suggestion that temples be run by devotees, contending that the temples were built by emperors and kings. “Who do they belong to? You say give it to the bhaktas. Forget whether it is right or wrong. Which bhakta will I give it to?” Mr. Thiagarajan explained the difficulties in constituting a committee to manage the temples and electing members for it. “Who will create a committee? Who will decide the eligibility criteria for electing a member to the committee that is going to manage [the temples] outside the government? Only from the village where the temple stands or from outside?” “For example, whether a bhakta, who was born in Madurai and is a great Meenakshi devotee but is living in Chennai, eligible for it?” he asked. He also pointed out that when a temple was taken out of government control, there was also a need to register it as a separate entity. “That entity will be registered as what? A trust or society because it should exist within some legal framework. Who will regulate it? Who will audit it? How will you elect members of the board? Will the members elected to the committee be permanent till they die? Who is eligible to be taken as board members?” he asked.  Will a god man, who is focused on god, be selling Sivarathiri tickets for Rs. 5,00,000, Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 5,000? Is that a sign of a man of god?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-freeing-temples-from-hrce-dept-is-nonsense/article34562304.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Mucormycosis is still a rare occurrence’||Although the number of reported cases of mucormycosis, a serious fungal infection, has noticeably risen during the pandemic, its occurrence still remained rare and there was no need for panic, said a group of doctors from Apollo Hospitals here on Friday. Ram Gopalakrishnan, senior consultant, Infectious Diseases, Apollo Hospitals, said while no studies had been done on the increase in prevalence now, it still remained a possibility of one in 10,000 persons who recovered from COVID-19. M. Babu Manohar, senior consultant, ENT, and head and neck surgeon, Apollo Hospitals, said there was no need for panic. “I am personally coming across instances where people recovering from COVID-19 are panicking for normal nasal blockages and going unnecessarily for CT scans,” he said. He added that CT scans must not be taken unnecessarily. Pointing out that nasal blockage could be experienced by many who were recovering from COVID-19, he said it need not be a cause of concern. “When the nasal discharge turns brownish or blackish, then the person has to take notice and consult a doctor,” he said. Other symptoms of mucormycosis include severe headache, loosening of teeth, black lesions on palette, swelling and reddening of eyes. Dr. Manohar said as mucormycosis is aggressive, immediate consultation with an ENT specialist was required for treatment. “Sometimes, the treatment will involve doctors from across specialities,” he said. Dr. Gopalakrishnan said the indiscriminate use of corticosteroids in COVID-19 treatment, which leads to an increase in blood sugar levels and compromised immunity, was a key factor making people who were already diabetic vulnerable to mucormycosis. He said the apparent shortage of medicines, such as Tocilizumab, was making many doctors to instead go for high dosage of steroids to treat COVID-19. He added that mucormycosis was not contagious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mucormycosis-is-still-a-rare-occurrence/article34562036.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Foreign medical graduates await nod for internship||Around 500 candidates who have done MBBS in foreign countries are awaiting government approval to undergo internship. They cleared the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination (FMGE) held in December last, but have not received a call for internship so far. The registration for the year-long Compulsory Rotational Residential Internship (CRRI) before they can graduate as doctors is a tedious process. After qualifying in the FMGE, the results of which are announced 20 days after the test, the candidate must wait for a month to receive the certificate from the National Medical Commission. Then they must apply for the online provisional eligibility certificate through the Tamil Nadu Medical Council (TNMC) portal by paying a fee of Rs. 10,000. “It could take several months for some as the Council conducts verification of the candidates. With the certificate, the candidates approach a hospital or medical college to obtain a No Objection Certificate for internship. A hospital usually takes a fortnight to issue an NoC,” says C. Surendran, who is awaiting his internship. With the NoC and the TNMC’s provisional eligibility certificate, candidates apply for a provisional registration certificate on the TNMC’s portal for a fee of Rs. 1,000. These documents are required to approach the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University for its NoC on payment of Rs. 3 lakh. They then approach the Directorate of Medical Education (DME), along with the NoCs from the Dr. MGR Medical University and the foreign medical college and the provisional eligibility certificate from the TNMC. The DME requests the Health Department for action. Candidates say the government order could take months. The candidate must then pay a fee of Rs. 2 lakh to the medical college concerned; it then issues a letter for internship. “In Delhi, candidates can take up internship by presenting their marksheets. In other States, the fees are not so steep. Until 2014, Tamil Nadu demanded a fee of only Rs. 20,000. But that year, it was hiked to Rs. 2 lakh. Unlike other students we don’t even get a stipend,” says Mr. Surendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foreign-medical-graduates-await-nod-for-internship/article34562305.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prateep V. Philip to head T.N. Police Academy||The State government on Friday posted Director General of Police Prateep V. Philip as Director, Tamil Nadu Police Academy, Oonamanchery, by upgrading his post. He was earlier DGP, Crime Branch CID. Additional Director-General of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, former Chennai Police Commissioner, was posted as ADGP, Crime, Chennai. He will be heading the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau and Video Piracy Cell of the State Police. ADGP K. Jayanth Murali was posted as ADGP, Armed Police, Chennai, to head the Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalions. In other postings, Abash Kumar, ADGP, South Zone, was transferred and posted as ADGP, Economic Offences Wing, Chennai. Inspector General of Police H.M Jayaram was posted as IGP/Member-Secretary, Uniformed Services Recruitment Board, Chennai, while R. Dinakaran was posted as IGP, EOW, Chennai. IGP J. Loganathan was made IGP, Armed Police, Chennai. S. Rajendran, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Internal Security, Chennai, was transferred and posted as DIG, Technical Services, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prateep-v-philip-to-head-tn-police-academy/article34562040.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations pour in for CM’s Public Relief Fund||Contributions continued to pour in for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to battle COVID-19. SASTRA Deemed University Chancellor R. Sethuraman handed over Rs. 1 crore to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday. A similar sum of Rs. 1 crore was donated by Apex Laboratories CMD S.S. Vanangamudi; KPR Mills, Coimbatore, executive director C.R. Anandhakrishnan; Saveetha deemed university Chancellor N.M. Veeraiyan; Lalitha Jewellery MD M. Kiran Kumar; Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital executive director Arun N. Palaniswami; and Tamil Nadu Olympic Association president N. Ramachandran, along with Chennai Central MP Dayanidhi Maran. Naruvi Hospitals, Vellore, chairman G. V. Sampath, actor Ajith Kumar, CSI Bishops of Madras represented by S. George Stephen and All India Bank Employees Association represented by its general secretary C.H. Venkatachalam donated a sum of Rs. 25 lakh each. DMDK president Vijayakant said the party would be donating Rs. 10 lakh. Many others also contributed to the fund. SASTRA had earlier handed over six ventilators to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and the ESIC Hospital, Chennai, along with oxygen concentrators and flowmeters worth Rs. 55 lakh. Ramco Cement has commissioned an oxygen plant on the factory premises in Virudhunagar. In a press release, it said the medical oxygen plant established at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh had a capacity to produce 48 numbers of oxygen cylinders per day and would help in serving the government hospitals in Rajapalayam, Virudhunagar, Sivakasi, Aruppukottai and Sattur areas. TAFE Group would be assisting the State government by donating 500 Oxygen concentrators. TAFE group chairman T.R. Kesavan met the Chief Minister and presented the letter. The members of the Association of University Teachers have decided to donate one day’s pay to the relief fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-pour-in-for-cms-public-relief-fund/article34562046.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadre urged to resume public outreach||Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin has urged his party cadre to resume the Ondrinaivom Vaa campaign to help people during theCOVID-19pandemic. In a letter, Mr. Stalin said the party MLAs, MPs, all office-bearers and cadre must work on the ground to fulfil the basic needs and necessities of the citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-cadre-urged-to-resume-public-outreach/article34562054.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadre urged to resume public outreach||Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin has urged his party cadre to resume the Ondrinaivom Vaa campaign to help people during theCOVID-19pandemic. ‘Fulfil basic needs’ In a letter, Mr. Stalin said while the government provided relief to people, the party MLAs, MPs, all office-bearers and cadre must work on the ground to fulfil the basic needs and necessities of the citizens. He said in 1967, during the first Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam regime under C.N. Annadurai, he had started a Seerani Thondar Padai to work for people’s welfare and support the government. Support people “You should all work as such an army and provide support to the people,” he said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-cadre-urged-to-resume-public-outreach/article34562327.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector General of Police shifted||Tirunelveli Commissioner of Police and Inspector General (IG) of Police T.S. Anbu was transferred and posted as IG (South zone). IG (Central Zone) Deepak M. Damor was transferred and posted as Coimbatore Commissioner of Police. Two additional Commissioners of Chennai, Vidya Jayant Kulkarni and K. Bhavaneeswari, were transferred and posted as IG/Joint Director of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption and IG, Special Investigation Cell, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, respectively. Tirunelveli Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Praveen Kumar Abhinapu was transferred and posted as DIG, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-ig/article34562427.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State Government reshuffles IAS officers||The State government on Friday evening transferred and gave fresh postings to 13 IAS officers, including two senior civil servants who had served as Secretaries to former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Additional Chief Secretary M. Sai Kumar, who had served as Secretary 1 to Mr. Palaniswami, has been posted as CMD of Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDCO). S. Vijayakumar, who had served as Secretary II to the former CM, has been appointed CMD of Tamil Nadu Small Industries Corporation (TANSI). A G.O. issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu said Neeraj Mittal would be the new Secretary of the Information Technology Department. R. Anandakumar was posted as Commissioner, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection. N. Subbaiyan had been posted as Director, Disaster Management, and Jayashree Muralidharan as Special Secretary to Government, Industries Department. While J. Kumaragurubaran, has been posted as Commissioner, HR&CE, K. Nanthakumar was posted as Commissioner, School Education. V.P. Jeyaseelan has been posted as Director, Information and Public Relations and ex-officio Deputy Secretary to Government, Tamil Development and Information Department. V. Rajaraman would take over as MD of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. While G. Prakash has been posted as MD of Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation, S. Sivashanmugaraja would assume charge as CMD of Poompuhar Shipping Corporation. A. Sivagnanam would be posted as MD of Tamil Nadu Warehousing Corporation, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-reshuffles-ias-officers/article34562428.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ivermectin dropped as COVID-19 drug||The State government revised its COVID-19 case management protocol on Friday, taking the much-debated drug Ivermectin off the list. The Health department had earlier prescribed the drug for three days. The COVID-19 case management protocol was issued for managing patients at all health facilities other than medical college hospitals/government hospitals/dedicated COVID-19 hospitals. According to official sources, the drug was taken off the list as a few members of the expert committee objected to its use. Earlier this week, Chief Scientist of World Health Organization (WHO) Soumya Swaminathan had posted on Twitter that safety and efficacy were important when using any drug for a new indication. The WHO opposed the use of Ivermectin for COVID-19, except within clinical trials, she said. In March too, the WHO noted that “the current evidence on the use of Ivermectin to treat COVID-19 patients is inconclusive”. Ivermectin, it said, was a broad spectrum anti-parasitic agent included in WHO essential medicines list for several parasitic diseases. A senior government doctor said, “We decided to take off the drug following the latest warning from the WHO and low evidence for its therapeutic use.” He noted that the Indian Council of Medical Research had recommended its use in its clinical guidance for management of patients while mentioning it as a therapy based on low certainty of evidence. Another government doctor said the drug was recommended during the first wave after it showed in vitro anti-viral activity. “It may reduce viral replication and prevent severe disease. We do need more studies,” he added. New categories Meanwhile, the Health Department has brought the number of categories from four to three by clubbing category one and two from the earlier protocol. In category 1, patients are advised home isolation while patients in category 2 (oxygen saturation of 90 to 94 and respiratory rate of 24-30/minute) are admitted at PHCs/COVID-19 Care Centres. In category 3, patients with oxygen saturation of less than 90% and respiratory rate of more than 30/minute would be treated at any health facility and shifted for hospitalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ivermectin-dropped-as-covid-19-drug/article34562290.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin bans public reception for Ministers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday appealed against organising public reception events for Ministers and MLAs, who are visiting their native districts for coordinating anti-COVIDefforts. Referring to certain events where Ministers were given a public reception, Mr. Stalin, in a statement, said: “During the pandemic, such receptions should be avoided. Billboards and banners should be avoided. Ministers and MLAs should take action against those violating this directive.” All should focus on containingCOVID-19and they should set an example with their deeds in coordinating anti-COVID efforts, Mr. Stalin said. Referring to those who were paying a visit to him to hand over donations and contributions to help the government in its fightagainst COVID-19, he requested them to avoid presenting him with bouquets or shawls; instead; he advised them to bring books. “In general, I’m against presenting flowers and shawls but not books. So, you must avoid presenting flowers and shawls,” the Chief Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-bans-public-reception-for-ministers/article34562306.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nursing homes will get free access to COVID-19 experts||Apollo Hospitals has launched a free tele-access facility for general physicians and nursing homes. They can get advice from COVID-19 critical care experts to treat patients. Apollo Hospitals group chairman Prathap C. Reddy said, “Through this initiative, we are sharing our experience in best practices with doctors and nursing homes who may not have the complete knowledge of high-end critical care. This will prevent them from adopting unproven therapies and empower them to offer the correct evidence-based therapy at the right time even to patients at home or in smaller nursing homes.” In the first phase, Apollo Hospitals’ critical care specialists will provide consultative services to physicians to optimise COVID-19 care delivery. A special helpline number is being set up. Doctors and nursing homes can call from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. from Monday to Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nursing-homes-will-get-free-access-to-covid-19-experts/article34562035.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six held for illegal sale of Remdesivir||The police have seized over 150 vials of Remdesivir, which were allegedly smuggled from Bangladesh, and arrested six people across the State, including two in Chennai, exposing a black market involved in the sale of the life-saving drug. Police arrested S. Vishnu Kumar, 25, from Virudhunagar; Shanmugam, 35, and his brother Ganesan, 30, from Kovilpatti; Praveen Kumar, 28, from Tirunelveli; B. Bhuvaneswar, 36, of Maduravoyal; and R. Nishit Bandari, 32, from Kondithope, in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir/article34562041.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for murdering husband||The police on Friday arrested a 33-year-old woman in Madipakkam, who set fire to her husband during a domestic dispute. According to the police, the victim, S. Pandi, 43, of Thanthai Periyar Nagar, lived with his wife Parvathi Devi and two daughters. He ran a laundry shop in the neighbourhood. He was admitted in a critical condition to the Government Kilpauk Hospital on Thursday and was treated for burns. His wife told the police that Pandi was inebriated and set himself on fire during a domestic dispute. However, when a judicial magistrate recorded Pandi’s statement, he said he had came home drunk and during an argument, his wife had set him afire. He later succumbed to burns. The police arrested Paravathi Devi and remanded her in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-murdering-husband/article34562042.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel submits interim report on police firing||TheCommission of Inquiry,led by retired High Court judge Aruna Jagadeesan, constituted by the State government to probe thepolice firing and killing of civilians protesting against Sterlite’s copper smelter in Thoothukudi in May 2018, submitted its interim report to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in Chennai on Friday. Justice Jagadeesan submitted the report to Mr. Stalin in the presence of Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu. The previous AIADMK government had constituted the Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-submits-interim-report-on-police-firing/article34562293.ece
15 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM appreciates Madurai autorickshaw driver||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has sent a letter of appreciation to autorickshaw driver Gururaj from Anuppanadi in Madurai. The man was recently in news for offering free rides to people in urgent need of reaching hospitals. In his letter to the driver, which Mr. Stalin also tweeted, said: “Your act of offering free rides to deserving patients during the lockdown after getting permission from the district administration is praiseworthy.” The CM also appreciated the gesture of Mr. Gururaj’s friend Anbunathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-appreciates-madurai-autorickshaw-driver/article34562149.ece
15 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No sales for Akshaya Tritiya||Jewellery outlets, small and big, remained shut on Friday because of the lockdown restrictions. On Akshaya Tritiya day, when there is a rush to buy gold, the retail outlets went without sales. This is the second year when there was no special sales at the outlets for Akshaya Tritiya. B. Muthuvenkatram, president of Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers’ Association, said there were no e-commerce delivery services because of the lockdown and there were several challenges in selling gold jewellery online. Hence, the jewellers did not go in for online sales. Usually, the sales on Akshaya Tritiya day used to be nearly 30 % higher than normal days. The number of customers purchasing jewellery is very high. However, during these two years there was no sale for Akshaya Tritiya, he said. Coimbatore Jewellers Association president B. Sabarinath said that last year there was a lockdown since March-end and hence, the retail outlets were aware that there would be no sales for Akshaya Tritiya. This year, they did not anticipate the lockdown. “Sales used to be even 10 times higher on this day compared to normal days. With the lockdown, goldsmiths are affected as they have no work. If the lockdown is extended even for a week, the government should support the goldsmiths and the workers at the smithies,” he said. The workers wanted to return to their home States and the goldsmiths and manufacturers were persuading them to stay back, he said. An ATM installed here for disbursement of gold coins saw steady flow of customers on Friday morning. Mr. Muthuvenkatram said he had written to a bank, where most of the manufacturers had accounts, to offer loans given under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme  at the Repo rates as a special concession during the pandemic period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-sales-for-akshaya-tritiya/article34562309.ece
15 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two NDRF teams deployed in Coimbatore after alert||Following the alert by the Indian Meteorological Department regarding the intensification of a low-pressure area over Arabian Sea into a cyclone, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) - 4th Battalion, Arakkonam deployed two teams in Coimbatore on Friday. Sources here said that the NDRF 4th Battalion, Arakkonam has deployed a total of 13 teams in Tamil Nadu and Kerala for the rescue operations following the cyclone, which would be named ‘Tauktae’ upon its formation. This includes two teams in Coimbatore and Madurai each and nine teams in Kerala. The two NDRF teams arrived at Coimbatore on Friday morning, according to the sources. Each team comprises about 25 personnel and are equipped with rescue and communication equipment. “Our 24x7 control room is closely monitoring the developing situation and is in close liaison with both the State administrations for immediate response,” a press note from the NDRF said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-ndrf-teams-deployed-in-coimbatore-after-alert/article34562105.ece
15 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMCH mortuary annexe gets racks||The newly constructed annexe to the mortuary at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) got a makeover on Friday after photos and videos of the bodies of COVID-19 victims lying on the floor were circulated in social media. On Friday, CMCH administration shared photos of the makeover look of the annexe, with adequate numbers of racks to keep the bodies in body bags.  The Hindu , in its columns on April 28, had highlighted the demand of people working in the mortuary for a separate facility to keep the bodies of people who die of COVID-19. It also highlighted that such bodies were often kept on the ground at the back of the morgue where visitors were entering. Later, an annexe was built to the mortuary using metallic sheets. However, the practice of keeping bodies on the ground continued in the annexe, videos and photos of which were circulated through social media on Friday.  The videos and photos were shot by a journalist on Thursday when he had gone to the morgue for the release of the body of another journalist who died of COVID-19. One of the videos showed body bags disorderly lying on the dusty floor. It also showed that the bodies were not properly covered with body bags. On instructions from the district administration, the Revenue Divisional Officer, Coimbatore south, on Friday inspected the mortuary annexe.  According to the district administration, CMCH authorities were ensuring that more than 95 % of the bodies that come to the annexe get despatched to crematoria and cemeteries on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-mortuary-annexe-gets-racks/article34562312.ece
15 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore City police get stricter in enforcing lockdown rules||The Coimbatore City and District Police on Friday booked several motorists on charges of violating the COVID-19 lockdown rules and warned them against travelling unnecessarily. Sources said the Coimbatore City Police registered nearly 1,100 cases and the Coimbatore District Police nearly 500 cases under section 179 (Whoever wilfully disobeys any direction lawfully given by any person or authority empowered under this Act) of the Motor Vehicles Act as of noon on Friday. No vehicles were seized on Friday, the sources added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Stalin visited Cross Cut Road in Gandhipuram here and appealed to the motorists to not venture out unnecessarily amidst the second wave of the pandemic. “The vehicle movement has been curtailed [on Friday] in comparison to other days,” he said, adding that awareness among the public was essential to curb the spread of COVID-19. Around 1,000 police personnel and 48 check-posts had been set up in the city police limits to monitor the compliance to lockdown rules, Mr. Stalin noted. District Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam said areas on the borders of the city such as Thudiyalur and Kavundampalayam continued to witness increased vehicle movement despite the lockdown. “We have closed many roads and will allow vehicles only in cases of emergency,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-city-police-get-stricter-in-enforcing-lockdown-rules/article34562322.ece
15 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Patient found dead at COVID-19 care centre||A COVID-19 positive man, who was undergoing treatment at a COVID-19 care centre (CCC) near Periyanaickenpalayam here, was found dead in the early hours of Friday. Police said P. Murugaiyan (65) from Narasimhanaickenpalayam was admitted to the CCC on the premises of a private college in Mathampalayam on May 12 after testing positive.. Around 12.30 a.m. on Friday, his body was found on a corridor. Neither the deceased’s wife nor three of his sons were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the time of his death, according to the police. It is suspected that he died by suicide as he was worried over testing positive for COVID-19. The Periyanaickenpalayam police registered a case and further investigations are on.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-found-dead-at-covid-19-care-centre/article34562310.ece
15 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against alleged excess ticket fares||Consumer rights organisation Coimbatore Consumer Cause (CCC) recently petitioned Chief Minister M.K. Stalin seeking action against the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) for allegedly collecting excess ticket fare in deluxe town buses. In the petition, secretary of CCC K. Kathirmathiyon said that the free bus travel scheme for women, which was rolled out by the State government on May 8, was applicable to only ordinary fare town buses and not to the deluxe ’red buses’ operated by the TNSTC in Coimbatore Corporation limits. In a reply to a Right to Information application filed by him, TNSTC Coimbatore Division said that 640 town buses were operational as of April 17. However, it also clarified that no luxury buses were operated in Coimbatore, Mr. Kathirmathiyon said in the petition. The District Collector, who is also the Regional Transport Authority, has not issued any permit to TNSTC for operating deluxe buses as “permits and fare tables were approved for ordinary service buses only,” he added. Despite having been fined in multiple instances by the Regional Transport Officers, the TNSTC buses continue to collect excess fares for the deluxe or luxury buses, thereby he said. “We request you to ensure that TNSTC buses collect only the fare approved by the Collectors as per the permit issued,” Mr. Kathirmathiyon wrote, adding that this would help more women passengers to avail the free bus travel scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-alleged-excess-ticket-fares/article34562103.ece
15 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries continue to contribute to CM’s relief fund||Industries and institutions in Coimbatore continued to contribute to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and also to improve facilities at government hospitals here. Executive Director of Kovai Medical Center and Hospital Arun Palaniswami and CEO Karthikeyan handed over a cheque for Rs. 1 crore to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in Chennai on Friday. In addition, KMCH has donated medical safety materials worth Rs. 5 lakh to the Coimbatore Corporation. C.R. Anandakrishnan, Executive Director of KPR Mill, also handed over Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister on Friday for the relief fund. S. Malarvizhi, Chairperson and Managing Trustee of Sri Krishna Institutions, Coimbatore, handed over a cheque for Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister on Thursday. Former Minister Pongalur Palaniswami contributed Rs. 25 lakh and V. Sivakumar of Globus Realtors contributed Rs. 10 lakh to the relief fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-continue-to-contribute-to-cms-relief-fund/article34562101.ece
15 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore firm launches air purifying respirator||Fisher Pumps, a Coimbatore company, has launched Powered Air Purifying Respirator (PAPR) that can be used by doctors and frontline workers. Managing Director of the company Parthiban Ramaswamy said the PAPR, branded as Fisher AirPro, was designed in-house and was ready for commercial launch. It took about a year to design the product, he said. AirPro consists of a face gear and hip unit that are connected by a air hose. The hip unit supplies filtered, pure air to the face gear. Therefore, frontline workers do not have to use masks while at work. The batteries and blower motors are sourced and the P 100 filters used are certified ones. The company fabricates the gears and assembles these here. “We now plan to manufacture in batches of 100 and supply across the country. The company can produce 1,000 units a month,” Mr. Ramaswamy said. Fisher has also applied for design patent and product certification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-firm-launches-air-purifying-respirator/article34562099.ece
15 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New Police Commissioner for Coimbatore||Deepak M. Damor, IPS, who was serving as the Inspector General of Police – Central Zone, will be the new Coimbatore City Police Commissioner, an order issued by the Home Department said on Friday. Mr. Damor had previously served as the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Coimbatore range from 2017 to 2018. Additional charge Former Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham was transferred and posted as Additional Director General of Police, Intelligence on May 8, following which the Inspector General of Police – West Zone A. Amalraj held additional charge as the Coimbatore City Police Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-police-commissioner-for-coimbatore/article34562102.ece
15 May 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||VCK leader seeks medical intervention for Sri Lankan refugees in Thumbalahalli camp||Vidhuthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) leader D. Ravikumar has called for immediate medical intervention for the Sri Lankan refugees in Thumbalahalli camp in Dharmapuri. In a letter to Minister for Minorities Welfare and Non-resident Tamils welfare Gingee K.S. Masthan, Dr. Ravikumar has sought help for residents of the Thumbalahalli refugee camp in the wake of three persons testing positive for COVID-19, with two of them critically ill. The letter said that Thyagaraja (50), a resident refugee, has been admitted to Omalur GH, Prakash (40) was awaiting bed outside the Dharmapuri Government Medical College Hospital with breathlessness and the third person was breathing with the help of an oxygen cylinder in his tenement at the camp. The president of the refugee camp K. Gracian told The Hindu that there was a need for en masse testing of people in the camp. The camp has over 225 families and roughly about a population of 700. On May 7, a special testing camp was held at the camp. Of the 58 persons who gave samples, results returned only for 18 residents and of whom 10 tested positive. The remaining 40 were awaiting results. “We do not know why there is delay,” said Mr.Gracian. “There are no beds anywhere. All we need is testing here, so we can all take precautions, isolate to the extent possible. There is a fear of an outbreak, because we live in clusters. Some 25 families share between 10 common toilets,” said Mr. Gracian District Collector S.P. Karthika, in a reply to Dr. Ravikumar has said, Thumbalahalli camp was already a containment zone. According to her, 112 samples were collected and 13 were found positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-leader-seeks-medical-intervention-for-sri-lankan-refugees-in-thumbalahalli-camp/article34562323.ece
15 May 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 helplines for Dharmapuri||The district administration has released contact numbers for the public to seek details of availability of beds at hospitals and for medical help in view of COVID-19 emergency. For information, public can contact the special control room on the following numbers: 04342-1077; 04342-230067; 04342-231500; 04342-231508; 93609 53737.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-helplines-for-dharmapuri/article34562307.ece
15 May 2021||Dharmapuri/Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||3 drown in districts||Two sisters drowned in a farm pond at Paaparapatty here on Friday. The victims Sathika (5) and Danashree (3), daughters of Murugesan of Gowrichettipatty were spending time at their grandmother’s house, the police said. The children had stepped into a farm pond along with a boy, when the accident took place. The boy, however, survived.  Staff Reporter adds: In Coimbatore district, a 17-year-old boy drowned in a water body at a stone quarry in Madukkarai on Friday. According to the police, Asif Basha along with a 12-year-old boy went for fishing in the water body in the morning, after which he jumped into the tank and could not swim. The boy, who accompanied him allegedly ran away seeing him jump inside the 25-feet-deep water body. Based on inputs, Madukkarai police and fire service personnel rushed to the spot to retrieve the body. However, the body was not recovered as of Friday evening, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-drown-in-districts/article34562096.ece
15 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode GH to have one more entry point||One more entry point will be created at the District Headquarters Hospital here for COVID-19 patients while the existing one will be used for other patients, said S. Muthusamy, Minister for Housing and Urban Development, here on Friday. The Minister along with Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the hospital and interacted with doctors on the availability of beds, treatments provided and availability of other basic amenities. Addressing media persons, Mr. Muthusamy said at present, patients, including the COVID-19 patients, and people who come for vaccination and for giving swab test used the existing entry point. Hence, another entry point would be created by demolishing a portion of the compound so that COVID-19 patients and people who come for swab tests could use it. “The existing entry will be used by other patients and visitors,” he said and added that it would help prevent the spread of virus inside the premises. Mr. Muthusamy said that only COVID-19 patients were treated at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai and people in need of other treatments should visit the government hospitals. He said COVID-19 Care Centres were functioning across the district, and if necessary, more centres would be established. “Patients who test positive and who cannot be in home isolation can be at the centres where basic amenities are in place,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-gh-to-have-one-more-entry-point/article34562315.ece
15 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode setting up COVID-19 war room||A district-level COVID-19 War Room would soon start functioning at Erode Corporation’s Central Office, to provide information related to bed and oxygen availability in both government and private hospitals, Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy said here on Friday. The Minister said the war room would have 30 officers, with 10 of them working on each shift of eight hours. Their contact details would be shared with the public soon. At the taluk level, war rooms would have five officers. The Minister inspected the war room being established at the Corporation office. Collector C. Kathiravan, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai and other officials were present. The Minister asked the staff at the war room to address the concerns of the callers politely and guide them properly. Members of Business Network International (BNI) and Texvalley handed over equipment worth Rs. 50 lakh for establishing a facility with 40 beds, with oxygen support, at the District Headquarters Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-setting-up-covid-19-war-room/article34562313.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||Prior approval is mandatory, says official||The Telangana government has not stopped the entry of patients who have the necessary approvals, Director of Public Health G. Srinivas Rao has said. The patient should first reserve a bed in the specific hospital online and the hospital, in turn, would forward the application to the control room, he said. Officials at the control room would issue authorisation letters online, which will be forwarded to the patients online either through WhatsApp or other modes. “Patients can show the authorisation letter at the border and they will allowed into the State without obstructions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prior-approval-is-mandatory-says-official/article34561901.ece
15 May 2021||Kovilpatti,TAMIL NADU||Brothers held with 42 Remdesivir vials in Kovilpatti||Police have arrested two brothers who were illegally selling Remdesivir at an inflated price. Police said surprise check was conducted at a pharmacy on Maettukaliyamman Temple Street in Kovilpatti on Thursday night by Deputy Director of Health Services, Kovilpatti, Anita and Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kovilpatti, Kalaikathiravan following information about hoarding of the drug in the shop. During the search, the team seized 42 vials of Remdesivir from the shop owned by Shanmugam of Gandhi Nagar in Kovilpatti and his brother Ganesan. When grilled, the brothers reportedly told the police that they had purchased the drug from Tirunelveli and Madurai for Rs. 16,000 and were selling it for anywhere between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 30,000. Further investigations are on to arrest those who were behind the hoarding incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brothers-held-with-42-remdesivir-vials-in-kovilpatti/article34562430.ece
15 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||500 more oxygen-supported beds soon||Steps have been taken to set up 500 beds with oxygen support for COVID-19 patients in Madurai, said Health Minister Ma. Subramanian here on Friday. Addressing mediapersons after chairing a meeting with other ministers and officials, Mr. Subramanian said a private company would install the beds within a week. He said Government Rajaji Hospital had 1,681 beds, out of which 1,176 had oxygen support. All these beds are occupied as the hospital also caters to patients from other districts. “So, a zero-delay ward with 150 beds with oxygen support has been inaugurated at the GRH,” he said. When asked if COVID-19 deaths are under-reported in Madurai, Mr. Subramanian said they have instructed not to under-report the deaths. “A meeting will be held at the GRH to discuss this,” he said. From Odisha Sterlite Copper, which started producing oxygen, has temporarily stopped it due to a technical snag. Hence, the State procured 80 MT of liquid medical oxygen from Odisha to prevent a major crisis, he said. The State received 7,000 vials of Remdesivir every day. However, the requirement was 20,000 vials and this has been communicated to the Union government. “Steps will be taken to allot more vials of Remdesivir to Madurai,” he said. Strict action would be taken against those who sell Remdesivir at a high price in the black market, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/500-more-oxygen-supported-beds-soon/article34562153.ece
15 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps being taken to bring oxygen from other States, countries’||Steps were being taken to bring additional medical oxygen supply from other countries like Singapore and Dubai and other States like Delhi and Odisha to meet the demand for the gas in Madurai district, said Finance Minister P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan here on Friday. He was addressing mediapersons, along with Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy, after inaugurating a Siddha COVID Care Centre at Yadava College in Thiruppalai. He said a technical glitch at Sterlite Copper unit in Thoothukudi caused a temporary pause in production of oxygen. “When the supply from the unit reaches hospitals in Madurai it will help in resolving the issue of oxygen shortage,” Mr. Thiagarajan said, adding a separate war room was set up in Chennai to monitor oxygen usage across the State. The lack of doctors and nurses was another issue. So, retired doctors, final year medical students and those who had studied medicine abroad but had not written an equivalent exam here would be temporarily called for COVID-19 duty, he added. Stating that steps were being taken to ensure oxygen support and availability of ventilators, testing kits, anti-viral injections and tablets to meet the growing demand, Mr. Thiagarajan urged the public to strictly follow COVID-19 safety precautions and avoid leaving home unnecessarily. Mr. Moorthy said the government was taking all-out efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. District COVID-19 Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan, Collector T. Anbalagan and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were also present. The Ministers also inspected the war room functioning at the Collectorate where 15 nurses would provide medical consultation through telephone to COVID-19 patients in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-being-taken-to-bring-oxygen-from-other-states-countries/article34562151.ece
15 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Low-key Ramzan celebration this year too||It was a low-key Eid-Ul-Fitr celebration in Madurai district on Friday for the second consecutive year as Muslims marked the culmination of the 30-day fasting during the month of Ramzan by offering thanksgiving prayers at home. With the rapid spread of COVID-19 and the imposition of complete lockdown to curtail the spread, people offered prayers at their respective houses. Government Kazi of Madurai A. Syed Khaja Mueenudeen said volunteers donated food and clothes to the needy. But the prayers were limited to the households due to COVID-19 pandemic. People also did not choose to celebrate the festival in a grand manner as they were already affected financially due to the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown that was imposed last year. They hoped and prayed for the situation to return to normal. S. A. Liyakath Ali of Anna Nagar said they all prayed for the COVID-19 pandemic to end as part of their Ramzan celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-key-ramzan-celebration-this-year-too/article34562155.ece
15 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AAI replaces Adiyogi statue image with that of Meenakshi Temple||Hours after Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan censured Airport Authorities of India for featuring a photograph of Adiyogi (Siva) statue of Isha Foundation, Coimbatore, on its State-wise quarantine guidelines for COVID, as a pictorial representation for Tamil Nadu, the photograph was replaced with that of famous Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple of Madurai. Upon finding it in the online social media platforms, Mr. Venkatesan had expressed his displeasure over using the picture of a statue as representative image of Tamil Nadu. “We cannot view such practices as an ordinary issue. While AAI had used the photograph of heritage sites/cities of other States, why should it use Adiyogi statue for Tamil Nadu. Does it represent the State?” the MP asked. When Tamil Nadu had one of the oldest cultures of the country, by using a photograph of a statue installed few years back, the AAI was only misrepresenting Tamil culture and heritage. “There is no dearth of monumental sites like Mahabalipuram, Thanjavur Big Temple, Meenakshi Temple and Thiruvalluvar statue which can be used to represent Tamil language, culture and heritage,” he said. He charged that the Centre was working overtime to change the image of Tamil Nadu even during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The photograph used by the AAI will present a different perception about Tamil culture to people living outside Tamil Nadu, especially youths,” the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP said. After he tweeted condemning AAI and sought to change the photograph immediately, AAI replaced it with the photograph of the South Tower of Meenakshi Temple, late in the night on Thursday. The MP tweeted welcoming it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aai-replaces-adiyogi-statue-image-with-that-of-meenakshi-temple/article34562148.ece
15 May 2021||Madurai/Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Police to crack the whip to prevent crowding||With crowding of people reported in certain pockets of Madurai in the morning hours, the City Police have warned of stringent action against those flouting lockdown norms from Saturday. “Unlike last year, this lockdown comes with lot of exemptions,” a senior police officer said. People are allowed to move till 12 noon for shopping of essential goods. Similarly, vegetable and groceries shops are open till then. “Hotels are opened in three time slots which attract lot of take-away buyers. With more patients in hospitals, their attendants had to travel,” he said. Last year, people feared police action. But this year, there is a palpable fear of infection and people stay indoors. “Only some daredevil youths unnecessarily roam around,” another officer said. The circular by Director General of Police to not use force and avoid seizure of vehicles, unlike last year, has also tied the hands of police. With cargo movement not curtailed and construction activity allowed, lot of vehicles are on roads. “Each day 60 to 70 bodies are cremated in Thathaneri and Keeraithurai crematoriums. If we want to prevent deaths, crowding must stop,” a senior officer said. “We do not find much violation of lockdown rules after 12 noon as most of the people remain indoors,” said Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha. However, he was bothered over crowding at shops in the morning hours. “People shop every day for fresh vegetables, which is not safe. Similarly, there are crowds of bargain hunters,” he said. The police plan to curtail movement of people to far off places to buy groceries and vegetables to prevent crowding in bazaars. Similarly, the police have warned of shuttering down shops that fail to maintain social distancing norms. Dindigul, Theni In Dindigul, police distributed leaflets, urging people not to come out unnecessarily. The police said they let off violators with a warning, but the surveillance would be intensified. In Theni, police warned the violators and urged them to stay at home. They plan to deploy more personnel at key junctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-crack-the-whip-to-prevent-crowding/article34562158.ece
15 May 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 128.35 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 150 cusecs and a discharge of 300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 62.61 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 96 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,606 mcft. Rainfall Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday was (in mm): Thaniamangalam 53, Andipatti 33.2, Manjalar dam 32, Melur 24, Kallandhiri 18.2, Kodaikanal 17.6, Viraganoor 16, Vaigai dam 9.2, Periyar dam 8.6, Mettupatti 8.2, Veerapandi 7.4, Uthamapalayam 6.2, Chittampatti 4.2, Gudalur 4.7, Thekkadi 3.4, and Sothuparai dam 2. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 100 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 300 cusecs and a discharge of 254.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 85.22 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of five cusecs and a discharge of 250 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34562160.ece
15 May 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||KMDK representatives to donate a month’s salary||Representatives of Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi (KMDK) will donate their one month salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for COVID-19 relief. In a release, Tiruchengode MLA E.R. Eswaran, general secretary of the party, said that himself and Member of Parliament from Namakkal A.K.P.Chinraj would donate their one month’s salary to the CM’s fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kmdk-representatives-to-donate-a-months-salary/article34562326.ece
15 May 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 11-lakh fine collected from 5,398 persons||Sustained action against those failing to adhere to safety guidelines for curbing the spread of COVID-19 has resulted in the collection of Rs. 11.33 lakh as fine from the violators since March 1. The fine amount was collected from as many as 5,398 persons in the district from March 1 to May 13 for failing to adhere to the guidelines such as not wearing masks in public places and failing to ensure personal distancing. An official press release here said imposing fines was not the objective of the district administration but to protect the people from the rapid spread of the viral infection. The fines were collected through officials of Health,Revenue departments and municipality besides police personnel. Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya appealed to the general public not to venture out without any valid reason keeping in mind the danger of the spread of the infection and strictly adhere to the safety guidelines such as wearing masks, ensuring personal distancing and washing hands to protect themselves from COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-11-lakh-fine-collected-from-5398-persons/article34562470.ece
15 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 30 deaths and 1,974 fresh cases||The Union Territory on Friday equalled the highest number of single-day deaths in the second wave yet as it recorded 30 deaths and 1,974 new cases. With Puducherry reporting 24 deaths, Karaikal four and Yanam two, the cumulative COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory rose to 1,099. The patients, including 14 women, were in the 30-87 years age range, and six of them had no co-morbid conditions. Puducherry accounted for 1,580 cases, Karaikal 224, Yanam 152 and Mahe 18. The new cases were confirmed from 9,148 tests. The test positivity rate was 21.57%, case fatality rate 1.36% and recovery rate 77.12%. With 1,088 patients posting recoveries in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 17,424. The bed occupancy status was JIPMER (520), IGMCRI (369) and Covid Care Centres (738). The cumulative total of cases in the Union Territory is 80,947 and 62,424 people have recovered so far. Of an estimated 8.98 lakh tests conducted by the Health Department, over 8.01 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 115 healthcare workers, 100 frontline staff and 602 members of the public took their first shots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-30-deaths-and-1974-fresh-cases/article34562051.ece
15 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Nod sought for pro tem Speaker in Puducherry||The government has sought sanction to appoint senior legislator K. Lakshminarayanan as pro tem Speaker of the Puducherry Legislative Assembly. “Chief Minister has sought sanction from the Lt. Governor to appoint Mr. Lakshminarayanan as pro tem Speaker for swearing-in the newly-elected MLAs and to conduct the proceedings to elect the Speaker. The file was forwarded a few days ago. The Assembly Secretariat is yet to get any communication from the Raj Nivas regarding the appointment of pro-tem Speaker,” a source in AINRC told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nod-sought-for-pro-tem-speaker-in-puducherry/article34562049.ece
15 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Siddha-based COVID-19 treatment centre opened in Pudukottai||A Siddha-based COVID-19 treatment centre has been opened at the Government Arts College for Women in Pudukottai Town. The Siddha centre equipped with 75 beds and other facilities to provide treatment to COVID-19 affected patients was opened by Minister for Law S. Regupathy and Minister for Environment Siva V. Meyyanathan in the presence of District Collector P. Uma Maheswari and administration officials. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating the facility, Mr. Regupathy said Siddha-based treatment at the centre for COVID-19 patients entails provision of traditional food. He said funds to the tune of Rs. 9 lakh had been obtained to provide nutritious food to the COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. Steps had been taken to ensure good care for those affected by the viral infection. The number of oxygen beds were available in line with the extent of supply, he said adding that for additional beds, the supply requirement would be fulfilled in a couple of days. Those who had tested positive for COVID-19 need not panic as adequate medical facilities had been made available in the COVID-19 treatment centres, he added. Minister for Environment Siva V. Meyyanathan said necessary steps had been taken to scale-up production of oxygen in Nitrogen-manufacturing units in the State. Earlier, they inspected the COVID-19 Care Centre established at the Agricultural College and Research Institute at Kudumiyanmalai in the district. Separate centres had been opened at the girls hostel and boys hostel in the institution premises. The boys hostel has been provided with 200 beds, while the girls hostel has 250 beds. The centre has also been provided with oxygen facility and 108 ambulance to shift those requiring higher treatment at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siddha-based-covid-19-treatment-centre-opened-in-pudukottai/article34562472.ece
15 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Facilities to be improved at Alangudi GH: Minister||The State government would take necessary steps to improve infrastructure at the Government Hospital in Alangudi, Minister for Environment Siva V. Meyyanathan, said on Friday. A host of demands had been made for improving facilities at the Government Hospital in Alangudi such as sinking of a borewell, establishment of overhead water tank and separate buildings for outpatients and to house maternity wards. Speaking to reporters, he said 50 beds had been kept ready at the hospital to provide treatment for COVID-19 patients. Steps had been taken to post doctors, nurses and other staff for this purpose in a couple of days. There was adequate stock of COVID-19 vaccines at the Alangudi Government Hospital, he said and appealed to the public to get themselves vaccinated. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and health department officials accompanied the Minister, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/facilities-to-be-improved-at-alangudi-gh-minister/article34562469.ece
15 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||MLAs inspect Salem GH||Three Opposition legislators met with authorities of the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Friday and enquired about COVID-19 treatment facilities. AIADMK legislators E. Balasubramanian, M. Rajamuthu and PMK legislator R. Arul met with Dean R. Murugeshan and other authorities and enquired about the bed strength and other treatment measures. Mr. Balasubramian told presspesons that the State government should increase the bed strength and ensure supply of medical oxygen and other essential medicines. The bed strength in the district had not been increased, compared to the first wave. The MLAs demanded that the State government hold more fever camps to identify positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-inspect-salem-gh/article34562317.ece
15 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate increases to 18.3% in Salem||The Total Positivity Rate (TPR) in the past 10 days has increased to 18.3% in Salem as on Thursday and officials are working on increasing bed strength with medical oxygen facilities to treat COVID-19 patients. As on April 24, the TPR in the district was 10.5%. According to health officials, on an average, 5,000 swab samples are collected on a day and on Thursday alone, 763 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district, highest in recent times. There are 20 taluks, four Municipalities and a Municipal Corporation in the district and in past 10 days, 33,446 samples were collected and 6,122 persons tested positive. Officials said 3,256 cases were reported in the Corporation limits alone. In 10 days, 12,143 samples were collected in the Corporation limits and the positivity rate was 26.8%. In Attur Municipality, 395 samples were collected and the positivity rate was 45.6%, and in Veerapandi taluk, 554 samples were collected and 47.3% of positivity rate was reported. The positivity rate was less than 4% in Yercaud, Gengavalli and Kolathur taluks. As on Thursday, there were 78 containment zones in the district covering 1,105 homes and 4,186 persons. The district administration is identifying facilities to set up COVID-19 treatment centres with oxygen facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-increases-to-183-in-salem/article34562319.ece
15 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Briefly/||Ramzan celebrations were low-key here on Friday and mostly restricted to homes. The State government has restricted the entry of the public to religious places as part of COVID-19 restrictions. Special prayers were conducted by adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols. S.R. Anwar, Muthuvalli from Salem Jamia Masjid Trust Board, said they had advised families to conduct prayers with restricted number of participants at their residences, as gatherings could lead to the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article34562318.ece
15 May 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||More oxygen-supported beds to come up in Karaikudi: Collector||Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy said on Friday that oxygen was available for the current case load of COVID-19 positive patients but as a precautionary measure oxygen-supported beds were being readied in Karaikudi GH and other locations. The Collector, who held a review meeting with senior doctors from government and private hospitals, health officials and others, told reporters that though the number of positive patients was not rising alarmingly, when compared with other districts in southern Tamil Nadu, the administration was keeping itself adequately prepared. Private hospitals who were experiencing shortage of oxygen could take it from the public pool at the Government Hospitals and replace the same later, he said. “Our foremost objective is to save patients who require oxygen. Keeping this in mind, the Karaikudi Headquarters hospital has been increasing the number of beds with oxygen points. About 100 beds will be ready soon. Likewise, in Devakottai and Tirupathur hospitals too beds with oxygen points are being readied,” he said. Fever clinics On an average, 160 fever clinics were being conducted across Sivaganga daily. Wherever, the positivity rate was higher than normal, more field staff have been deployed, the Collector said. Door-to-door surveys were also being done, Mr Madhusudhan Reddy said. The idea was to contain the virus locally and ensure the spread was minimised. Following the Chief Minister’s directive, the district had commenced distributing food for the patients and their attendants in the isolation wards since Thursday through the HR&CE Department. On shortage of doctors and nurses, he clarified that they had recently posted manpower as per the sanction given to the district last year. “We are mentally prepared to face the challenges due to COVID-19 pandemic,” the Collector said and appealed to the public to stay indoors.  Private hospitals who are experiencing shortage of oxygen can take it from the public pool at Government Hospitals and then later replace it P. Madhusudhan Reddy Sivaganga Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-oxygen-supported-beds-to-come-up-in-karaikudi-collector/article34562429.ece
15 May 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive intensifies||The district’s Monitoring Officer S. J. Chiru reviewed the ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations with Collector G. S. Sameeran and Member of Parliament Dhanush M. Kumar here on Friday. Dr. Sameeran, while addressing the meeting, said performance of COVID-19 Unified Command Centre, oxygen position, treatment being given to the patients, vaccination drive etc. were reviewed by the Monitoring Officer. The modifications in anti-COVID-19 operations, if any, to be carried out in the functioning of officials as suggested by the Monitoring Officer, would be executed. Since vaccination drive in rural areas had to improve, intensive awareness programmes would be conducted in villages. More importantly, workers being hired under the MGNREGP would be vaccinated. “The prime objective behind organising vaccination awareness programmes is to bust the fallacies being shared on social media about vaccines. We have adequate stocks of oxygen and 4,000 doses of vaccines today and will increase the stocks based on demand,” Dr. Sameeran said. The review meeting also discussed in detail about the measures to be taken to protect frontline COVID-19 warriors. Mr. Dhanush M. Kumar said focus was being given to avoid wastage of vaccine by pooling in 20 or 40 persons at the vaccination centres. On complaints pertaining to exorbitant COVID-19 treatment charges being collected by a few private hospitals, Dr. Sameeran said the administration would discuss this issue with private practitioners. Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh, District Revenue Officer Janani Soundarya, MLAs E. Raja, T. Sadhan Thirumalaikumar, C. Krishnamurali, S. Palani Nadar and P.H. Paul Manoj Pandian and senior officials participated in the meeting. Thoothukudi The district administration has launched three mobile vaccination units to cover target groups in rural areas, Member of Parliament Kanimozhi said here on Friday. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating the special vaccination camp for journalists and their family members, Ms. Kanimozhi said that mobile vaccination has been introduced as only 80,000 persons had been vaccinated in Thoothukudi district so far. Collector K. Senthil Raj, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan, and Sub-Collector, Thoothukudi, Simranjeet Singh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-intensifies/article34562431.ece
15 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Ambulance with body waits near burial ground for over two hours||Tense situation prevailed in the vicinity of the burial ground near the Railway Line East Street, Peravurani, on Friday, due to the presence of an ambulance with a body stationed at the location for more than two hours. The ambulance carrying the corpse of a woman belonging to a minority religion was parked in front of the “maiya vadi” (the burial ground of the minorities) since the workers were not present. Locals suspected the dead woman to be a COVID victim due to the prolonged absence of the burial ground staff, and attempted to stage a road roko near the Old Bus Stand. A team of government officials and police rushed to the spot saw through the entry of the ambulance into the “maiya vadi” premises. The locals complained to the officials that the handlers of the funeral vans cleaned the vehicles right in front of the burial ground. . In an unrelated incident on Thursday, members of Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamaath, Thanjavur South District unit, led by the district deputy secretary, Bava of Sethubhavachatram, conducted the rites of a COVID victim of Aavanam Street, Peravurani, as per Hindu rites, after the relatives and friends reportedly abandoned the body fearing infection, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambulance-with-body-waits-near-burial-ground-for-over-two-hours/article34562463.ece
15 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Food for the needy during lockdown||A group of philanthropists has initiated ‘Anbu Suvar’ (wall of compassion) at Kumbakonam to feed the needy during the lockdown. The group kept 100 food packets, water bottles and biscuits at a specific location along the Sarangapani Kovil Sannadhi Street so that those in need of the food could walk in and take them. Stating that the free food supply service would continue for the entire duration of the lockdown, the organisers expressed hope that their efforts would elicit support from other service-minded people either in the form of donation or by way of sponsoring food packets. A similar service was being offered to the needy in Thanjavur throughout the year by an organisation espousing the teachings of Vallalar Swamigal of Vadalur. Tiruvarur The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department, which is implementing ‘nithya annadhanam’ scheme for devotees with the contributions received from devotees, had started distributing 2,500 food packets to the people visiting Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital from May 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-for-the-needy-during-lockdown/article34562462.ece
15 May 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Ready to tackle heavy rainfall, says Collector||Beginning Friday, for the next four days, the IMD has predicted rainfall in certain locations in Tamil Nadu, including Theni, and hence the administration is fully geared to face the challenges, said Collector H. Krishnanunni. At a meeting to check the preparedness level, senior officers including Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi, Megamalai Wildlife Warden Sumesh Soman, DRO K. Ramesh, Sub-Collector (Periakulam) D. Sneha, engineers from the PWD, Disaster Management, Fire and Rescue Services, Revenue, Transport and Rural Development departments were present. Based on the rainfall pattern in the past, officials have been instructed to keep a vigil on ghat sections and waterbodies. The officers explained about the first responders to be deployed. Low lying areas that may get inundated have also been identified. Relief centres have also been kept ready, they said. The Collector has appealed to residents not to venture out as the government has already announced a volley of restrictions. Special control room would function round the clock at the Collector's office (1077 or 04546-261093) and rain gauge stations would function at 12 locations, which would be monitored by the Revenue, PWD and Central Water Commission authorities. A PWD engineer said that out of 135 tanks, 35 were full, while remaining ones were getting steady inflow of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ready-to-tackle-heavy-rainfall-says-collector/article34562433.ece
15 May 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||OPS bereaved||O. Balamurugan, younger brother of AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, died on Friday. According to family members, he was unwell for some time and was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin conveyed his condolences over telephone to Mr Panneerselvam. Similarly, AIADMK coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami too condoled his death. DMK MLAs Cumbum Ramakrishnan, Andipatti A. Maharajan and senior AIADMK functionaries also paid their homage at his residence in Periakulam. The former Deputy CM and his family, who were in Chennai, arrived in Madurai by a special aircraft and reached Theni by road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-bereaved/article34562432.ece
15 May 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Snag halts oxygen production at Sterlite plant||The euphoria triggered by the generation of oxygen in Sterlite Copper’s plant was short-lived as a technical snag in the plant paralysed production late on Thursday night. The plant, after being idle for nearly three years, started functioning from Wednesday evening and the first tanker with 4.80 tonnes of oxygen was sent to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Thursday morning. It was expected that the plant could generate five to six tonnes a day for the first few days and then produce 35 tonnes of oxygen. However, a technical glitch in the cold box of the oxygen plant halted the production, much to the embarrassment of the plant administration. The management, however, said that it had anticipated the snag given the fact that the plant was idle for the past three years. “A technical snag has developed in the cold box of the oxygen plant, leading to a temporary pause in production. The possibility of minor technical fluctuations was anticipated given that the plant has been unattended for three years. In preparation of this scenario, a technical expert group has been on-site from day one to monitor the situation. We plan to return to stabilised production soon,” an official statement from Sterlite Copper said. “While Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital is in need of 8 KL oxygen every day to save 940 COVID-19 patients, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital is in need of around 6 KL oxygen a day. And the Kanniyakumari District Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripllam, treating nearly 1,000 COVID-19 patients, too is desperately waiting for oxygen. So, this technical glitch is an agonising setback,” said a senior revenue official here. Sources in Sterlite Copper said repair of the cold box has begun. “We’ve got the men and the material to solve this crisis… Anyway, it will take at least six or seven days to resume operation of the plant,” the sources said. The second oxygen plant with a capacity of 535 tonnes a day was also being overhauled to ensure early generation of oxygen, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/technical-snag-halts-oxygen-production-at-sterlite-plant/article34562435.ece
15 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Shops removed||The Corporation on Thursday removed shops in Chidambara Nagar market where it proposes to construct a modern commercial complex under the Smart City programme. Earlier, 60 shops at the market were issued notices asking them to vacate the market. Opposing the move, shopowners and traders approached the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, which set a deadline of May 12 to vacate the shops to facilitate construction of the commercial complex. Since the deadline lapsed on Wednesday, Corporation officials removed the shops with police protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-removed/article34562426.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||100 more oxygen beds for Tiruchi GH||The Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital will soon have 100 oxygen-supported beds, in addition to the existing 355. Works were under way for routing the additional supply of oxygen, senior officials said. The six-floor Super Speciality Block of the Tiruchi GH, spanning about 30,000 square feet in area, accommodates nearly 12 speciality departments, including cardiothoracic surgery, urology, medical and surgical oncology, and gastroenterology, in addition to trauma care and dermatology among others. While some departments were shifted to other blocks, functioning of a few departments was suspended during the lockdown last year. This time around, all the departments continue to function out of the block. K. Vanitha, Dean, MGMGH, said that the fifth and sixth floors were being rewired, and oxygen supply pipelines were already laid to accommodate around 100 beds. Adequate plug points have also been arranged. "There are a sufficient number of ventilators if the need arises," she said. The hospital, however, will require an additional oxygen tank, of at least 10KL capacity, for these 100 beds to function. "Since the ward will be on the 5th and 6th floor, there must be adequate pressure for the oxygen supply. We are looking to get an additional tank to begin this ward," a senior official at the MGMGH said. Dr. Vanitha said that the Health department had given clearance for the setting up of an in-house oxygen generating plant. This plant, too, will assist in steady supply, she said. The Tiruchi MGMGH currently has a storage of six tonnes of oxygen. Meanwhile, owing to the initiative taken by K. Mythili, Head of Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, and her team, 30 oxygen concentrators were donated to the Tiruchi MGMGH by Indian paediatricians living in the UK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-more-oxygen-beds-for-tiruchi-gh/article34562466.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three more COVID Care Centres to come up||Locations had been identified for starting three more COVID Care Centres with 460 beds, Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru said on Friday. At present, there were eight COVID Care Centres with 1,658 beds. Measures for prevention of the second wave of the pandemic were being undertaken on a war-footing, Mr. Nehru said, while reviewing the activities under way for mitigating the impact of the infection along with School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi. So far, 32,932 were infected by the virus. Of them, 26,827 had recovered. Currently, 5,797 COVID-19 patients were undergoing treatment. The infection has so far claimed 308 lives in Tiruchi district, Mr. Nehru said. There were 520 beds in government hospitals and 1,324 in private hospitals to treat the patients, he said. Mr. Mahesh said the scope for ramping up oxygen production was being explored. The possibility for resumption of oxygen production in the BHEL Complex in Tiruchi would be examined, he said. District Monitoring Officer, and Finance Secretry Rita Harish Thakkar, Collector S. Divyadarshini, Commissioner of Police A. Arun, and Superintentent of Police - Tiruchi Rural A. Mayilvaganan took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-more-covid-care-centres-to-come-up/article34562476.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report over 3,500 fresh cases||The central region reported 3,570 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, reflecting the sharpest single-day rise the region has witnessed since March 2020. The region reported 30 deaths, continuing with the trend of increasing deaths. Tiruchi district reported over 1000 COVID-19 cases for the first time. Tiruchi and Karur district reported deaths of eight patients each. Thanjavur reported seven deaths, Perambalur three and Nagapattinam reported two deaths. Ariyalur and Tiruvarur also reported one death each. As many as 1,224 patients reported COVID positive in Tiruchi district on Friday. Beds in both government and private hospitals were filling up quickly. Patients who require emergency support were also being shifted to the Srirangam Government Hospital and the Manapparai Government Hospital, while asymptomatic patients are admitted to the various COVID Care Centres. In Thanjavur, a decline was reported, with 618 patients testing positive. Nagapattinam reported a sudden spike with 396 patients reporting positive, while similar trends were also reported in Pudukottai, with 342 fresh cases, and Tiruvarur with 324. Karur district reported 319 patients who tested positive, and Ariyalur reported a further spike in the number of cases with 207 fresh cases. Perambalur district, meanwhile, recorded 140 fresh cases on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-over-3500-fresh-cases/article34562467.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to suspend biometric system at ration shops||Litigants Welfare Association, Tiruchi, has urged the Chief Secretary to direct the Civil Supplies Department for suspension of the biometric system at the ration shops to check the spread of COVID-19 virus. Though the Department of Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection had assured to follow the safety guidelines, there were practical difficulties, M. Sekaran, president of the association, said in a letter to the Chief Secretary. He cited the directive of the National Human Rights Commission to the Chief Secretary in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-suspend-biometric-system-at-ration-shops/article34562455.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Muthu Velazhagan passes away||Playwright and proprietor of Karmugil Book Centre Muthu Velazhagan passed away at the age of 82 after a brief illness. The award-winning Tamil playwright whose original name was Ondimuthu is survived by his wife, a son and four daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muthu-velazhagan-passes-away/article34562456.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mason rescued from pit||Kailasam, 57, mason, who was trapped inside a 15-feet-deep pit dug for provision of underground drainage system at Amman Nagar near Kattur here was rescued by a team of fire fighters on Friday. A portion of earth suddenly caved in trapping him hip-downwards. A team of fire fighters armed with necessary paraphernalia rescued the mason safely in a hour-long operation and sent him to hospital, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mason-rescued-from-pit/article34562468.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Order on milling process hailed||The Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, has thanked the Chief Secretary for issuing an order to the Highways Department to undertake milling process before re-laying roads. It had been making representations to the government about the flooding caused to houses in several areas due to the rising level of roads due to repeated re-laying. Milling of roads and excavation of the outer layer was an established norm approved by courts, S. Pushpavanam, secretary, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-on-milling-process-hailed/article34562474.ece
15 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.70 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 257 cusecs and the discharge 801 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34562473.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||From teacher to Speaker of Assembly: Appavu’s journey||Tirunelveli district has given the fourth Speaker to the Tamil Nadu Assembly as Radhapuram MLA M. Appavu, 69, assumed office on Wednesday. After Chellapandian (1962–1967), P.H. Pandian (1985–1988) and R. Avudaiyappan (2006–2011), Mr. Appavu from the district has been handpicked for the coveted post. After serving in Sacred Heart High School, Kavalkinaru (now a higher secondary school), as mathematics and English teacher, Mr. Appavu voluntarily retired from teaching service in 1995 to take the political plunge in 1996 when he was elected MLA of Radhapuram Assembly segment as the candidate of G.K. Moopanar-led Tamil Maanila Congress. And, his political journey continued as MLA of the same segment as he performed a hat-trick by getting elected in 2001 and 2006 also. During his tenure as MLA between 2001 and 2006, Mr. Appavu’s aggressive approach put an end to sand mining in Nambiyar riverbed. When the sandmining badly damaged the check dam across the river at Mayilapudur near Valliyoor, Mr. Appavu visited the spot on November 22, 2006, and ensured reconstruction of the structure quickly. He also ensured revamping of the Hanumanadhi, originating from the Western Ghats beyond Panagudi, by repairing the damaged check dam at Sothuparai, situated deep inside the jungles. Mr. Appavu’s sustained campaign for linking Tamirabharani–Karumaeniyar–Nambiyar rivers by digging 73-km-long flood carrier channel from Vellankuzhi near Cheranmahadevi in Tirunelveli district to M.L. Theri near Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district was approved by the then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. When this river-linking scheme, for which the foundation stone was laid by Karunanidhi in 2007 to take 13,758 mcft surplus water of the Tamirabharani to dry regions, was shelved following change of government after 2011, Mr. Appavu, after obtaining much-needed information through the Right to Information Act, approached the High Court seeking a direction to the State government to complete the project as planned for the benefit of the farmers of Nanguneri, Thisaiyanvilai and Sattankulam. The then AIADMK government was forced by the court rap to resume the third and the fourth phases of the work, which fetched him the title ‘Nathineer Inaippu Nayagan’ (Hero of River-Linking Project) by the people. Though the indefinite legal battle over the 2016 election outcome in the Supreme Court agonised him a lot, Mr. Appavu, after the winning the 2021 election on May 2 last, said: “I’m very much relieved as the Almighty has rendered justice to me… Now, I’m waiting for the SC verdict on the declaration of the result of recounting of votes polled in the Assembly election held in 2016.” The teachers who worked with him describe him a down-to-earth personality. “He would visit us suddenly whenever time permits, enjoy a cup of tea with us and recalls his tenure as teacher,” says A. Dhanaraj of Kavalkinaru, a mathematics teacher. While Mr. Appavu’s eldest son Alex is a Chennai-based entrepreneur, younger son Rahul and daughter Priyanka are doctors and wife Vijaya is a homemaker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-teacher-to-speaker-of-assembly-appavus-journey/article34562425.ece
15 May 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Steps being taken to operationalise all defunct oxygen plants: Minister||Steps are on at a war footing to ensure early operation of all defunct plants producing oxygen across Tamil Nadu for treating COVID-19 patients, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu said. Speaking to reporters after inspecting a defunct oxygen generating unit at the SIPCOT Industrial Complex in Gangaikondan, Tirunelveli, on Friday, Mr. Thennarasu said he and Collector V. Vishnu had held talks with the authorities of the plant which had stopped production in 2014. The government has promised to extend help to resume oxygen production on an early note. Sub-Collector, Tirunelveli, has been entrusted with the job of coordinating with officials of the plant, having the capacity of generating 2.50 tonnes of oxygen a day, he added. “Following instructions from the Chief Minister, steps have been taken to ensure production of oxygen from every possible source even though some of these units are not functioning. We will facilitate early operation of these plants,” Mr. Thennarasu said. As the plant at Gangaikondan was now bottling the gas after getting it from various sources, it had stocked good number of oxygen cylinders when the Minister and the Collector came. They asked the authorities to rush the cylinders to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital which has now put 940 critically ill COVID-19 patients on oxygen support. Mr. Thennarasu also inaugurated the COVID testing and a Care Centre at Gandhimathi School near Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital with 100 beds. On the technical glitch that has hit oxygen production in Sterlite Copper’s plant, the Minister said technicians were on the job to ensure early restoration of oxygen generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-being-taken-to-operationalise-all-defunct-oxygen-plants-minister/article34562437.ece
15 May 2021||Tirupattur,TAMIL NADU||Teenager loses control of tractor, drowns in well||A 19-year-old drowned after he drove a tractor into a 120-foot agricultural well in Tirupattur on Friday evening. According to the police, Sanjeevi, 19, son of Krishnamoorthy, 47, was a resident of Chinna Mottur in Vaniyambadi. He was a catering student. Since the college is closed, he was spending time in his village. On Friday afternoon, he was clicking pictures of farmers in an agricultural field belonging to Rajendran. Sounder, who was driving the tractor, had gone for lunch leaving the keys in the vehicle. Sanjeevi sat on the vehicle and clicked some selfies. Later, he tried to drive it but lost control and drove into the well. “The vehicle went in reverse and fell into a well. There was 35 feet of water and he drowned in it,” said a police officer. The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRs) personnel reached the spot and pumped out the water. They then got into the well using a rope and retrieved the body. Later, the tractor was taken out using a crane. The police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-loses-control-of-tractor-drowns-in-well/article34562050.ece
15 May 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Vapour treatment for COVID patients||The Thiruvarur Government District Headquarters Hospital started providing herbal vapour treatment to COVID-19 patients from Friday. The treatment is being provided in association with the Indian Red Cross Society and other social service organisations in Mannargudi. Siddha Wing doctor Selvam explained that herbal vapour would help clear the breathing tract and lungs of the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vapour-treatment-for-covid-patients/article34562464.ece
15 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Mortality rate in the Nilgiris lowest in State’||Forests Minister K. Ramachandran said here on Friday that the mortality rate from COVID-19 in the Nilgiris was among the lowest in the State, with only 0.5 % of all people who tested positive dying of the infection. Mr. Ramachandran reviewed measures being taken to control the spread of the disease in the district. He told reporters later that 11,699 people had tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris so far. While 10,529 of them had recovered, 1,119 were undergoing treatment. He said 59 people had died of the disease in the district so far, which put the mortality rate at 0.5 %. He said the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus was the most in Udhagamandalam and Gudalur, with both taluks having 442 and 349 active cases respectively. Coonoor and Kotagiri were witnessing relatively fewer cases. The number of tests being done every day had also been ramped up from 1,000 to 2,000. On the availability of beds in the Nilgiris, Mr. Ramachandran said that 477 of the 955 beds available to COVID-19 patients were currently occupied. Enforcement of the lockdown was extremely stringent, with the district ranking high in the State in collecting fines from violators, he said.  170 more beds  Meanwhile, the district administration said in a press release that an additional 170 beds had been made available for COVID-19 patients at eight private hospitals in the district, after it held talks with them. The hospitals are: S.M. Hospital and Sivasakthi Hospital in Udhagamandalam, Nankem Hospital, Sagayamatha Hospital and Sai Healing Center in Coonoor, K.M.F.Hospital in Kotagiri, and ASHWINI Hospital and Pushpagiri Hospital in Gudalur. Treatment at these hospitals would be free of cost for patients covered by the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mortality-rate-in-the-nilgiris-lowest-in-state/article34562316.ece
15 May 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||A lifeline for patients in home quarantine||A family in Vellore has come together to help provide food for COVID-19 patients free of cost in the municipal corporation. With the help of volunteers, the family has been distributing lunch and breakfast to patients in home quarantine. Meet K. Ravishankar, 35, government veterinarian. He, along with his wife R. Sandhya and sister R. Sivagami, have been preparing lunch and dinner for 100 COVID-19 patients in Vellore for the past few weeks. “I run a school for special children in Pennathur. So, I have always wanted to serve people. Hence, we decided to pitch in during the pandemic and help the patients,” said Dr. Ravishankar. He has been spending his own money for the initiative. “I spend at least Rs. 5,000 a day on the food and petrol allowance for volunteers. I have split Vellore into Katpadi, Sathuvachari and Vellore. For each route, I have three volunteers. When patients send a message, after seeing my social media advertisements, I send the respective volunteer to deliver food. The meal is simple and comprises rice, sambar, and rasam. For dinner, we provide tiffin items like chappati or idly,” said Ms. Sandhya. The patients are happy. “In some houses, the entire family had tested positive. Getting free food during such a period is of great help. We wanted to give money, but Dr. Ravishankar does not accept,” said a patient. Apart from this, the family has pooled in money and purchased three oxygen concentrators. They lend them to patients for free for a week. “Recently, we got a call from Vellore around 11.30 p.m. A 75-year-old woman was having severe dyspnoea and was suspected of having COVID-19 . We rushed to the spot immediately with an oxygen concentrator. The pulse oximeter showed oxygen levels at 83. We provided oxygen to her and the value increased,” said Dr. Ravishankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-lifeline-for-patients-in-home-quarantine/article34562299.ece
15 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||New oxygen plant opens||A new oxygen plant has been inaugurated at Ramco Cements premises at R. R. Nagar on Friday. It would take care of around 40% of the medical oxygen need of the hospitals in the district. The oxygen plant has been commissioned at a time, when the district was facing a touch-and-go oxygen supply situation for the last few days. Minister for Revenue, K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran and Minister for Industries, Thangam Thennarasu, inaugurated the plant that could supply 42 to 48 cylinders of medical oxygen a day. The plant has been installed at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-oxygen-plant-opens/article34562438.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Daily caseload crosses 3,000 in Coimbatore district||With 3,197 fresh cases on Friday, the daily COVID-19 caseload of Coimbatore district crossed the 3,000 mark for the first time, taking the overall tally to 1,09,233. The Health Department reported 13 deaths, which took the district’s toll to 837. The district has 18,290 active cases as on Friday. A total of 1,171 persons were discharged on the day. Coimbatore district had 773 vacant beds (65 oxygen beds, 697 non-oxygen beds and 11 ICU beds) in government and private hospitals and 479 vacant beds in COVID-19 Care Centres. Tiruppur district reported 771 new cases on Friday and the overall tally rose to 34,661. Seven deaths were reported on Friday, which took the toll to 272. The district has 5,179 active cases as on Friday. A total of 343 persons were discharged on the day. Tiruppur district had 142 vacant beds (37 oxygen beds and 105 non-oxygen beds) in government and private hospitals, according to the Health Department. There were 243 vacant beds at CCCs in the district. A total of 306 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Friday. Salem district on Friday reported 798 fresh cases and 18 deaths. V.Kannan (46), an Inspector with Narcotics Intelligence Bureau, Salem, and K. Sampathkumar, a sub-inspector with the Krishnagiri police, died of the disease. Namakkal district reported 560 new cases and four deaths. Erode reported 781 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 31,035. While 613 persons were discharged, 5,304 persons continue to be under treatment. Six persons died, raising the toll to 186. Krishnagiri recorded 712 new cases and four deaths. A total of 319 persons were discharged. Dharmapuri recorded 721 fresh cases and three deaths. A total of 110 persons were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-caseload-crosses-3000-in-coimbatore-district/article34562325.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aavin reduces milk prices||Aavin Coimbatore has reduced milk prices as announced by Chief Minister MK Stalin from May 16. According to a press release, for details consumers can contact the following numbers: 9489043713 (east zone), 9489043711 (west zone), 9489043715 (north zone) and 9489043708 (south zone) or toll free number 1800 4254 4777. Milk card holders can log on towww.aavincoimbatore.comto get new cards and do not have to visit the Aavin office. There are special prices for those who buy milk in bulk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-reduces-milk-prices/article34562100.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Spot visit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spot-visit/article34562053.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shops will shut by 10 a.m. from today||A total lockdown will be implemented on May 16 and 23 (Sundays). Allopathic and traditional drug stores, ATMs and petrol and diesel bunks will remain open as usual. E-commerce companies will be allowed to operate between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. The night curfew between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. will remain in force. “The members of the public are requested to buy provisions and vegetables only from shops located in their vicinity and not in far-off locations. Those attempting otherwise would be prevented,” Mr. Stalin said. He reiterated that people must avoid going out unnecessarily and crowding at public places. The decision was “unavoidable” and taken on the basis of the resolutions adopted at the meeting of legislature parties, which he chaired on Thursday, and his meetings with senior officials and medical and public health experts on Friday, Mr. Stalin said. The Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Collectors have been instructed to prevent crowding and ensure physical distancing at shops selling fish and meat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-will-shut-by-10-am-from-today/article34562302.ece
15 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||1,592 new cases reported in Belagavi||Belagavi on Friday saw 1,592 new COVID-19 cases. This increases the total active cases to 9,583. On Friday, there were 358 people discharged and four deaths from SARI. The district has had a total death count of 382 till now.    Id-ul-Fitr was celebrated across the district. There were no public gatherings, mass prayers or processions as the pandemic kept most people home. Moulana Mateen offered prayers, along with a limited number of people, at the Jama Masjid in Belagavi     Vijayapura-based BLDE Society will double the number of children’s beds at its B.M. Patil Medical College Hospital. M.B. Patil, former Minister and BLDE Society chairman, asked doctors and administrators to start preparations for facing the third wave, especially focusing on children. He asked them to prepare beds and ventilators with an uninterrupted oxygen support system.     The police have registered a case of unnatural death of a minor girl after her body was found in a stone quarry near Kolhar village in Vijayapura district on Friday. The body was found near a stone quarry besides the national highway 218. She worked as a labourer along with her father in the quarry for the last six months.    State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel on Thursday inaugurated the new emergency medicine department at Srinivas Hospital, Mukka, near here. A statement from the hospital here said the new department has red, yellow, and green zones where patients would be admitted. The hospital has 81 ICU beds in all, out of which 31 were reserved for COVID-19 patients.    Dakshina Kannada in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Thursday appealed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to issue orders postponing loan recovery by banks and other institutions by six months. An official release here quoted Mr. Poojary as saying that many were not in a position to repay loans due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1592-new-cases-reported-in-belagavi/article34562088.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Discrepancies in districts’ recovery rates||The State’s recovery rate from COVID-19 infections as of Wednesday stood at 70.16 %. However, there are huge discrepancies between the recovery rate within the districts. According to the data provided by the State war room, the district with the highest recovery rate is Chitradurga at 89.53 %. On the other hand, Bengaluru Urban has the lowest recovery rate at 63.03%. Other districts with a good recovery rate are Davangere with 88.35% and Gadag with 87.59%. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, districts with lower recovery rates are Tumakuru (67%) and Bengaluru Rural (64.17 %). The recovery rate is calculated based on the total number of recoveries divided by the total number of positive cases reported so far multipled by 100. One of the main reasons for Bengaluru Urban’s low recovery rate is the sheer volume of cases, said health experts. In the last seven days, the district reported the largest number of COVID-19 cases in the State (1.12 lakh), while Chitraduraga, with 960 cases, reported the least number of cases in the same period. A senior doctor dealing with COVID-19 patients in a government hospital said, “Another reason for low recovery rate in Bengaluru is because there is a huge burden on hospitals. Many of the patients do not recover as there are inadequate health care facilities to treat such a large number of patients. Patients who have COVID-19 and are experiencing symptoms like breathlessness are unable to find beds in the city and are taken to other districts such as Mysuru, Hubballi where there are beds available.”  Tracing issues However, experts say that the recovery rate in the city is far higher than what is shown. Giridhar R. Babu, professor and head of Life Course Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), pointed out that in Bengaluru, many people are not traced after testing positive. Therefore the administration is unable to classify them as either recovered or not. “In such cases, after 14 days, the system should record the person as “deem to be discharged”, which was something done in the first wave. The data is not available mostly due to deficient Human Resources,” he said. He added that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has to recruit one auxiliary nurse midwife for every 5,000-10000 people, and one ASHA for every 1,000 to fix this system. Officials point out that the recovery rate will improve once patients who are in hospitals and under home isolation are discharged and the number of new infections reported decline. “We are expecting that the number of new cases will dip in the next two weeks. As many of the patients will be discharged, the recovery rate will automatically improve,” an official with the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discrepancies-in-districts-recovery-rates/article34562010.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parents struggle to cope with behavioural changes in children||With the city’s resources trained towards tackling COVID-19, the mental health of children, including adolescents, has largely been ignored. With children once again confined to their homes, mental health experts, doctors and paediatricians as well as child rights activists have raised concerns over the increasing number of parents approaching them for help in dealing with their children’s behavioural problems. Nagasimha G. Rao, Director, Child Rights Trust, said that they are receiving around four to five such calls every day. He said that the nature of behavioural changes ranged from aggressive behaviour to bed wetting. Many children have also withdrawn into themselves seeking to remain aloof instead of interacting with friends and family. K. John Vijay Sagar, professor and head of department of child and adolescent psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, said that since the first week of April, they were seeing around 15 to 20 children with behavioural issues every week. “This is a significant increase compared to March 2021 and even during the first lockdown in March/ April 2020 where we saw an average of eight to 10 cases per week,” he said. These numbers are not indicative of how pervasive the problem is as most parents do not have the luxury or time to seek counsellors for their children. Fr. Antony Sebastian, Chairperson of the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) pointed out that a large number of parents and children were not able to seek professional help as many of their families had members have tested positive for COVID-19. “As they are unable to step out, they are not able to get help. Some are getting help via videoconsultations which may not be as effective,” he said. He raised concerns over cases of parents reporting aggressive behaviour, both verbal and physical. “There have also been cases of teenagers deliberately inflicting self-harm by cutting themselves or taking an overdose of medicines,” he added. Prof. Sagar suggested that adults should channelise their children’s energy in creative activities or enroll them in hobby classes online. He and his team at NIMHANS provide a set of guidelines to parents who approach them for counselling. “We coach parents on ways to address this aggression and reduce the frequency and intensity of such behavioural problems,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parents-struggle-to-cope-with-behavioural-changes-in-children/article34562004.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Senior journalist Mahadeva Prakash succumbs to COVID-19||Journalist and former media adviser to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Mahadeva Prakash, 65, succumbed to COVID-19 on Friday. He is survived by wife and daughter. He kickstarted his journalism career as the editor of the now defunct Lokavani daily newspaper run by former Chief Mnister Veerendra Patil, at a very young age. He later started multiple publications himself and was the editor of the monthly magazine Ee Bhanuvara , when he died. He was also editor of Kannada Nudi magazine of Kannada Sahitya Parishat and worked with P. Lankesh as well. He was appointed media adviser to Mr. Yediyurappa in 2019 but he quit in November 2020. Political history expert Mr. Prakash was known to be an authority on the political history of the State, an expert on electoral analysis and he also successfully dabbled in psephology. His column ‘Horalu Nota’, contextualising present-day politics with respect to political history of modern India and Karnataka earned him repute. “He never changed a word of what his writers wrote, even though he did not agree with it many times. He always said that was ‘patrika dharma’. In that sense he was a fine editor,” said N. Divakar, a columnist in Ee Bhanuvara.   CM mourns The Chief Minister mourned his former media adviser, saying Mr. Prakash’s political analysis was ‘studied’ and often guiding. He also noted he was a good orator who became a television personality in recent years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/senior-journalist-mahadeva-prakash-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34562008.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disabled court officials exempted from duty during lockdown||All physically and visually challenged officials working in the district judiciary in the State are exempted from attending the office during the COVID-19 lockdown period, said a notification issued by the High Court of Karnataka. The decision was taken based on a letter written to the High Court by the State Commissioner for Rights of Persons with Disabilities-Karnataka On May 10 requesting to exempt the physically disabled/visually impaired officers/officials working in the district judiciary in view of lockdown.         Meanwhile, the High Court has declared a holiday on May 15 for all the district and trial courts in the State with a view to take remedial measures for combating the threat of COVID-19 and to prevent congregation of staff and as an effort to break the chain of transmission. All the cases listed on May 15 would be re-listed May 17, another notification further stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disabled-court-officials-exempted-from-duty-during-lockdown/article34562006.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Think before you step out: Police chief||Days after receiving flak for high-handedness while enforcing the lockdown that led to three complaints against the police at the Karnataka State Human Rights Commission, Praveen Sood, DG&IGP, Karnataka Police, said: “Instead of questioning every move of police, let’s introspect on our own movements”. He pointed out that the lockdown was ‘all about sacrifices and inconveniences for a bigger cause – stopping spread of COVID-19’, and appealed to the people to cooperate. He tweeted that the police are doing a tough job risking their lives; around 13,000 of 90,000 police personnel have been infected by COVID-19 and 130 lost their lives. “Endless arguments don’t make either of us safer. Just stay away.. stay home and stay safe,” he tweeted. He had expressed concern earlier too about people arguing with police at barricades when they are stopped, which puts all involved at risk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/think-before-you-step-out-police-chief/article34562005.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||55.36 lakh farmers in State get funds under PM Kisan||The Union government on Friday credited the first instalment of assistance (Rs. 2,000) under the PM Kisan scheme for the current financial year (2021-22) to the bank accounts of 55.36 lakh farmers in the State. A sum of Rs. 985.61 crore has been credited into the accounts of farmers, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said. Mr. Yediyurappa, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and MP for Bengaluru Central P.C. Mohan participated in the virtual meeting presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion. Under the scheme, an income support of Rs. 6,000 per year in three equal instalments is provided by the Centre to small and marginal farmer families having combined landholdings/ownership of up to two hectares. The amount is expected to benefit farmers who had faced severe financial constraints owing to lockdown. The scheme with 100% funding from the Centre became operational in 2018-19. A sum of Rs. 6,936.98 crore had been released to bank accounts of 55.06 lakh farmers in the State from March 2019 to March 2021. State’s assistance In addition to the Centre’s amount, the Karnataka government released Rs. 4,000 each in two instalments to the farmers’ accounts and this amounted to Rs. 2,891.7 crore. Hence, a farmer gets Rs. 10,000 each a year.The Chief Minister thanked the Prime Minister for releasing the amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5536-lakh-farmers-in-state-get-funds-under-pm-kisan/article34562022.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc. vaccine, DRDO drug and OxyCare system are game changers: Sudhakar||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar reviewed ongoing efforts at Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), which is developing a vaccine for COVID-19, and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) that has developed a drug that prevents viral growth and a better oxygen management system. He hailed them as “game changers in the fight against COVID-19”. Dr. Sudhakar visited DRDO facilities in the city on Friday where scientists appraised him of progress on 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug they are developing in collaboration with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL), Hyderabad. “Clinical trial results have shown that this molecule helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence,” DRDO scientists said. He was also apprised of the OxyCare system, an intelligent oxygen management system that reduces exposure of healthcare providers by eliminating manual adjustments to oxygen flow. The PM-CARES Fund will procure 1.5 lakh units of Oxycare System at a cost of Rs. 322.5 crore. It will be deployed across the country, DRDO scientists said. On Thursday, Prof. Govindan Rangarajan, Director, IISc, appraised the Minister of the vaccine the institute is developing. “The vaccine is promising as the results show a better neutralising effect than the existing vaccines,” said Prof. Rangarajan. However, human trials are yet to begin. The vaccine can be stored in room temperature up to 30 degrees Celsius, which eases scaling up of distribution. IISc has also developed a 10 litre per minute oxygen concentrator, presently under clinical validation, for which Dr. Sudhakar assured all support. He also requested the Institute to help “develop an audit mechanism and find ways for optimal utilisation of oxygen and minimise wastage at both refilling units and at hospitals”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-vaccine-drdo-drug-and-oxycare-system-are-game-changers-sudhakar/article34562018.ece
15 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Covaxin production unit soon at Malur||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Friday announced that a Covaxin production unit of Bharat Biotech firm would was being set up in Malur Industrial Area of Kolar district. Dr. Narayan, who is also chairman of the state COVID Task Force, told reporters in Bengaluru that the government had given all clearances for the unit. The civil works, which had begun, expected to be completed at the earliest to facilitate early production of vaccine, he said. He said the State government was ready to provide quick clearance to any vaccine production firm if it wanted to set up its production unit in Karnataka. Measures were being taken to ensure availability of a 100-bed hospital in each Assembly constituency to face the second and possible third wave. These beds should also contain those with oxygen and ICU facilities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covaxin-production-unit-soon-at-malur/article34562007.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||41,779 cases reported in State||As many as 41,779 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases to 21.3 lakh. Of the new cases, 14,316 were in Bengaluru Urban alone. The death toll remains high, with 373 people succumbing to the virus across Karnataka, with Bengaluru Urban accounting for 121 deaths. To date, 21,085 people have succumbed to the COVID-19. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the positivity rate for the day stood at 32.86%, while the case fatality rate was 0.89%. A total of 1.27 lakh tests were conducted on Friday.       Discharges cross 15 lakh in State    Meanwhile, 35,879 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of discharges to 15.1 lakh. Of the total cases, 5.98 lakh are active cases in the state. Around 56,350 people were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/41779-cases-reported-in-state/article34562013.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||75,000 Covaxin doses from Centre||Health Minister K. Sudhakar said Karnataka received 75,000 doses of Covaxin from the Centre today. So far, the State has received 1,10,49,470 doses from the Cetre including 99,58,190 doses of Covishield and 10,91,280 of Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/75000-covaxin-doses-from-centre/article34562015.ece
15 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||New COVID Care Centre in Hassan||A COVID Care Centre with 100 beds, set up by volunteers of several Muslim organisations, was inaugurated at Old Idgah Complex on Hosaline Road in Hassan city on Friday. The centre with oxygen facility has been set up jointly by the Hassan Humanitarian Service, the Shama Trust, and HBS Hospital in Bengaluru. A team of 50 youths, who will work as volunteers at the centre, will extend support to the doctors and the staff. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, who inaugurated the centre, lauded the efforts of the non-government organisations in combating COVID-19. “This facility will serve in combating the infection in the district. If some more organisations join hands with the district administration in countering the spread of the infection in a similar fashion, we could handle the situation very well,” he said. The DC said that the administration would make arrangements to provide oxygen cylinders for the centre as well. He also suggested the volunteers at the centre get vaccinated to avoid infection. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivas Gowda, zilla panchayat CEO B.A. Paramesh also praised the organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-covid-care-centre-in-hassan/article34562090.ece
15 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four scanning centres in Hassan penalised||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R.Girish has slapped a penalty of Rs. 10,000 each on four centres for charging more than the rate fixed by the State government for HRCT scan and digital x-ray. The scanning centres facing the action are Unity Scan Centre, Janapriya Hospital Scan Centre, SMS Hospital in Hassan, and Hi-tech Hospital in Channarayapatna. The DC had issued notices to these centres following reports by officers, who inspected the centres and checked if they followed the government’s guidelines on scanning. None of the centres responded to the notices within the stipulated 24 hours.  Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Girish said he would take action against private hospitals charging more for treating COVID-19 patients than fixed by the State government.  Hassan reported 2,202 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 20 more deaths on Friday. With that, the total number of cases rose to 60,806 and deaths increased to 768. Of the dead, eight are from Hassan taluk, four from Arsikere, three each from Channarayapatna and Sakleshpur taluks, one from Belur taluk, and one more from outside the district. So far 44,417 have recovered from the infection and 15,621 are under treatment. Of them, 133 are in the intensive care unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-scanning-centres-in-hassan-penalised/article34562091.ece
15 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ravi defends remarks||BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi has defended his remarks on judges, stating that he did not disrespect either them or the judiciary. “I stick to my statement and repeat that it was never meant to dishonour the judges,” he said in a press conference in Chikkamagaluru on Friday. The MLA maintained that he believed there was no one in the world who knows everything. “Neither a judge nor a Prime Minister nor a leader of the Opposition is a Sarvajna. If there is one person who knew everything, we would have countered COVID-19 effectively by now,” he said.At his press conference on Thursday, Mr. Ravi said that judges were not Savajnas and they too depended on reports by . “What was wrong with my statement? I had, I have, and I will continue to respect the judiciary. I don’t require lessons from leaders of parties which have a history of dishonouring court judgements,” Mr. Ravi said. Asked whether the State government would announce a package for people affected by the lockdown, Mr. Ravi said legislators of the party too had raised the issue in a party meeting and requested the Chief Minister to help poor families. “I hope the CM will take a decision,” he said, adding that the State and the Central governments will give 5 kg of rice to poor families. Former legislator and J(S) leader Y.S.V. Datta, in another press conference, commented that had the legislature and executive done their duty effectively there would have been no need for the judiciary’s intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ravi-defends-remarks/article34562014.ece
15 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Oxygen allocation to Dharwad will be enhanced, says Joshi||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that alternative plans are being worked out to enhance oxygen supply to Dharwad district and the enhancement will materialise in the next two days. Speaking to presspersons after jointly inaugurating the 66-bed makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients on the KIMS Hospital premises in Hubballi on Friday, with Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, Mr. Joshi said that various options were being worked out to enhance oxygen supply to Dharwad district as many patients from the northern districts of Karnataka come to Hubballi for advanced treatment. “Apart from seeking more allotment, we have identified various options and working on their implementation. I will not be able to reveal now but you will see the result in the next two days,” he said. Mr. Shettar said that while the present allotment was being utilised to manage the existing requirement, the district definitely needed more allocation. “We have sought more allocation to Dharwad district apart from seeking total allocation of 1,400 MT oxygen to the State. We are working out and hopefully will seen more oxygen availability to the district shortly,” he said. The 1,500 sqft makeshift hospital built in 14 days will house 66 patients and has been built at a cost of Rs. 66 lakh released under State Disaster Relief Fund. The soundproof and waterproof structure has a life of 20 years, and six bathrooms and toilets each for men and women have been constructed. The hospital can be shifted to another space depending on necessity. The district administration has also provided oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators to the makeshift hospital and plans to utilise the space as inoculation centre after reduction in COVID cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-allocation-to-dharwad-will-be-enhanced-says-joshi/article34562087.ece
15 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Centre leaving no stone unturned in COVID-19 management: Pralhad Joshi||“The Union government is undertaking COVID-19 management on a war footing and supplying oxygen to various States by 105 trains and has supplied 230 oxygen tankers by cargo flights and 1,142 MT oxygen through 62 tankers of Indian Air Force,” Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said here on Friday. Speaking to presspersons after formally handing over the 80 oxygen concentrators donated to the district administration by MICL under CSR, Mr. Joshi said that earlier only 1% of the oxygen produced in India was utilised for medical purposes and now it had been increased to 6 to 7%. “Under PM Cares Fund, Rs. 322 crore has been spent for purchase 1.50 lakh oxycare systems. Forty nations in the world are helping India and 2,285 MT oxygen has been imported from Behrain, Kuwait and France. Before the onset of second wave the country had a demand of Rs. 5,700 MT oxygen daily and now it has increased to 18,000 MT daily. At present 11,000 MT of oxygen is being produced in the country”, he said. Mr. Joshi said that 1,594 PSI Oxygen manufacturing plants are being set up under PM Cares. He said that the Centre, with the assistance of various industries, was setting up oxygen manufacturing plants in 28 districts and as per the demand of the elected representatives more plants would be sanctioned to the State. Already sanction had been given to utilise 30% of Mineral Fund in the districts for COVID-19 management, he said. The Union Minister said that more than oxygen, the country faced shortage of tankers to supply oxygen and to make up for the same, tankers used for supply of petroleum and nitrogen were being converted to transport oxygen. “At present 1,580 tankers are available and there is need for 2,000 tankers. The production of Remdesivir injections has been increased from 38 lakhs to 1 crore. So far, 18 lakh people have been vaccinated in the country and 1.9 crore doses of vaccine have been given to Karnataka,” he said. Admitting that the experts committee had warned about the second wave, Mr. Joshi however said that they had not warned the people about the scale of requirement of oxygen and medicines in the country. Moreover, the magnitude of the second wave was unprecedented, he said. The Minister said that the vaccine production had been enhanced and by August the country would have 200 doses of vaccines available. And by June/July, adequate quantities of vaccine would be available, he said, adding that the Opposition parties should not indulge in politics. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-leaving-no-stone-unturned-in-covid-19-management-pralhad-joshi/article34562095.ece
15 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Subdued celebrations of festivals||The districts of North Karnataka witnessed subdued celebrations of Id Ul Fitr, Basava Jayanti and Akshaya Tritiya on Friday because of the lockdown regulations. The celebrations were limited to their respective houses. As no religious congregations were allowed on account of the second wave of COVID-19, no mass prayers were held by the members of the Muslim community. Id prayers were offered by the people at their homes as even mosques were closed because of the pandemic. Several Muslim leaders posted photographs of them offering namaz at their homes while maintaining physical distance. The ‘Basava Jayanti’ processions and programmes in residential localities were missing this time because of the pandemic. People used to make a beeline before the statue of 12th century reformer Basavanna or Basaveshwara to garland and pay tributes to him. This time following the strict lockdown guidelines people chose to remain at home. Only few political leaders and followers of Basvanna garlanded the statue to mark the occasion and celebrations at government offices were simple ones with only few being asked to attend. Basava Kendras, branches of Akhil Bharat Veershaiva Mahasabha and Jagatika Lingayat Mahasabha celebrated the birth anniversary in a simple manner with small talks with only few members participating. Online programmes to mark ‘Basava Jayanti’ were held by various organisations. Followers of Basavanna also took to Twitter and other social media to launch an online campaign to highlight the teachings of Basavanna. With gold shops being closed, Akshaya Tritiya celebrations were limited to rituals at home and those who had planned to buy old on the auspicious day could not do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/subdued-celebrations-of-festivals/article34562093.ece
15 May 2021||Hyderabad,KARNATAKA||Uttam launches ‘Rahul Cares’ programme in Telangana||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgona MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy launched the Rahul Gandhi Cares programme along with Telangana Youth Congress president Sivasena Reddy under which Youth Congress would take up relief works for Covid patients in the State. These relief works include donating plasma for patients, setting up help centres to guide people on corona treatment, assist in getting medical advice for those affected with the virus and arranging oxygen and beds for those in definite need of the facility. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy questioned the government’s hesitancy in bringing corona treatment under the Aarogyasri scheme. The neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh government had already done it providing a huge relief to Covid patients. “Why is Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao going back on his assurance in the Assembly on bringing corona under Arogyasri?” he asked. Mr. Reddy, who has just recovered from the disease, said he had to shell out Rs. 3 lakh for the treatment for a few days. How does the government expect the common people to pay such huge money being charged by private hospitals, he asked. He said that Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh was being charged for each general bed and each oxygen bed respectively in private hospitals and people were forced to sell their assets to meet the expenditure of treatment of Covid-19. “What is stopping the CM from keeping his promise of free treatment, he said. He said it was atrocious to note that testing kits were not available in the state. The Rapid Antigen tests were failing to find the virus and to overcome this problem government should take up RTPCR tests to all the people of Telangana. “It would cost just Rs. 4 crore to the exchequer,” he said. Accusing the CM of being blind to black marketing, he said the government was silent when artificial shortage was created for Remdesivir injections in the state and reminded that the Hetero Drugs was granted lands worth hundreds of crores of rupees. Can’t the government ensure better supply from the company, he questioned. The TPCC chief said it was ironical that there was no minister to look after the Health portfolio and health officials were forced to visit the farmhouse of KCR to participate in the reviews on health affairs. Telangana Youth Congress president Shivasena Reddy said that so far they had provided plasma to about 246 patients and oxygen to 500 people free of cost. He said that they would strive to create awareness among people about vaccination and also informed that help desks of Youth Congress would start to function in district headquarters from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uttam-launches-rahul-cares-programme-in-telangana/article34562019.ece
15 May 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Former varsity official dies of COVID-19||M. Sanjeev Kumar, former Registrar (Evaluation) of Gulbarga University, died of COVID-19 at a private hospital in Telangana on Friday. He was 45. He was currently working as a professor at the Department of Economics in Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women’s University, Vijayapura. Mr. Sanjeev Kumar was a native of Bidar district. His father also succumbed to COVID-19 last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-varsity-official-dies-of-covid-19/article34562080.ece
15 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Coast gears up to face the double whammy of COVID-19, cyclone||The district administrations of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, which are fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, have geared up to face the double whammy in the form of a cyclone that was in the process of being formed in the Arabian Sea and likely to hit Kerala and Karnataka coasts on Saturday and Sunday. With the India Meteorological Department predicting the low pressure formed in the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area on Thursday could develop into a cyclone, the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority has issued alerts to coastal districts to get ready to face the cyclone. Cyclone Tauktae is expected to hit the Karnataka coast on Saturday with winds gusting at the speed of up to 80 kmph coupled with rain. The KSDMA has issued red alerts for Saturday and Sunday along Karnataka coast predicting heavy to very heavy rain. Action plan Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told The Hindu he conducted an emergency videoconference with district officials on Thursday asking Revenue Department officials to alert all people residing in low-lying areas and make plans to shift them to safer locations. The Coast Guard had began shepherding fishing vessels to the shore even as the Coastal Security Police were on high alert, he said. As the disaster was approaching amid COVID-19, the DC told officials to keep tabs on home isolation cases and suggested that it would be better to shift them to COVID Care Centres if their houses were in low-lying areas. This avoids mixing up of patients in case of floods. Relief centres would be opened if needed. Dr. Rajendra said people residing in houses identified as prone to landslips should shift to their relatives’ houses or relief centres. Any ongoing roadworks that might get flooded should be barricaded. He also asked officials to check all power lines and poles while the local administration along with Forest Department should immediately attend to tree-falling cases. Mangaluru Mayor Premanand Shetty has instructed officials concerned to speed up storm-water drain desilting work so as to avoid artificial flooding during very heavy rain. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha issued similar instructions in the district and asked officials not to leave their headquarters during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-gears-up-to-face-the-double-whammy-of-covid-19-cyclone/article34562023.ece
15 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||In Mangaluru, 20-bed CCC opened for police personnel||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and City Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Saturday opened an exclusive COVID Care Centre for police personnel working in the city commissionerate. The 20-bed facility was opened at the boys’ hostel complex of St. Aloysius College here. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kumar said 65 personnel were infected in the second wave and one personnel died on Friday following the infection during the second wave. Around 300 personnel were affected in the first wave, he said. The CCC was being opened in view of non availability of isolation facility for some personnel at home and on the direction of the DG & IGP Praveen Sood. Those infected personnel finding it difficult for home isolation could join the CCC, he said adding the DC has arranged medical facilities at the centre. Dr. Rajendra lauded the efforts of the commissionerate in setting up the facility and urged the personnel to make use of it.  Siddappa Shinge, armed police constable and an ex-serviceman, succumbed to COVID-19 infection at a hospital on Friday. Mr. Kumar in a statement said Mr. Shinge was in hospital for two weeks and died of multi-organ failure. He had taken both the doses of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-mangaluru-20-bed-ccc-opened-for-police-personnel/article34562085.ece
15 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Not the time to play politics: Kateel||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Saturday chided the Opposition for criticising every move of the government in handling the pandemic and said this was not the time to play politics. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Kateel said the Opposition parties should have joined hands with the government in boosting confidence among the public. Instead, they were engaged in criticising the government’s every move, right from lockdown to vaccination programmes. Their propaganda has affected the vaccination drive, particularly for the 45-60 age group that became reluctant to get inoculated, he said. The BJP, Mr. Kateel said, has done remarkable work in Dakshina Kannada as well across the State in helping the government fight the pandemic. The centre set up in Dakshina Kannada along with other service oriented organisation has received over 2,000 calls during the second wave. It arranged more than 100 ambulance services and got 70 persons admitted to hospitals. Over 400 medical kits were distributed while ICU and ventilator facilities were arranged for 42 patients. As many as 32 victims of the pandemic were given decent cremation, he added. Because of efforts by the elected representatives, Dakshina Kannada has got 30 ventilators under the PM Cares Fund, 24 from donors and 32 from the government. The State government has agreed to provide 100 more ventilators to the district on his request of which 40 have already been sanctioned,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-the-time-to-play-politics-kateel/article34562012.ece
15 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Arrange centralised bed allotment system: DYFI||The Democratic Youth Federation of India on Friday said the Dakshina Kannada district administration has allowed private hospitals to fleece poor COVID-19 patients by not arranging a centralised bed allotment system. This failure defeats the very purpose of reserving 50% of beds in private hospitals under government quota to offer free treatment to the needy, said DYFI State president Muneer Katipalla in a statement here. The administration has thus lied to people who were forced to pay government-prescribed maximum bed charges even if they do not require treatment in ICU or under the ventilator. The government which should have declared a health emergency and requisitioned all private hospitals to provide quality treatment to people has stood with the private hospitals lobby and was facilitating fleecing of the poor. The administration has said eligible patients would be treated under Ayushman Bharat Arogya Raksha Kavach AB-ARK scheme in private hospitals without earmarking beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arrange-centralised-bed-allotment-system-dyfi/article34562083.ece
15 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘People who cast aspersions on Mysuru should apologise’||Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, who has been cleared by a High Court committee of any wrongdoings in the Chamarajanagar oxygen case, has said that a “slur” against Mysuru district has been erased. The committee, which went into the sequence of events leading to the death of COVID-19 patients in the district hospital at Chamarajanagar, did not hold anything wrong in the conduct of the Mysuru Deputy Commissioner. There were allegations that the district administration in Mysuru did not respond promptly to the oxygen requirements of Chamarajanagar which led to the death of patients.  Series of allegations Ms. Sindhuri told mediapersons on Friday that those who cast such aspersions should apologise to the people of Mysuru. She said ever since taking charge as the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru more than seven months ago, there were people levelling allegations against her, some of which were personal in nature but she had desisted from reacting to them. “I don’t respond to petty and baseless allegations but in case of the Chamarajanagar incident there was an attempt to bring disrepute to the entire district while trying to target me and such people should apologise to the people of Mysuru,” said Ms. Sindhuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-who-cast-aspersions-on-mysuru-should-apologise/article34562024.ece
15 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Security for doctors||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is in charge of Mysuru district, has directed the police to strengthen security at the K.R.Hospital where doctors on COVID-19 duty were roughed up following a patient’s death. He said action will also be initiated against those responsible for manhandling the hospital staff. The Minister said doctors and nurses were working round-the-clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/security-for-doctors/article34561998.ece
15 May 2021||Staff Reporter Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sculptor Kanaka Murthy passes away||Renowned sculptor Kanaka Murthy, known to be the first woman sculptor of the State, succumbed to COVID-19 on Thursday. Born in 1942 in T. Narasipura, Mysuru, she was mesmerised by the sculptures at a temple in Mysuru in 1965 and took up sculpting as a passion, something rare for a woman in those times. She learnt sculpture from Devalakunda Vadiraj. Awards Including Kuvempu’s bust at Lal Bagh West Gate in Bengaluru, over 200 of her works dot public spaces. She has authored two books, an autobiography and one on the art of sculpting. She has been awarded the Rajyotsava Award and Jakanachari Award, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kanaka-murthy-passes-away/article34562009.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mass crematoriums struggle with load||The three mass crematoriums on the city’s outskirts are reportedly facing a shortage of not just firewood, but also staff. Daily wage labourers have been roped in to meet the demand. Initially, two mass cremation sites were established in Giddenahalli and Tavarekere, but with the death toll showing no signs of easing, the Bengaluru Urban district administration established another one at Bidaruguppe, near Anekal. According to highly placed sources, the three sites are handling around 135 bodies every day. Another senior official explained that it takes a minimum of five hours to burn a body. “Firewood weighing three times the weight of the body is required,” sources explained, adding that experts from traditional cremation grounds were roped in to train daily wage workers at the new mass cremation sites. Sources attributed the rise in number of cremations at these sites to the rush in the electric crematoriums of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in the city, which are struggling to cope with the work load. “Also, some families prefer traditional cremation over electric cremation,” they said. Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner J. Manjunath said, “At the electric crematoriums, families have to wait for hours. At these sites, the wait time is less.” The recent spate of rains and strong winds were adding to delays, but the district administration has covered the new sites. There are 50 frames at Giddenahalli, of which 25 are covered. All 45 frames at Tavarekere and 20 in Bidaruguppe are covered, said Mr. Manjunath. “At least two batches of mass cremations are conducted at each site, depending on the number of bodies received in a day.” However, he denied claims of labour shortage. At Tavarekere, accommodation for workers had been provided at a hostel belonging to the Social Welfare Department. “We have also extended a pick and drop facility to those who want to return to their homes after work,” he said. Eucalyptus trees for firewood The district administration has been utilising firewood supplied from BBMP’s five depots maintained by the Forest Cell. “Trees cut for various development works as well as those that have fallen due to rain and winds are stored there. We are utilising this stock,” Mr. Manjunath said. He added that the administration was procuring eucalyptus trees at government approved rates from the Karnataka State Forest Industries Corporation. “We have also tied up with local timber yards and depots. If at all there is a shortage, these yards and depots send the required quantity of firewood,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mass-crematoriums-struggle-with-load/article34562003.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||26 triage centres established in city||As many as 26 physical triage centres have been set up in COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) and maternity hospitals across Bengaluru’s eight zones by the civic body. Another 30 will be set up over the next few days, said Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Guarav Gupta on Friday. The aim is to establish such centres in all 198 wards to manage the pandemic at the local level. According to BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) Rajendra Cholan, each triage centre has three physicians and three nurses to provide round-the-clock care. The civic body has deployed 256 doctors and nurses, but has also petitioned the Karnataka government to depute 1,000 doctors and nurses. So far, 106 doctors have already been sanctioned by the State government. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had recommended setting up 60 such Level 1 triage centres across the city. People with symptoms can walk directly into these triaging centres and need not contact 1912 COVID-19 control room, said Mr. Gupta. Physicians at these centres will assess their condition and recommend home isolation, admission in a CCC or treatment at stabilisation centres. This will ensure that beds are allocated to people who need them the most. Ward-level nodal officers will monitor these triage centres that have been linked to the zonal war rooms. BBMP Special Commissioner D. Randeep said a team of doctors will also assess the condition of patients through tele-triage while bed blocking. The triage centres will also provide oxygen facilities for those in need. In case of further assistance, beds will be arranged for the patient by contacting the war rooms. In light of discharge taking nearly 10 hours in hospitals, the civic chief said the BBMP has constituted a committee to simplify the process. In a meeting with private hospitals, the civic body had directed hospital administrations to complete discharge formalities within two hours, create discharge lounges and have quick turnaround to allot beds to other patients. ( The list of triage centres is available at https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/ )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/26-triage-centres-established-in-city/article34561999.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Doctor arrested for illegal sale of Remdesivir||Central Crime Branch (CCB) police busted two rackets involving sale of Remdesivir and oxygen in the black market as part of their crackdown on illegal sale of COVID-19 related materials. Acting on a tip-off, the Sanjay Nagar police arrested a person allegedly trying to sell a dose of Remdesivir in the range of Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000, and seized two vials of the medicine. The accused, Krishna, is a housekeeping manager at Matru Hospital on Hosur Road. His interrogation led the police to a doctor, who procured the vials from the hospital’s stock. The doctor, Sagar, tried to sell the vials in black through Krishna, said the police. The vials were allotted by the Karnataka government for a patient at the hospital, sources said. Police said their interrogation revealed that the duo had earlier diverted four vials of Remdesivir allotted to the hospital. In another case, CCB busted a gang that was trying to sell oxygen cylinders, masks and regulators without a licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctor-arrested-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir/article34562001.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMRCL to fell 604 trees for Kothanur depot||The Deputy Conservator of Forests (tree officer) has permitted Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) to fell 604 trees for metro work at the proposed Kothanur depot. Most of the trees are Eucalyptus, but a few Sapota, Hebbevu, Subabul and Cashew trees may also be axed. The BMRCL had acquired 32 acres of land in Kothanur to build the depot as part of Reach 6 under Phase 2 of Namma Metro from Kalena Agrahara to Nagawara. Work on the elevated metro corridor from Kalena Agrahara to Swagath Cross Road was stalled after the cash-strapped contractor failed to execute the project. Delay in executing the project had forced the BMRCL to terminate the contract. In March, the BMRCL floated tenders for completing the pending works. In its order, the tree officer has asked the BMRCL to compensate the loss by planting 6,040 saplings within six months of removing the trees. The order also stated that BMRCL has to ensure proper care and maintenance of the compensatory plantation for a period of three years. Other than Kothanur depot, the BMRCL has received permission for removal of 135 trees and translocation of 53 trees for construction of Kadugodi depot, and for two stations at Kadugodi and Whitefield. The translocation of trees will be done in the depot area itself. BMRCL has agreed to plant 1,880 saplings as compensatory forest, and identified various places, including army land, in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-to-fell-604-trees-for-kothanur-depot/article34562000.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Change in schedule irks many people||The Centre on Thursday accepted the COVID-19 Working Group’s recommendation for extending the gap between the two doses of Covishield. This revised time interval between two doses is applicable only to Covishield and not to Covaxin vaccine, said a press statement. But many people who were due to get their second dose are worried about the efficacy after a prolonged interval. “This decision was taken only because of the vaccine shortage. I am worried about how effective the vaccine will be if the interval is extended to 12-16 weeks,” said a senior citizen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-in-schedule-irks-many-people/article34562011.ece
15 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Heavy rain wreaks havoc in Alappuzha||Heavy rain and sea erosion wreaked havoc in the coastal and low-lying areas of Alappuzha district on Friday. The district administration has opened two relief camps, one each in Kadakkarappally village (Cherthala taluk) and Thamarakulam village (Mavelikara taluk). A total of 36 persons were shifted to the camps as of Friday evening. According to officials, at least eight houses were damaged in different parts of the district. Sea erosion was severe in Ottamassery, Andhakaranazhi, Neerkunnam, Viyani, Purakkad, Thrikkunnappuzha, Arattuppuzha and Kattoor in Cherthala and Ambalappuzha taluks. Several families from these places have shifted to their relatives’ homes after water entered their houses.  Bunds breached Outer bunds of three paddy polders in Kuttanad and one in Mavelikara breached following torrential downpour. Several houses were inundated after outer bunds of Mangalam Kayal, Sankaramangalam, Illimuri Thekkethollayiram polders in Kuttanad breached. Paddy harvest was already completed in these fields. However, paddy farmers of Aaram block polder suffered huge losses as the outer bund burst destroyed the harvest-ready crop there. Officials said they were closely monitoring water levels in rivers in Kuttanad. The Irrigation Department has initiated measures to cut open the Thottappally pozhi mouth to ensure smooth flow of floodwaters from Kuttanad into the sea. It also opened shutters of the Thanneermukkom bund. Scores of trees and power poles were uprooted in different parts of the district in strong winds that accompanied torrential rains. A 23-member National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team reached the district on Friday. The team will be deployed to areas affected by coastal erosion in Cherthala taluk. District Collector A. Alexander visited Ottamassery, Andhakaranazhi, Purakkad, Viyani, and Thottappally and reviewed the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-alappuzha/article34562144.ece
15 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level in Idukki dam remains low||Despite heavy rainfall, the water level in the Idukki dam continued to remain at a low on Friday. As per data from the Dam Monitoring and Research Station at Vazhathoppe, the water level on Friday stood at 2,333.12 ft, which was 32% of the full reservoir capacity. The previous day's water level was 2,333.38 ft. Power generation at the Moolamattom power station was 7.494 mu (mega units) on Thursday. The rainfall had not made much of an impact on the water inflow through the main tributary of the Periyar, said an official. The water level in the Idukki dam would rise only if the spell continued for two more days. The average storage in the 16 hydel dams in the State was only 33% on Friday. The storage level in the main hydel dams on Friday were: Idukki (32%), Pamba (40%), Sholayar (30%), Idamalayar (29%), Kundala (13%), Mattupetty (31%), Kuttiady (48%), Thariyode (9%), Anayirankal (6%), Ponmudi (76%), Neriamangalam (24%), Peringalkuthu (26%) and Lower Periyar (66%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-in-idukki-dam-remains-low/article34562166.ece
15 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||No shortage of beds in govt. hospitals for patients in Idukki||District Collector H.Dinesan has said is no shortage of beds for COVID patients in government hospitals in Idukki. The district has not faced shortage of beds or oxygen cylinders. However, there is a shortage of ICU beds in government hospitals. However, they are available in private hospitals, he said. The number of COVID-19 patients has remained high for the past three days in the district. The number of persons diagnosed with the infection on Friday was 1,284. The local bodies having a large number of cases are Adimali, Arakkulam, Edavetty, Elappara, Kanthallur, Karimannur, Kattappana, Kodikulam, Kanjiyar, Kumaramangalam, Manakkad, Muttom, Nedumkandam, Pallivasal, Pampadumpara, Rajakumary, Thodupuzha, Udumbanchola, Udumbannur, Upputhara, Vandanmedu, Vandiperiyar, Vannapuram,Vellathooval, and Velliyamattom. There were 11 cases for which the sources could not be traced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-shortage-of-beds-in-govt-hospitals-for-patients-in-idukki/article34562451.ece
15 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Weather forecasting system for Wayanad||The Hume Centre for Ecology and Wildlife Biology and the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) have jointly set up a localised weather forecasting system for Wayanad district, a major landslip-prone area in the State. “While the conventional forecasting systems focus mostly on district-wise rainfall, which has limitation in providing regional variation in forecasting, this new model predicts rainfall in 25 sq.km gridded platform, showing local variation in rainfall,” said S. Abhilash, Cusat meteorologist. “Everyday forecasting resulted in 70% to 80% accuracy in spatial distribution as well as the intensity of rainfall. But we have to experiment for at least three years to understand the limitations in the modelling system and to further improve accuracy. The promising results of one year simulation is encouraging and appreciated by various stakeholders and there is also scope for customisation of the forecast products for various stakeholders,” said Mr. Abhilash. The Western Ghats mountain ranges on the south-western side of the hill district attract clouds during the monsoon and precipitate heavy orographic rainfall. While the western side receives 4,000-mm to 5,000-mm rainfall annually, the eastern side, which is a rain shadow region, receives only 1,500-mm rainfall. Though the district had shown a declining trend in the annual rainfall during the decade ending 2017, a sudden upsurge of extreme rainfall experienced in 2018 and 2019 resulted in a series of landslips and floods in Wayanad, due to climate change. Extreme rainfall ranging from 300 mm to 800 mm in 24 hours had been recorded during the past three years, and it resulted in major landslips, he said. “One of the major objectives of this initiative is to provide day-to-day information about rainfall in different regions of Wayanad through a localised prediction system as well as widespread rainfall collection system in citizen science mode,” said Hume Centre director C.K. Vishnudas. The district was divided into 107 grids of 25 sq.km for the purpose and a rain gauge and thermometer were installed in each of the grids except in forest areas. Currently, rainfall data was being collected from 93 locations of Wayanad and pooled into a centralised system for synthesis, said Mr. Vishnudas. The system helped provide localised warning to people living in mountain slopes about possible landslips when rainfall exceeded the threshold during the monsoon, he said. The Hume Centre has already mapped all the landslip-prone areas of the district with a panchayat-wise landslip susceptibility map.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weather-forecasting-system-for-wayanad/article34562165.ece
15 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Trapped elephant rescued in Wayanad||The Forest Department officials of South Wayanad forest division have rescued a 15-year-old female elephant at Elamala near Mundakkai forest in the district after its right, front leg got stuck between the branches of a tree while it was trying to pick jackfruit from a private plantation. A 56-year-old woman was attacked by a herd of elephants on Friday morning at Mundakkai under the Meppadi range of forest when she was going through the forest path for daily work in a cardamom plantation near her house. The woman, identified as Leela Balan, was admitted to a private medical college hospital at Meppadi with serious injuries. When the forest officials reached the site for inspection, they saw the trapped elephant, South Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer P. Ranjith Kumar told The Hindu . The leg of the elephant got stuck between two branches of a tree while the animal was trying to pick jackfruit from a private plantation adjacent to the forest, said Mr. Kumar. However, the forest officials rescued the elephant after an operation that lasted around five hours. A team of forest officials, including forest veterinary surgeon Arun Zachariah, Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary warden Narendra Babu and members of the rapid response team, led the operation. Reunited with herd Later, the animal left to the nearby wilderness along with its herd. Separate teams of frontline forest officials were constituted to observe the movement of the elephant and to patrol the area round-the-clock, said Mr. Kumar. It was suspected that a member of the herd, who was trying to help the elephant escape, had attacked the woman, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-officials-rescue-elephant/article34562174.ece
15 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Tribal patients denied basic facilities at Wayanad DCC’||A group of COVID-19 patients from the Varadimoola tribal hamlet in Mananthavady municipality has alleged that they were denied basic facilities at a domiciliary care centre (DCC) under the civic body on Thursday night. The Health Department had organised an antigen test camp in the hamlet and as many as 17 of the 136 members had tested positive. They were directed to be shifted to a nearby DCC. “Though I had requested the municipal chairperson to provide basic facilities to the patients at a DCC near the hamlet, the authorities failed to provide them as beds at the DCC were almost filled with patients,” said councillor Thankamani. The tribespeople were directed to take a mat and pillow along with them as per the direction of the municipal chairperson and they slept on it on Thursday night, she added. When the patients brought the issue to the attention of the media on Friday, the municipal authorities tried to shift them to a newly opened DCC at the Government Higher Secondary School, Mananthavady. But, the patients protest against the move and the authorities assured them that basic amenities would be set up at the centre itself. ‘Not informed’ Municipal chairperson C.K. Ratnavally, however, told The Hindu that the issue was raked up by Left Democratic Front (LDF) councillors. The councillor admitted the patients to the DCC without informing her, she said. If she was informed, the authorities could have accommodated the patients at the new DCC where nearly 100 beds were vacant, said Ms. Ratnavally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-patients-denied-basic-facilities-at-wayanad-dcc/article34562175.ece
15 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Control rooms in Kannur in view of cyclone threat||Precautionary measures have been intensified in the coastal areas of the district following warnings from the India Meteorological Department that the formation of a low pressure area over the Arabian Sea could lead to strong winds and heavy rains in various parts of the State. Taluk-level control rooms have been opened. Under the leadership of tahsildars, preparations were made in collaboration with panchayats by assigning deputy tahsildars in each village. Necessary instructions have been given to the public, and emergency facilities have been arranged. All arrangements have been made to open camps if necessary.  Alert has been issued to those living in the coastal areas of Thalassery taluk. A 24-hour control room has also been set up. The Kannur taluk control room may be contacted at 0497 2704969, the Payyannur taluk control room at 04985 294844, and the Thalassery control room at 0490 2343813.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/control-rooms-in-kannur-in-view-of-cyclone-threat/article34562417.ece
15 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sea wrath worsens Chellanam’s COVID woes||Chellanam’s existing COVID-related woes were exacerbated by sea incursion and flooding on Friday. The panchayat had recently reported a spike in COVID cases. K.D. Prasad, Chellanam panchayat president, said that the panchayat had around 470 active COVID cases. Going by daily bulletins from the district administration, Chellanam has reported a total of 131 new cases in the past three days. A health inspector in the area said that wards 1 to 11 of the panchayat had a total of 220 active cases. Patients shifted to FLTC The panchayat’s own domiciliary care centre is yet to begin functioning, since it requires more work, Mr. Prasad said. COVID positive patients recovering at home and hit by sea incursion were being shifted to a first-line treatment centre (FLTC) at Kumbalanghi. Relief camps One relief camp is functioning at St. Mary’s High School, a second relief camp was set up at St. Xavier’s School, Kandakkadavu, and a third one is being considered at a parish hall in Kannamaly, Mr. Prasad said. “The primary health centre at Kandakkadavu was submerged in waist-high water. Fire and rescue personnel had to find a way to get the health staff into the centre on Friday morning. We managed to place medicines on higher ground before they were damaged. COVID testing did not take place at the health centre on Friday,” said a health inspector. “All 21 wards of the panchayat were hit by sea incursion on Friday, in what is possibly the worst such instance we have seen so far,” Mr. Prasad said. A revenue official said a relief camp had been opened at St. Mary’s High School, though water had started streaming into the school compound as well. “It became difficult for people to enter the camp. In an unprecedented situation, the coastal road was submerged in the morning, making it difficult to arrange transport to shift people. “Some residents close to the sea, who are accustomed to regular sea incursion, moved to the homes of relatives on Thursday itself,” the official added. “The sea wall has entirely been destroyed in some parts. It looks like the sea and the houses have all merged to become one,” said an ASHA worker from Chellanam.  The primary health centre at Kandakkadavu was submerged in waist-high water. We managed to place medicines on higher ground before they were damaged Health official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sea-wrath-worsens-chellanams-covid-woes/article34562415.ece
15 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Panel not happy with release of prisoners||A high-power committee (HPC) constituted for facilitating the release of prisoners from jails following the COVID-19 pandemic has distanced itself from the recent release of some life convicts punished for heinous offences. The proceedings of the committee indicated that it had prescribed guidelines for the release of prisoners and insisted that those who had been convicted for certain offences should not be considered for the scheme. Incidentally, the State had let out a few prisoners, including some life convicts who were awarded punishment in sensational political murder cases, as part of the drive to decongest jails in the wake of the pandemic. This has invited public criticism. Till Thursday, 857 prisoners were released on special parole from the open prisons at Nettuikaltheri and Cheemeni; central prisons of Viyyur, Kannur and Thiruvananthapuram; women’s prisons at Kannur, Viyyur and Thiruvananthapuram; and the high security prison at Viyyur. Around 300 remand prisoners too were send out from different jails on interim bail as part of the drive. Justice C.T. Ravikumar, executive chairman, Kerala State Legal Services Authority; T.K. Jose, Additional Chief Secretary (Home); and Rishi Raj Singh, Director General, Prisons and Correctional Services; are the members of the committee formed following an instruction from the Supreme Court. Instructions While providing amnesty, the committee had issued instructions to the authorities that those who had been charge-sheeted under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and those who had been charge-sheeted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act should not be released. It further recommended that those who had been punished for rape and convicted for selling and buying of minors for the purpose of prostitution should not be considered for the scheme, sources said. The committee was of the view that the benefit of the scheme shall be extended to those who have been convicted or remanded for offences punishable up to 10 years of imprisonment. It had not recommended the release of those who have been awarded life sentences. Those prisoners with criminal antecedents, previous conviction or are under trial/remand in more than one cases, which included procuration of minor girl and dacoity, if committed in highways between sunrise and sunset, were made ineligible for the release. The State government, judicial sources said, should have consulted the HPC before exercising its powers to allow parole to prisoners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-not-happy-with-release-of-prisoners/article34562420.ece
15 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||TPR drops to 24.5% in Ernakulam||Ernakulam saw 3,855 new COVID cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 24.59% on Friday. The district’s active caseload stands at 69,196. A total of 15,680 tests were done. ICU admissions have risen to 505. On Thursday, 476 patients were admitted to ICUs, and the figure was at 453 on Wednesday. Eight health workers were among those who tested positive on Friday. Thrikkakara recorded 177 new cases, Kadungalloor 154, Alanagad and Nayarambalam 90 each, Thripunithura 89, and Palluruthy 83. A total of 3,341 people were considered to have recovered on the day, and 231 people were discharged from hospitals and other treatment centres. Of those recovering from the infection, 60,646 are at home, 2,518 are admitted at private hospitals, 658 are at government hospitals, 82 are at INHS Sanjivani, and 1,437 are at FLTCs, SLTCs and domiciliary care centres. A total of 2,227 beds out of 4,302 are vacant for COVID treatment at government facilities, going by a release from the district administration. Of these, 1,220 are at domiciliary care centres, 482 are at FLTCs, 108 are at SLTCs, and 392 are at 13 government hospitals. At a makeshift facility at the Cochin Refineries School ground, 100 beds with oxygen supply has been set up. The facility, which will eventually be scaled up to house 1,500 beds, will require the services of 130 doctors and 240 nurses, and training for healthcare workers is under way, according to a release from the administration. Patients will be admitted to the centre once the fire audit is complete. “Since beds under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi [KASP] are mostly occupied at private hospitals, both Aster Hospital and Sunrise Hospital will take over part of this new facility as their annex for KASP beds,” said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. At the Ernakulam General Hospital, 40 ICU beds are ready, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-drops-to-245-in-ernakulam/article34562413.ece
15 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Seawall crumbles, Chellanam residents flee surging waves||Residents of Chellanam were, once again, besieged by the sea on Friday. The waves lashing the coastline are strong, and the seawall is crumbling at places. Water entered several homes at Cheriyakadavu, Malakapady, Velankanni, and Companyppady, besides parts of the Saudi-Manassery road, says V.T. Sebastian, a resident of Malakapady. Mr. Sebastian of the Chellanam-Kochi Janakeeya Vedi has been demanding strong protective measures along the coastline. “Water rose to unexpected levels on Friday morning damaging our belongings,” says John Bosco, a resident of Velankanni. Mr. Bosco moved in the morning to the second floor of a relative’s home. “Every house has a kitchen on the ground floor, which is flooded. We have not eaten all day,” he says. “Most people have moved to homes of relatives and friends in the hope that water will recede with the tide and they will be able to return. Moving to a relief camp at this point is not an option for many considering the chances of contracting COVID-19,” says Mr. Sebastian. Joyce, a 52-year-old resident of Kannamaly, whose home is adjacent to the seawall, says the waves breached the seawall and water began entering homes around 9 a.m. She moved to a relative’s house where she is staying with around 15 people of three families. “There is no way to get out, unless we attempt swimming through the water or get a boat out. Most of us are scared to move to a relief camp considering the COVID situation. For now, we are staying put here, and people are moving to the second floor of homes of friends and relatives,” she says. Measures fail Makeshift arrangements the residents desperately made fell through when pitted against the onslaught of the waves. Two weeks ago, the Janakeeya vedi had sought contributions of plastic sacks to fill with mud to plug gaps in the seawall. While sacks were filled at some places, at most others residents could not find enough mud to fill them, says Jayan Kunnel, a resident of Saudi, and a member of the vedi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seawall-crumbles-chellanam-residents-flee-surging-waves/article34562177.ece
15 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NDRF team on standby to meet emergencies||An National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team comprising 28 personnel arrived in Kochi to step up flood relief efforts and to rescue people from affected areas. A total of five multi-axle tipper lorries have been kept ready to relocate people to safer places. Personnel of the police, Fire and Rescue Services and Revenue departments have been directed to maintain utmost vigil in the entire coastal belt. District Collector S. Suhas presided over a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that was convened to take stock of the situation in the district. T.A. Dalphine of the Pashchima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samiti, an NGO, sought urgent steps by government agencies to save life and property of people residing in Chellanam, considering the fast-deteriorating situation. Walls, shutter gates People in the region have begun replacing the gates of their houses having compound wall with shutters, to prevent seawater incursion. Others are building walls measuring half-a-metre in height around their houses to prevent water entering their houses and shops. In the meantime, a total of 30 people were shifted to three relief camps in Kochi taluk, after COVID-19 test. They include two families from P&T Colony, and Kadavanthra. Those who report positive will be shifted to FLTCs. Kochi Corporation works standing committee chairperson Sunitha Dixon said that high-power pumps would be deployed to pump out water from Mullassery Canal Road, Karikkamury, Kaloor KSEB sub station premises, and Panampilly Nagar. A few were deployed on Friday, she said, after inspecting a few such areas. Traffic hold-ups Trees that were uprooted in intense winds caused traffic hold-ups and power disruption in the city and suburbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ndrf-team-on-standby-to-meet-emergencies/article34562416.ece
15 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Treatment centre on BPCL campus||The first phase of the COVID-19 treatment centre with 100 beds has begun functioning at the school operated by BPCL-Kochi Refinery at Ambalamugal. The centre, set up in collaboration with the Ernakulam district administration, National Health Mission (NHM), and the State Health department will be subsequently scaled up to have 1,500 oxygen beds in a fortnight or so, according to S. Suhas, District Collector. Sanjay Khanna, executive director (Kochi Refinery), Bharat Petroleum, said the company would provide free oxygen, power, and water to the 100-bed make-shift COVID-19 treatment centre, while the district administration, NHM, and the Health Department would ready the rest of the amenities and were in the process of recruiting manpower. The BPCL-Kochi Refinery is in a position to supply up to 12 tonnes of gaseous oxygen and up to four tonnes of liquid oxygen each day to the State, he said. The supply of industrial oxygen to the processing units of the refinery has been halted, following which it is being converted to medical oxygen and supplied to the COVID treatment centre through a one-km-long newly laid stainless steel pipeline. “We have also set apart our oxygen generator for the facility. Likewise, three of the 12 oxygen generators that BPCL will purchase will be given to major hospitals in Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, and Kannur. BPCL has spent a total of around Rs. 8 crore to combat COVID in Kerala,” he said. Mr. Suhas said that patients would be admitted to the new COVID treatment centre after a fire audit conducted by the Navy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/large-covid-treatment-centre-set-up-on-bpcl-campus/article34562412.ece
15 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||State to decide on Yogam election||The Kerala High Court has asked the Chief Secretary to decide on holding the annual meeting and election of office-bearers of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam before May 18. Considering a petition that sought to postpone the meeting and the election, scheduled to be held on May 22 at Sree Narayana College, Cherthala, the court on Friday suggested that the meeting and the election shall be postponed in the wake of the COVID-19 situation in the State. Counsel of the Yogam said that the organisation was not opposed to postponing the meeting and the election of the office-bearers considering the pandemic situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-decide-on-yogam-election/article34562421.ece
15 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man held on charge of assaulting son||The Fort Kochi police arrested a 45-year-old man on Friday after a video of him allegedly assaulting his 18-year-old son who reportedly had a developmental disorder went viral in social media. The police have charged Sudheer K.S. of Kallaikadav, Fort Kochi, under relevant provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, Mental Health Care Act, and the Indian Penal Code. The police said he used to assault the boy quite often. Police thank users The police thanked social media users for bringing the matter to their attention and said that nearly 1,000 persons had tagged them, alerting the police about the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-assaulting-son/article34562419.ece
15 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held in train robbery case||The special team probing the alleged robbery and assault on a young woman who was travelling in the Guruvayur-Punalur train on April 28 has arrested two persons on the charge of helping one Babukuttan, who was charged with the crime, sell the stolen jewellery. The stolen gold too was recovered. Those arrested on Friday by the Railway Police are Pradeepan and Muthu, natives of Varkala. Two more of his accomplices have been identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-in-train-robbery-case/article34562167.ece
15 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ex-Deputy Speaker Hamsakunju no more||Former Deputy Speaker and Kochi Mayor K.M. Hamsakunju died here on Thursday night following a cardiac arrest. He was 84. He is survived by wife, son, and daughter. Mr. Hamsakunju entered politics through trade union activities. Mr. Hamsakunju was appointed as Ernakulam district secretary of the IUML in 1975. He was elected to the seventh Assembly from Mattancherry and became Deputy Speaker in 1982. Mr. Hamsakunju resigned from the post owing to political reasons in 1986.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-deputy-speaker-hamsakunju-no-more/article34562185.ece
15 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||2,760 new cases in Kozhikode||The number of COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode recorded a dip on Friday with 2,760 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the new patients, 2,694 contracted the disease through local transmission while the source of infection could not be traced in 61 cases. Five persons had come from other States. As many as 11,560 persons were tested on Friday and the test positivity rate is 24.82%. Meanwhile, 3,912 patients have recovered. At present, there are 45,115 COVID-19 patients in the district. Even as there are complaints of lack of beds for COVID-19 patients in various hospitals, the district administration has said that 1,144 beds out of the total 3,228 are available in 60 COVID-19 hospitals in the district. Eighty-eight ICU beds, 314 beds with oxygen connectivity and 24 ventilators are also available. Of those, 331 beds, 22 ICU beds, 14 ventilators and 167 beds with oxygen supply are in 15 government-run COVID hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2760-new-cases-in-kozhikode/article34562169.ece
15 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local bodies to purchase 19,500 oximeters||Local bodies in Kozhikode district will purchase 19,500 pulse oximeters as part of their COVID management measures. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday. Ministers T.P. Ramakrishnan and A.K. Saseendran attended the meeting. Meanwhile, the MLAs-designate will lead the fund raising campaign to set up ventilators in COVID hospitals. All beds in government hospitals will be connected to the oxygen grid in one week. The district administration will request the State government to provide more ventilators, as many patients from other districts are coming to Kozhikode for treatment. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said the district was ready to handle up to 50,000 COVID cases at a time, even a year ago. Oxygen beds were set up in taluk hospitals as part of that plan. However, as the number of patients is going beyond the expected limits, arrangements are being made to accommodate 75,000 patients at a time, he added. Special attention is being given to coastal areas where the disease is spreading fast. Mobile vaccination facilities are being arranged for the bed-ridden and elderly. More sectoral magistrates are being appointed to ensure that the public followed the COVID protocol in local bodies where the test positivity rate remains high. District panchayat president Kanathil Jameela, MLAs-designate, Additional District Magistrate N. Premachandran and Deputy Collector N. Ramla attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-to-purchase-19500-oximeters/article34562170.ece
15 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test crucial in preventing COVID spread in camps||Thirty-one persons from the Kozhikode coastal area, who underwent a mandatory COVID-19 test before being shifted to a relief camp following the threat of sea erosion, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. Officials said the infected were immediately shifted to various first-line treatment centres as per the directives of the Health Department. There were about 25 families in the Thoppayil beach area who badly needed temporary rehabilitation support. Seawater had entered their houses, prompting authorities to take immediate relocation measures. The rapid test, which was conducted after noticing suspected symptoms among some members, turned out to be crucial in preventing massive spread. Relief camps accommodated only those who tested negative. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued special instructions to taluk-level Revenue Department authorities and local administrators to strictly comply with the COVID-19 protocol while opening relief camps. Officials at the district-level control room said arrangements were in place in 50 locations to open camps in case of an emergency. The proposed camps would be able to accommodate 1,000 persons from the coastal areas of Koyilandy, Vadakara and Kozhikode, they said. Review meeting To review the situation, a district-level meeting of the Disaster Management Authority was held at the Collectorate here on Friday. With a red alert issued in the district, local body administrators were asked to clear all trees in residential areas that posed a threat to public life. Fishermen were warned of stringent action under various sections of the Disaster Management Act if they ventured into the sea. Officials said district-level control rooms would be available 24x7 for the public to request support during emergency situations. The helplines are 0495 2371002, 1077 or 9446538900. Taluk-level helplines would also be functional. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) also reached the district on Friday to handle emergency situations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-crucial-in-preventing-covid-spread-in-camps/article34562410.ece
15 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Youth drowns in river||A 19-year-old youth drowned in Cherupuzha river near Kattangal in Kozhikode on Friday. The victim was identified as Adarsh, son of Madhusoodanan. The incident took place around 2 p.m. The body was recovered by the Fire and Rescue Services unit with the support of local volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-drowns-in-river/article34562171.ece
15 May 2021||Mangaluru,KERALA||Vedavardhana Tirtha is the 31st seer of Shiroor Mutt||Aniruddha Saralathaya from Nidle village in Dakshina Kannada district was anointed as the 31st seer of Udupi Shiroor Mutt on the Moola Mutt premises in Shiroor on Friday by its dwandva mutt seer Vishwavallabha Tirtha Swami of Udupi Sode Vadiraj Mutt. Saralathaya was given the name of Vedavardhana Tirtha before the anointment ceremony. The ceremony was initially planned at Sode Mutt’s Moola Mutt at Sode in Uttara Kannada district, but was shifted to Shiroor following the spread of the pandemic. He was initiated to Sanyasa by Vishwavallabha on Thursday. The seat had become vacant after the demise of Lakshmivara Tirtha Swami in 2018. After the anointment ceremony, Vedavardhana entered Udupi town and proceeded to Anantheshwara temple and thereafter Chandramouleshwara temples, located on the periphery of Sri Krishna Mutt, and had a darshan of the presiding deities as per the tradition followed by Udupi Ashta mutts. Upon his arrival at Sri Krishna Mutt, Adamar Mutt’s junior seer Eshapriya Tirtha Swami, who is conducting the Paryaya, welcomed Vedavardhana in a traditional way. He was taken to have the darshan of presiding deity Lord Sri Krishna along with Vishwavallabha Tirtha and Eshapriya Tirtha. The three seers later addressed a small gathering of devotees at the Sri Krishna Mutt. Vedavardhana Tirtha thereafter entered the Shiroor Mutt on Car Street and performed certain rituals. The seer then proceeded to visit seers of other Ashta Mutts located on Car Street. He met seers who were present at Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vedavardhana-tirtha-is-the-31st-seer-of-shiroor-mutt/article34562082.ece
15 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Highest daily spike in capital||Thiruvananthapuram district recorded 4,567 more COVID-19 cases as the number of active cases mounted to 44,934 on Friday. This is the highest single-day spike to be recorded in the district thus far. While 16,116 people were subjected to tests during the last 24 hours, the test positivity rate stood at 28.33%. While most cases have been attributed to local transmission, the source of infection is unknown in 210 cases. Eleven health care workers were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. As many as 2,802 people have recovered from the illness. The death toll rose by 35 during the last two days to touch 1,201, the highest in the State. The deaths were reported between May 4 and 11, according to official statistics. The district administration has currently placed 97,433 people in quarantine, 6,205 of them in 24 hours. As many as 5,496 people were permitted to conclude self-isolation after completing the mandated period. New containment zones have been declared in Mudapuram, Kizhuvilam, Kunnuvaram, Vaidhyantemukku, and Thottavaram wards in Kizhuvilam grama panchayat; and Mayam, Panchayat office, Koottappu and Thudiyamkonam wards in Amboori grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/highest-daily-spike-in-capital/article34562454.ece
15 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI stakes claim for four Cabinet posts||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has reportedly staked a claim for four Cabinet portfolios. By one account, the CPI has insisted on retaining Revenue, Agriculture, Forest and Food and Civil Supplies. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran had engaged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders in the Cabinet formation talks at the AKG Centre here. Details sketchy The consultation was a closed-door affair and details sketchy. However, a CPI insider said Mr. Rajendran was insistent that the party retained the key portfolios. Its Ministers in the previous LDF government had acquitted themselves well and steered the departments clear of scandals and controversies. The Kerala Congress (M) had staked a claim for the Revenue Department. However, the CPI felt that it had sacrificed enough to accommodate the new alliance partner. It had given up Kanjirapally to the KC(M) and did not get Changanassery in return. Nevertheless, the CPI was willing to concede the Chief Whip’s post to allies. The CPI was likely to nominate a set of fresh faces to the Cabinet. They would possibly include a woman, given the party’s stress on gender equity. By one account, E. Chandrasekharan, former Revenue Minister, had an outside chance of making it to the Cabinet. Talks pick up The Cabinet formation talks have picked up the pace at the AKG Centre here. The CPI(M) aspired to finalise the contours of the next Cabinet before the Left Democratic Front convenes here on May 17. The LDF meeting would formalise the arrangement. The CPI(M) would decide the party’s Cabinet members after the LDF meeting. It had hinted that several new faces would find themselves in the Cabinet.  KC splinter groups The CPI(M) is scheduled to hold talks with K.B. Ganesh Kumar of the Kerala Congress (B) and Antony Raju of the Kerala Congress (Secular). Both have evinced interest in joining the Cabinet. Mr. Ganesh is a four-time legislator from Pathanapuram and had held Forest and Transport portfolios. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) was a serious contender for a Cabinet post and Janata Dal (Secular) legislator and former Minister K. Krishnankutty. However, the chance of single legislator parties landing a Cabinet berth appeared remote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-stakes-claim-for-four-cabinet-posts/article34562422.ece
15 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Evacuation hits COVID hurdle||Evacuation of people to relief camps in coastal districts hit by heavy sea erosion has become all the more difficult due to the grim COVID-19 situation. With flooding severe along coastal Thiruvananthapuram, the district administration shifted 308 people from 78 families to relief camps. While people who have tested positive have been moved to domiciliary care centres (DCC), the administration is planning to carry out antigen tests in the relief camps for the others, Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) G.K. Suresh Kumar said. Heavy sea erosion In Alappuzha, sea erosion has been severe at Ottamassery, Neerkunnam, Purakkad, Thrikkunnappuzha, Ambalappuzha, Arattuppuzha, and Kattoor in Cherthala and Ambalappuzha taluks. At least three houses were damaged after rough seas battered Ottamassery. Buildings have been identified in all the six taluks for relief camps. People will be shifted there as per the COVID-19 protocol and guidelines, said a revenue official. Nearly all of the 21 wards of Chellanam panchayat in Ernakulam were hit by sea incursion and flooding. Residents said waves had risen above the low seawall and geotextile tubes in Kannamaly, Companypady, and Maruvakkad. Testing for COVID-19 also came to a halt in the panchayat on Friday. Since the panchayat’s own DCC is not yet functional, infected persons whose homes were flooded were being shifted to a first-line treatment centre at Kumbalangi. In Thrissur, 83 people were shifted to relief camps after the coastal belt experienced heavy sea erosion. Relief camps have been opened at Eriyad, Edavilangu, and Sreenarayanapuram panchayats in Kodungallur taluk. Meanwhile, there are reports that people are reluctant to move to the camps for fear of contracting COVID-19. The authorities have started conducting antigen tests at the camps. People who have tested positive have been sent to first-line treatment centres. People in Kannur and Kasaragod are on high alert following the weather advisories. Over 150 families residing at Thayyil in Kannur have been facing sea incursion and deluge during heavy rain in the area. Authorities have set up control rooms in four taluks in Kasaragod district in addition to a control room at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/evacuation-hits-covid-hurdle/article34562183.ece
15 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination of select persons in 18-45 group from Monday||Prioritised people amongst those in the 18-45 years age group, especially those with serious diseases, in the State will begin receiving COVID-19 vaccine from Monday. The registration for these people will begin from Saturday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State did not have enough vaccines to administer to all in the 18-45 year group. However, all will receive the vaccine for free in due time. There was no need for anyone to crowd at vaccination centres, he said. Herd immunity Even after vaccination, everyone will have to continue to wear masks and maintain physical distancing, till the vaccine coverage reaches a level wherein herd immunity can be achieved. People with co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension should get themselves tested for COVID as soon as they experience any symptoms and consult a doctor, as delaying diagnosis or treatment can lead to complications, Mr. Vijayan said. According to experts, people with co-morbidities should not stay home and attempt self-treatment but seek the advice of a doctor and get themselves hospitalised. Covishield guideline He said that from Saturday, the second dose of Covishield vaccine will be administered to only those persons in the State who have completed 84 days after the first dose. This was being as per the directive of the Union Health Ministry, as the second dose has been found to be more efficacious if administered between 84-112 days, he said. However, the dosage interval of Covaxin will continue to be four to six weeks. Testing strategy As per the new ICMR directive to deploy more rapid antigen tests (RAT) to test maximum number of people in the community, the State will use RATs in a huge way in pockets like tribal areas and coastal villages to pick up infectious people. Steps were being taken to ensure that all residents in the State’s care homes and those in tribal colonies were vaccinated. Ambulance drivers will also be vaccinated immediately on a priority basis. He said the oxygen position in the State now seemed quite comfortable as the additional supplies offered by the Centre and being procured from three other sources will be reaching the State soon. Steps were also being taken to bring oxygen supplies via ships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-of-select-persons-in-18-45-group-from-monday/article34562180.ece
15 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Widespread damage in capital||The district administration on Friday scrambled to evacuate people from the coastal areas which were severely hit by sea erosion triggered by the turbulent weather conditions over the Arabian Sea. As per the latest available data, 308 people belonging to 78 families have been shifted to relief camps. The lashing rain and strong winds damaged 32 houses and destroyed one house in the district. The administration has identified 318 buildings for opening more relief camps, if needed, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Coastal areas, including Kochuthope, Pozhiyoor, Anchuthengu and Vizhinjam, reported sea erosion on Friday. In Thiruvananthapuram taluk, 184 people belonging to 44 families have been evacuated to four camps. Several people have moved to the homes of relatives. Camps have been opened at St Roch’s School, Valiyathura; Government UP School, Chakkai; Kalady Government School, and at Kadinamkulam village in the taluk. Twenty-four people have been shifted to two relief camps in Chirayinkeezhu taluk, and around 97 people to three camps in Neyyattinkara taluk. One house was destroyed in the taluk and 13 damaged in the heavy rainfall that battered the district through the day. Three houses were damaged in Thiruvananthapuram taluk, four in Varkala taluk, nine in Nedumangad, and three in Chirayinkeezhu. The district administration has identified 91 buildings in Thiruvananthapuram, 46 in Neyyattinkara, 75 buildings in Nedumangad, 60 in Chirayinkeezhu, 34 in Varkala, and 12 in Kattakada for opening relief camps. Pandemic protocol The evacuation is being carried out in accordance with the COVID-19 norms, the District Collector said. COVID-19 patients in the affected areas are being shifted to domiciliary care centres. The shutters of the Aruvikkara dam in the district have been opened by 90 cm. The shutters will be raised further to 110 cm. People residing on the banks of the Karamana river have been asked to remain alert.  308 people belonging to 78 families have been shifted to relief camps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/widespread-damage-in-capital/article34562147.ece
15 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reports 34,694 cases, TPR at 26.41%||Kerala logged 34,694 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 1,31,375 samples were tested in 24 hours. Test positivity rate showed a slight dip at 26.41%. The State’s active case pool continues to rise and had 4,42,194 patients on Friday. The number of COVID patients currently being treated in hospitals in the State has risen to 37,197 with 4,018 persons newly hospitalised on Friday. A total of 2,692 persons are occupying ICUs, while 1,409 COVID patients are on ventilator support. The State reported 31,319 recoveries on the day. At present, 9,77,257 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Thursday, the State added 93 deaths to the official list of COVID-19 deaths, taking the cumulative toll to 6,243. These are not deaths reported in the past 24 hours but which occurred over the past few days, mostly between May 8 and 11, across districts. Ernakulam continues to have the highest number of active cases with 69,180. However, Thiruvananthapuram, with 44,934 active cases, has the highest number of hospitalisations at 5,445. Just on Friday, 802 patients were admitted in various hospitals in the district Most in capital Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 4,567, Malappuram 3,997, Ernakulam 3,855, Thrissur 3,162, Kollam 2,992, Palakkad 2,948, Kozhikode 2,760, Kannur 2,159, Alappuzha 2,149, Kottayam 2,043, Idukki 1,284, Pathanamthitta 1,204, Kasaragod 1,092 and Wayanad 482 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-34694-cases-tpr-at-2641/article34562178.ece
15 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Medical items declared essential, price to fall||The prices of medical items necessary for COVID-19 prevention and treatment will go down in the State with their formal declaration as essential articles on Friday. Following a proposal by the Health and Family Welfare Department, the Food and Civil Supplies Department issued an order to declare 15 products as essential articles under the provisions of the Kerala Essential Articles Control Act, 1986 (13 of 1986). Their maximum retail prices have also been fixed as follows: PPE kits – Rs. 273, N95 mask – Rs. 22, triple layer mask – Rs. 3.90, face shield – Rs. 21, apron (disposable) – Rs. 12, surgical gown – Rs. 65, examination gloves – Rs. 5.75, hand sanitiser (500 ml) – Rs. 192, hand sanitiser (200 ml) – Rs. 98, hand sanitiser (100 ml) – Rs. 55, sterile gloves (pair) – Rs. 15, NRB (non-rebreather) mask – Rs. 80, oxygen mask – Rs. 54, flowmeter with humidifier – Rs. 1,520 and fingertip pulse oximeter – Rs. 1,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-items-declared-essential-price-to-fall/article34562181.ece
15 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Crematoriums to function round the clock||All public crematoriums in the district should function round the clock in the wake of the COVID-19 situation, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said Employees of local self-government institutions should be deployed on shift basis to ensure the crematoriums work 24 hours. Panchayats should deploy a nodal officer for each crematorium under their limits. Each crematorium should have a hotline number. A nodal officer has been appointed in the war room at the Collectorate to coordinate the functioning of crematoriums. In case public crematoriums are not free in any panchayat, call the war room on 0471 2731337 and 2731347, a statement here has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crematoriums-to-function-round-the-clock/article34562450.ece
15 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. plans community kitchens||The city Corporation will launch 10 community kitchens to supply food to those affected by the restrictions put in place due to the COVID-19 situation. Mayor Arya Rajendran will formally inaugurate the community kitchen being launched in the Medical College ward at the Corporation rest house on Saturday. The others will come up at Vanchiyoor, Kadakampally, Kazhakuttam, Vattiyurkavu, Attukal, Valiyasala, Poonthura, Vizhinjam and Nanthancode. Each community kitchen will be tasked with distributing food packets across 10 wards around them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-plans-community-kitchens/article34562447.ece
15 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vaccination at 59 centres||COVID-19 vaccination will be provided in 59 centres for those aged above 45 years across the district on Saturday. These include 23 public health institutions that will administer Covishield and 36 others that will provide Covaxin. The prominent centres include Government Medical College Hospital, General Hospital and Thycaud Women and Children Hospital, SAT Medical College Hospital, Peroorkada District Model Hospital and Nedumangad District Hospital. Besides, inoculation will be facilitated in taluk hospitals at Fort, Attingal, Chirayinkeezhu, Malayinkeezhu, Nemom, Parassala, Varkala, Vithura, and various primary and community health centres in the district. According to official sources, the district vaccine store has a stock of nearly 25,000 doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-at-59-centres/article34562446.ece
15 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bomb attack victim critical||A differently-abled man who suffered serious burns after being attacked by his neighbour in Kunnathukal a few days ago continued to battle for his life at the Government Medical College Hospital here. According to official sources, Varghese, 47, of Aruviyodu, remained in the intensive care unit in a critical state. The Marayamuttom police had arrested 50-year-old Sebastian who allegedly hurled petrol bombs at the victim’s coffin shop that functioned close to the former’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bomb-attack-victim-critical/article34562448.ece
15 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||3,162 more test positive in Thrissur||With a triple lockdown declared in Thrissur, the district administration will chalk out strategies to control the spread of the pandemic. The district has been recording high test positivity rate for almost a month now. On Friday, the district recorded 3,162 fresh COVID-19 cases while 2,679 patients recovered. The test positivity rate (TPR) is 23.65%. Seven local bodies in the district have TPR higher than 50%. The local bodies with high TPR are Choondal (61.90%), Wadakkanchery (50.97%), Mattathur (57.80%), Vallachira (60.64%), Paralam (50.52%), Thiruvilwamala (57.14%) and Mullurkkara (63.64%). There are 56,219 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3162-more-test-positive-in-thrissur/article34562172.ece
15 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Rough sea wreaks havoc in Thrissur’s coastal belt||The coastal belt of Thrissur is bearing the brunt of the rough sea in the wake of low pressure formed over the Arabian Sea. Relief camps have been opened at Eriyad, Edavilangu and Sreenarayanapuram panchayats in Kodungallur taluk. There are 83 people in the camps. It has been reported that people are reluctant to shift to the camps fearing the spread of COVID-19. Many prefer to move to their relatives’ places. But authorities have started conducting antigen tests for people being shifted to the camps. Those who test positive are being shifted to first-line treatment centres. The sea erosion, which began on Thursday, became severe on Friday. Fish workers have been banned from venturing into the sea. The sea erosion is severe at Chantha Kadappuram, ArattuVazhi, Light House, Edavilangu, Puthiya Road, Kara, Vakkadappuram and Sreekrishna Mukham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rough-sea-wreaks-havoc-in-thrissurs-coastal-belt/article34562418.ece
15 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||500-bed temporary hospital to come up in Tadipatri||With the high positivity rate and lack of oxygen-supported beds in government and private hospitals, the authorities have undertaken the construction of a temporary hospital which will have 500 beds, all equipped with oxygen supply, in Tadipatri. The positivity rate of coronavirus infection in Anantapur district went up to 41% on Friday from 37% on Thursday and it has been oscillating between 34% and 45% for the past two weeks. The cumulative positivity rate that was 2% in third week of April reached 5% on Friday. The district so far has tested 15.15 lakh samples of which 1.05 lakh tested positive, with a cumulative positivity rate of 6.95%. Collector Gandham Chandrudu and Joint Collector Nishant Kumar, who is chairman of the Oxygen Monitoring Committee, inspected the construction activity at the site. The Arjas Steel will be laying an 800-meter pipeline to supply oxygen to the hospital from its plant. A similar temporary facility with 250 oxygen-supported beds will be set up next to the Super Speciality Hospital in Anantapur.  Oxygen supply At present, in addition to the 15 KL of Liquid Medical Oxygen supply from JSW Steel Plant in Toranagallu in Karnataka, 850 cylinders can be filled at Life oxygen (250) at Chakrayapet and Vedic Ispat Limited at Thumkunta near Hindupur (500).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/500-bed-temporary-hospital-to-come-up-in-tadipatri/article34562478.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister’s house now COVID-19 Care Centre||The residential premises of Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai at Shiggavi in Haveri district has been turned into a COVID Care Centre (CCC) that can house 50 patients. Mr. Bommai, who represents the Shiggavi constituency, has appointed doctors and medical staff to take care of the patients, his office said. Oxygen concentrators Stating that 50 beds have been installed on the verandah of the house, sources at his office said that the Minister intended to have oxygen concentrators at the facility and thereby come to the rescue of patients with breathing issues. Claiming that this is the first time a Minister’s residence in the State has been converted into a CCC, they said this would reduce the burden on the taluk hospital in the constituency. It is said Mr. Bommai and his family largely stay at their residences in Bengaluru or Hubballi and use the Shiggavi house during visits to the constituency. Mr. Bommai is the son of former Chief Minister and veteran Janata Parivar leader the late S.R. Bommai. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi dedicated the 50-bed CCC set up at Athani in Belagavi district with his personal donation of Rs. 50 lakh. The CCC is housed at Athani’s Kittur Rani Chennamma Hostel, Mr. Savadi’s office said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-house-now-covid-19-care-centre/article34561907.ece
15 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for ‘smuggling’ liquor from Karnataka||The police on Friday arrested three youth and seized 960 liquor bottles, a car and a two-wheeler, all worth over Rs. 5 lakh, at an isolated shed at Tavanampalle mandal headquarters, 20 km from here. According to the police, the accused, identified as Arun Kumar, Delhi Prasad and Yugandhar, residents of Tavanamaplle, allegedly used to smuggle liquor bottles from Karnataka. Acting on a tip-off, a special party raided the shed and seized the liquor bottles, and the vehicles, besides arresting the trio. The accused were sent for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-smuggling-liquor-from-karnataka/article34561962.ece
15 May 2021||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank employees worried with rise in COVID deaths||Deaths due to COVID have sent ripples of fear among bank employees in the State. The staff of the nationalised and private banks are in a tizzy with positive cases and deaths being added to the list every day. Forty-five- year-old Anand Kishore, a bank employee, is inconsolable as his close pal in the bank succumbed to COVID a couple of days ago. “There was not a single day at the chest (branches of selected banks authorised by the RBI to stock rupee notes and coins) that Suresh and I missed sharing our lunch boxes. It’s still unbelievable that Suresh is no more. I don't like to open my lunch pack,” he says. It is one of the 175-plus death cases in the State. The spike in positive cases and deaths, with banking being deemed an essential service, has raised concerns in the banking fraternity. More than 4,500 active cases is a worrying factor for the staff. Andhra Bank Award Employees Union (ABAEU) State president M. Kishore Babu says, “So far and 175 of them died during the ‘second wave’ in the last month. Employees are in panic mode.” United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) convener B.S. Rambabu point out that while banking was an essential service, bank employees were not treated as frontline workers. There was no rhyme and reason behind the rules and regulations by the managements. Though the business hours were from 9 a.m. to 12 noon, the employees were forced to remain in the branch till 4 p.m. Better cleanliness at the branches and more flexibility in work schedules were need of the hour, he says. Mr. Kishore Babu says the employees were being asked to clock in extra hours despite the fact that deaths were on rise. The focus of banks should be, now, on getting the employees vaccinated. The government did not consider the requests despite their being frontline workers, he says.  The managements were demanding the employees to produce doctor certificate to go on sick leave. “We are being intimidated that disciplinary action would be taken if we insist on leave,” laments an employee. There are no thermal scanners at the branches. Most of the branches have no security guard to control the visitors. Due to lack of space, it is very difficult to maintain physical distance.” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-employees-worried-with-rise-in-covid-deaths/article34561959.ece
15 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM has taken up with KCR the issue of stopping ambulances at border: Sajjala||The Telangana government should permit the ambulances carrying COVID-19 patients from Andhra Pradesh to Hyderabad on humanitarian grounds, said Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (Public Affais), on Friday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had spoken with his Telangana counterpart K. Chandrasekhar Rao to sort out the issue, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy told the media here. “A neighbouring State should reach out to other States in the hour of crisis. It is unfortunate that the Telangana government is restricting even ambulances and insisting on hospital letters and passes, which is not possible in the current situation. It is common for people to move to bigger cities, where they have access to better medical infrastructure. Hyderabad has many super speciality hospitals. Being a neighbouring State, Telangana should treat with humanity,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. “Patients from Andhra Pradesh have been going for better treatment to Chennai and Bengaluru. But problems are arising only on the Telangana border,” he observed. Dig at Naidu Referring to the A.P. Reorganisation Act, he said, post bifurcation, Andhra Pradesh had been left with neither Tier-1 cities nor best medical infrastructure. The previous government had wasted five years and failed to develop infrastructure in a single city. Had former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu developed at least one super speciality hospital during his term, people of Andhra Pradesh would not have faced these hurdles, he said. “The State government has been relentlessly working to contain the spread of COVID-19, provide better medical facilities, get people vaccinated, and ensure that there are no lapses in delivering welfare schemes even during the pandemic times,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. The State government had spent Rs. 5,000 crore for providing treatment to COVID-19 patients. In the last 23 months, the government had directly credited Rs. 89,000 crore into the bank accounts of beneficiaries under various schemes, he said. He accused the TDP of intentionally spreading rumours against the government to create panic among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-has-taken-up-with-kcr-the-issue-of-stopping-ambulances-at-border-sajjala/article34562489.ece
15 May 2021||Guntur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Covaxin second dose to be rolled out from today||Arrangements are being made for the second dose of vaccination for those above 45 years, said Collector Vivek Yadav. Mr. Yadav said that based on the recommendations of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration, the Covishied second dose would be administered after 12 to 16 weeks after the first dose. In view of the recommendations, the district administration had also revised vaccine administration policy. All those above 45 years who have completed 6 to 8 weeks after being administered first dose of Covaxin would be given second dose at the designated vaccine centres across the State. In Guntur Municipal Corporation limits, 10 vaccine centres were set up and the roll out or second dose would begin on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covaxin-second-dose-to-be-rolled-out-from-today/article34561963.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t stop other States’ ambulances at borders: Telangana High Court||Telangana High Court on Friday directed the Telangana government not to stop at the State borders the ambulances of other States ferrying COVID-19 patients into Telangana for medical treatment. The order should be communicated to the police officers who were stopping ambulances at the State borders immediately, the HC said. The direction was passed by a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, after hearing a PIL petition. A retired Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Garimella Venkata Krishna Rao moved a House Motion challenging Telangana government’s recently issued guidelines on COVID-19 patients being brought from other States into Hyderabad. The guidelines mandated that only patients with confirmation of beds in Telangana hospitals should be allowed to enter the State. The bench issued notices to State government and directed it to file counter affidavit within two weeks. The bench made clear that it “should not adopt any circuitous way of issuing fresh guidelines, circular or order putting pedals on inter-State travel of ambulances carrying COVID-19 patients”. The authorities should not insist with the patients or their attendants coming from other States to apply in a prescribed format to the Control Room (which was set up to tie-up with any hospital in Telangana for COVID-19 patient admission). The bench also clarified that in case a patient or attendant, on his or her own, applies to the said Control Room, the officers manning the latter can assist them in securing hospital admission. There was no requirement of any authorisation from the control room for an ambulance carrying a COVID-19 patient seeking hospital admission in Telangana. The Supreme Court had recently passed an order in a PIL plea taken up suo moto with specific reference to hospital admissions, the bench said. The SC order said “no patient shall be refused admission on the ground that he/she is not able to produce a valid identity card that does not belong to the city where the hospital is located”. The Union government too released a government order complying with the Apex Court directions. The bench also recalled its earlier directions to Telangana government not to stop ambulances of COVID-19 patients coming from other States. Preventing ambulances coming from other States was against the SC direction and the Central government’s order, it observed. They were against the provisions of the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act, petitioner’s counsel Dammalapati Srinivas argued. Andhra Pradesh Advocate General Sriram, appearing for AP as it was made one of the respondents by the petitioners, contended that the guidelines issued by Telangana were in violation of rights conferred on citizens under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. Telangana Advocate General B.S. Prasad defended the State’s guidelines claiming that they were issued keeping in mind purely the interests of the residents of Telangana. “The guidelines were for the convenience of patients of other States. It is not State’s intention to prevent patient from seeking admission but only to make the process smooth and avoid wastage of time,” he said. The guidelines resulting in stalling ambulances of other States bringing COVID-19 into Telangana drew sharp criticism from different quarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-stop-ambulances-at-borders-high-court/article34562364.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS-A.P. borders resemble war zone as ambulances pile up||Hours of tension filled moments on the Telangana-AP inter state borders with dozens of ambulances waiting to rush critically ill COVID patients towards Hyderabad in a last ditch effort and police refusing entry on the grounds that proper permits were not produced came to an end with the High Court of Telangana allowing free movement of vehicles on medical emergencies. The much needed lifeline came not before two COVID patients breathed their last waiting endlessly for the permission to drive towards Hyderabad at Pullur Toll Plaza near Panchalingala on the Kurnool-Jogulamba Gadwal district border on Friday. At least 40 ambulances were turned back from the morning at this Pullur checkpost. No different was the Ramapuram checkpost on Suryapet-Krishna border, Wadapalli and Nagarjunasagar on Guntur-Nalgonda district border. Earlier in the day, the State government had issued a series of guidelines to streamline admission of patients coming from other States into the hospitals here. Patients from other States should have prior tie-up with the hospital in Telangana for COVID admission. On receipt of the proposal from the hospital, the control room would issue authorisation to travel based on which the patient could come to Telangana for hospitalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-ap-borders-resemble-war-zone/article34562366.ece
15 May 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six women among 11 held for ‘smuggling’ ganja||The Kadapa police arrested 11 persons, including six women, and seized ganja weighing 120 kg from them under Chinna Chowk police station limits on Friday. Five mobile phones, an SUV and Rs. 7,000 in cash were seized from them. The accused were identified as Korra Matsa Raju from Chintapalli of Visakhapatnam district, who was believed to be the kingpin of the gang, Menapati Lakshmi Devi, O. Tulasi, Akki Dasari Srihari, Poola Rajeswari, Poola Anjanamma, Poola Sirisha, Poola Rajesh, Poola Saraswathi, Poola Nagaraju and Balasani Kishore, all from Kadapa district. A team led by Deputy SP (Kadapa town) K. Sunil stepped up surveillance on the illegal trade of narcotics, which led to the arrests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-women-among-11-held-for-smuggling-ganja/article34562490.ece
15 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||24-bed triage centre comes up at Kakinada govt. hospital||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Saturday appealed to private and corporate hospitals to join hands with the State government in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. On Friday, he enquired with East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and other officials about the COVID-19 treatment in private and corporate hospitals in the district. “It is to remind that the State government will no longer entertain any violation of the medical fee guidelines for COVID-19 treatment,” the Minster said. He inaugurated a 24-bed triage centre and a 10 kilo-litre capacity medical oxygen storage tank on the Government General Hospital (GGH-Kakinada) premises. The Reliance group has donated the tank worth of Rs. 35 lakh as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha told The Hindu that the tank will help maintain the required oxygen pressure for all the beds. The hospital has 30 KL oxygen storage facility that supports 2.000 patients. Kakinada-based Devi Fisheries group director Chitturi Indraneel donated surgical equipment to the GGH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/24-bed-triage-centre-comes-up-at-kakinada-govt-hospital/article34562486.ece
15 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 policemen run over by lorry||Two police personnel, including a head constable, were killed when a lorry ran over them while they were waiting to receive a vehicle transporting COVID-19 vaccines at Undoor bridge point, under Samarlakota police limits in East Godavari district late on Thursday night. The deceased have been identified as head constable Mondi Satyanarayana (60) and Home Guard M. Narayana Reddy (58), attached to the Thimmapuram police station. The duo are natives of Kakinada. According to Thimmapuram police, Satyanarayana was due to retire in October. The police personnel’s task was to escort the vehicle and hand over the vaccines to the Central Drug Store authorities in Kakinada. The police registered a case and sent the bodies to the Government General Hospital, Kakinada, for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-policemen-run-over-by-lorry/article34561964.ece
15 May 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||P.C. George, actor, dead||Actor P.C. George, 74, who earned appreciation for his villain characters, died in Kochi on Friday. He was being treated for kidney ailments. His notable works include Dweepu, Chanakyan ,Innale, Adharvam , and Peruvannap-urathe Visheshangal . He was a police officer and retired as Superintendent of Police. The funeral will be held at St. Joseph’s Church in Karukutty, near Kochi, on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pc-george-actor-dead/article34561914.ece
15 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stopping COVID patients at border inhuman: BJP||District BJP leaders led by their president P. Ramaswamy staged a dharna at the Panchalingala check-post on Friday, protesting against the Telangana police stopping the patients proceeding in ambulances to Hyderabad for better treatment. Terming it inhuman, the BJP leaders hit out at Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for remaining silent over the issue. Asking the YSRCP government to take up the issue with the Telangana government, they said people had the “constitutional right” to get treated for any ailment at any place in the country. Common capital As the common capital of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana till 2024, all citizens of Andhra Pradesh had the right to go to Hyderabad and get themselves treated there for any ailment, they asserted. Meanwhile, APCC president S. Sailajanath told The Hindu that Mr. Jagan Mohan should talk to his Telangana counterpart K. Chandrasekhar Rao, and ensure that none was stopped from entering Hyderabad for treatment purposes. “It is for the first time in my life that I have come across such an inhuman act. Every patient desires to be treated at a better hospital and by a specialist doctor. In the absence of such facilities in their home towns, people go to other places, and that is their right,” said Dr. Sailajanath. ‘Against ethics’ The statement of the Director of Medical Health, Telangana, D.H. Srinivas, that only those who had an appointment with a hospital or doctor would be allowed into Hyderabad, was against medical ethics, Dr. Sailajanath pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stopping-covid-patients-at-border-inhuman-bjp/article34562488.ece
15 May 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||U.S. travel curbs worry non-immigrant workers||Vinayak, 27, a computer engineer, who has been working in California in the U.S. on a H1B visa since 2018, came down to Bengaluru last month to attend to his ailing mother after she tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to a hospital. But, his plans to return have been thwarted by the travel restrictions imposed by the U.S. administration, covering most non-immigrants, in the light of the sharp surge in COVID-19 cases in India. “Due to the travel ban, I am stuck here indefinitely even though I have a valid visa stamping,” said Mr. Vinayak, as he expressed fears about losing his job if the company he works for did not wish to continue employing him remotely. “The uncertainty has been giving me anxiety attacks and I haven’t slept peacefully in the last week,” he said. Hundreds affected Mr. Vinayak is just one of the hundreds of people working in the U.S. and their family members, who are stuck in different parts of the country due to the Presidential Proclamation of April 30 that suspends the entry of non-immigrants, who were present in India during the 14-day period preceding their attempted entry into the U.S. Antara, mother of a 22-month-old baby, arrived in India along with her husband in March 2021 when the COVID-19 cases were low, to be with her ageing parents in Ranchi for a few days. While her husband managed to return to the U.S. before the travel restrictions were announced, she and her son are unable to rejoin him. The travel restrictions were followed by the temporary suspension of routine visa services. Ms. Antara now needs to wait for the consulates to reopen for appointments so that she can get her visa stamped. A petition has been started on change.org asking U.S. President Joe Biden to “allow non-immigrant visa holders stuck in India to return to the U.S.” “My husband went to attend his mother’s funeral and he got stuck in India due to closure of visa services and also travel ban. I am here with my two young kids and no job, salary. Please lift travel ban and resume visa appointments ASAP,” wrote Himabindu Penikalapati in the petition. The petition started earlier this month had more than 7,200 signatories on Wednesday. A spokesperson for the U.S. consulate general in Chennai said all routine visa appointments at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi and consulates in Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Mumbai had been cancelled due to COVID-19. The spokesperson said “non-immigrant visa holders (including H1-B holders) who are not subject to Presidential Proclamation 10199 based on their familial relationship to a U.S. citizen or Legal Permanent Resident spouse or unmarried minor child do not need a National Interest Exception. Such travellers should bring proof of qualifying relationship to present to airline officials when initiating travel to the United States.”  My husband went to attend his mother’s funeral and got stuck in India due to travel ban. I am here with two children with no job, salary Himabindu Penikalapati Petitioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/us-travel-curbs-worry-non-immigrant-workers/article34561909.ece
15 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam reports zero deaths, seven succumb to virus in Nellore||The severity of coronavirus infection refuse to subside as seven more patients die and about 3,000 tested positive in south coastal Andhra Pradesh in 24 hours. The number of active cases rose to 35,561 as the infection spread thick and fast in the last 24 hours ending 9.00 am on Friday. The toll in the region rose to 1,388. All the seven deaths were reported in Nellore district, take the the toll in the district to 692, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The toll remained unchanged at 696 in Prakasam district where the number of active cases went past 17,500. The overall tally has crossed 1.89 lakh as 1,733 persons in Nellore district and another 1,265 persons in Prakasam district tested positive during the period. In the last 24 hours, 1,322 patients were cured of the disease in the region, including 869 persons in Nellore district. However, fresh cases outnumbered recoveries by more than 1,600. The authorities have arranged 80 temporary beds with oxygen facility near the helpdesk at the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Ongole as more patients in need of oxygen support poured into the hospital. Many patients are waiting in the verandah and under tree shade with oxygen cylinders arranged on their own as they suffer from breathing problem. Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy and Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Reddy assessed the health situation as they visited Narayana General Hospital and Government General Hospital. Taking note of the complaints on social media on various aspects, the Ministers asked the health professionals to ensure quick recovery of the patients. TDP State unit spokesperson Anam Venkata Ramana Reddy urged the authorities to take action, alleging that many patients were being fleeced by some private hospitals in Nellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-reports-zero-deaths-seven-succumb-to-virus-in-nellore/article34562480.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monsoon likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31: IMD||The monsoon is likely to arrive on the Kerala coast on May 31, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced on Friday. The normal monsoon onset date over Kerala is June 1 with an error window of four days. The monsoon arrival comes as an emerging cyclone brews over the Arabian Sea. Forecasters say the cyclone is currently a ‘depression’ or a pre-cyclone located about 30 km off Lakshadweep. Current weather models say the depression will become a cyclonic storm by Saturday evening and Tauktae — as the storm will then be formally called — will move along the western coast and reach the Gujarat coast by May 18. In the interim, it could intensify into a ‘Very Severe Cyclonic Storm’ that is characterised by wind speed of over 120 kmph. This would then make it a grade 3 cyclonic storm and two steps short of what is called a ‘Super Cyclonic storm’ with wind speed of over 200 kmph. It is common for storms to brew in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea ahead in May or in the month ahead of the monsoon onset. Already heavy rains have set in over Lakshadweep, Kerala Tamil Nadu , Karnataka and Goa and this is expected to continue for the next few days. Normal monsoon The IMD has forecast a normal monsoon during June-September, largely premised on relatively cool temperatures in the Central Pacific and ruling out the possibility of an El Nino. “Normal” rainfall refers to a range: 96%-104% of the Long Period Average (LPA) of 88 cm. Last year, the IMD announced a monsoon onset date over Kerala of June 1 whereas the monsoon actually arrived on June 5. There is no correlation between the date of onset of the monsoon and the actual quantum of rain that is received during these months. To herald the monsoon onset, initial monsoon rains first occur over south Andaman Sea and the monsoon winds then advance across the Bay of Bengal. The emerging storm, according to the IMD’s press note on Friday, has strengthened the monsoon winds. “The cross equatorial south westerlies have temporarily strengthened over the Arabian Sea and is expected to deepen over the Bay of Bengal from May 20 and a sustained rainfall activity is likely over the south Bay of Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands from May 21. Hence the monsoon advance over Andaman and Nicobar Islands is very likely around May 21 2021,” it says.  Margin of error While various meteorological factors — including a minimum amount of rain over Kerala and certain wind flow speeds — determine the IMD’s decision to officially declare the onset of the monsoon, a rule of thumb says that it takes about 10 days from the monsoon’s arrival over the Andaman and Nicobar Islands for it to reach Kerala. Since 2005, the monsoon has arrived within the error margin of the IMD’s weather models except for 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monsoon-likely-to-arrive-over-kerala-on-may-31-imd/article34561912.ece
15 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Id celebrated in compliance with COVID protocols||The Id-Ul-Fitr was celebrated in compliance with all COVID-19 protocols amid restrictions. As restrictions were imposed on social gatherings at the Konjedu bus stand centre and other public places in view of the sharp spike in COVID infections, people offered their namaz at home, marking the end of the holy Ramzan. The mosques allowed limited numbers of people to offer special prayers in adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour. Limited entry to mosques Big social gatherings were missing last year too during the first wave of the pandemic. At Mecca Masjid, Maulana Abdul Raheem Khan explained the significance of the festival to a small gathering as the authorities allowed only 50 persons in the mosque at a time. The festivities began with the first namaz at the dawn as the devouts sought speedy recovery of their near and dear ones infected by the virus. Wearing colourful masks, people greeted each other, avoiding the traditional hugs. The centuries-old Jama Masjid on the Trunk road was tastefully decorated for the occasion. Devouts in restricted numbers offered prayers at the masjids in Markapur, Chirala and Kandukur, among other towns, seeking well-being of all. Children got Id gifts from their family members and relatives. Many devouts offered ‘Zakat’ (alms) to the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-celebrated-in-compliance-with-covid-protocols/article34562482.ece
15 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women throng jewellery showrooms||Jewellery shops in the city and elsewhere in Prakasam district did a brisk business on the auspicious occasion Akshaya Tritiya on Friday as women, in strict compliance of COVID protocols, purchased ornaments of their choice. Special prayers were organised to Ganesha Kubhera Samedha Mahalakshmi. Jewellery stores on the arterial Gandhi Road and other places had a tough time in regulating the crowd. “We allowed customers only in small groups after santising their hands,” said Tanishq store manager Boyapati Naveen Chowdhary. The sales of was only 25% of the business done in 2019, said a jewellery shop owner T. Prasad..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-throng-jewellery-showrooms/article34561967.ece
15 May 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to convert 4 buses into ‘Oxygen on Wheel’ ambulances||The authorities of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), Rajamahendravaram depot have decided to convert four buses into the ‘Oxygen on Wheel’ ambulances which will be deployed in the town. In response to an appeal made by MP Margani Bharat, the APSRTC authorities took the decision and two such ambulances would be handed over to the East Godavari district authorities on Saturday. “An agency hired by the government will install the oxygen facility in the ambulances4,” said APSRTC Rajamahendravaram depot manager P.N.V.M. Satyanarayana Murthy. Mr. Bharat who inspected two such ambulances said that the vehicles would have 30 seats with the oxygen facility and they would cater to the needs of the COVID patients in need of critical healthcare services.  The lifesaver In the first phase, the APSRTC-Kakinada depot provided the two such ambulances. Launched on May 12, two ‘Oxygen on Wheel’ ambulances have accommodated above 40 patients in need of critical care treatment on the premises of the District Government Hospital (DGH) and the GSL Hospital in the city. Many COVID patients have been waiting for the oxygen facility at the DGH, where beds with the oxygen facility remain unavailable due to rise in the number of infections. “Such additional temporary critical care facilities are minimising the duration of wait of COVID-19 patients for admission to hospitals. We are able to provide lifesaving treatments in the ‘Oxygen on Wheel’ ambulances. The patients will be shifted to hospitals once the beds are available,” added Mr. Bharat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-to-convert-4-buses-into-oxygen-on-wheel-ambulances/article34561966.ece
15 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swapna Suresh booked in forgery case||The State Police Crime Branch (CB) has formally arrested Swapna Suresh, a COFEPOSA detainee and UAE gold smuggling case accused, on the charge of forgery. A CB official said the agency had arraigned the woman on the charge of forging the signature of 16 women employees of Air India SATs, a ground handling firm partly owned by the Central government, to foist a false case of sexual harassment against an Air India official.  ‘Whistle-blower’ The agency had earlier named former Air India-SATs vice president Binoy Jacob as an accused in the case. The agency said the official, a whistle-blower, had earned the wrath of Jacob and Swapna for complaining to the CBI and the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) about ‘irregularities’ in Air India SATs. The CB interviewed the signatories. They gave sworn statements that the signatures were forged. The women said the accused had falsely taken their names to frame the official. The alleged crime had occurred during the 2013-15 period, when Swapna was working in the human resources wing of Air India SATS and was officiating as Jacob’s secretary. Moving HC In 2015, Swapna accused the Air India official of sexual harassment in workplace. She allegedly submitted the ‘forged’ statements of 17 other women employees to substantiate her charge of inappropriate conduct against the official. After the episode, Swapna left Air India SATS to join the UAE consulate. The complainant had moved the High Court to investigate Swapna and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swapna-suresh-booked-in-forgery-case/article34561904.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mission Zindagi’ for COVID relief||Mission Zindagi, a pan-India initiative to offer COVID-19 relief services launched by the Art of Living Foundation, has expanded to Tirupati. It provides all information pertaining to availability of hospitals, oxygen, ambulance, immunity kits, medicines and food. The ‘Doctors Online’ service also facilitates virtual counselling with medical professionals. For details on services available across Chittoor district, dial 70138 96557 or 8686262930.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mission-zindagi-for-covid-relief/article34562484.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta moves NHRC over deaths at Ruia hospital||Former Member of Parliament and a special invitee to the Congress Working Committee (CWC) P. Chinta Mohan has written to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), seeking a probe into the deaths at the SVR Ruia Government General Hospital in Tirupati allegedly due disruption in oxygen supply. In a representation to NHRC’s acting Chairperson Justice Prafulla Chandra Pant, a copy of which was also marked to President Ram Nath Kovind, Mr. Chinta Mohan claimed that approximately 30 patients had died at the Ruia hospital due to short supply of oxygen and this was a violation of human rights. He also enclosed the complaints received from the families of the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-moves-nhrc-over-deaths-at-ruia-hospital/article34562483.ece
15 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Noted scholar dies of COVID||Noted scholar Rallapalli A. Jayantha (90), who had served in English Department of Sri Venkateswara University, died while undergoing treatment for COVID at SVIMS Hospital on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/noted-scholar-dies-of-covid/article34562485.ece
15 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veerraju slams KCR||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Friday took exception to the Telangana government denying entry to ambulances carrying COVID-19 patients from Andhra Pradesh, on the A.P.-Telangana border points. At a press conference, the BJP leader said that as per the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, Hyderabad continued to be the common capital of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana till 2024. People were heading to Hyderabad for better treatment as it was a medical hub, he said. The BJP leader slammed Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s stand on the issue, and said it would tantamount to violation of the High Court verdict. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should rise to the occasion and hold talks with his Telangana counterpart, he said. Referring to the death of two patients who were denied entry into Telangana at the border on Friday, Mr. Veerraju said Mr. Rao was responsible for the deaths. Stating that he had spoken about the tension on the border with Union Minister Kishan Reddy, he said he would write to the Centre seeking measures to avoid recurrence of such incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veerraju-slams-kcr/article34562493.ece
15 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Inter-State movement a fundamental right’||Andhra Pradesh Advocate-General S. Sriram asserted during a hearing by the Telangana High Court on a PIL filed against the denial of entry for ambulances bound for Hyderabad, at the borders, that inter-State movement is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution. Appearing for A.P., which was made a party in the PIL, Mr. Sriram contended that the provisions referred to in the circular issued by the Telangana government and the Epidemic Diseases and the National Disaster Management Acts did not allow a State to discriminate on the basis of residence of patients. ‘National asset’ “Medical infrastructure in the country, irrespective of the State in which it is located, is a national asset, and the Supreme Court has directed that there should be seamless coordination between all the States. The entire process is to work around the orders of the Telangana High Court, which is unjustifiable both in law and on the basis of facts,” the A-G argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-state-movement-a-fundamental-right/article34562495.ece
15 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A disappointing Akshaya Tritiya for jewellers||Akshaya Tritiya, considered an auspicious day, witnessed subdued activity on Friday as the COVID-19 pandemic has dampened the spirits of people for the second consecutive year. Gold merchants said with Akshaya Tritiya falling in the lockdown/curfew period for two successive years, the gold and jewellery trade suffered a big setback. Consumer demand, as compared to previous years, nosedived. Stores were either closed or operated only for a few hours due to the restrictions in place. “The sales were weak due to the challenging environment in 2020. The same thing repeated this year too as there is a State-wide curfew. The physical demand for gold remains muted,” said Krishna, a jewellery shop owner. The shops were allowed to open up to 11 a.m. only. People don’t venture out to buy gold right at the dawn. Though the shops were opened by 6 or 7 a.m., there were no buyers, rued another shop owner at Patamata. According to information, there are about 1,000 gold, silver and jewellery shops in Vijayawada. Across the State, there are about 50,000 small jewellery shops with daily sales running into a few thousand crores. Business was dull for small and petty traders while a moderate rush was witnessed at some corporate jewellery shops. “It is very difficult to assess the impact right now. Shops usually maintain stocks ranging from Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 1 crore which further go up during wedding season and occasions like Akshaya Tritiya as demand shoots up. But now jewellers are afraid to keep new models and stocks in view of the adverse market conditions,” said a jeweller. The Bezwada Jewellery and Bullion Merchants’ Association secretary K. Hari Babu said that the gold and jewellery merchants had been observing self-restrictions even before the partial lockdown was imposed. “It is the corporate and big jewellery shops that usually see good sales during Akshaya Tritiya. When the concept was introduced, small traders also witnessed rush. But the trend gradually declined,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-disappointing-akshaya-tritiya-for-jewellers/article34561961.ece
15 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State moves to ramp up oxygen supplies||Two cryogenic containers, each carrying 20 tonnes of liquid oxygen, have started from Durgapur Steel plant. “The train carrying them will reach Krishnapatnam in Nellore district by 4 p.m. on Saturday (May 15),” said M.T. Krishna Babu, Chairman of the State COVID Task Force Committee, here on Friday. In a statement, Mr. Krishna Babu said the Centre had allocated another three ISO containers, which would be handed over at Durgapur on Saturday afternoon. Another train with 60 tonnes of oxygen would start from Durgapur on Saturday evening and arrive in Nellore in 24 hours. “These two trains will be run in opposite directions to ensure assured supply of 60 tonnes of liquid oxygen per day to the Rayalaseema districts and Nellore,” he said, adding, “One train carrying six ISO containers with 110 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Jamnagar Reliance will reach the State tomorrow (Saturday) night at the Concor station in Guntur.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-moves-to-ramp-up-oxygen-supplies/article34562021.ece
15 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discoms ensuring uninterrupted power to hospitals, oxygen plants||The Energy Department has attached due priority to supplying power to oxygen plants, which have become the lifeline for the COVID-19 patients. Major units Nodal officers, not less than the rank of an executive engineer, have been posted in-charge of each one of the 22 oxygen plants (three of them are major units located in Visakhapatnam city and Srikakulam district) in the purview of the three Discoms with a demand of 2,49,196 KVA. “By doing so, continuous power supply is ensured,” Energy Secretary N. Srikant said in a review meeting on Friday. Taking stock of the power supply to hospitals and oxygen plants, and also the domestic sector, Mr. Srikant appreciated the employees for being on the frontline in the war against COVID-19 and rendering efficient services round the clock. He said senior officers were visiting the districts to personally monitor the power supply, and pointed out that more than 1,400 officers and staff had contracted the virus. Nodal officers Nodal officers were appointed to meet the requirements of employees infected by the virus. Mr. Srikant said the Government of India took steps to ensure 24x7 power supply to 73 oxygen plants in the country. In tune with it, the AP Discosms turned their attention to power supply to oxygen plants in the State. Discoms’ CMDs S. Naga Lakshmi, H. Haranatha Rao and J. Padma Janardhan Reddy explained the steps taken for uninterrupted power supply to all the sectors, especially hospitals and oxygen plants. “In case of breakdowns, alternative arrangements have been made for power supply to the hospitals and oxygen plants,” they said. AP-Transco Joint Managing Directors K. Sridhar Reddy and K. Venkateswarlu, and Directors K. Praveen Kumar and Muthupandian took part in the deliberations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discoms-ensuring-uninterrupted-power-to-hospitals-oxygen-plants/article34562497.ece
15 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor mourns IRCS A.P. chief’s death||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed grief and sadness over the passing away of Indian Red Cross Society, A.P. State Branch Honorary Chairman P. Venugopal in Visakhapatnam on Friday. The Governor said Dr. Venugopal served as Professor of Paediatrics at King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam and rendered immense services to the needy people as Honorary Chairman of IRCS, and his passing away was an irreparable loss to the cause of Indian Red Cross Society activities in Visakhapatnam. The Governor offered his condolences to members of the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-mourns-ircs-ap-chiefs-death/article34561969.ece
15 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointed Special Officer for media management||The State government has appointed Special Secretary, Transport, Roads and Buildings Department, Arja Srikanth, as Special Officer for publicity, media and social media management, including daily media reports and adverse reports on COVID-19. A G.O. issued to this effect on Friday said in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases, various societies, organisations, trusts and individual donors had been providing assistance to the government in the form of donation of medicines, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and life-supporting medical equipment such as ventilators. Keeping in view the need to coordinate all the relief activities, and to have a single point of contact for all philanthropic and voluntary organisations, corporates and others, all relief co-ordination activities had been entrusted to Mr. Srikanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appointed-special-officer-for-media-management/article34562492.ece
15 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||300-bed COVID Care Centre opened in city||Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) has said that the 300-bed COVID Care Centre, set up under the aegis of Pragathi Bharathi Foundation, at Vikas College premises at Sheela Nagar in the city is comparable to a full-fledged COVID hospital. The Deputy Chief Minister inaugurated the centre along with Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy and Ministers Kurasala Kannababu and Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kali Krishna Srinivas said that the oxygen requirement during the first wave surge, which was only 40 MTs, has now crossed 600 MTs. He said the rapid spread of the pandemic during the second wave has led to the scarcity of beds in hospitals and appealed to the people to make use of the care centres like this to reduce the pressure on COVID hospitals. The services of specialist doctors will be made available at the centre. Foundation Managing Trustee Vijaya Sai Reddy said that two oxygen tanks of 3,750 cu.m. capacity were set up to provide continuous support to the patients. Meanwhile, speaking at a review meeting with officials, the health Minister said that a nodal officer each should be appointed for oxygen and bed management at the COVID hospitals.He directed KGH Superintendent Mythili to monitor the work of the doctors and staff through CC cameras. Measures should be taken to ensure that oxygen was not wasted, he said. Mr. Kannababu suggested to the Joint Collector to talk to the GVMC Commissioner and increase the number of sheds at the crematorium. It should be ensured that people do not face problems in performing the last rites of their near and dear ones, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/300-bed-covid-care-centre-opened-in-city/article34562502.ece
15 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chandanotsavam celebrated with traditional fervour||The annual Chandanotsavam of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam here was celebrated, without devotees due to the COVID-19 restrictions, on Friday. The rituals began at 3 a.m with ‘mangala vayidyalu’ and ‘Suprabhatam’. The first ‘Nijaroopa darshanam’ of the deity was witnessed by the temple trustee Sanchaita Gajajapathi. She offered silk clothes to the deity. Later, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao offered silk robes to the deity on behalf of the State government. The Minister was accompanied by his family members. In the evening, ‘Sahasra Ghattabhishekam’ was performed with Gangadhara water, and even as it was on, the priests read out the names and gothras of devotees, who registered their names online. Later special pujas were performed and it was followed by application of the first round of sandalwood paste after the ‘Nijaroopa darshanam’. Ms. Sanchaita and the temple EO M.V. Suryakala said that special pujas were performed for universal prosperity and saving mankind from the pandemic. Some of the devotees offered prayers to an idol of the deity at the foothills as they were not allowed this year in view of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chandanotsavam-celebrated-with-traditional-fervour/article34562505.ece
15 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘The buck stops with the State’||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu has alleged that the YSRCP government is trying to cover up its lapses in containing the COVID-19 pandemic by either making false claims or passing the buck. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Atchannaidu said that while the country’s COVID-19 positivity rate declined to 19.44%, it was increasing in Andhra Pradesh. The Chief Ministers of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and New Delhi had taken proactive steps that ensured a decline in the positivity rate in their States, he said. “The YSRCP government, instead of taking corrective steps, is trying to blame the Centre,” he alleged. The Centre had made it clear that the States were free to purchase vaccines from the two companies in India between April 20 and 30, but the YSRCP government failed to lap up the offer. It urged the Centre to supply the vaccines after expiry of the deadline, the TDP leader alleged. Mr. Atchannaidu also alleged that the vaccines procured by the government were administered to the YSRCP leaders and workers. Faulting the YSRCP claim that Andhra Pradesh was the first to call for global tenders to overcome short supply of vaccines, Mr. Atchannaidu said that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to the Prime Minister three weeks ago, seeking permission for import of vaccines. Referring to the stopping of ambulances at the Telangana border, the TDP leader alleged that the Chief Minister failed to take up the issue with his Telangana counterpart. ‘Lead by example’ Referring to the statement reportedly made by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy that people should learn to live with the virus by wearing a mask, the TDP State president wondered how he could advise so when he himself violated the norm. “The Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu and Delhi are leading by example by wearing masks in public,” he observed. The TDP leader also asked the Chief Minister to use his “so called good offices” with the Centre in bringing to the State at least 2,000 of the 6,500 ventilator beds donated to India by various countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-buck-stops-with-the-state/article34562499.ece
15 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uday back to head Maoist movement in Andhra Odisha Border region||Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, secretary of the banned CPI (Maoist) in the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC), who has been out of the AOB region for quite some time, is back to head the movement. Uday had gone into hiding in the safe zones of Chhattisgarh about a year ago as he was suffering from severe diabetes and other health issues. But reports confirm that Uday is back to take stock of the movement in the AOB region. It is learnt that Uday’s return is linked to the recent surrender of Muttannagari Jalandhar Reddy alias Krishna, a senior member of the CPI (Maoist) in the AOBSZC. Big blow Krishna’s surrender is considered a big blow to the Maoist movement in the AOB region, as he is the senior most leader and a trained military strategist. He also held considerable sway over the party members and the tribal people of the region. Since the exchange of fire at Ramaguda in the AOB region in October 2016, in which more than 30 Maoists had been killed by the Greyhounds, the elite anti-Naxal force of Andhra Pradesh, the Left Wing extremists have been losing their grip on the region. The top Maoist leadership had almost been wiped out in the incident, leaving a few such as Uday, Ramakrishna alias RK, and Chalapathi to build the movement afresh. All the three have gone into hibernation. It is learnt that Uday has returned to stem the surrenders, revive the movement and, most essentially, find a suitable replacement for Krishna, says a senior police officer engaged in the anti-Maoist operations. Post the Ramaguda incident, there has been a series of encounters in which a few top leaders such as Jambri have been killed. And then followed the surrender of senior leaders such as Naveen. These developments, coupled with the security forces making deep inroads on both sides of the AOB and setting up armed outposts at places as interior as Rudakota on the Andhra Pradesh side and Jantapayi, Hantalaguda and Darlabeda on the Odisha side, has weakened the LWE considerably. At this juncture, the surrender of Krishna has come as a big blow to the movement, and the burden has fallen on Aruna. Pandemic impact The security forces consider the return of Uday as a strategic move by the Maoist Central Committee and Military Commission. Apart from surrenders, area domination by the security forces, and encounters, the COVID-19 pandemic is another factor that has hit the Maoists hard. Sources say that in Chhattisgarh, especially in the districts bordering Odisha such as Sukma and Bastar, about 150 Maoists have contracted the virus. This has restricted their cross-border movement. “Keeping all these in mind, Uday’s entry is on expected lines,” says a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uday-returns-to-head-maoist-movement-in-the-aob-region/article34561905.ece
15 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two doctors die of virus||A serving Head of Department (HoD) and a former HoD of KGH died battling COVID-19, here on Friday. P. Venugopal, Head of the Department of Paediatrics, Andhra Medical College, has died at a private hospital. He is survived by his son Dheeraj, who is employed in the USA, and wife Subha. He had also rendered yeomen services as honorary chairman of the IRCS Blood Bank in Visakhapatnam. He had also served as Officer on Special Duty (OSD) of the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) and made efforts to improve the services being offered to COVID-19 patients in the past. He was a very resourceful man and a man of research. His premature death is a big loss for Andhra Medical College, said Principal P.V. Sudhakar.  Former MP and BJP leader Kambhampati Haribabu extended his sympathies to the bereaved family members. The CITU district committee expressed shock at the death. Former HoD of Community Medicine, AMC, T.A.V. Narayana Raju, also died. Many present doctors, including Dr. Sudhakar, remembered him as an affectionate teacher. “We were all his students and he was an authority in community medicine. It was only last year that he instituted a medal in community medicine, in the name of his wife,” said Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-doctors-die-of-virus/article34562503.ece
15 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donated to KGH||Suraksha, a non-profit organisation, has sent 50 oxygen concentrators to Visakhapatnam. They were delivered to the Collector’s office on Friday and distributed to the KGH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/donated-to-kgh/article34562506.ece
15 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 2,077 new cases, 10 deaths||The Visakhapatnam district reported 2,077 new COVID -19 cases in the last 24 hours on Friday morning. With the new cases, the total cases have gone up to 1,08,822 and active cases now stand at 21,209. The district also recorded 10 deaths, taking total death count to 751. As many as 2,077 persons, who earlier tested COVID positive and were undergoing treatment, were discharged on Friday morning, taking the total discharges to 86,862.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-2077-new-cases-10-deaths/article34562507.ece
15 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspecting COVID infection, three of family ‘end life’||Three members of a family allegedly committed suicide on Friday reportedly fearing that they have contracted COVID-19, at Nallabelli village of Vepada mandal in Vizianagaram district. Udata Satyanarayana Gupta (62), his wife U. Satyavati (57), and mother-in-law Venkata Subbamma (84), allegedly consumed poison and later jumped into a well. According to police, they were living in Chodavaram of Visakhapatnam for the last 10 years and came to their native place on Sunday. They went for COVID-19 test and the result is yet to come. Suspected that they had COVID-19 symptoms and worried about medical expenses and social boycott, they allegedly ended their lives. The police registered a case and sent the bodies for post-mortem. People in distress and can call helpline (Police-100, COVID Helpline-1075) for counselling and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspecting-covid-infection-three-of-family-end-life/article34561968.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka struggles to shake off virus’ grip||Kerala logged 34,694 new cases on Friday from 1,31,375 samples, the TPR showing a slight dip at 26.41%. The State’s active cases stood at 4,42,194. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday extended the State-wide lockdown until May 23. The number of patients in hospital rose to 37,197 with 4,018 more admissions. The State added 93 deaths to the official COVID-19 mortality list. Thrissur reported 25 of these deaths, Ernakulam 19, Kannur 16, Palakkad 14, Kozhikode eight, Thiruvananthapuram five, Pathanamthitta three, while one death each was reported from Kasaragod, Idukki and Kollam.  Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 4,567, Malappuram 3,997, Ernakulam 3,855, Thrissur 3,162, Kollam 2,992, Palakkad 2,948, Kozhikode 2,760, Kannur 2,159, Alappuzha 2,149, Kottayam 2,043, Idukki 1,284, Pathanamthitta 1,204, Kasaragod 1,092 and Wayanad 482 cases. The Chief Minister said the clampdown on life, mobility, socialising, production and retail business would be three-fold more restrictive in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Ernakulam and Malappuram. Free food kits Mr. Vijayan said Kerala’s weather had changed for the worse given the impending cyclone and rains could accelerate the viral spread. In Andhra Pradesh 96 deaths and 22,018 infections were reported on Friday. The positivity rate of 89,087 samples was 24.7%. More than half of new deaths were in five districts. They include Anantapur (11), East Godavari (10), Visakhapatnam (10), West Godavari (10) and Vizianagaram (9). Seven districts reported the remaining deaths while Prakasam saw no new death. They include Chittoor (8), Krishna (8), Guntur (7), Nellore (7), Kurnool (6), Srikakulam (6) and Kadapa (4). East Godavari again reported the highest single-day tally of 3,432 infections. Telangana on Friday registered 4,305 fresh cases, pushing the infection count to 5,20,709, with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area accounting for 607, followed by Rangareddy (293) and Medchal Malkajgiri (291). The State had 54,832 active cases and over 57,000 samples were tested. For the second consecutive day, Chennai registered a decline in fresh cases with 6,538 persons testing positive on Friday. Across the State, 31,892 persons tested positive and 288 persons died, taking the overall case tally to over 15 lakh and toll to 17,056. On Friday, 1,60,042 samples were tested. This took the overall sample count to 2,47,85,458. Chennai’s daily COVID-19 cases dropped from 7,564 on May 12 to 6,991 on May 13. With this further dip in daily infections, the city’s overall tally stood at 4,25,603. Chennai recorded 74 deaths. However, Coimbatore reported over 3,000 cases. A total of 3,197 persons tested positive in the district. While there were 2,225 cases in Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur recorded 1,410 cases. Madurai and Kanyakumari recorded 1,250 and 1,025 cases.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus & PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-struggles-to-shake-off-virus-grip/article34561903.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prayer time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prayer-time/article34562509.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balancing act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balancing-act/article34561973.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Budget session from May 20||The Governor, in March, approved Andhra Pradesh Vote-on-Account Budget Ordinance. The ordinance okayed a total expenditure of Rs. 70,994.98 crore over a period of three months. It authorised the government to withdraw money from the Consolidated Fund for a part of the financial year, from April 1. The government has to present the full budget before June as the vote on account budget is only for three months. The State government brought out the State budget in the form of an ordinance for the second year in a row. The government presented vote on account budget in the year 2020-21 also. The State government, though had planned a budget session of the Legislative Assembly to pass the vote on account for 2021-22, has taken the ordinance route for the vote on account, as the session had to be postponed because of gram panchayat and municipal elections in the State then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/budget-session-from-may-20/article34562491.ece
15 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Socio-religious groups take the lead in COVID relief||The contours of COVID-19 have assumed different shapes in different cities. The suffering has been no less, however. The need for isolation centres was never felt more, given the nuclear family structures. The demand for oxygen beds and cylinders has gone up exponentially. Food and medical care are major issues too. The healthcare infrastructure is overwhelmed but cries for help have not gone unheeded with socio-religious organisations rising to the occasion. The Calvary Temple is a case in point. A beehive of activity with Sunday worshippers, it is now a 300-bed facility. The desire to help — from verifying information to providing dry rations — is genuine and commendable, cutting across social divide. About 86 members of the Bhagyanagar Ayyappa Seva Samithi are ensuring that poor families affected by the pandemic do not go hungry. They identify and deliver nutritious food to nearly 300 families every day, according to K. Radha Krishna of the samithi. Seva Bharathi, an outfit of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Telangana, has set up a call centre with a team of 70 doctors and executives to provide medical advice to callers. A 200-bed isolation centre at RVK School, Annojiguda, serves symptomatic and asymptomatic people and provides them with medical care, lodging and boarding free of charge, says K.M. Sumalatha, vice-president of Seva Bharathi. The organisation is distributing dry ration to private school teachers, barbers, maids, autorickshaw drivers and those struggling to make ends meet. Oxygen therapy centre Several Muslim groups and volunteers have been at the forefront, providing crucial interventions to those in need. Recently, the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind Telangana-Odisha zone set up a 50-bed oxygen therapy centre in Wadi-e-Huda near Shaheen Nagar. Jamaat-e-Islami Hind Telangana zone and its sister concern, frontier organisation SIO (Students Islamic Organisation of India), DARE (Doctors Association for Relief and Education), PSF (Professionals Solidarity Forum) are also providing COVID-19 related information, running a helpline, distributing food packets and oxygen in Hyderabad, Warangal, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Sangareddy, Zaheerabad, Adilabad and Nirmal. “Our volunteers are also performing the last rites of the dead,” says Mr. Hamid Mohammed Khan of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Telangana zone. The Social Data Initiative Forum headed by Azam Khan in Hyderabad and Sanaullah Khan of Nizamabad are assisting patients and their family members in getting admission to hospitals. They are also helping with the last rites of the dead. The Calvary Temple in Miyapur is a beacon of hope with its founder, Brother P. Satish Kumar, converting the evangelical non-denominational Christian Church into an isolation centre for the less-privileged patients. Fifty of the 300 beds here have oxygen facility. The centre ensures 24x7 medical care apart from providing nutritious food and medicines to the inmates. Ankura hospital and St. Theresa’s Hospital are extending their support in providing medical care at the Calvary Temple. YMCA Secunderabad, the most popular summer camp destination for children in twin cities, has put all its activities on hold and have started a 30-bed COVID care facility in association with Unicorpus, a not-for-profit group of doctors from CMC Vellore. Aimed at accommodating virus-affected patients with mild symptoms and those who cannot afford space to isolate themselves at home, the YMCA provides free medicare, breakfast, lunch and dinner. However, Jayakar Daniel, the president of YMCAs of Greater Hyderabad, informs that there’s no oxygen facility at the centre. Three doctors, three nurses, attendants, and security round the clock is ensured. Mr. Daniel says the YMCA Committee had helped in providing groceries to the needy last year during the total lockdown but felt a greater need for isolation centres this year. Hence, the decision to convert their rooms into an isolation facility. “Fifteen beds are occupied at present and if the demand goes beyond 30, we are ready to open up more rooms,” says Mr. Daniel. Langars offer succour The langars at Gurudwaras in Hyderabad have never been in so much demand as they are now. After the lockdown was announced, a few gurudwaras have started community kitchens to provide free meals for migrant workers and the homeless. The gurudwaras are also extending a helping hand to patients who are in home isolation by providing them oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators free of charge. Gurudwara Sahib, Secunderabad, and Gurudwara Sahib, Ameerpet, are at the forefront in providing oxygen cylinders. They have procured 75 oxygen cylinders, each with 10 litres capacity, and are planning to procure 50 more to meet the ever-increasing demand. A COVID-19 positive report, doctor’s prescription, Aadhaar proof and a refundable deposit of Rs. 2,000 need to be submitted to obtain a cylinder, says GSS president S. Baldev Singh Bagga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/socio-religious-groups-take-the-lead-in-covid-relief/article34562385.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ramzan robbed of grandeur||The COVID-19 lockdown and its four-hour window turned the Id-ul-Fitr celebrations into a frenzy in Hyderabad on Friday morning. The idgahs where the congregation prayers are traditionally held wore a deserted look. At the Mir Alam Idgah, worshippers trying to reach the vast prayer ground were turned back by the police. The doors of Mecca Masjid too remained closed to worshippers and only a few members of the masjid committee offered the traditional Id prayers marking the end of Ramzan. The roads were clogged by men in white and children dressed in festive finery zipping around to visit their family members, shop for breakfast and offer floral tributes at graveyards. By 9 a.m., the piazza near Charminar turned into a selfie spot with hundreds of young men, women and families taking photographs with the iconic monument as a background. “These people leave the place before the 10 a.m. curfew time, so we don’t have to do anything,” said a traffic constable posted near the Mecca Masjid. While hawkers and vendors filled the area between Charminar and Char Kaman area before Id, on Friday, there were only visitors and a few hawkers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramzan-robbed-of-grandeur/article34562391.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AP CID arrests YSRCP MP in Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh police on Friday arrested YSRCP MP Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who revolted against party’s supremo and Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy, from his house here at Boulder Hills of Gachibowli. He was taken to Mangalagiri of Vijayawada after pasting a notice issued under provisions of Criminal Procedure Code on the wall of his house. A posse of policemen from AP Crime Investigation Department (CID) drove in four vehicles to the MP’s palatial house around 3.30 p.m. They entered the house and approached Mr. Raju, conveying to him that he was being arrested in a criminal case registered under different sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) including 124-A (sedition). Other sections mentioned in the notice were 153-A (promoting enmity between different grounds on grounds of religion, race and place of birth etc) and 505 (statement conducting to public mischief) read with 120-B (criminal conspiracy). Even as the CID officials proceeded to arrest him, Mr. Raju vehemently resisted, picking up argument with them seeking to know on what grounds they were taking action against him. “I am an MP...you cannot arrest me without the consent of Speaker….you did not show the warrant also,” the MP was quoted as saying by eye-witnesses. The arguments continued for over 30 minutes. The Andhra Pradesh CID officials told him that there was a case registered against him under non-bailable sections and hence they came over there to arrest him. The Gachibowli police of Cyberabad arrived at the MP’s house on being informed by the AP CID authorities that they were proceeding to arrest him. The team of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) providing protection to the MP stood guard around the MP as he argued with the CID officials resisting his arrest. The MP wanted the police authorities to wait till arrival of his lawyers and explain clearly what was the case against him. Meanwhile, the CID authorities spoke with the CRPF officials and reportedly explained the case registered against the Member of Parliament. After some time, the AP policemen physically lifted the MP and shifted him into one of their vehicles and rode off. A notice pasted on the wall of the house stated that “rejected to take notice and sign it”. The notice was signed by an officer Vijaya Paul, Additional SP of AP CID, effecting the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-cid-arrests-ysrcp-mp-in-hyderabad/article34562388.ece
15 May 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Not stopping patients: DPH||Director of Public Health G. Srinivas Rao has asserted that the government was not stopping patients coming for treatment in the hospitals in Telangana with necessary approvals. He refuted charges that the State had imposed restrictions on the movement of people from other States. It is not made mandatory for carrying RT-PCR and other reports showing the persons to be Covid-19 negative. “We are considering them in a humanitarian angle, but we want the patients to ensure that they have prior reservation,” he said. He said the process of admission in hospitals had been streamlined to ensure hassle free transit of patients and their attendants. Accordingly, the patient had to reserve a bed in the specific hospital online and the hospital, in turn, would forward the application to the control room with details of the patients. The officials at the control room were issuing authorization letters online after verification of the details and the same was forwarded the patients online either through WhatsApp or other modes. “They (patients) have to show the authorization letter at the borders and they will be allowed without any obstructions,” he said. He allayed apprehensions that hospitals could reject the patients on the ground that the bed reserved on their name had been allotted to someone else. “We will ensure that the patient will be allotted the bed once the authorization letter is issued. We guarantee that patients are not put to inconvenience after they secure authorization,” he said. Expressing concern over the problems faced by patients who were coming without any authorization and were moving around in search of hospitals for admission, he said the process had been streamlined with a view to avoiding the loss of precious time to patients and ensuring that they received timely treatment. Another important aspect that was factored in for streamlining the process was availability of resources like oxygen and drugs. “We want patients coming from outside to check the availability of resources and reserve beds,” he said. On exorbitant charges by private hospitals, he said the government was in the know of such reports. “This is not the right time to speak about the issue. The complaints will be investigated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/not-stopping-patients-dph/article34562404.ece
15 May 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||AP-TS checkpost is not Pak border: kin of patients||The Pullur Toll Gate police check post on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border near Kurnool-Jogulamba Gadwal resembles the Wagah-Attari border (that separates India and Pakistan) in Punjab, if the passionate and tearful pleas of families and attendants of patients desperate to enter Telangana to take their COVID-19-affected loved ones is any indication. Failing to control their emotions and helplessness to cross the Pullur checkpost to take their critically ill patients to Hyderabad because they did not have a proper e-pass and permits from the Hyderabad hospital for admission, a distraught man vented his anger at the Telengana and Andhra governments. “Standing near the ambulance, which was stopped at the Pullur check post for over two hours. This place was very much part of united Andhra Pradesh till a few years ago. In this hour of medical crisis, can’t the two governments coordinate and allow our beloved ones to travel for better treatment?” the youth, who did not wish to identify himself, said. “Is that checkpost in Pakistan? It is very much in India... then why are we being penalised and stopped? Who will own responsibility if my relative dies?” he questioned. A moving video of a young Muslim woman with tears and folded hands seen making a fervent appeal to save her husband touched every one. “Sir, I had taken my husband with severe breathlessness to a Tirupati hospital. We could not find any ventilator bed. With no hopes, I have pledged my house to save my husband. I am rushing to Hyderabad for treatment in the hope that some hospital will have an ICU bed with ventilator. We have oxygen for only two hours and that too is getting finished. Sir, please save my husband,” she cried out. Prabhakar Reddy, a patient from Kurnool, who had a valid e-pass issued by the A.P. government, told the media that he was waiting in his vehicle from 10 a.m. to be allowed entry into Telangana. “It is hell out here. They are not giving any information nor allowing us to cross the toll gate. I have valid admission confirmation from a corporate hospital in Hyderabad,” Mr. Reddy lamented. At Ramapuram Cross Roads near Kodada on the Krishna-Suryapet district border, the same situation prevailed, with patients attendants almost falling at the feet of the police to save the lives of their near and dear ones. The same was the case at the Wadapally check post on Guntur-Nalgonda border too.  Dozens of vehicles, including ambulances, from Andhra Pradesh were stuck up at the entry points along the inter-State borders shared by the erstwhile composite Nalgonda district with Andhra Pradesh as the police enforced stricter curbs on the inter-State movement of vehicles on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-ts-checkpost-is-not-pak-border-kin-of-patients/article34562405.ece
15 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Caring for patients as they await hospital bed||After a series of unfortunate incidents where seriously-ill COVID patients died before they could be admitted, a social organisation has stepped in to create an oxygen facility while the patients wait near Gandhi Hospital. “Some ambulance drivers would bring patients to the hospitals and leave even before the ill person was wheeled into the hospital for treatment. We have now set up 20 oxygen cylinders and five beds where patients are being given oxygen during the waiting period,” says Azam Khan of Social Data Initiatives Forum. The facility is being expanded to other government COVID-care facilities, Mr Khan says, adding, “When the oxygen supply crisis happened in King Koti Hospital, we were able to supply oxygen to three patients”. It is taking anywhere between 45 minutes to three hours for patients to get a bed in government hospitals. While the attenders of patients have to get the paperwork done, the patients who are in various stages of discomfort have to wait it out either in the ambulance or in the triage area. A few days ago, a 25-year-old patient died at the entrance of Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) at Gachibowli here after she was driven from one government hospital to another in search of a bed. According to healthcare workers at Gandhi Hospital, a number of patients are being declared ‘brought dead’ every day at the tertiary care facility. “We launched the facility five days ago, only during daytime. But because of the demand, we have made it a 24/7 facility. We have started it at Chest Hospital, Erragadda, too and are trying to create a similar one at TIMS,” said Mr. Khan. Meanwhile, volunteers working on sourcing COVID medicines and aiding patients get beds are reporting a spike in the demand for oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/caring-for-patients-as-they-await-hospital-bed/article34562376.ece
15 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID Task Force panel meets vaccine makers||The State-level Task Force committee on COVID met the managements of pharmaceutical companies on Friday and discussed the progress in development of various types of vaccines by different companies, their production capacities, and the tentative availability of vaccines in the market. The committee headed by Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao assured all possible help from the State government to expedite the steps involved in the commercialisation of vaccines. He also stated that the government was exploring all possible options to procure sufficient quantity for mass vaccination. Alternative treatment The Task Force team also discussed various alternative treatment options to drugs that are in high demand like Remdesivir and decided to advise the medical fraternity to explore these options. Representatives from Natco Pharma, Biological E Ltd, Bharath Biotech, Serum Institute of India, Sanofi India, Virchow Biotech, Zydus Cadila, Hetero Drugs, Gland Pharma, Indian Immunologicals, and Dr Reddys Labs participated in the meeting. Task Force committee members including IAS officers Jayesh Ranjan, Vikas Raj, Sandeep Sultania, Rahul Bojja, and P. Rajasekhar Reddy, Special Secretary to CM Narsimha Reddy, MD, TSIIC and Shakti Nagappan, Director Life Sciences were present As part of its corporate social responsibility, the TSIIC has contributed an amount of Rs. 1.19 crore for activities for mitigation of COVID in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-task-force-panel-meets-vaccine-makers/article34562379.ece
15 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Unfair to hike affiliation fee in COVID times’||Telangana Private Junior College Managements Association is sore with the government for enhancing their affiliation fee by 33% during this pandemic when their survival itself is at stake. Association president Gouri Satish and vice president N.C. Parthasarathi met Education Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy and requested her to waive the affiliation fee totally as the colleges could not function in the entire academic year due to the lockdown. In these distressing times, it is unfair for the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) to increase the affiliation fee, he said and demanded total waiver of affiliation fee for the year. Mr. Satish said thousands of lecturers and other staff working in private colleges are suffering with financial constraints as colleges could not pay their total salaries due to the lockdown. He said the government should provide them Rs. 5,000 per month assistance as is being given to private school teachers apart from 50 kgs rice. In a statement he said the Minister agreed to talk to the BIE officials and settle the issue. He said the Minister also assured them to bring their request for financial assistance to the notice of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unfair-to-hike-affiliation-fee-in-covid-times/article34562393.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI Hyderabad Circle CGM elevated as Deputy MD||State Bank of India (SBI) Hyderabad Circle Chief General Manager Om Prakash Mishra has been elevated to the post of Deputy Managing Director, effective May 14. A banker with over three decades of experience, he headed the Hyderabad Circle since May 2019. Mr.Mishra joined SBI as a probationary officer in 1987 in its Patna Circle. He acquired rich experience, in banking operations, by virtue of his working in various capacities, including as General Manager in Guwahati and Delhi Circles, a release on Friday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-hyderabad-circle-cgm-elevated-as-deputy-md/article34562398.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Allow patients, says Kishan Reddy||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy has urged the TS government to withdraw the circular to allow COVID patients to take treatment in Hyderabad only after confirmation of bed in a hospital and said it was not right to halt ambulances in the border on that count on Friday. In a press statement, the Minister urged both CMs and senior officials to thrash out the issue with discussions to ensure patients are not at the receiving end and are not made to wait in ambulances at the border as it was inhuman to deny treatment to those coming to the twin cities for better medicare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allow-patients-says-kishan-reddy/article34562399.ece
15 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Where are BJP national leaders, asks MLA||Sangareddy MLA, T. Jayaprakash Reddy has lambasted the Telangana BJP leaders asking them whether their national leaders visit Telangana only for elections or also to help people in crisis. Accusing the Central government of failing the nation on Covid issue, he asked the state BJP leaders whether they had the guts to question their Central leadership on shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir injections in Telangana. Speaking to reporters, he said the short-sightedness of Central and State governments had led to the present unprecedented crisis. Instead of indulging in political talk the governments should at least concentrate on mitigating people’s concerns. If Modi was 75% responsible, KCR was 25% responsible for the present medical crisis in the State, he argued. The Sangareddy MLA supported the lockdown decision and said people’s lives more important at this stage, and the government should come to the rescue of people who are denied livelihood during the lockdown. Providing food and health was the responsibility of the state, he said. Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy said he would provide two ambulances to be kept ready at Gandhi Bhavan for people in need and they would be ready in two days. This is part of Rahul Gandhi Cares outreach to Covid patients as per the call given by Mr Rahul Gandhi and TPCC president, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy. He said Congress would contest in Huzurabad if Eatala Rajender resigned forcing a by-poll. There should be no doubt in it, he said saying Telangana Rashtra Samithi settle their issue with its MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/where-are-bjp-national-leaders-asks-mla/article34562402.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination goes on for 45 plus||Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao informed that about 39,000 vaccine doses, including 38,510 for second dose and 1,045 for first dose, were given to people in the age group of 45 years and above till Thursday night. This takes the total number of those vaccinated for the first dose to 43,75,396 and second dose to 11,03,872, so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-goes-on-for-45-plus/article34562377.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||6,000 masks distributed to tribals||Yashoda Foundation, a CSR initiative of Yashoda Hospitals, distributed 6,000 masks to people living in interior tribal villages of Tiryani mandal in Asifabad. The masks, made of reusable cloth by self-help groups of Sircilla, were handed over with the help of police. Tribals of Gond and Kolam clans in Mangi, Pangidimadara, Rompally, Gundala and Gudipeta got the masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/6000-masks-distributed-to-tribals/article34562378.ece
15 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||30 truckload of medical equipment flagged off||Cyberabad Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar on Friday flagged off 30 truckload of medical material, including beds, pulse oximeters, thermometers, PPE suits, N-95 masks, stretchers and wheelchairs for staff and patients of 30 district hospitals in the State. “We have witnessed a lot of migration of patients from districts to Hyderabad in the last three to four weeks and hence this support to district hospitals will further strengthen the local hospitals to handle more patients and provide immediate medical help,” he said, advising public to follow COVID-19 measures and join hands in their efforts in fight the pandemic. Mr. Sajjanar appreciated efforts of Traffic DCP Vijay Kumar SM, Additional DCP Manikraj and other police officers for working relentlessly over the last 10 days to make the endeavour a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/30-truckload-of-medical-equipment-flagged-off/article34562389.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD/KURNOOL,TELANGANA||60 ambulances sent back from border||More than 60 ambulances with patients were turned away from the Panchalingala-Pullur inter-state border within Jogulamba - Gadwal district in Telangana from Thursday midnight to 7 p.m. on Friday despite a court order restraining such acts. Two patients died during the waiting period of ambulances at the border check post. The details of the dead patients could not be ascertained as only their place of origin was recorded on the check post. They hailed from Nandyal and Kadapa. By the time the Kurnool Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli was alerted about the tense situation at the border check-post, there were 18 ambulances waiting for the Telangana police to permit them to travel to Hyderabad. “As the situation turned grave for four patients while I was personally present there, we shifted them to the Government General Hospital at Kurnool, and sent back the remaining ambulances to various other hospitals,” the SP told The Hindu . “I spoke to them in view of the Telangana High Court order, but they said they had not received a copy and hence did not have the permission to allow the patients in ambulances without e-permission. Two patients out of the 20 in ambulances currently waiting here, are running out of oxygen and we have provided oxygen cylinders from the Police Hospital in Kurnool,” Mr. Fakkeerappa said. Kurnool MLA Hafeez Khan, who reached the toll plaza, held discussions with the police personnel but to no avail. Due to severe shortage of hospital beds in Hyderabad, as claimed by Telangana government, the police officials of the State at the check-post had been turning away patients and their attendants wanting to travel to Hyderabad from Rayalaseema districts of AP. “We got strict instructions to allow vehicles with an ePass from police or State Health Department, but not from A.P. police” an officer of Telangana said on condition of anonymity. He said that they are doing ‘just’ enforcement work and the crucial paper work was being done by health and revenue departments of Telangana government. “Only after getting a nod from the Health officials, who again cross-examine with the hospital staff, we are letting the vehicles cross the border. We have no role to play in it,” the officer while examining the documents of an ambulance said. Even those who had online permission from the Telangana police were sent back citing various reasons, including shortage of oxygen-supported beds in the State capital. Despite clear instructions from the State government to allow ambulances carrying COVID-19 patients with prior tie-ups with any hospital in Hyderabad, police at the toll gate stopped dozens of medical emergency vehicles on Friday morning. District Superintendent of Police, Ranjan Ratan Kumar didn’t respond to repeated call and messages by this correspondent to comment on the issue. Since Sunday evening, hundreds of ambulances with COVID-19 patients on liquid oxygen support, who require immediate medical assistance, have been turned away by the police of Telangana citing various reasons. Family members of several patients pleaded with the police to allow them to reach Hyderabad and save the life of their kin, but in vain. Later, the Kurnool SP took to twitter to announce that ambulances were allowed to enter TS. "TS Police just now started releasing ambulances filed up at borders. Patients are being moved towards Hyderabad," he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/60-ambulances-sent-back-from-border/article34562401.ece
15 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||New guidelines take patients unawares||Dozens of vehicles, including ambulances, from Andhra Pradesh were stuck up at the entry points along the inter-State borders shared by the erstwhile composite Nalgonda district with Andhra Pradesh as the police enforced stricter curbs on the inter-State movement of vehicles on Friday. Several ambulances headed to Hyderabad from Andhra Pradesh were turned away by the police at the Ramapuram border point in Suryapet district on Friday morning after the crew reportedly failed to produce the hospital appointment documents and authorisation passes from the COVID control rooms as mandated by the Telangana government. Some emergency vehicles tht were carrying COVID-19 patients and others in need of emergency medicare from Andhra Pradesh to Hyderabad had to return back midway from the border points near Ramapuram, Wadapalli and Nagarjunasagar in the old undivided Nalgonda district, sources said. Police sources said that personnel deployed at border checkposts were implementing the new guidelines issued by the State government pertaining to regulation of vehicles/ambulances carrying patients from other States into Telangana as per the stipulated instructions. The new guidelines were issued as per the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, sources added. A woman, accompanying an ailing elderly woman in an ambulance from Vijayawada, deplored that their emergency vehicle was stranded at Ramapuram entry point along the inter-State border for more than half-an-hour. Insistence on pass “Despite showing the documents in proof of the confirmed admission in a Hyderabad-based private hospital, the police personnel insisted on production of authorisation passes from the control room in Hyderabad,” she lamented, expressing fears of depletion of the limited oxygen stock in the ambulance. The curbs on the movement of ambulances amid the COVID-19 pandemic is totally unjustifiable and stringent stipulations on the inter-State movement of emergency vehicles in these difficult times could prove fatal for the critically-ill patients, said another attendant of a patient on board another ambulance from Andhra Pradesh, in deep agony. Meanwhile, border checks were intensified in the old undivided Khammam district on the third day of the lockdown in force to curb the COVID-19 spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-guidelines-take-patients-unawares/article34562403.ece
15 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||COVID-19 claims life of DEE||The dreaded COVID-19 has claimed the life of K Ramakrishna, 40, Deputy Executive Engineer, Irrigation Sub-Division, Enkoor. Mr Ramakrishna succumbed to COVID-19 at a private hospital here on Wednesday midnight, after battling the dreaded coronavirus infection for more than a week, sources said.He is survived by wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-claims-life-of-dee/article34562396.ece
15 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Fewer people revealing symptoms of COVID||Inspite of the best efforts by the authorities, considerably fewer number of people with COVID symptoms are coming forward to get treatment being provided by the government, due to fear of social stigma and ostracism. For instance, 30-year-old Irfan (name changed), living in an apartment in the district headquarters, had mild fever for the past four days. He approached a doctor and took the prescribed medicine, unfortunately the fever did not subside. Worse, he recently developed breathing problems and not knowing what to do he sought the advice of one of his neighbours in the apartment complex. The neighbours, who got alerted to his condition, immediately directed him to a doctor who has been extending treatment for COVID-19 patients who are in home isolation. In another case, a house owner who was in home isolation for COVID-19 and did not appear in public for a week, did not reveal his illness even to his neighbours or others fearing ostracism. Other residents of the complex got alerted to the presence of a COVID-19 positive patient following the secretive behaviour of other members of the family of the patient. This situation is not confined to urban areas. The fever survey teams of Aasha and anganwadi workers found that even in rural areas people were unwilling to truthfully reveal their condition fearing the social isolation. Officials have learnt to deal the situation with tact and care as they realised the sensitivities involved in dealing with persons showing COVID symptoms, especially in villages. “We have completed survey in our village. We have handed over kits with medicines supplied by the authorities to those with symptoms. But we suspect that the number of persons with symptoms are more than those that came to our notice. It is not possible to forcibly enter into houses, unless and until the patients and their families come forward we cannot do anything,” said an Anganwadi worker on condition of anonymity. On the other hand the teams at village-level were not completely aware of whom to distribute the medicine supplied by the government. “We will give medicine to only such persons who have reported that fever persists for five days continuously,” said an Aasha worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fewer-people-revealing-symptoms-of-covid/article34562380.ece
15 May 2021||Siddipet,TELANGANA||Corporate treatment at govt. medical college||In a move to help poor people infected with corona, corporate level treatment is being offered to patients at the government medical college located in the district headquarters. Finance Minister T Harish Rao has set his focus on providing best facilities for patients being treated here. About 200 patients are being treated here with supply of breakfast, lunch, dinner and dry fruits in the evening. Egg is being ensured in morning and night for every patient. Thirty ICU beds, 200 beds with supply of oxygen and 30 beds with ventilators were already established at the government medical college hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corporate-treatment-at-govt-medical-college/article34562395.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Camera-fuelled hope||‘Everyone is a filmmaker’, the makers of Cinema Bandi (streaming on Netflix) emphasise. Why not? Director Praveen Kandregula and writers Vasanth Maringanti and Krishna Pratyusha present an endearing story of a motley group of villagers who know nothing of the intricacies of filmmaking but give it their all to make a film. The indie-spirited capture of the filmmaking process with the bare minimum facilities in the village is a nod to Faiza Ahmad Khan’s documentary Supermen of Malegaon (2012). We are introduced to Veera (Vikas Vasistha) who goes about ferrying people in his shared auto, traversing bumpy lanes. The conversations are inevitably about the lack of rains and bad roads in the village, and the lure of the big city. Veera might be making just enough to make ends meet, but he is an optimist; he argues that if everyone migrates to the city, who will make things better for the village, and believes sincerely that there will be good tidings ahead. The film unravels in Gollapally village where the dialect is Telugu laced with Kannada. Things take a turn when someone leaves behind a bag with a high-end camera in Veera’s vehicle. He takes a cue from a television channel report that Telugu films with smaller budgets can go on to be superhits. Thus begins a fun ride of ‘ jugaad’ filmmaking. Veera believes that the film could be a passport to better finances not only for himself but can also solve the infrastructure problems in his village.  Cinema Bandi is all heart, showcasing innocent vulnerability and big dreams. The village wedding photographer Ganapati (Sandeep Varanasi) turns cinematographer and the hairdresser Maridayya (Rag Mayur) turns hero with a screen name, Maridesh Babu! The filmmaking process could have turned into a series of gags, but Praveen gently juxtaposes them with a closer look at the psyche of the characters. It takes a lot for the villagers, who mostly get by on daily earnings, to be a part of the film. There’s a superb scene where the fiery Manga (Uma) shuts up a naysayer by stating how she and those involved in the film have gone the extra mile in their daily lives to make the film shooting happen. The women are varied and strong as they come. One heroine has her own plans of love and marriage. Another doesn’t like to be the damsel in distress; she’d rather take things into her control. Interspersed with the filmmaking, there’s a lovely track between Veera and his wife Gangotri (Sirivennela Yanamadhala). She takes on additional responsibilities to keep the house running, and Veera quietly understands the weight of her burden. Gradually, Veera’s film becomes the village’s film as folks take pride in the project. The raw, rustic portrayal (cinematography by Apoorva Shaligram and Sagar) will leave you grinning and the film has its share of smaller heartwarming characters. A boy keeps a sharp eye on the ‘continuity’ required for the scenes and a grandfather (Muni Venkatappa), who is introduced as the writer for the story on which the film is based, sits without uttering a word.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)    Cinema Bandi   Cast: Vikas Vasistha, Rag Mayur, Sandeep Varanasi, Uma   Direction: Praveen Kandregula   Music: Sirish Satyavolu Streaming on: Netflix||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/camera-fuelled-hope/article34562387.ece
15 May 2021||:,TELANGANA||Guidelines issued for patients from other States||The State government has issued a series of guidelines to streamline admission of patients coming from other States into the hospitals here. For the last four days, dozens of ambulances from Andhra Pradesh were held up on the AP.-T.S. borders at Ramapuram check post near Kodada (Suryapet district), Wadapalli (Nalgonda district) and Pullur check post near Kurnool-Jogulamba-Gadwal district. On Friday too, tension mounted near the Pullur check post with Telangana police refusing entry to the ambulances carrying critically ill COVId patients Patients from other States should have prior tie-up with the hospital in Telangana for Covid admission. The hospitals on their part will apply in prescribed format to the control room set up for the purpose (phone no:- 040-24651119 and 9494438251 (WhatsApp), e-mail:idsp@telangana.gov.in). The applications will have basic details like the name of the patient, age, State, attendant’s name, mobile number, and type of bed tied up/care required. On receipt of the proposal from the hospital, the control room would issue authorisation to travel based on which the patient could come to Telangana. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar conveyed this to his counterparts in other States and Union Territories through a recent letter. The guidelines were issued as several patients from other states were travelling to Telangana for admission in hospitals without a prior tie-up with any hospital in the State. As such, patients were losing valuable time moving from one hospital to other, but also give scope for potentially spreading the infection of different strains. The guidelines were issued under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and the enabling provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/guidelines-issued-for-patients-from-other-states/article34562406.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Stocking up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stocking-up/article34562382.ece
15 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Haryana CM’s comment on virus spread baseless’||Haryana State committee of All-India Kisan Sabha on Friday strongly condemned the remarks of Chief Minister Manohar Lal attributing the spread of the virus in rural Haryana to the ongoing farmers’ struggle. In a press release, State AIKS Haryana president Phool Singh Sheokand and working secretary Sumit described the utterances of the CM as “baseless” and “ridiculous”. The Kisan Sabha leaders instead blamed that both Central and State governments for their total failure to control the second wave of COVID spread and provide any relief to the people losing their loved ones. They asked if it was so then why COVID was rampant in the regions of the State where the farmers movement was negligible. Kisan leaders claimed that farmers are returning on borders after harvesting and they would come out winners against both COVID and the three “black” laws. Had the government been little bit sensitive and responsible, it would have already withdrawn the three laws and guaranteed MSP to facilitate the return of farmers to their homes, said the press statement. The leaders added that farmers were observing all necessary precautions and there were no reports of any outbreak so far at the border sites Mr. Lal, in a press conference, on Thursday said the ongoing farmers agitation at the Delhi borders had led to spread of COVID in Haryana villages. He also made an appeal to the farmers to suspend it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-cms-comment-on-virus-spread-baseless/article34562346.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crowds coming back to Singhu protest site after harvest season||Farmers at the Singhu border said the protest is going strong amidst the raging pandemic as crowds are coming back to the site following the harvesting season. Sukwinder Singh Barwa from Ropar said the crowd became half of the initial strength during the harvest season, but people are starting to come back. “A group with over 250 tractors and trucks reached on May 10 while another group arrived on May 12,” he said. Guramrit Mehma from Ferozabad, who was at the protest site till recently, is at home now. He hasn’t been able to come to the site as there’s a lockdown in Haryana. “The COVID situation in Delhi is bad. Even if we want to go, we can’t because of the lockdown,” he said. Mr. Barwa added that if people come in groups, they are not being stopped. “The COVID situation is bad, but for some reason, people at the protest are not getting infected. While we all take precautions, the older generation still doesn’t believe in it. They don’t keep washing hands and use sanitisers. Some of them wrap their head scarfs around their nose and mouth,” he said. While the main langars continue to be organised, the speeches at the main stage now stop at 3 p.m. “After that, there is a break for two hours before religious chantings of all faiths continue,” said Parminder Singh from Ludhiana. The stir site on Friday also saw Muslim protesters offering Eid prayers. Mr. Singh added that there is “no question” of protest coming to a stop at any point unless a solution in their favour is reached. “The BJP’s rule can end but not this protest till the demands are met,” he said. ‘For next few years' People at the protest sites continue to make concrete structures for their lodging. “It looks like they won’t leave for the next few years,” he said. Kamaljeet Singh from Patiala said: “About 450 farmers have died and a pandemic is going on. But the government doesn’t wish to start a dialogue with us. We will soon be completing six months here.” Referring to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s appeal to farmers to end the protest and saying that a few villages have become COVID hotspots due to the protesting farmers, Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Friday, said: “Instead of introspecting about his administration’s failure in setting up adequate healthcare facilities and services in the state, he chose to blame farmers. The SKM condemns his statement and points out that the protests have remained largely free of the pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/crowds-coming-back-to-singhu-protest-site-after-harvest-season/article34562350.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police collected over Rs. 1 crore from COVID-19 violators||The Delhi police collected Rs. 1.14 crore as fine and registered 5,174 FIRs as they continued to crackdown on violators of COVID-19 guidelines and restrictions, including curfew, during the second wave of the pandemic, said officers on Friday. The police said they have arrested more than 4,500 people from April 19 to May 13 for not adhering to DDMA guidelines on COVID-19. They said 51,878 people were challaned for not wearing face masks in the public place, 8,223 people for not maintaining social distancing norms, 391 for large public gathering or congregations, 57 for spitting and 65 for consumption of liquor, paan, tobacco etc. in public place from April 19 to May 13. A total of Rs. 11,44,83,827 fine has been imposed to the violators during the period, the data showed. They also issued 2,04,673 challans under Section 65 of Delhi Police Act (persons bound to comply with the reasonable directions of police officer) and 14,446 challans under Section 66 of DP ACT (police to take charge of unclaimed property), the data stated. Unlike the previous lockdown, the situation is different this time, the police said. The city is under medical crisis and people are running pillar to post to arrange or refill oxygen cylinders and for other medical facilities. “There are many exempted categories in this curfew as compare to last year. People are out on the streets for medical reasons. People with genuine reasons have not been fined. Also, the Inter-State movement is also not restricted so people from NCR having medical reasons are also visiting Delhi,” said a senior police officer. COVID helpline queries Delhi Police said it received many calls on its COVID-19 helpline number, most of them call on queries related to the curfews and issue of e-passes. After getting complaints in their helpline numbers, the police has, so far, registered over 370 FIRs against COVID cheats, arrested 91 persons, seized 95 devices and frozen more than 200 bank accounts.  There are many exempted categories in this curfew as compared to last year. People with genuine reasons have not been fined Senior Delhi Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-collected-over-rs-1-crore-from-covid-19-violators/article34562355.ece
15 May 2021||New DELHI,||No interim protection from arrest for Kalra till May 18: HC||The Delhi High Court Friday declined to grant interim protection from arrest for Navneet Kalra, seeking anticipatory bail in connection with alleged black marketing of oxygen concentrators, agreeing with the reasons given by the trial court while denying him the relief. A sessions court had on Thursday dismissed Mr. Kalra’s anticipatory bail plea, saying the allegations against him were serious and his custodial interrogation was required to “unearth the entire conspiracy”. “I am persuaded by the reasons given by the trial court which is a valid ground for me not to grant any interim protection now,” Justice Subramonium Prasad said while listing the matter for hearing on May 18. The observation came after Mr. Kalra’s lawyers — senior advocates Abhishek M. Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa — urged the court to grant some interim protection if the matter was going to be adjourned till May 18 on the request of Additional Solicitor General (ASG) S.V. Raju. Mr. Singhvi told the court that the police was actively searching for Mr. Kalra and visiting the homes of its relatives and close friends and it ought not to be done when it was hearing his plea for anticipatory bail. He said he was not in a “begging game” with the authorities and was relying on the court to protect his client’s rights as the police was out looking for him with a “fanaticism” as if he were a “trophy”. When the hearing commenced on Friday afternoon, ASG Raju urged the court to hear it on Tuesday (May 18) as he had a lot of material, like information with regard to shell companies, which he needed to place before it and would require some time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-interim-protection-from-arrest-for-kalra-till-may-18-hc/article34562358.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cabinet approves Rs. 5,000 assistance to PSV drivers||The Delhi Cabinet on Friday approved financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to all individuals holding Public Service Badge (Drivers) of para-transit vehicles and permit holders of para-transit public service vehicles in the wake of the second wave of COVID and the curfew announced by the Delhi government to contain it. The beneficiaries will include those who drive autorickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis, phatphat sewa, eco-friendly sewa, gramin sewa and maxi cabs among other such vehicles. In 2020, the government stated, Rs. 78 crores were given as financial assistance to more than 1.56 auto and taxi drivers and the beneficiaries of the 2020 scheme need not reapply. According to the government, they will get the payment of Rs. 5,000 directly transferred to their Aadhaar linked bank accounts subject to verification of deaths from local bodies. The Delhi government said it has written to the Urban Development dept., seeking data of deaths registered with local bodies from Feb. 1 till date. Those who could not get this financial assistance last year due to various reasons, the government said, can apply for it through Delhi Transport Department website where a link for the purpose will be made available soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cabinet-approves-rs-5000-assistance-to-psv-drivers/article34562351.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||DTC union seeks Rs. 1 crore compensation||The DTC Karamchari Ekta Union, which represents the interests of contractual employees engaged by the public transporter, on Friday appealed to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to designate Delhi Transport Corporation employees as ‘Corona Warriors’ entitled to compensation of Rs. 1 crore if they died due to the virus in the line of duty. 50 employees died According to the union, as many as 50 employees engaged by the DTC had succumbed to the virus since the pandemic hit the city while performing duties ranging from the transportation of migrant workers last year to ensuring the timely delivery of oxygen cylinders this time around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dtc-union-seeks-rs-1-crore-compensation/article34562352.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC halts services due to lockdown extension||Delhi Metro services were halted this week with the lockdown being extended in the city. Last year too, the train services remained suspended for over five months owing to the lockdown. A senior DMRC official said: “Two trains are being run daily from every terminal station in the morning and evening hours since operations got suspended due to the lockdown. This exercise is aimed at ensuring good health and functionality of all the systems like track, traction, signaling, telecommunication and so on, which are required for the smooth running of metro services,” a senior DMRC official said. The DMRC’s revenue had taken a hit as services became operational only in September last with the necessary COVID protocol in place. Loss of Rs. 10cr./day As compared to 2019 data, the DMRC suffers a revenue loss of Rs. 10 crore per day during lockdown periods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dmrc-halts-services-due-to-lockdown-extension/article34562357.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Tele consultation for NDMC workers||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Friday launched a programme to provide tele consultation to its employees and their family members who are infected with COVID and are under home isolation. The NDMC created a team of doctors under NDMC Employees Telecommunication Relief and Assistance (NETRA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tele-consultation-for-ndmc-workers/article34562353.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘100 policemen getting infected with COVID-19 every 24 hours’||On an average, around 100 policemen in Delhi are getting infected every 24 hours in the second wave of the pandemic, said a senior officer on Friday. On Wednesday, a total of 98 policemen tested COVID positive. The officer said four policemen have succumbed to COVID-19 even after taking both the doses of the vaccine over a month ago. He said 17 police personnel, who had received only the first vaccine shot, succumbed to COVID-19 during the second wave. “A report was ordered into the death of policemen after taking second dose of vaccine. It was found that they all had co-morbidities and were undergoing treatment. The recovery rate in policemen is good — they are recovering fast and resuming their duties,” said the officer. During the first wave, 33 policemen had died when there was no vaccine. 31 died in second wave During the second wave, 31 policemen have died so far. The vaccination process of around 92% of police personnel stands complete. Till date, 13,065 policemen have tested positive for the virus and 10,551 have resumed duties. The remaining police personnel is undergoing treatment. “Most of the infected policemen are under home quarantine. Only 32 policemen are admitted at hospitals,” the officer added. On Friday, senior officers interacted with police personnel and their family members and also provided experts’ advice on prevention and cure. They also took questions to bust myths. During the webinar, the police officers urged everyone to keep on following COVID-appropriate behaviour as advised through instructions issued by the Commissioner of Delhi Police.  A detailed report was ordered into the death of policemen after taking second dose of vaccine. It was found that they all had comorbidities and were undergoing treatment. Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/100-policemen-getting-infected-with-covid-19-every-24-hours/article34562356.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Board of hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/board-of-hope/article34562348.ece
15 May 2021||Mumbai,||Centre should seek review of 50% cap on quota: MVA govt.||After the Centre filed a review petition on Thursday challenging the Supreme Court’s interpretation of the 102nd Constitutional Amendment in the Maratha reservation case, the Maharashtra government has said it should also seek a review of the 50% reservation cap in the Indra Sawhney case. “To continue reservations for all communities in different States, it is important to revisit the 50% reservation cap,” said Ashok Chavan, chairman of the State Cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation. “The government had put all its efforts to draw the Central government’s attention to this issue even before the Maratha reservation case began in the apex court.” He said the 50% cap must be addressed along with the 102nd Constitutional Amendment. “The State had presented the stand that its rights must not be hampered by the amendment, but it was struck down by the majority verdict of the Supreme Court Bench. Now the Centre too has endorsed the State’s position, and we welcome this,” said the Minister. The Centre’s honest intention to ensure reservation for Marathas and others would be visible only if it pushed for a review of the reservation limit, he said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis said the State government should now file a petition for a review of the cap. “The Centre had clarified that despite the amendment, the State’s rights will remain intact. Now it has reiterated it by approaching the apex court. The State government should step forward and file the petition to remove the 50% cap,” Mr. Fadnavis said. Speaking to reporters in Kolhapur, State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil demanded a Rs. 3,000 crore package for the Maratha community. He also demanded that the State government move the SC for a review, accusing it of shirking responsibility. Meanwhile, Union Social Justice Minister Ramdas Athawale met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and demanded that the President and the Prime Minister intervene to grant a separate quota based on financial parameters to Marathas, Rajputs, Thakurs and other Kshatriya communities.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-should-seek-review-of-50-cap-on-quota-mva-govt/article34562135.ece
15 May 2021||Mumbai,||1998 Mumbai railway bomb blast case convict Aftab Shaikh granted parole||The Bombay High Court recently directed authorities of the Nashik Road Central Prison to release Aftab Saeed Ahmed Shaikh, convicted in the 1998 Mumbai railway bomb blast case, on parole for 30 days. On September 19, 2020, the Superintendent of Nashik jail had rejected Shaikh’s plea seeking emergency parole owing to the pandemic. He then moved the high court with the plea. Over 23 years in prison A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing a criminal petition filed by Shaikh through advocate Abhishek Bhadang of the legal aid panel. Advocate Bhadang informed the court that Shaikh had undergone more than 23 years of imprisonment. Replying to the order passed by the Superintendent of Nashik Jail, Mr. Bhadang argued that the only reason his plea for emergency parole was rejected because he is a bomb blast convict. He also said on one instance after being released on furlough, Shaikh reported late by 14 days and that this reason is not sustainable and he deserves relief. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare opposed the plea and said the sessions court while convicting Shaikh had specifically said the State should not act liberally while entertaining any request by him for commutation or remission of sentence. The court took into consideration that despite observations from the sessions court, the jail authorities had granted Shaikh furlough/parole on four occasions. The court said it is clear from the record that Shaikh had reported back on time on three occasions and only on one occasion he reported late by 14 days that too after applying for an extension for parole leave. The court said Shaikh can be released on regular parole for a period of 30 days instead of acceding to grant of emergency parole. “It would be appropriate and in the interest of justice, the petitioner is granted regular parole instead of relief of emergency parole for a long period of time,” the court noted. ‘Direction necessary’ The order read, “We are of the opinion that specific direction is necessary in the present case for Shaikh to surrender” and directed that he be released on parole for 30 days subject to the conditions of Prisons (Bombay Furlough and Parole) Rules.  It would be appropriate and in the interest of justice, the petitioner is granted regular parole instead of relief of emergency parole for a long period of time Bombay High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/1998-mumbai-railway-bomb-blast-case-convict-aftab-shaikh-granted-parole/article34562136.ece
15 May 2021||Mumbai,||Hany Babu tests positive for COVID-19||Professor Hany Babu, accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case has tested positive for COVID-19. A statement released by the family said Mr. Babu had developed an acute eye infection in Taloja Jail. The note said, “He started showing symptoms on May 4 but was taken to hospital on May 8. He was asked to come for review on May 12 but was not taken due to shortage of escort staff. He was taken to JJ Hospital where he underwent several tests including CT scan, but we, the family, have not been given any information about his condition. They have not provided any medical records despite repeated pleas from us and our lawyers.” The family appealed to the State Home Minister to take steps to shift him to a high-end private hospital where both his eye condition and COVID-19 can be treated. The family is willing to accompany him and bear the treatment costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hany-babu-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34562131.ece
15 May 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra again registers over 50,000 recoveries; 695 deaths||In its lowest single-day case surge in nearly a fortnight, Maharashtra reported 39,923 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to 53,249 recoveries as the State’s active case tally dipped to 5,19,254. The fatality surge continued to remain high, with as many as 695 deaths, of which 311 occurred over the last 48 hours, pushing the total death toll to 79,552. As per the State Health Department, 142 of these deaths occurred during the last week and the remaining 242 from an earlier period. The total cases reached 53,09,215, while cumulative recoveries rose to 47,07,980 with the recovery rate rising to 88.68%. “Of 3,06,02,140 laboratory samples tested thus far, 53,09,215 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 17.35%) have returned positive, with over 2.49 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stood at 1.5%. Pune added more than 6,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 9,63,093. As per State Health Department figures, 30 deaths were reported as the total death toll rose to 10,262. As per district authorities, the active case tally has reached 89,000 while the total death toll has crossed 15,000. 1,660 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 1,660 new cases to take its total case tally to 6,84,845, while the active cases have declined to 35,843. With 62 fatalities the death toll rose to 14,102. Nagpur district reported more than 2,000 cases as its total case tally reached 4,76,157, of whom 40,496 are active. A total of 74 deaths pushed the toll to 5,906. Solapur reported a high fatality spike of 72 deaths and more than 2,100 cases as its total death toll rose to 3,172 and the total cases reached 1,35,641, of whom 21,232 are active. Ahmednagar reported 14 deaths, more than 3,000 cases, taking its total death toll to 2,390 and its total cases to 2,18,160, of whom 21,232 are active. Beed in Marathwada reported 37 deaths and 1,102 new cases, taking its total cases to 73,495, of whom 18,806 are active, while its total death toll has risen to 1,337. Nashik in north Maharashtra reported more than 2,500 new cases, taking its total tally to 3,60,573, of whom 28,862 are active, while 35 deaths pushed its total death toll to 3,946.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-again-registers-over-50000-recoveries-695-deaths/article34562133.ece
15 May 2021||Gaza City,||As conflict intensifies, Israel pounds Gaza||Israel bombarded Gaza with artillery and air strikes on Friday following a new barrage of rocket fire from the Hamas-run enclave, intensifying a conflict that has claimed more than 120 lives. The most intense fighting between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza since 2014 has been accompanied by an unprecedented outbreak of mob violence between Jews and Arabs inside Israel. The Israeli Army said its overnight operation in Gaza involved fighter jets and tanks hitting a Hamas tunnel network dug under civilian areas. The bombardment saw huge fireballs turn the night sky orange. Towers and homes were levelled while rockets tore through the skies towards Israel. Muhammad Najib, a 16-year-old resident of Gaza City’s Rimal neighbourhood, compared the bombing to a video game. “It’s like a horror film,” he said. Um Raed al-Baghdadi, one of scores of people who fled her home amid the shelling, said that Gazans “who have been in war since childhood... cannot bear it anymore.” Israeli soldiers massed on the edge of the blockaded territory on Friday, and Army spokesman Jonathan Conricus took responsibility for an erroneous overnight report that ground forces had entered Gaza. Meanwhile, clashes in the West Bank, described as among the most intense since the second intifada that began in 2000, left seven people dead from Israeli fire, the Palestinian Health Ministry said, as overall fatalities from strikes on Gaza rose to 122. A woman in her 50s died on Thursday after she fell while seeking shelter from rockets, according to the Sheba Medical Center, bringing the death toll on the Israeli side to nine, including a child and a soldier. Several airlines — including KLM, British Airways, Virgin, Lufthansa and Iberia — cancelled flights in the face of the aerial onslaught. There were few signs of the conflict abating. Since Monday, Palestinian militant groups have fired more than 1,800 rockets towards Israel, mostly towards southern cities, but also at Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. Hundreds have been intercepted by Israel’s Iron Dome defence system. Israel has hit 750 sites it described as military targets such as Hamas bomb-making facilities and the homes of senior militant commanders. Air strikes levelled three high-rise buildings. Israel estimates that more than 30 leaders of Hamas and its ally Islamic Jihad have been killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-conflict-intensifies-israel-pounds-gaza/article34561850.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Raw materials shortage, demand driving up prices of supplies: China||A day after India expressed concerns about rising prices of critical medical supplies from China, the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing said soaring demand from India and a shortage of raw materials was driving costs up. The Chinese government said on Friday companies there had received orders for more than 70,000 oxygen concentrators from Indian companies. Chinese media reports have said firms were adding production lines and hiring workers to meet the surge in orders. On Thursday, India’s Consul General in Hong Kong, Priyanka Chauhan, expressed concerns about rising prices to the South China Morning Post . “Our expectation at this point is that the supply chain should remain open and product prices should remain stable,” she said. “Even if there is a little bit of supply demand pressure, there has to be some stability and predictability to product prices. And there has to be a sense of governmental level support and efforts. I don’t have the information as to how much influence the Chinese government can have in this matter but if they can, then it would be welcome.” Ms. Chauhan added that India was asking China “to facilitate cargo flights so that supplies could be delivered”. State-owned Sichuan Airlines had suspended cargo flights to India for 15 days last month. “Unreasonable control should be avoided, and transport linkages should be maintained,” she said, adding that a phone call between the two Foreign Ministers had helped with some approvals but flights had not yet returned to the same frequency. China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told reporters China had in April exported to India “over 26,000 ventilators and oxygen concentrators, over 15,000 patient monitors and nearly 3,800 tons of medicinal materials and medicines.” “Relevant Chinese companies have received Indian orders for over 70,000 oxygen concentrators and are working around the clock to deliver them as soon as possible. In addition, India has a strong demand for vaccines raw materials including auxiliary materials. Since the beginning of this year, relevant Chinese enterprises have provided more than 10 tons of such materials to India with more than 20 tons expected to be delivered soon,” Ms. Hua said. “We agree with the remarks by the Indian Consul General in Hong Kong that supply chains should remain open and stable,” she added. “We hope all parties can take concrete actions to ensure that the global and supply chains are stable and open. No one should intentionally disrupt and undermine the openness and stability of the global supply chains out of political agenda.” The spokesperson said the price issue was “a market factor determined by supply and demand.” “We asked relevant enterprises about the rising price. Taking oxygen concentrators as an example, one reason is that the increase in demand affected global supply chains. Besides, due to shortage of raw materials which need to be imported from Europe, production capacity is affected. What’s more, Indian buyers usually make the same demand through various channels and sometimes buy products through different channels. This has overly inflated demand, which has to some extent affected market order and pushed up prices. In early 2020... we had the same problems. Therefore, we hope all sides can work together to ensure that supply chains are kept open and stable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/raw-materials-shortage-demand-driving-up-prices-of-supplies-china/article34561846.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s Iron Dome system?||The Iron Dome aerial defence system intercepted a Hamas Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) on Friday that crossed from Gaza into Israel, Israeli Defence Forces (IDF) said on social media. The IDF said on Thursday that in the last three days, Hamas has fired more than 1,500 rockets from Gaza all the way into Israel. The night sky over Israel has been ablaze with interceptor missiles from Iron Dome shooting down the incoming rockets in the sky. So what is the Iron Dome system? Multi-mission Iron Dome is a multi-mission system capable of intercepting rockets, artillery, mortars and Precision Guided Munitions like very short range air defence (V-SHORAD) systems as well as aircraft, helicopters and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) over short ranges of up to 70 km. It is an all-weather system and can engage multiple targets simultaneously and be deployed over land and sea. Iron Dome is manufactured by Rafael Advanced Defence Systems and has been in service with Israeli Air Force since 2011. The radar system was developed by Elta. Its development was prompted after a series of rocket attacks on Israel by Hezbollah and Hamas in the 2000s. In the 2006 Lebanon war, around 4,000 rockets were fired on the northern parts of Israel resulting in the death of about 44 Israeli civilians and and evacuation of around 250,000 citizens following the development of the system was taken up. How does it work? An Iron Dome battery consists of a battle management control unit, a detection and tracking radar and a firing unit of three vertical launchers, with 20 interceptor missiles each. The interceptor missile uses a proximity fuse to detonate the target warhead in the air. The Iron Dome is deployed in a layered defence along with David’s Sling and Arrow missile defence system which are designed for medium- and long-range threats. According to a 2013 research paper by Yiftah S. Shapur titled ‘Lessons from the Iron Dome’ in Military and Strategic Affairs , one of the system’s important advantages is its ability to identify the anticipated point of impact of the threatening rocket, to calculate whether it will fall in a built-up area or not, and to decide on this basis whether or not to engage it. This prevents unnecessary interception of rockets that will fall in open areas and thus not cause damage, the paper states. The system has intercepted thousands of rockets so far and, according to Rafael, its success rate is over 90%. The I-DOME is the mobile variant with all components on a single truck and C-DOME is the naval version for deployment on ships. The system has performed very well so far. However, the system can see limitations when it is overwhelmed with a barrage of projectiles. “The system has a ‘saturation point’. It is capable of engaging a certain (unpublished) number of targets at the same time, and no more. Additional rockets fired in a crowded salvo could succeed in breaching defences and cause damage,” Mr. Shapur says in the paper. Mitigating strategies Several assessments suggest that Hamas is developing mitigating strategies including lowering the trajectories of the projectiles while also continuing to accumulate thousands of rockets with improved precision. According to Mr. Shapur, one of the possible limitations is the system’s inability to cope with very short range threats as estimates put the Iron Dome’s minimum interception range at 5-7 km. The other factor is the cost of interception is high. The cost of the interceptor missile is about $40,000-50,000, according to Mr. Shapur. According to a November 2017 commentary on RAND Corporation blog by Elizabeth M. Bartels, the system is built to intercept a certain of projectiles and can be overwhelmed by a more capable adversary. According to Ms. Bartels, the planning scenario for a war with “Hezbollah involves 1,000-1,500 rockets per day fired at Israeli population centres.” Taking North Korea as a context, the study puts estimates of forward-deployed conventional artillery of North Korea would be “capable of firing 500,000 shells an hour for several hours, or firing tens-of-thousands of shells per day over an extended period.” “This rate of fire would easily overwhelm a variant of Iron Dome, which is currently being proposed as a solution,” it state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/whats-iron-dome-system/article34561855.ece
15 May 2021||Kabul,||Kabul mosque bombing kills 12 devotees||A bomb ripped through a mosque in northern Kabul during Friday prayers, killing 12 worshippers, and wounding 15, Afghan police said. No one immediately claimed responsibility for the bombing, the latest in a surge in violence as U.S. and NATO troops have begun their final withdrawal from the country, after 20 years of war. According to Afghan police spokesman, Ferdaws Faramarz, the bomb exploded as prayers had begun. The mosque’s Imam, Mofti Noman, was among the dead, the spokesman said and added that the initial police investigation suggests the Imam may have been the target. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid denied any insurgent connection to the mosque attack, condemning it and accusing Afghanistan’s intelligence agency of being behind the explosion. Both the Taliban and government routinely blame each other for attacks. The attackers are rarely identified, and the public is seldom informed of the results of investigations into the many attacks in the capital. One worshipper, Muhibullah Sahebzada, said he had just stepped into the building when the explosion went off. Stunned, he heard the sound of screams, including those of children, as smoke filled the mosque. The explosion comes on the second day of a three-day ceasefire announced by the Taliban for Id-ul-Fitr, which follows the fasting month of Ramzan. The Afghan government has said it would abide by a truce. So far, many of the attacks in Kabul have been claimed by the Islamic State group’s local affiliate, though the Taliban and government routinely trade blame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kabul-mosque-bombing-kills-12-devotees/article34561847.ece
15 May 2021||Kathmandu,||Oli reappointed Nepal PM||K.P. Sharma Oli, heading a minority government, was sworn in as Nepal’s Prime Minister on Friday, four days after the embattled leader lost a crucial vote of confidence in Parliament. The 69-year-old Chairman of the Communist Party of Nepal-(Unified Marxist–Leninist) was reappointed as Prime Minister by President Bidya Devi Bhandari in his capacity as leader of the largest political party in Nepal’s House of Representatives. Mr. Oli will head a minority government as he does not enjoy a majority in Parliament after losing the vote of confidence on Monday. He was reappointed to the post on Thursday night as the Opposition parties failed to secure majority seats in Parliament. Mr. Oli will now have to take a vote of confidence at the House within 30 days, failing which, an attempt to form a government under Article 76 (5) of the Constitution would be initiated by the President. The Ministers of Mr. Oli’s Cabinet were also sworn in during the ceremony. All the Ministers from the old Cabinet have been included in the new Cabinet. Pradeep Gyawali has been reappointed as Foreign Minister while Ram Bahadur Thapa and Bishnu Poudyal were appointed as Ministers for Home and Finance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/oli-reappointed-nepal-pm/article34561851.ece
15 May 2021||Washington,||UNSC to hold virtual meet tomorrow||The UN Security Council will hold a virtual public meeting on Sunday to address the soaring violence between Israel and the Palestinians, diplomats said on Thursday. The U.S., which had blocked a session originally scheduled for Friday and proposed a meeting early next week, agreed to move the session — requested by Tunisia, Norway and China — to Sunday, sources said. The U.S. said earlier on Thursday it wanted to give time for diplomacy. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters the U.S. had single handedly obstructed the Security Council from speaking out on the crisis, adding that it was “ignoring the suffering of the Palestinian people”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/unsc-to-hold-virtual-meet-tomorrow/article34561848.ece
15 May 2021||Washington,||Vaccinated in U.S.? You can ditch masks||In a major step toward returning to pre-pandemic life, the U.S. eased mask-wearing guidance for fully vaccinated people on Thursday, allowing them to stop wearing masks outdoors in crowds and in most indoor settings. “Today is a great day for America,” President Joe Biden said during an address heralding the new CDC guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/vaccinated-in-us-you-can-ditch-masks/article34561852.ece
15 May 2021||Kandahar,||U.S. forces pull out from Kandahar||The U.S. has completed its withdrawal from Kandahar Airfield in southern Afghanistan, officials said on Friday. “They have not officially handed over the base to us but I can confirm they left the base on Wednesday,” said Khoja Yaya Alawi, an Afghan Army spokesman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-forces-pull-out-from-kandahar/article34561853.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Beating back the pandemic in Mumbai||For six years, 42-year-old Surekha Mane spent most of her days teaching history and geography to students from Classes 5 to 8. Her run-of-the-mill routine was suddenly upended in January this year. Now, she is part of the Maharashtra government’s large team of COVID-19 fighters. Mane works at a disaster control room, or ward ‘war room’, in Mumbai, where she answers distress calls from those showing symptoms of COVID-19 or from their families and diligently notes down their details. The job is hectic. On May 13, Mane answered 23 phone calls on one of the 15 lines in the ‘war room’ at ‘E’ ward. “The first thing I do when I answer a call is to take down the contact number of the person calling in case the line gets disconnected,” she says. Mane says the nature of calls has changed over time. “Earlier, we used to get a lot of queries on the availability of beds and ambulances. Now, most of the people calling are in isolation at home. They ask about garbage disposal because the society does not collect their garbage. I take down their name, number, address and enter all this into a register. Then I contact the waste management department. The next day, I follow up to check if the garbage has been picked up,” she says. Mane sometimes gets unusual requests. “The other day, I got this call asking for a banner for a society. The BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) puts up banners at buildings after it declares them as ‘containment zones’. [When five people test positive for COVID-19 in a building, it is labelled a containment zone.] The secretary of the building called saying a stray dog tore off the banner. So, we arranged for the banner to be put up again,” she says. Mane is one of the over thousand staff members working at Mumbai’s ‘war rooms’. The financial capital struggled during the initial phase of the first COVID-19 wave with only one central BMC helpline. It quickly learnt that decentralisation was the best way to tackle the unfolding challenge. With the help of private hospitals, the police, educational institutions, industry and others, the BMC, the richest civic body in the country, has been meeting the new wave of the COVID-19 challenge on a war footing. And the results are slowly but surely showing, with many praising what it now being referred to as the ‘Mumbai model’. After a record number of daily cases on April 3 (11,163), Mumbai has been recording a steady dip since then, with 1,657 daily cases on May 14.  Mumbai, the hotspot Soon after Mumbai recorded its first COVID-19 case in March 2020, and cases climbed to 17, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, a coalition of the Shiv Sena, Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, declared COVID-19 an epidemic and invoked the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. On March 13, 2020, the State government shut down theatres, gyms, swimming pools and public parks; barred social, religious and political events; requested private employers to ensure that employees work from home wherever possible; and advised people against visiting malls, hotels, restaurants and other crowded places. On March 20, when cases reached 52, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that all workplaces, excluding essential services and public transport, in certain pockets of Maharashtra would be shut till March 31. He then imposed a complete lockdown as cases continued to increase. Despite these measures, Mumbai soon became a hotspot for COVID-19 cases. By May 8, it had recorded 12,142 COVID-19 cases. The BMC looked like it was losing the battle against the virus. Mahesh Narvekar, chief officer of the BMC’s disaster management cell, recalls how stressful the job was back then. He says the central control room (number 1916) buckled under the pressure of calls during the first wave of COVID-19. “As 75% of the staff tested positive, there were very few people to take the calls, let alone address the queries of those desperate people who were calling,” he says. “I appointed some contractual call operators but they were new and didn’t have any domain knowledge.” Staggering under the weight of cases and deaths, the city looked like it was on the brink of a disaster. Back then, there were only 40 ambulances for COVID-19 patients and four hearses to carry dead bodies, Narvekar says. “The backlog of dead bodies was 100-150. These bodies were just lying in morgues. We didn’t have any vehicles to carry the bodies,” he recalls. Today, the BMC has 675 ambulances and 400 hearses. Chasing the virus With its back to the wall, the BMC began to fight back during the first wave. A new BMC Commissioner, Iqbal Singh Chahal, who was Principal Secretary in the Urban Development department, was appointed to lead the fight on May 8, 2020. Chahal was chosen despite having had no experience in municipal administration. He recalls the day he received the order as being “very scary”. “That day there were reports of a body found on the road near Dadar, another body found in an autorickshaw in Parel, and another on the divider at Dharavi,” he says. Chahal immediately called all the 120 heads of departments of the BMC, 24 ward officers, 24 wards in-charge of health, deputy commissioners, additional commissioners and joint commissioners for a physical meeting. “We have to chase the virus,” he told them. The BMC soon launched the ‘Chase the Virus’ campaign and began to aggressively test, trace and isolate. As part of this campaign, 15 close associates of every COVID-19 positive patient were compulsorily institutionally quarantined. In addition, community leaders were appointed to provide information to people about co-morbidities, facilities being provided at institutional quarantine facilities, clinic timings, and so on. Chahal led from the front. He conducted a 5.5 km march at Mukund Nagar in Dharavi along with 50 BMC officers. The officials checked the hygiene conditions in the slums and distributed packets of food. “The BMC planned to visit all the containment zones across various slums in Mumbai because 95% of the cases were in the slums,” says Chahal. The civic body’s aim was to go from house to house, test, quarantine those who were found positive, and move their family members and neighbours to the 47,000 rooms that were made available through 187 hotels in Mumbai. It was an onerous task. “We started shifting close to 30,000 people a week,” says Chahal. At the same time, BMC officials started sanitising the homes of those who had tested positive and kept constant checks on those who had been quarantined to see if they had developed any symptoms. “Those who developed symptoms were taken to hospitals. Else, they were sent back to their sanitised homes,” says Chahal. The BMC moved over 1.5 lakh people in this way in Mumbai through the first wave. At first no one wanted to be whisked away to these facilities. “But by word of mouth, people came to know about these facilities. They understood that people were being looked after well. And that broke the initial reluctance among people; they voluntarily agreed to move,” he says. Chahal says he visited 55 slums in Mumbai. Thousands of health workers, who feared visiting containment zones earlier, visited the slums too. “This was in the second week of May. We quickly arrested the spread of the virus. In July, the World Health Organization praised our efforts in Dharavi,” says Chahal. Getting the largest slum of Asia in order was never going to be an easy task. Sanitation and hygiene are the first casualty in a slum of Dharavi’s size. “We entered public toilets in Dharavi and found that 200 people were sharing one toilet. Each public toilet had 20-25 seats. We ordered that the toilets be sanitised every two hours. That is being done even today. This is how we destroyed the virus in public toilets,” Chahal says. Role of community leaders These initiatives were not foolproof. To ensure that instructions were being followed by BMC employees, community leaders were roped in to keep frequent checks on them. Each of the community leaders was given a mobile phone and was connected to the control rooms. These leaders were asked to check whether BMC health workers were going door to door checking people’s temperatures, conducting tests, and checking for co-morbidities, or whether they were just filling up documents at the exit gates of the containment zones. They were asked to report to the BMC if the toilets were not sanitised. They were asked to check whether personal protective equipment kits were being used by healthcare workers and whether people in the neighbourhood had developed symptoms like diarrhoea or eye problems. In addition to this, they monitored the quality of the food packets being distributed by the BMC. This was micro-management and yet a decentralised operation that was put in place by the Mumbai civic authority. It was also important to take care of the BMC employees, says Chahal. “More than 100 BMC employees had died between March and April 2020, and they did not come under the Government of India’s insurance scheme for frontline healthcare workers. For example, safai karamcharis and bus drivers of BEST buses who were ferrying doctors were not in the category of frontline workers,” he says. In mid-May, the families of all BMC employees who died of COVID-19 became entitled to receive Rs. 50 lakh as compensation. The announcement galvanised the staff. The BMC has paid Rs. 150 crore as compensation to the families of the bereaved employees. Inside the ‘war rooms’ The BMC also launched another campaign called ‘Chase the Patient’ where it asked people to get tested and admitted in hospitals if they had symptoms of COVID-19. Each of the 24 wards in Mumbai got a ‘war room’, its own dedicated line, and a COVID-19 dashboard that was uploaded on a daily basis. The dashboard gives information on the number of positive cases, active cases (symptomatic and asymptomatic) and number of patients discharged. The ‘war rooms’ are active 24X7 with staff working in three shifts. Each shift has at least one doctor on duty to advise patients. These ‘war rooms’ have been especially useful during the second wave. The ‘war room’ of K (West) ward is associated with 12 hospitals and two COVID-19 Care Centres for asymptomatic patients. Dr. Hameen Yadnyeshwari, the in-charge there, says the ‘war room’ has eight doctors who work in three shifts, along with five BMC employees who take queries and make arrangements to sanitise the homes of COVID-19 patients. “We also have 10 teachers who receive calls and five teachers who make calls after they receive the final list of COVID-19 patients,” says Yadnyeshwari. “When the second wave started around mid-February this year, the number of cases started rising to 50, 60 even 80 in a ward as opposed to 20,30 that we saw last year. That is when we knew the second wave was here. We began to increase the number of beds in private hospitals and non-COVID-19 hospitals. We also added oxygen beds to COVID-19 care centres.” Today, calls are largely about vaccination. In K(West) ward, Deepa Raut, who teaches science to students of Class 8 at a BMC-run school in Juhu, has been attending to several of these anxious calls. “On May 13, I received 12 calls and all of them were vaccination-related. We assure them that we are there to help them. We tell them that the BMC is coming up with more vaccination centres and vaccines, and that the problem will be resolved soon,” she says. Involving private hospitals An operation of this scale could not have been possible without the involvement of private hospitals. The chief operating officers of 35 private hospitals including Breach Candy Hospital, Lilavati Hospital, Nanavati Hospital, Wockhardt Hospitals and Hiranandani were brought in. A BMC order stated that 80% of the total beds and 100% of ICU beds in private hospitals shall be kept reserved only for COVID-19 patients referred by ward ‘war rooms’. In order to augment ambulance capacity, 800 Tata Sumo and Toyota Innova cars available with the BMC were converted into ambulances. Fifty mini buses were converted into ambulances with stretchers and Uber was roped in to make available its fleet of cars and buses. Institutions were also roped in. IIT Bombay developed a web page called covidialysis.in. This gives information to COVID-19 patients about slots available for dialysis. Aggressive measures were put in place for those not observing COVID-19 protocols. The BMC has collected Rs. 50 crore as fines from people so far.  Giant COVID-19 Care Centres were created at the Bandra Kurla Complex, NESCO in Goregaon and the National Sports Club of India at Worli. These have a total capacity of 78,000 beds and are centrally air conditioned. The BMC also ensured that patients could keep in touch with their families through iPads. Preparing for the worst Eight jumbo isolation centres were set up across the city last year. Except one which did not have a single patient, all of them were kept intact, says Chahal. “We kept the beds, equipment and oxygen support which were not used in the first wave. All that is now being utilised at the new centre which we are building right opposite the Mahalaxmi Racecourse,” he says.    As expected, Mumbai was badly hit by the second wave. Maharashtra is the worst-affected State this year too, accounting for more than a quarter of the cases in the country. Fatalities too have been high. And despite efforts, there have been alarms about shortage of oxygen. Chahal recalls one particularly difficult night: “On April 16 midnight, I learnt about shortage of oxygen. In the morning, I texted Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba and told him that we need to import oxygen. He put me in touch with Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, Secretary in the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. I said it would take eight days for oxygen to reach Mumbai from Haldia, West Bengal, and asked if oxygen tankers could come from Jamnagar, just 16 hours away. He arranged for it. A disaster was averted.”  But as a result of this combined and sustained effort over months, there have been no SOS calls for beds in Mumbai during the second wave. Dr. Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC, in her affidavit before the Bombay High Court said, “The BMC’s COVID-19 Response War Room Dashboard uploaded every day at 5 pm contains all the essential information about total active cases — symptomatic as well as asymptomatic active cases.” “In all the dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, healthcare centres and ‘jumbo’ COVID facilities, a nodal officer has been appointed to update the data at regular intervals. The same information is available to the disaster management cell as well as the ‘war rooms’ and the administrators of each ward. Therefore, for effective bed management, real-time information is available with the ‘war rooms’ of each ward,” said Dr. Gomare. “Each ward war room has a mobile medical team which is deployed in case there is a serious emergency. The team provides temporary medical care while shifting the patient to the nearest hospital. The patients who are advised home isolation are regularly called on their mobile phones on the third, fifth, seventh and 10th day. The ward ‘war rooms’ in coordination with health officers follow up with patients and allot beds on the same day,” said Gomare. Dr. Manoj Joshi, Dean of BYL Nair Hospital, says it was very difficult to put the plan in place. “Following the lockdown, the challenge was to provide transport for healthcare workers coming from outside Mumbai like Vasai-Virar, Nala Sopara, Panvel, Badlapur and Kalyan. We managed this for thousands of healthcare workers. We looked after their needs. As canteens were not open, food was provided either by corporates or by hotels,” says Joshi. More than 50% of healthcare workers including doctors, resident doctors, nurses and support staff stayed at hotels, says Joshi. At the same time, strict action was taken against those who did not come. “We served them notices, handed out punishment. We tried to remove some, threaten some. But that is how they all resumed work. It was through reward and punishment,” says Joshi. Going beyond duty The ‘Mumbai model’ would be incomplete without the mention of the Mumbai Police which has lost 115 of its personnel to COVID-19 till date. “The first wave was tough. People did not understand the gravity of the problem, and were not willing to listen. So, tough measures had to be taken in some areas and this put a lot of policemen at risk,” says a police officer who worked in Dadar and Worli Koliwada, which were among the worst affected areas in Mumbai when COVID-19 was at its peak. “But people have been much more cooperative since then,” he says. Hemant Nagrale, the Mumbai Police Commissioner, says the role of the police is multifaceted during a pandemic. “We need to maintain the lockdown, deploy our officers on the road and in busy areas like markets. We need to issue e-passes to facilitate travel in cases of death, marriage or any medical emergency after permission is granted by the local authority.” The Mumbai Police have also had to man buildings where people have been quarantined to ensure that nobody leaves or enters the building. “We have deployed officers at vaccination centres and COVID-19 wards so that the vaccination process goes on smoothly and there are no stampedes,” he says. The police are also required at crematoriums for unclaimed bodies. “A head constable, Gyandeo Ware, has cremated 50 bodies. All of them had COVID-19. The police have to take the bodies from the hospitals or morgues and cremate them. It is not their duty, but they have done this as a humane gesture,” he says. The ‘Mumbai Model’ is being replicated in other districts. “This model is being implemented with local variations in rural areas. Cases are coming down in Nagpur and Pune. We have increased testing in many rural areas. We are also trying to increase the availability of beds and oxygen according to the needs,” says Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. Despite the fact that Mumbai’s daily positivity rate was as low as 7% on May 10 as compared to around 25% in the first week of April, it cannot afford to relax. “As we anticipate a third wave, there are two challenges that we envisage: cases may originate from the rural areas of Maharashtra and that wave may affect the younger population more,” says Kunte. The challenges keep piling on, but “we are preparing for them,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beating-back-the-pandemic-in-mumbai/article34561844.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||In COVID storm, the key principles driven home||Dead men do tell tales and history bears witness that pandemics leave their imprint among those they leave behind. In India, a full reckoning would take place when the pandemic is fully behind us. But even from deep inside the storm there are some first principles that have been driven home. Adherence to them would have undoubtedly mitigated the ghastly fallout of the virus. Health care, not coverage The first is the debate between universal health care and universal health coverage. That stands settled now, in the spirit of the landmark Aneurin Bevan’s-led National Health Service Act in 1946, which revolutionised health care in the United Kingdom by delinking it from a person’s income. It became a benchmark for the recognition that it could not be left to market forces to deal with public health. The most comprehensive document prepared so far in India, by the high-level expert group appointed by the Planning Commission, submitted in November 2011 (https://bit.ly/3tNmGFx), concluded that “progressive strengthening of public facilities” is the only way to reach medical services to the population as a whole. While finance was a concern to be dealt with, the centrepiece of health care was not insurance. After 2014, insurance has instead been a focus — good health to be somehow secured via insurance, as with Ayushman Bharat. But for all the hype, there is no getting away from strengthening public health facilities and making that the fundamental way of ensuring a healthy life for its people. India, already spending woefully limited amounts on health, for all the hoopla and hype, ended up reducing allocations in the February 2021 budget. The results are there to see. Kerala, when it started investing heavily in public health care in the 1950s, was told it was too expensive for a poor State like it was then. But as it went on to demonstrate, primary health care was labour-intensive, generating its own virtuous cycle of trained personnel and a well-looked after populace. It enhanced the people’s ability to produce, to be economic assets and enriched the State much more than could be imagined. Reason, not mumbo-jumbo The second principle of so-called ‘New India’, of faith over science and the silencing of rationalists as ‘western’ and ‘alien’ to the ‘Indian ethos’, must be kicked very hard if India has to start breathing again. In the past seven years and even when the novel coronavirus pandemic was looming, top Ministers, including the Health Minister, were seen flanking the sides of a yoga guru proclaiming that he had found a cure for COVID-19. The World Health Organization had to step in and make it clear that it had not endorsed it (https://bit.ly/3feMk0U). The Prime Minister has himself privileged myth over reason, most visibly at a hospital inauguration in Mumbai, in 2014, where he spoke of “plastic surgery” as an Indian invention, citing Lord Ganesh’s trunk. This set India back by centuries. The message downwards was clear; science, rationalism or expertise was ‘Nehruvian’ and not to be encouraged. Public allocations for science have fallen and Indian scientists criticised two speakers at the Indian Science Congress “for making bizarre, unscientific claims, including that ancient Hindus invented stem-cell science”. Scientists held protests against the unscientific statements in Bengaluru, Kochi, Kolkata and Thiruvananthapuram on January 6, 2019. With the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) coming under fire frequently for peddling non-cures with the weight of the Government of India behind it, it appears as if science itself was perceived as a threat to the ruling party’s ecosystem. All through last year, no public health expert — and India has many — was empowered enough to be seen advising, directing, taking questions or giving out advice that the public could trust, and on occasion question policy. The thali banging, candle lighting, abrupt lockdowns, were all done via public addresses to the nation by the Prime Minister. There was no group with respected scientists or public health experts who could challenge government diktats or test decisions taken by the Narendra Modi government against scientific principles. The Prime Minister took to declaring victory over the pandemic on January 28. The Home Minister authoritatively announced to the media that rallies were not causing the surge in the middle of a crowded Bengal campaign. On if the Kumbh Mela should be allowed a year earlier, it was the Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad that had the last word, not epidemiologists. It took hundreds of anguished scientists to write a letter urging that genomic data be collected and shared, like other civilised democracies, on the virus for the protocol to be altered. The wholesale junking of science even deep into the pandemic worsened the situation. Data integrity, not hesitancy Third, comes data integrity, which is shorthand for the credibility of any government, at any time. Data-hesitancy has been a feature of this government, whether it was about economic data, on making the GDP look good or on recording employment statistics. So changing baselines, withholding periodic labour force surveys or consumption survey data, set the path for continued data denial over testing last year and this year, over COVID-19 deaths. Other than the moral and human imperative of owing it to each Indian who dies, the basic courtesy of recording her existence and departure, not recording deaths faithfully, has deep practical implications. If you do not track it honestly and accurately, you do not understand the disease, and if you do not do that then you cannot handle it and lesser still, rescue the future by accurate predictions. In the case of COVID-19, India’s mortality data are many times lower than what is officially acknowledged, as discussed in detail by the latest assessments of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, and experts such as Dr. Bhramar Mukherjee, Dr. Ashish K. Jha and Dr. Murad Banaji. The discrepancy is above the regular margin of error seen in many countries. This is deeply damaging to India’s international standing as a reliable recorder of information. Not recording or diligently sharing data has consequences, for India and the world. Our economics and the poor The fourth and final principle that the pandemic has driven home is the importance of centring good economics around improving the lives of those worst-off. Recently, India has been anxious about turning into a ‘5 trillion’ economy. But there is no Security Council seat or grand entry into the big rich clubs of the world if India’s overwhelming majority, those who live under $1.90 a day, cannot be lifted out of the morass. Numerous surveys and reports have consistently hammered at the slide into poverty. The latest report by the Azim Premji University talks of 230 million Indians slipping below the breadline during the pandemic (https://bit.ly/2RPIp2o). India’s obsession with being Vishwaguru, egged on by misleading analysts deriding “Povertarianism”, talking of “freebies” cannot be a replacement to sound welfarism which must prioritise the majority of Indians who need a social security net. It is stunning disregard for global experience, whether it is Joe Biden’s big spending, Boris Johnson ending the age of austerity, Germany launching the biggest state spend since the war or China’s historic drive to end absolute poverty, and India’s own, when the International Monetary Fund acknowledged the fastest decline in poverty globally occurring in India between 2005-06 and 2015-16. Understanding “good economics” as what helps its majority, the most poor and vulnerable, must be a principle rather than a matter of embarrassment. The virus is no sociologist but it responds to how society and human beings behave with it. Allowing gargles of cow urine to double as cures, giving it a free run to travel and diversify amongst large unprotected crowds or in a desperation to win elections such as in West Bengal, actively courting and boasting about mass gatherings till just days ago were all invitations to disaster, providing the virus with what it wanted — a chance to multiply, diversify, jump hosts and regions rapidly, adding as accelerators to the second wave. This was contrary to what India did with smallpox and polio, with far fewer resources. There, its adherence to basic scientific and rational principles, helped its people, and the world beat back the disease. The least good that might be hoped for, at an unimaginably high cost, is for COVID-19 to cure us of the basic distortion in our public and political culture which has been on a speed pill for the last seven years. Else, it would be hard to stop analysts from terming this the man-made, Indian, or worse still, Modi variant. Seema Chishti is a journalist/writer based in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-covid-storm-the-key-principles-driven-home/article34561838.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Lend a helping hand to children the right way||The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic now sweeping India has left many children orphaned and vulnerable. Social media is flooded with requests to adopt children who have lost their parents in the pandemic. And a few non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have come forward to help such children. However, before handing over an orphan child to any agency, family or person, however well intended the move may be, it is important to be aware of the laws that are prevalent and procedures with regard to the care and the protection of orphan children rather than face legal action for violations later. Many options to help Any individual who finds an orphan child or even any child who needs care and protection under the circumstances, should immediately call the toll free Childline number 1098, an emergency phone outreach service (managed by the Women and Child Development department’s nodal agency, the Childline India Foundation; https://bit.ly/3uN9mCw) which operates round the day and on all days across the country. After taking note of the whereabouts of the child, the helpline reaches out immediately and takes charge of the child. These Childline units are nothing but civil society organisations duly approved by the government. The second option is to intimate the district protection officer concerned whose contact details can be found on the National Tracking System for Missing and Vulnerable Children portal (https://bit.ly/3eLb2a5) maintained by the Women and Child Development department of the Government of India. The third alternative is to approach the nearest police station or its child welfare police officer who is specially trained to exclusively deal with children either as victims or juvenile delinquents. Nonetheless, one can always dial the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) which is a pan-India single number (112) based emergency response system for citizens in emergencies (https://112.gov.in/) and seek the necessary help. The non-reporting of such children is also a punishable offence under the JJA or the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (https://bit.ly/3hmX4wD). Established process Once an orphan child is recovered by the outreach agency, it is the duty of the said agency to produce the child within 24 hours before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) of the district. The CWC, after an inquiry, decides whether to send the child to a children’s home or a fit facility or fit person; if the child is below six years, he or she shall be placed in a specialised adoption agency. The State thus takes care of all such children who are in need of care and protection, till they turn 18 years. In Sampurna Behrua vs Union of India (2018), the Supreme Court of India directed States and Union Territories to ensure that all child care institutions are registered. Thus, any voluntary or NGO which is not registered as per the requirement of the JJA cannot house children in need of care and protection. Once a child is declared legally free for adoption by the CWC, adoption can be done either by Indian prospective adoptive parents or non-resident Indians or foreigners, in that order. Another important feature of the JJA is that it is secular in nature and simple in procedure as compared to the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 which is not only religion specific but also relatively cumbersome in procedure. Second, the procedure of adoption is totally transparent and its progress can be monitored from the portal of the statutory body, the Central Adoption Resource Authority (http://cara.nic.in/). Court directives to police It is quite often said that ignorance of the law is not an excuse. Therefore, if an orphan child is kept by someone without lawful authority, he or she may land themselves in trouble. According to the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956, the father, and in his absence the mother, is the natural guardian. Not even a close relative can look after the child without authorisation. The Supreme Court in Bachpan Bachao Andolan vs Union of India directed all Directors General of Police,  in May 2013, to register a first information report as a case of trafficking or abduction in every case of a missing child. At least one police officer not below the rank of assistant sub-inspector in each police station is mandatorily required to undergo training to deal with children in conflict with the law and in need of care and protection. They are not required to wear a uniform and need to be child-friendly. Similarly, each district is supposed to have its special juvenile police unit, headed by an officer not below the rank of a Deputy Superintendent of Police. The Supreme Court in Re: Exploitation of children in Orphanages in the State of Tamil Nadu (2017) inter alia , specifically asked the National Police Academy, Hyderabad and police training academies in every State to prepare training courses on the JJA and provide regular training to police officers in terms of sensitisation. Children are an important national asset, and the well-being of the nation, and its future, depend on how its children grow and develop. The primary purpose of giving a child in adoption is his welfare and restoring his or her right to family. Article 39 of the Constitution prohibits the tender age of the children from being abused. Therefore, orphaned children who have lost both their parents or abandoned or surrendered due to the COVID-19 pandemic must not be neglected and left to face an uncertain future. They must be taken care of by the authorities entrusted with responsibilities under the JJA. Recent order The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) recently wrote to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories on the issue of children orphaned due to COVID-19. It said that that ‘if any such information about an abandoned or orphaned child is received by any entity, organisation, or NGO, then the NCPCR has to be informed by email (cp.ncpcr@nic.in) or over the telephone (011-23478200/23478250) for assistance and help to children)’. This directive needs to be implemented in the most humane manner. R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lend-a-helping-hand-to-children-the-right-way/article34561840.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Out of line||There is little doubt that West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s visit to areas hit by post-poll violence in Cooch Behar constitutes a grave transgression of the bounds of constitutional propriety. A habitual critic of the Mamata Banerjee regime, he has been given to ignoring the principle that constitutional heads should not air their differences with the elected regimes in public. As recently as December 2020, Ms. Banerjee had appealed to the President to recall the Governor for political statements that she believed were being made by him at the behest of the BJP-led Union government. One would have thought that a fresh election, in which Ms. Banerjee’s TMC has won a resounding victory, would be a reminder, if one was needed at all, that the norms of representative government ought to be a natural restraint on Mr. Dhankhar’s gubernatorial propensity to speak out of turn and step out of line. There was a time when another West Bengal Governor, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, came in for some criticism for setting aside the restraints of constitutional office by expressing “cold horror” at the police firing that left 14 protesters dead at Nandigram in 2007. Some may believe that the gubernatorial office ought not to be an impediment to the incumbent yielding to the moral urge to condemn incidents of rare enormity. Yet, the larger principle that the Governor should not offer public comment on situations best handled by the representative regime ought to hold good in all circumstances. In the case of Mr. Dhankhar, what worsens his persistent criticism of the TMC regime is the unfortunate congruency between his words and the interests of the BJP. His visit to Cooch Behar can be seen as an action louder even than his words in derogation of the elected regime. A visit to a scene of violence by the Governor cannot be justified as a gesture to show solidarity with victims. M. Channa Reddy, as Tamil Nadu Governor, shocked the AIADMK regime in 1993 by visiting the RSS headquarters in Chennai after a bomb exploded there. It may be argued that the present situation in West Bengal is different from those in which other Governors had shed the restraints of their office. Post-election violence is something that should not be witnessed at all in an electoral democracy. West Bengal is certainly out of step with the rest of the country in allowing post-poll celebrations to degenerate into triumphalism and attacks on the losing side. Yet, the onus is on Ms. Banerjee to restore order and end the violence, even if she believed that the extent of the violence was being exaggerated by the Opposition. Regardless of one’s view of a regime’s inaction, there should be no departure from the principle that any advice or warning the Governor wants to give to the elected government ought to be in private and in confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/out-of-line/article34561832.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Cease the fire||From Israeli armed forces storming Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa Mosque on Monday morning to Israel pounding Gaza with air strikes and artillery on Thursday night in response to the rocket firing by Hamas, the Israel-Palestine conflict has escalated dangerously within days. At least 119 Palestinians, including 31 children, have been killed in Israeli attacks on Gaza since May 10, while nine people were killed in Israel in the rocket attacks, including an Indian national and a child. For now, both sides have refused to stand down from the fighting despite international appeal. Israel cannot evade responsibility for the crisis engulfing the region. There was already resentment and frustration among the Palestinians in the occupied territories as Israel has expanded Jewish settlements and deepened occupation. Besides, Israel’s high-handedness in East Jerusalem and the move to evict Palestinian families from their homes in Sheikh Jarrah for Jewish settlers added to the anger, leading to clashes. Hamas, which claims to be the main national resistance force against the occupation, seized on the opportunity and escalated the crisis with rocket attacks. Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas’s militant infrastructure. But Israel knows that it is easier said than done. In 2014, Israel carried out a seven-week-long operation with the same objective. Seven years later, there is Hamas, firing over 1,800 rockets into Israel within five days. Beyond the rhetoric by both sides, this is a loss-loss situation in which the civilians are taken hostages. Hamas’s rockets do not distinguish between Israeli civilians and soldiers. While the Iron Dome defence system neutralised most of the rockets, some actually hit Israel’s population centres, killing civilians and raising concerns for the country’s rulers. Israel is in fact witnessing a twin crisis. While the conflict with Hamas is escalating into a land attack, Israeli cities are gripped by riots between Jewish vigilantes and Arab mobs. The riots prompted President Reuven Rivlin to evoke fears of a civil war and the government to declare a state of emergency in some locations, including the central city of Lod. This is the most serious law and order crisis Israel is facing internally since the second intifada of 2000. In return, Israel has pulverised Gaza, inflicting a heavy casualty on the impoverished region’s population. The high casualty of children points to the collective punishment approach of the Israeli military. Israel’s right to defend itself, which the U.S. and Germany have endorsed, cannot be the right to launch an indiscriminate bombing on the civilians of Gaza. The international community, especially the U.S. which is a close ally of Israel, should put pressure on both sides to cease the fire. They should do it sooner rather than later as every day, dozens are being killed in the bombings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cease-the-fire/article34561833.ece
15 May 2021||MUMBAI,||L&T Q4 net profit rises 3% on improved order execution||Larsen a Toubro Ltd (L&T) reported that its fourth quarter consolidated net profit grew 3% to Rs. 3,293 crore from a year earlier, due to improved execution of orders and better working capital management. Consolidated revenue increased 8.68% to Rs. 48,088 crore, evidencing return to pre-COVID levels of activity, the company said. “Last year, we had not given any guidance but in FY22 we are looking forward to growth in low-to-mid teens in order book and revenue if the second wave passes without further damage beyond one or two months [of the financial year],” said R. Shankar Raman, wholetime director and CFO. “Margins are hence expected to remain stable.” Consolidated net profit including profit from discontinued operations for the year ended March 31 climbed 21% to Rs. 11,583 crore, compared with the previous year. The consolidated net profit included a charge of Rs. 3,620 crore towards exceptional items and profit from discontinued operations Rs. 8,238 crore, mainly comprising of gain on disinvestment. Annual revenue declined to Rs. 135,979 crore, from Rs. 145,452 crore in the previous year, due to the impact of lockdowns starting March 2021. The company said execution activities had normalised in FY 21 on easing of COVID-related restrictions, prior to the onset of the second wave of the pandemic. The board recommended a final dividend of Rs. 18 per equity share. It had earlier declared Rs. 18 apiece as an interim dividend, following the divestment of the Electrical & Automation business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lt-q4-net-profit-rises-3-on-improved-order-execution/article34561818.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Dr. Reddy’s Q4 net slips 29%||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories on Friday reported fourth-quarter consolidated net profit fell 29% to Rs. 557.3 crore, while operational revenue rose 7% to Rs. 4,768.2 crore. Chief Financial Officer Parag Agarwal said profit was lower as the company had recognised a deferred tax asset in the March ’20 quarter, resulting in a lower tax outgo in the year-earlier period. He added that profit before tax had in fact risen 10% last quarter to Rs. 815.2 crore. For the full year, net profit slid to Rs. 1,951.6 crore, from Rs. 2,026 crore in the previous fiscal. This came on a higher revenue of Rs. 19,047.5 crore (Rs. 17,517 crore), based on the results prepared as per Indian Accounting Standards. Co-Chairman and MD G.V. Prasad said, “In FY21, we continued to grow across all our businesses, enhance productivity and strengthen our development pipeline.” COVID portfolio Besides prioritising efforts to introduce the Sputnik V vaccine in India as well as market it in other countries, the company is also working on development and commercialisation of several drugs for the treatment of mild-to-severe COVID-19 infections. One of them, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) has been developed by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) lab INMAS (Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences) in collaboration with the company. In sachets CEO-API and Services Deepak Sapra said the production of the drug, which received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India recently, had begun and was expected to be unveiled by mid-June. The product, in powder form, would be marketed in sachets. The drugmaker declared a final dividend of Rs. 25 per equity share of Rs. 5 (face value) for FY21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dr-reddys-q4-net-slips-29/article34561824.ece
15 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Saint-Gobain to proceed with Rs. 2,500-cr. investment in India||French multinational company Saint-Gobain said it will continue its planned investment of more than Rs. 2,500 crore in greenfield and brownfield expansion in India in two years. The company is also looking to invest in start-ups and strategically-fit acquisitions to capitalise on the growth opportunities. “We are ahead of the curve on the investment front,” said Santhanam B., chairman and managing director, Saint-Gobain India Pvt. Ltd. “Based on the long-range plan, as a group, we will be completing investments of Rs. 2,500 crore in FY22 and FY23. We are creating larger facilities, looking at potential acquisitions, investments in start-ups, accelerating spends on digital transformation and increasing R&D spend.” The plan includes two investments of Rs. 500 crore each in capacity expansion and an investment of Rs. 1,000 crore in a greenfield plant to manufacture building materials for which the location is yet to be finalised. He said the company had cash of more than Rs. 2,000 crore in its balance sheet, which would be used for capex. The investments in start-ups and inorganic growth would be over and above the committed investment. Stating that business in the April-June ’21 quarter would be severely impacted because of the second wave of COVID-19, he said while this quarter would not be as bad as the same period last year, it would still be a challenging one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/saint-gobain-to-proceed-with-rs-2500-cr-investment-in-india/article34561820.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. may notify export refund rates by May end: DGFT Yadav||The government may finally notify the refund rates for taxes paid on exported goods by May end, a senior official said. It had been almost five months since the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) scheme was introduced and delays in setting the refund rates had been affecting exporters’ pricing strategies. Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) Amit Yadav told exporters the RoDTEP rates would be announced in 15 days, though Commerce Secretary Anup Wadhawan was non-committal on the exact timeframe with reporters, only stating the rates may be notified ‘very soon.’ Meanwhile, exporters reiterated their demand that the government bring to an end the suspense over the RoDTEP scheme urgently to forge new contracts with foreign buyers amidst a minor recovery in global trade. Sharad Kumar Saraf, president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) said apart from notifying the rates, the government must release the necessary funds for RoDTEP’s implementation as well as to pay outstanding dues on earlier incentive schemes. “Once the issues pertaining to RoDTEP and the older Merchandise Exports from India Scheme are resolved, it will provide a further impetus to the export sector,” said Mahesh Desai, chairman, EEPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-may-notify-export-refund-rates-by-may-end-dgft-yadav/article34561827.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Independent directors’ number declining: IiAS||The total number of independent directors (IDs) has decreased in 2020 as compared with 2019 and 2018, and the reduction is mainly on account non-appointment of directors on boards of state-owned entities, according to a report. The total number of IDs reduced to 2,249 in 2020 as against 2,396 in 2019 and 2,494 in the previous year, said the report by Institutional Investor Advisory Services India Limited (IiAS) based on the study of the board composition of NIFTY 500 companies as on December 31, 2020. “This reduction can mainly be attributed to the reduction in the number of IDs in PSU companies. The other reason has been churn in the companies forming part of NIFTY 500 over this period,” it said. The outgoing companies in the NIFTY 500 in 2020 when compared to 2019 had 208 IDs on their boards while the incoming companies had 188 directors, whereas when compared to 2018, the outgoing firms in 2020 had 395 IDs on their boards while the incoming ones had 331 IDs, it said. The PSUs forming part of NIFTY 500 had 133 fewer IDs in 2020 compared to the earlier year, it said, adding, there were 72 PSU companies as part of the NIFTY 500 in 2019 and 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/independent-directors-number-declining-iias/article34561814.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Many DGFT staff affected by COVID-19||The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) has been hit particularly hard by COVID-19 cases, with several of its staffers across the country required to persist with public dealings to ensure smooth export- import clearances. “As you can see, we have had a very (tough) situation in our offices,” said Amit Yadav, DG, DGFT. “The Pune office was 100% affected; in the Chennai office, a very large number of people were infected. In our DGFT headquarters itself, more than 100 people, and I am talking about people working in the office, not their family members, were affected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/many-dgft-staff-affected-by-covid-19/article34561825.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Exports surge in April on low-base effect||India’s exports in April jumped almost threefold to $30.63 billion from $10.36 billion in the same month last year, according to government data. Imports, too, rose to $45.72 billion last month as against $17.12 billion, the data showed. Trade deficit widened to $15.10 billion as against $6.76 billion. Exports in April last year had plunged by a record 60.28% due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. In March this year, exports grew by 60.29% to $34.45 billion. Due to the low base effect, exports in April 2021 recorded a growth rate of 195.72%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-surge-in-april-on-low-base-effect/article34561829.ece
15 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Shriram City Union invests Rs. 200 cr. in arm||Shriram City Union Finance has invested Rs. 200 crore in its housing finance subsidiary Shriram Housing Finance Ltd. (SHFL) taking its holding in the mortgage lender to 81.16% from the existing 77.25%. The infusion is part of Shriram City Union Finance’s plan to invest Rs. 500 crore in the subsidiary over the next two years. The funds would be used to provide growth capital to SHFL and enable it expand distribution network and customer base.  “This infusion will help us expand our business and support growth plans for 12-15 months,” said Ravi Subramanian, MD & CEO, SHFL. “We expect to ride out the second wave of the pandemic and come out stronger in FY 2022.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/shriram-city-union-invests-rs-200-cr-in-arm/article34561821.ece
15 May 2021||Bengaluru,||he country require a smart and sensible crypto regulation: IAMAI||Setting up an appropriate regulatory framework for cryptocurrencies and crypto assets in India continues to be a challenge with other countries taking differing approaches to find a solution, the Internet and Mobile Association of India and Blockchain and Crypto Assets Council have said. The Centre had earlier indicated that it would formulate a Bill on cryptocurrencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/he-country-require-a-smart-and-sensible-crypto-regulation-iamai/article34561813.ece
15 May 2021||Mumbai,||Go Airlines files DRHP to raise Rs. 3,600 crore||Go Airlines (India) Ltd. (GoAir) has filed a Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to raise up to Rs. 3,600 crore through fresh issue of shares. The net proceeds would be used for repayment of debt and general corporate purposes. GoAir had already placed orders for the delivery of 144 Airbus A320neo aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/go-airlines-files-drhp-to-raise-rs-3600-crore/article34561816.ece
15 May 2021||Coimbatre,||LEAF to support farmers with credit||Lawrencedale Agro Processing India Pvt. Ltd. (LEAF), an integrated agriculture services provider, is organising financial support for marginalised farmers by tying up with non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). Palat Vijayaraghavan, founder-CEO, told The Hindu farmers will be given Rs. 20,000-Rs. 2 lakh credit with a six-month repayment schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/leaf-to-support-farmers-with-credit/article34561822.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||CBIC asks officers to clear pending Customs, drawback refund claims by month-end||The CBIC has asked field offices to clear all pending refunds of customs and drawback claims by the month-end. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) instructed all customs principal chief commissioners to conduct a 'Special Refund and Drawback Disposal Drive' for priority processing and disposal of pending refund and drawback claims.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cbic-asks-officers-to-clear-pending-customs-drawback-refund-claims-by-month-end/article34561828.ece
15 May 2021||Mumbai,||India women’s squads for England tour announced||Mithali Raj has been retained captain of the Test and ODI squads while Shikha Pandey and Taniya Bhatia have been recalled for India women’s tour to England. The team is set to play a Test, three ODIs and three T20Is from June 16 to July 15.  The squads:   Test & ODIs: Mithali Raj (Capt.), Harmanpreet Kaur (Vice-capt.), Smriti Mandhana, Punam Raut, Priya Punia, Deepti Sharma, Jemimah Rodrigues, Shafali Verma, Sneh Rana, Taniya Bhatia (w.k.), Indrani Roy (w.k.), Jhulan Goswami, Shikha Pandey, Pooja Vastrakar, Arundhati Reddy, Poonam Yadav, Ekta Bisht and Radha Yadav.   T20Is: Harmanpreet Kaur (Capt.) Smriti Mandhana (Vice-capt.), Deepti Sharma, Jemimah Rodrigues, Shafali Verma, Richa Ghosh, Harleen Deol, Sneh Rana, Taniya Bhatia (w.k.), Indrani Roy (w.k.), Shikha Pandey, Pooja Vastrakar, Arundhati Reddy, Poonam Yadav, Ekta Bisht, Radha Yadav and Simaran Dil Bahadur .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-womens-squads-for-england-tour-announced/article34561919.ece
15 May 2021||Manchester,||Reds stay in top-four hunt||Jurgen Klopp won at Old Trafford for the first time as Liverpool breathed new life into its top-four push with a 4-2 win in the rearranged Premier League fixture against Manchester United. Stand-in captain Bruno Fernandes’ deflected effort got Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side off to a good start, only for Diogo Jota to level with a smart flick after a penalty decision was overturned. The equaliser came from a corner and United’s weaknesses from set pieces were again exposed in first-half stoppage time, with Roberto Firmino heading home Trent Alexander-Arnold’s free kick. Errors at the back Liverpool pulled further ahead 72 seconds after half-time as errors at the back ended with Firmino turning home his second of the evening. Marcus Rashford reduced the deficit, before Nat Phillips, who had deflected home Fernandes’ opener, cleared Mason Greenwood’s attempt off the line. Mohamed Salah ensured United lost its sixth home league game of the season, racing through to score the fourth in the 90th minute as Liverpool moved into fifth place, four points behind Chelsea with a game in hand. In LaLiga, Real Madrid won 4-1 at Granada to stay within range of Atletico Madrid. Luka Modric and Rodrigo scored in the first half on Thursday and Álvaro Odriozola and Karim Benzema added goals in the second to leave the defending champion two points behind Atletico.  The results: Premier League: Aston Villa 0 drew with Everton 0; Manchester United 2 (Fernandes 10, Rashford 68) lost to Liverpool 4 (Jota 34, Firmino 45+2, 47, Salah 90).   LaLiga: Valladolid 0 lost to Villarreal 2 (Gerard 68, Capoue 90+1); Eibar 1 (Enrich 83) drew with Real Betis 1 (Guardado 4); Granada 1 (Jorge Molina 71) lost to Real Madrid 4 (Modric 17, Rodrygo 45+1, Odriozola 75, Benzema 76).   Serie A: Crotone 2 (Ounas 2, Messias 75) bt Hellas Verona 1 (Molina 87-og).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reds-stay-in-top-four-hunt/article34561986.ece
15 May 2021||MUMBAI,||W.V. Raman writes to Ganguly seeks to clarify stand||A day after being replaced as the India women’s team head coach, W.V. Raman has written to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly, expressing the desire to explain his perspective on his unceremonious ouster. Raman, the former India opening batsman who has more than two decades of experience as coach, had been in charge of the national women’s cricket team for two and a half years. On Thursday, after being one of the eight candidates to have been interviewed by the Cricket Advisory Committee, Raman was replaced with Ramesh Powar. Mud-slinging Ever since the baton has been passed on to Powar, a section of women’s cricket community has indulged in mud-slinging exercise about Raman. As a result, The Hindu understands that Raman has preferred to approach the BCCI offering his availability should the Board desire to seek details from him. Both Raman and Ganguly remained unavailable for a comment. While a section of veterans in Indian women’s cricket fraternity has been against appointment of male coaches, Raman is understood to have been involved in a dispute with newly-appointed selection committee headed by Neetu David. Controversial The squad selection for the recent series against South Africa, India’s first since the last year’s T20 World Cup final, was controversial to say the least, leading to murmurs of bias towards and against certain individuals. Interestingly, Raman had taken over from Powar in December 2018 since the latter’s tenure was cut short after his public fall-out with veteran batter Mithali Raj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wv-raman-writes-to-ganguly-seeks-to-clarify-stand/article34561916.ece
15 May 2021||Rome,||Nadal marches pasts Zverev||Nine-time champion Rafael Nadal dispatched his Madrid Masters slayer Alexander Zverev 6-3, 6-4 to reach the Italian Open semifinals on Friday. Second-seed Nadal had lost to Zverev in the Madrid last-eight last week. But the 34-year-old Spaniard shook off his marathon 3hr 30min quarterfinal battle past Denis Shapovalov where he needed to save two match points. Nadal powered to 4-0 before sixth seed Zverev held serve with the 20-time Grand Slam winner saving break point to take the first set. The German rallied in the second set but Nadal saved eight break points to seal victory on his first match point after two hours. Nadal plays American Reilly Opelka for a place in the final for an 11th time as he warms up for the French Open starting on May 30. Opelka, ranked 47, reached his first Masters semifinal with a 7-5, 7-6(2) win over Argentine qualifier Federico Delbonis. World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty retired injured in the quarterfinals, just two weeks before Roland Garros. Top seed Barty, the 2019 French Open champion, was leading 6-4, 2-1 when she pulled up to receive treatment during her match against American Cori Gauff. The Australian suffered a right arm injury, the WTA said.  The results: Quarterfinals: Reilly Opelka bt Federico Delbonis 7-5, 7-6(2); Rafael Nadal bt Alexander Zverev 6-3, 6-4.   Third round: Lorenzo Sonego bt Dominic Thiem 6-4, 6-7(5), 7-6(5); Andrey Rublev bt Roberto Bautista Agut 6-4, 6-4; Federico Delbonis bt Felix Auger-Aliassime 7-6(3), 6-1; Alexander Zverev bt Kei Nishikori 4-6, 6-3, 6-4.   Women: Quarterfinals: Petra Martic bt Jessica Pegula 7-5, 6-4; Karolina Pliskova bt Jelena Ostapenko 4-6, 7-5, 7-6(1); Cori Gauff bt Ashleigh Barty 4-6, 1-2, ret.   Third round: Elina Svitolina bt Garbine Muguruza 6-4, 6-2; Jelena Ostapenko bt Angelique Kerber 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-marches-pasts-zverev/article34561921.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Hussey tests negative, but Saha positive again||Chennai Super Kings batting coach Michael Hussey has recovered from COVID-19 and has tested negative, paving the way for his return to Australia on Sunday but Sunrisers Hyderabad’s Wriddhiman Saha has received conflicting results in two coronavirus tests, prolonging his isolation. Saha, who has been named in India’s squad for the World Test Championship final and the subsequent Test series against England, is hoping to join the squad’s bio-bubble in Mumbai on May 25 subject to fitness. He will continue to be in quarantine after one of his two tests came positive. “My quarantine period is still not over. Out of the two tests done, 1 was negative and other one came as positive. Otherwise I am doing much better,” the wicketkeeper-batsman posted on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hussey-tests-negative-but-saha-positive-again/article34561930.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Good response to GMs’ moves||Viswanathan Anand was stretched a bit. So was Koneru Humpy. And they had to be in front of their computers for well over a couple of hours, dividing their attention to some 20 games. It proved time well spent though, as the COVID-19 fund-raiser by India’s top chess players proved a resounding success. More than Rs. 37 lakh ($50,555) was collected by the simultaneous online games featuring five of India’s brightest minds on Thursday night. D. Harika, Nihal Sarin and R. Praggnanandhaa were the others. Anand played 25 games — he won 22 and drew three — while the rest played 20 each. Humpy and Harika won 17 of their games and drew the rest, while Praggnanandhaa won all his 20. Nihal also seemed on course for a 100% record, but had to settle for a draw in his last game. Huge response The event was organised by chess.com , which was pleasantly surprised by the magnitude of its success. “Our target was $15,000 but people from around the world contributed generously, besides the entry fee (one had to pay $150 to take on Anand and $25 to play the other Grandmasters),” chess.com India director Rakesh Kulkarni, told The Hindu . “The response was truly overwhelming.” The money would go to Redcross India and the All India Chess Federation’s Checkmate Covid initiative, which will lend a helping hand to chess players affected by the pandemic. “I was delighted to find that such a big amount was raised by our games,” said Humpy. “And it wasn’t easy for me, as I came across some really good players. At least two of my games were pretty tough; and I found Anand too faced some strong opposition.” Anand and Humpy were also part of chess.com ’s COVID fund-raiser a year ago. The amount collected then was Rs. 4.5 lakh. The nine-fold increase reflects not just the graver situation India is finding itself in now, but the massive increase in popularity that chess has seen during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-response-to-gms-moves/article34561933.ece
15 May 2021||Mumbai,||‘Bond played a major role in my career’||India’s star pacer Jasprit Bumrah has said that former New Zealand speedster Shane Bond, who is currently the bowling coach of Mumbai Indians, has played a major role in shaping his career. The Mumbai Indians fast bowler expressed his views in a video shared by his IPL franchise. Good journey “I always try to talk to him even when I am not here and with the Indian team. So, it’s been a good journey, and hopefully, every year I keep learning something new and try to add new things to my bowling.  “He has played a major role in that. It’s been a great relationship so far, and hopefully, this continues for many many years to come,” Bumrah said. He said he was always fascinated by how Bond bowled in his playing days and tries speaking to the MI bowling coach even when he is on India duty. “I met him (Bond) for the first time in 2015. As a child, I had seen him bowl and was always very fascinated by how he used to bowl for New Zealand, and how he used to operate,” the India pacer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bond-played-a-major-role-in-my-career/article34561935.ece
15 May 2021||Chennai,||Sports fraternity chips in for CM Relief Fund||India’s star table tennis player G. Sathiyan donated Rs. 1 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. “It is time to support each other and fight this pandemic together and win this battle against the deadly COVID second wave,” he said in a statement. N. Ramachandran, an industrialist and a sports administrator for over three decades, contributed Rs. 1 crore to the relief fund. Currently, Ramachandran is the president of the Tamil Nadu Olympic Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-fraternity-chips-in-for-cm-relief-fund/article34562028.ece
15 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Blasters focus on individual training||After a disappointing campaign in the last season, Kochi-based ISL club Kerala Blasters has started its pre-season early with focus on individual training. Blasters’ technical advisor Tomasz Tchorz underlined the club’s priorities and its efforts to live up to the demands of fans in an interview posted on the club’s official Instagram account. Three aspects “The objective to start the pre-season training early is very clear. ISL is played for a short duration of time. We want to ensure that players are ready to face new challenges and that they maintain a certain level of physical ability. We are focussing on three aspects — mental, physical and tactical and technical components — of individual players,” he said. Elaborating further, Tomasz said that the club wanted the players to be task-oriented. But sometimes they are obsessed with the results and allow the expectations of fans to overwhelm them on the field. “Through meditation and breathing exercises, we want to give an opportunity for the players to be at peace with themselves and to recognise that results are only the effect of what they are doing on the field,” he said. On the physical component, he said some players needed to gain strong muscles and we have programmes to improve the physical abilities of these players. On the tactical aspect, he said the players, once they get on to the field, should focus on combining the technical skills with tactical skills and execute the plans that they have learnt during training. Good progress Tomasz said individual training programme was important for the players and for the club. After tracking the performance of the players for two weeks, he said that the players had made good progress. Tomasz said fans are an integral part of the club and added that their high expectations have kept the coaches, players and management on their toes and the team will strive to improve its performance next season.  Through meditation and breathing exercises, we want to give an opportunity for the players to be at peace with themselves Tomasz Tchorz Technical director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-focus-on-individual-training/article34562164.ece
15 May 2021||Los Angeles,||Suns keep Trail Blazers waiting for playoff spot||Devin Booker drained two free throws with 2.4 seconds remaining to lift Phoenix to a 118-117 victory over Portland that kept the Suns in the hunt for the top seed in the NBA Western Conference playoffs. The narrow victory in a tense duel that saw 25 lead changes along with 18 ties prevented the Trail Blazers from officially locking up their playoff spot. Veteran point guard Chris Paul paced the Suns with 26 points, one of seven Phoenix players to score in double figures. Elsewhere, The Miami Heat dominated the Philadelphia 76ers 106-94, denying the Sixers a chance to secure the top seed in the Eastern Conference. The defending Eastern Conference champion Heat notched a fourth straight victory with the post-season approaching.  The results:   New York 102 bt San Antonio 98; Atlanta 116 bt Orlando 93; Miami 106 bt Philadelphia 94; Phoenix 118 bt Portland 117; Memphis 116 bt Sacramento 110; Chicago 114 bt Toronto 102; Minnesota 103 lost to Denver 114; Charlotte 90 lost to Clippers 113; Indiana 133 lost to Milwaukee 142.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suns-keep-trail-blazers-waiting-for-playoff-spot/article34561976.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Indian footballers to train in Qatar||With the second COVID-19 wave rampant in India, the All Indian Football Federation (AIFF) has decided to send the footballers to Qatar to prepare for the World Cup qualifiers to be held there in June. Taking to Twitter, Indian football team wrote: “The #BlueTigers will soon be leaving for Qatar for the preparatory camp ahead of the June Qualifiers. The final departure date will be announced soon once official confirmation from the health authorities is received.” India is out of reckoning for a 2022 FIFA World Cup spot, but the matches against Qatar, Bangladesh and Afghanistan are crucial with an eye on the 2023 Asian Cup. Earlier, the Indian team played two friendly matches against Oman and UAE in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-footballers-to-train-in-qatar/article34561987.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Boys have earned it fair and square’||India’s head coach Ravi Shastri says his team deserved the status of the world’s number one Test side after overcoming every obstacles, including a change in points system, on its journey to the summit. India remained the number one Test side after the annual update of the ICC team rankings was released on Thursday. Shastri was chuffed about it. “This team has shown steely resolve & unwavering focus to be crowned No. 1. It is something the boys have earned fair & square. “Rules changed midway but #TeamIndia overcame every hurdle along the way. My boys played tough cricket in tough times. “Super proud of this bindass bunch,” Shastri tweeted. The former India captain has been serving as the head coach of the Indian team since 2017, having got an extension after the 2019 ICC World Cup. India heads the table after gaining one rating point for an aggregate of 121, having accumulated 2914 points from 24 matches. Virat Kohli’s men are closely followed by their World Test Championship final opponents, New Zealand, with a rating of 120. The Kiwis have garnered 2166 points from 18 Tests and gained two rating points. India’s 2-1 win over Australia and 3-1 win over England over the past year and New Zealand’s 2-0 series wins over the West Indies and Pakistan have helped them keep ahead of the pack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boys-have-earned-it-fair-and-square/article34561924.ece
15 May 2021||Tokyo,||‘Stop Tokyo Olympics’ petition submitted||An online petition with more than 350,000 signatures calling for the Tokyo Games to be cancelled was submitted Friday to local organisers, the International Olympic Committee and others. The Olympics are scheduled to open in just 10 weeks on July 23 in the midst of a pandemic with Tokyo and other areas under a state of emergency. Cases continue to rise in Japan, where less than 2% of the population has been fully vaccinated. Surprising response The petition campaign — called “Stop Tokyo Olympics” — was drafted by well-known lawyer Kenji Utsunomiya, who has also run for governor of Tokyo. He said the response was surprising but acknowledged that this was too little, and probably too late. “I think that the media coverage puts a lot of pressure on the IOC, the International Paralympic Committee, the Japanese government, the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and the organising committee," Utsunomiya said at a news conference. “So in that sense, I am glad I did it. However, in terms of the numbers, I think that tens of millions of signatures are really necessary.” Organisers and the IOC say they will hold the games safely, isolating 15,400 Olympic and Paralympic athletes in a “bubble” and repeatedly testing them and the tens of thousands of others — judges, staff, sponsors, media and broadcasters — who will enter a country that has had its borders sealed for a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stop-tokyo-olympics-petition-submitted/article34561920.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||AIFF league committee heeds Doru’s recommendation||Acting on the recommendation of its technical director Isac Doru, the All India Football Federation’s league committee on Friday proposed doing away with relegation for last season’s I-League considering the extraordinary circumstances arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. Citing examples of footballing nations from across the world, Doru had recommended that no team should be demoted this season. “The committee agreed, and recommended to the executive committee that no team should be relegated from the Hero I-League, and that Neroca FC be granted permission to compete in the 2021-22 edition of the Hero I-League subject to getting the requisite license as per the decision of the club licensing committee,” the AIFF said in a statement. Manipur-based club Neroca FC had finished at the bottom of the table in the last I-League. The federation’s all-powerful executive committee will take a final decision on the matter soon. Doru drew examples from 23 countries, including the Netherlands (Eredivisie), Argentina (Liga Profesional de Futbol), Mexico (Liga MX), Romania (Liga 1), Japan (J-League and J2-League), on how they have “frozen relegation” and help the teams in difficult times. “I have been in conversation with all club coaches during the pandemic and everyone mentioned the challenges faced — which included short duration for preparation, reduced training hours, difficulties in organising friendly matches, transfer problems among others,” Doru said in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiff-league-committee-heeds-dorus-recommendation/article34561925.ece
15 May 2021||Paris,||Turkish GP called off||The Turkish Grand Prix scheduled for next month was called off on Friday because of coronavirus travel restrictions and will be replaced by a second Formula One race in Austria. Travel restrictions in several countries where teams are based forced F1 organisers to take the June 13 race out of Istanbul. Instead, the French GP will move forward by one week to June 20 and Austria will get a second race — just like it did last year. The Styrian GP on June 27 will be followed by the Austrian GP on July 4, with both races at the Red Bull Ring track in Spielberg. “I want to thank the promoter and authorities in Turkey for all of their efforts in recent weeks and want to thank the promoters in France and Austria for their speed, flexibility and enthusiasm,” F1 president Stefano Domenicali said. French GP spectators can use their original tickets or get a refund. “We understand that this modification has an impact on our fans and our (commercial) partners and we’re sorry for that,” race director Eric Boullier said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/turkish-gp-called-off/article34561938.ece
15 May 2021||Chennai,||Rotary Club felicitates Washington||India all-rounder Washington Sundar was conferred the ‘Youth Icon Award’ by the Rotary Club of Madras (District 3232) via an online session here on Friday. Accepting the award Washington spoke about the need to constantly improve, handle pressure situations like he did in his famous ‘Gabba Test debut, and highlighted the role played by his father in his development and that of his sister Shailaja, a leg-spinning all-rounder. TNCA president Rupa Gurunath said the State was proud of the rapid strides made by Washington as an off-spinning all-rounder for the State and the country, The legendary Rahul Dravid congratulated Washington for his successes but added he must learn to accept both success and failure in what he expected to be a long, fulfilling career. Experienced journalist Vedam Jaishankar said Washington, apart from his undoubted talent, showed remarkable maturity for someone so young.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rotary-club-felicitates-washington/article34562030.ece
15 May 2021||Heilbronn (Germany),||Divij & Arends in semifinals||Divij Sharan and Sander Arends of the Netherlands bounced back from being down 5-8 in the super tie-break to beat Marc Polmans and Artem Sitam 6-2, 3-6, [10-8] in the doubles quarterfinals of the €88,520 Challenger tennis tournament here on Friday.  Other results:   $25,000 ITF men, Prague, Czech Republic: Second round: Chun Hsin Tseng (Tpe) bt Sasikumar Mukund 6-3, 6-3.   $60,000 ITF women, La Bisbal D’Emporda, Spain: Quarterfinals: Viktoria Kuzmova (Svk) & Arantxa Rus (Ned) bt Na-Lae Han (Kor) & Riya Bhatia 6-3, 7-6(8) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-arends-in-semifinals/article34561974.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Irfan tests negative in second check||Olympic-bound race walker K.T. Irfan and four other elite track-and-field athletes have returned negative for COVID-19 in a confirmatory second test conducted at Sports Authority of India’s Centre of Excellence in Bengaluru, the nodal body said on Friday. Irfan was among five athletes who tested positive for COVID-19 in a weekly test conducted on May 7. But the SAI on Friday confirmed that all these athletes have returned negative in the second test conducted on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/irfan-tests-negative-in-second-check/article34561977.ece
15 May 2021||Wishaw (UK),||Shubhankar makes the cut||Shubhankar Sharma helped avert an Indian wipe-out as he made up for a disappointing first round with one-under 71 in the second round to make the cut at the Betfred British Masters here. Shubhankar, who shot 73 added 71 to get to even par as the cut fell at even par for 36 holes. The other three Indians, however, exited early. Ajeetesh Sandhu, who got into the field late, missed by one shot after cards of 74 and 72, while S.S.P. Chawrasia (75, 76) and Gaganjeet Bhullarr (77, 76) had a rough week. Robert MacIntyre finished with two birdies to fire a 66 and join Richard Bland and Calum Hill at the top of the leaderboard after day two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shubhankar-makes-the-cut/article34561978.ece
15 May 2021||HYDERABAD:,||HFC’s Sahil to move over to Odisha||Indian Super League sides Hyderabad FC and Odisha FC have agreed to the transfer of defender Sahil Panwar for an undisclosed fee. The 21-year-old Sahil, who plays as a full-back, will join Odisha with effect from June 1. He joined HFC in 2019 and was a regular in the first team at left-back in the 2019-20 season but saw limited game time in the recent ISL campaign and had 15 appearances for HFC. Sahil also played for Indian youth team in international events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfcs-sahil-to-move-over-to-odisha/article34562361.ece
15 May 2021||London,||Archer returns to action||England pacer Jofra Archer made a successful return to cricket from an injury lay-off, scalping two wickets in his first competitive match in more than 45 days. Turning out for Sussex in a County Championship game against Kent on Thursday, Archer returned 2/29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-returns-to-action/article34561937.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 10:26 IST,||Sudoku - May 15, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-15-2021/article34562878.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhath house||A friend sent us a food package that gave us enormous joy. The parcel consisted of various kinds of powders in sealed packets for making dosas and idlis , along with smaller packs of podi or ‘gun powder’. Sold by a Bengaluru group, FarmVeda’s mixes are superb. Organic and healthy — yet sublimely tasty — it has powders for millet or mixed grained dosas , semolina and ragi idlis and so on. For several days in a row, we had delicious breakfasts and teatime snacks. All good things come to an end, and these did, too. But the dosa mixes left this great yearning in me for good southern Indian vegetarian fare. I thought of ordering some food from Naivedyam, which has been selling southern Indian dishes largely from Karnataka. It has several outlets in Delhi-NCR, including in Hauz Khas, Gurugram and Noida. I placed my order: Udupi masala dosa (Rs. 155), Naivedyam Maharaja Thali (Rs. 345), Naivedyam Tiffin Thali (Rs. 285) and something called chow chow bhath (Rs. 155) because I liked the name. The food came at the dot of 1 pm — my lunch hour — in clean white cloth bags that somehow promised hygiene. The thalis — disposable trays with slots for the various dishes — were tightly secured with crisscrossing rubber bands, and the dosa and other items came in brown paper packets. The dosa was whisked away by a dosa lover at home, and my wife and I focused on the Maharaja thali , which was enough to feed two. It consisted of parathas, puris , lemon rice, a dry vegetable preparation, vegetable in gravy, sambar, rasam , papad , pickle and dessert. I started with the puris and a capsicum-potato vegetable – which was mildly hot, but delicious. The other vegetable preparation was of diced beetroot and dal. I tried that with the paratha, which, unfortunately, was so rubbery that my teeth protested vehemently. I enjoyed the lemon rice and curd-rice. Over the latter I broke a hot and fried chilly. The somewhat sweet sambar was well flavoured, too. The rasam looked good, but, alas, it disappeared before I could say Haradanahalli. Of course, what took the cake was the sweet and savoury chow chow bhath — a dollop of sweet kesari , served with upma , chutney on the side. This was delightful, and reminded me of the nagori halwa that I used to eat in Old Delhi once upon a time when Corona was merely a shoe brand. The nagori halwa , as you may remember, is a small piece of crisp puri that you eat stuffed with suji halwa . Teatime was memorable. The tiffin thali consisted of an idli , a vada , a small dosa , one small pakora, some upma , curd rice, lemon rice, kesari bhath , sambar, and chutney. The rice dishes were kept for dinner, and the family of three shared the snacks. The vada was crisp and golden on the outside and smooth and soft within, and the rice idli soft. This was bliss. Till the friend sends us some more FarmVeda packets, Naivedyam it shall be. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bhath-house/article34562076.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Lockdown’s super babies||A generous outflow of babies appeared during the pandemic — suggesting that Netflix probably came in second in the entertainment stakes while locked down. And no, Amazon Prime wasn’t the first. Now growing up, these babies have demonstrated inexplicable syndromes that have psychologists scratching their heads. Recognise these? Multiple Shoe Disorder Lockdown Baby has no idea why a shoe exists, definitely not why many shoes do. She will refuse to wear any. She will grow up to single-footedly destroy the shoe industry which will accuse her of toe-much footscrimination. Worldwide, she will be feted for feats of feet-freeing. She will become a shoe-burning activist, and pad around barefoot, ankling for justice, baring her sole. Lip-o-phobia Lockdown Baby breaks down when shown people in a book. She is convinced that faces consist of eyes, eyebrows, and a large cloth patch. The only noses and mouths she sees are of her own parents. Everyone else is masked. Seeing a stranger’s nose — or God forbid, lips or teeth — is red alert! Big-bad-wolf equivalent in baby terms. Cover the faces in your book — and Baby will transform into a higher-order bookaholic instantly. God Complex Lockdown Toddler harbours the conspiracy theory that his school is a screen. Teachers and classmates are an inch tall, and in little cages on a laptop. The Toddler towers over them. Even better, with the flick of his chubby jam-covered finger on the mouse, he can make their voices disappear, and their faces too. Yawn! He decides when to turn the room of people off. On. Off. The God Complex will fade, thank God (the one upstairs).  Bell Curve No other sound will carve Lockdown Baby’s growth as much as the doorbell. It rings and brings tidings of great joy. Nappies. Toys. Groceries and Mommy smiles. Baby’s hearing evolves to better than an owl’s. (Yes, owls have ears, one is up on their heads, and since your baby is in competition, go check this out now!) Baby can tell from the ring of the doorbell whether it is ice-cream or medicine for tummy-ache from that ice-cream. Rubber-ball-ism Contrary to what it suggests, this is not the shape that Baby will become, despite Mommy’s complaints that all-eat-and-no-gym is rapidly turning her spherical. No. Lockdown Baby is a knockdown baby with an innate ability to bounce back. Having rolled through the toughest times, with no play and no playmates, with worry lines and whispers from those she loves, with the future as impenetrable as fog — Lockdown Baby will emerge fighting. The chubby legs will grow stocky enough to withstand any rocking of the boat, the sparkling eyes far-sighted, able to spot the faintest glimmer of a silver lining. Lockdown Baby will grow stronger and braver than we grown-ups give her credit for, and more, honestly, than we ourselves are. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdowns-super-babies/article34561762.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s||The greatest disservice we can do the nation right now is to call people — all who’ve rallied on the ground and on social media to help their fellow humans — names like superheroes, warriors, and angels. I say this without taking away any of the deep appreciation and gratitude we all feel for them. There is no need for me to list what they have already achieved through their collective endeavours powered by social media and their kindness, moral upstanding, and sense of ethics. My head is bowed. But in the same breath, I also raise my voice in caution. This is not the time to be enamoured by lofty-sounding labels. They are only nomenclature, and hide the reality of the people bearing these titles like their personal crosses.  Great expectations  Calling citizens and frontline workers heroes and warriors puts them on a pedestal and creates divides, sets unreal expectations, and allows for the obfuscation of true responsibility and answerability. It’s divisive because it plays into the myth of ‘someone’ coming to the aid of the people at a time of need, especially in a country like India where our very culture is steeped in legends of strongmen stepping in to save the day. This leads to expectations, but misguided ones, that rely on faith. Moreover, this stops people from posing relevant questions to the responsible authorities. And the authorities are always the first to celebrate such dedicated, helpful workers and citizens. It’s a lovely way to deflect public scrutiny or direct questioning into their own shortcomings. Remember the flowers showered from choppers for hospital and nursing staff even as the same people were crying out for essential PPE kits last year? When we designate someone as more-than-human, a curious thing happens. We focus solely on their achievements and attribute to them powers that we believe they have and we don’t. This simple psychological remove is dangerous because once it is established, we deny ourselves the possibility of seeing beyond their so-called strengths. Once we name a garbage-collector a ‘hero’ or a ‘frontline warrior’, it becomes easier to ignore the fact that they are working without protective gloves or have little or no access to education or healthcare. When it comes to private individuals, calling people heroes and warriors helps institutionalise a similar blind spot for their real concerns and needs at both the governmental and public levels.  Shifting the focus  Beyond this, there is a longer and more lasting aftermath of pedestal-ing the genuine efforts being made by frontline workers and private citizens alike. It creates a culture of seeking comfort and inspiration, of positive psychological reinforcement in the life-affirming instances of small efforts made by powerless individuals. Like many of you, I found some twisted catharsis while listening teary eyed to the story of an older gentleman afflicted by Covid-19 who gave up his hospital bed for a younger patient. That was when I caught myself giving in to the lullaby of the hero narrative. Why did he have to even make that choice? And what does his sacrifice — for it was nothing short of one — mean in the larger context of the state of the nation today. Contrast this with the questions now being asked about why British and American taxpayers’ money should come to India, a country that built a giant statue worth £330 million while allegedly receiving £1.1 billion in aid the same year? A country that has $2.8 billion to lavish on architectural refurbishment but needs individuals and corporates to donate to an opaque, private fund championed by the Prime Minister, which has shown no accountability to the people who filled its coffers?  Where are the ‘leaders’?  At such a time, naming victims warriors, or making heroes of those who are risking their mental and physical health just to be useful, is to completely ignore the root causes that exposed them to this dismal situation in the first place. I worship the power of collective, collaborative, and community effort. But not blindly. I always ask if it is required in the first place, and why? I pay my deepest tributes to those who are doing their best, but refuse to pressurise them more by relying on them or even holding them up as inspiration after having expressly voted responsible representatives into positions of power. Through the systems of Representative Democracy, we gave them authority over our lives. Why must we also give them a free pass by celebrating the efforts of common people who were given no choice, and certainly no leadership duties? This is not the time to create heroes and warriors out of morally upstanding frontline workers, private citizens, and those with internet access. Respect them, love them, and join them in the good fight if you can. Contribute your money as you see fit. Volunteer where you will. But never let the spotlight shift from the faces of those who abdicated their public duties.   The writer is a fashion and social commentator.    When we designate someone as more-than-human, a curious thing happens. We focus solely on their achievements and attribute to them powers that we believe they have and we don’t||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/indias/article34561741.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Another virus||As the number of cases pile up and deaths mount, one imagines that things couldn’t get worse. But one is wrong. Because, of course, one has forgotten the existence of Tejasvi Surya, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s MP from Bengaluru South. If one thing has stood out this last fortnight amidst the sea of extraordinary lies, denials and stupidities, it is Surya sinking to a new low of despicability. For six years now, a section of the educated middle-class has looked the other way when hearing of increasingly aggressive moves from Hindutva’s adherents. Cattle-traders assaulted, someone lynched for a train seat, a boy thrashed for drinking water from a temple tap — everything has been brushed under the carpet, explained away as “cow-belt” excess, the violence of “lumpen elements,” the “lunatic fringe” getting carried away. Which is why we cannot take our eyes off Tejasvi Surya. This is no fringe lunatic, no roadside rowdy led astray. Surya is as mainstream as it gets — educated, well-off, articulate, a darling of the IIT-IIM-corporate-technocrat crowd. And this is not a small town in Uttar Pradesh. It is Bengaluru, the country’s IT hub, the epitome of modern, aspirational India. If such a man in such a city feels empowered enough to storm into a government health centre, brandish a list, read out the names of Muslim staffers, and make unsubstantiated charges against them, you can no longer deny that religious fundamentalism has become mainstream. Possibly because it is Bengaluru, enough of a hubbub was raised to force Surya to return to the health centre and make a show of recanting, claiming he did not know the religious identity of the names he read out. The employees, who were insulted, detained, suspended, and finally reinstated, got neither compensation nor apology. These are young medical personnel, intimidated and perhaps without the wherewithal to pursue this further, but Bengaluru’s citizens must initiate action against the MP under Sections 295A, 211 or 499 of the IPC. Unless communal harassment and aggression are taken seriously and seen to be punished, we cannot contain the lunatics at the fringe. A few days after this episode, 96 oxygen concentrators were seized from Khan Chacha restaurant in New Delhi. Almost immediately, a clamour went up because of the restaurant’s name, forcing several people to point out that the restaurant is owned by a businessman named Navneet Kalra. But all these clarifications and disavowals still happen in what I think of as the “visible” world of mass communication — where news is still verified and disseminated in some of the time-tested, old-fashioned ways as before. But we are all aware of the existence of a massive parallel network, where misinformation is actively fed to hundreds of thousands of people through WhatsApp forwards, videos, and purported “news” stories published in a mammoth number of unknown, murky websites and channels, what I think of as the dark web of the information world. In this nether world, a mythical “Khan” will still be behind the hoarded oxygen cylinders, just as “Muslim” employees will be responsible for the Bengaluru hospital beds scam. In this world, the video of Surya reading out the names will be broadcast repeatedly, but not of him retracting. The name of the original, long-dead owner of Khan Chacha restaurant will be shared, but not Kalra’s. The creation of such a parallel universe, informed by “facts” that are the opposite of anything understood as fact in the verified, “visible” world, is possibly responsible also for the upsurge in data garbling and pseudo-science that has allowed large numbers of Indians to drop their guard so thoroughly against the pandemic. The challenge today is two-fold: not just to provide medical aid to the millions infected by the virus, but also to find a way to inoculate the millions who are being brainwashed by the virus of disinformation. One suspects the former war will be easier won. Because it is the confidence of never being called out that fuels hate fomenters like Tejasvi Surya and their army of fabricators.  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/another-virus/article34561735.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Plate of the art||Neon signs and mah-jongg tiles, surreal three-eyed birds, and foxes wielding movie cameras. You’ll spot these and more on four art plates designed by fashion designer Suket Dhir, Pakistani-American contemporary artist Anila Agha, architect and illustrator Sahiba Madan, and mural artist INSANE 51 respectively. The designers have brought their unique perspectives to ‘A Memory of the Future’, a series of artworks to be showcased at the hybrid Art Basel Hong Kong 2021. Marriott Bonvoy, the travel programme of hotel chain Marriott International, is spearheading the project to spotlight the country as an arts and culture destination. It is being done in collaboration with The Plated Project, a charitable organisation that works with artists to create limited-edition plates (proceeds are used for charity). “[Art Basel] Hong Kong is working on promoting traditions, specifically Cantonese Opera [which involves music, singing, martial arts, acrobatics, and acting],” says Dhir. His plate, titledCantonese Opera, features a warrior on a horse with a bionic leg, surrounded by different wild animals, each documenting the scene. “The warrior is a quintessential role, but usually played by a man in the Opera. Here, I’ve given the role to a woman. That’s looking at how the future is, how [traditional] roles are now kind of dissolving.”  A Memory of the Future will be available to view at Art Basel VIP Online Preview from May 19 to 21, after which it will be open to the public. Details: artbasel.com   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/plate-of-the-art/article34561746.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The gaze wasn’t right’||Filmmaker Nikhil Pherwani met 45-year-old  Abuli Mamaji, one of the leads of his début film Ahaan , in a care facility for individuals with autism, Down syndrome (DS), and other learning disabilities. “The first thing he said to me was that he loves acting and Salman Khan,” Pherwani recalls. Ahaan , which had its theatrical release earlier this year and just dropped on Netflix, is a film about a young man with DS who finds a friend in an older neighbour struggling with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), played by Arif Zakaria. It wasn’t enough for Pherwani to tell a story about an under-represented section of our society, he also wanted them to be seen on screen. “We talk about inclusion but I don’t think we see enough of it. When you watch world cinema, filmmakers there go the extra step. I didn’t want to hire an actor, put prosthetics on him, and try to replicate behaviour. In Abuli, I found someone with Down syndrome who wanted to act,” he says. For Zakaria, who can currently also be seen in Zee5’s Qubool Hai 2.0 , Mamaji’s casting was one of the factors that got him interested in Ahaan . “I thought it was interesting that he (Pherwani) had the gumption to put this story across and the absolute clincher was casting Abuli because you see it so rarely in our films or shows,” says the Raazi actor. On the sets with Mamaji Before he started filming, Pherwani did multiple rounds of workshops with just Mamaji to get him acclimatised to the camera. “I started with giving him simple instructions like walking towards the camera. I just wanted to see if he’d get nervous in front of it and how he’d react to instructions.” The second stage involved getting him to ‘act’. “Obviously he had never done anything like this before. So, we had to figure out a way for him to deliver various expressions. For example, I would tell him to imagine how he felt when his mother scolded him,” says the director. It was during the second set of workshops though, when he had Mamaji deliver dialogues, that Pherwani understood he had a huge challenge on his hands. “Abuli can’t read and definitely wouldn’t memorise dialogues. So, we’d have to prompt the dialogues to him from behind the camera. He also has a speech impediment because of his condition.” The right gaze In the time sinceAhaanwas shot, Mamaji has gone on to act in Hotstar’s Criminal Justice 2 and Pherwani couldn’t be prouder. “He is such a great example for other families like his. Most parents of children with special abilities think that their kids can’t do much but look at Abuli. He’s following his passion and building a life for himself.”    Ahaan is now streaming on Netflix||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-gaze-wasnt-right/article34561732.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Mastering lockdowns||Last year, when the lockdown was announced, we all felt that emotion of being trapped. Outside of a timeout for being an unruly kid, nobody had ever asked us to be confined to a single space for an extended period. Sure, there are other confinements, such as cubicle corporate life (but at least you get paid there) and long-haul flights in economy. Thankfully, I have no idea how mortals eke that one out. So we banged plates, lit lamps, made Dalgona coffee and sourdough dosas , all in a bid to release the resulting stress. I don’t know if it really helped anyone; it certainly flooded my timeline with a lot of cheap imitation patriotism and ugly-looking edibles. This year, however, when the lockdown was imposed in phases, last year’s episode almost served like a vaccine and, in spite of how this time around it is much grimmer, we are handling it many shades better. Even the Americans didn’t go hogging toilet paper the second time around, so clearly it was us humans as a species which was evolving. Here are a few things we now take for granted that last year were a chore.   Cleaning the house: Today we attack house cleaning like trained marines on a mission — which areas to attack first, how long to spend where. In fact, we even juggle other activities on the side. We have truly become home cleaning ninjas and Urban Clap or similar services can hire us should they run short on staff.      Home plants: Last year I killed sourdough starters and hardy plants that had genetically strengthened themselves over millennia to withstand a holocaust. This year, many people are nurturing delicate and rare plants that blossom maybe once a decade, all this in their store rooms or make-shift ghar-ka-mandir -cum-orangeries. Not me, this is one skill that evades me but still. The money plants seem happy.      Ordering online: Someone once said something about moving Earth if given the right space and a long enough pole. Well, today we can proudly state, give us a truck large enough and we’ll home deliver a swimming pool this weekend! Merely a reflection of just how comfortable we have become with committing to something without ever having seen/tried it but, hey, in the land of arranged marriages this should have always come easy.      Showers: This time 2020, I was still a slave to routine. Brush twice a day, shower (at least) once, meal timings, and all that. Then it showed us how time has been a human construct all along — or rather the endless nights I found myself up at 3 am eating cheese puffs and butterscotch ice cream with peanut butter while binging a show showed me that. This year I feel more liberated as everything stands relegated in importance to more relevant things, like my feelings. And no, I don’t mean Insta-feelings which get made into a reel. I am talking about the kind that nature imbued us with. Well, I have shed the notions of daily scrubs and change of clothing, and donned instead this feeling of oneness with nature. I am finally the king of my jungle. Well, it certainly smells and looks like one.      Food: As if we ever needed an excuse to order in. But two things have made this more commonplace — major improvements in the quality of food and packaging, and the fact that the idea of ordering in (directly from them) to help restaurants survive is a real one. Never before has ordering a decadent pizza or burger ever amounted to charity. Now, it does. So, as the Priest told that kid in that weird Shyamalan movie where aliens mastered interstellar travel but couldn’t grapple with doors or a splash of water, “Swing away!”  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mastering-lockdowns/article34561744.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Small retailers online||A year into the pandemic, 'homepreneurs' and small businesses from tier II and tier III cities are finding their feet online via a growing list of platforms. From home chefs and mums making pickles, to jewellery designers and those who sell saris,kurtas,home décor and even fruits and vegetables, you will find them on global platforms such as Shopify and Etsy as well as homegrown ones like Shoopy, MyEasyStore, Dukaan, MyStore by Khatabook, and Facebook Shops.   Read the full stories on weekend.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/small-retailers-online/article34561764.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||High tea comes home||In need of ‘Afternoon Tea’ therapy? Pumpkin Tales, Alwarpet, introduced dainty sandwiches and other trimmings as a takeaway Mother’s Day High Tea last weekend. It got over a 100 orders in two days and is now available on order through the season. The spread comprises an assortment of finger sandwiches and mini pastries, arranged on a tiered stand (recyclable). It comes in two sizes: three-tiered (Rs. 1,500+tax) which serves two, and four-tiered (Rs. 2,800+tax) which serves four. Custom orders are also taken.24995510/20||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/high-tea-comes-home/article34561748.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||The Ultimate AI Masterpiece: While renowned artists like Andy Warhol have designed BMW Art Cars in the past, AI was used to create ‘The Ultimate AI Masterpiece’, a virtual art installation at Frieze New York 2021. An AI software cross-referenced over 50,000 art images, and then generated entirely new works of art that were projected on to the 8 Series Gran Coupe. bmw.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article34561766.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Up close with Halston||Ryan Murphy’s new five-part series on Netflix, Halston , starring Ewan McGregor, follows the legendary and openly gay 1970s fashion designer’s life — from his designs that defined the look of the Studio 54 era, to his friendship with entertainer Liza Minnelli, and the rise and fall of his fashion empire. Meanwhile, Prince Harry and Oprah Winfrey’s documentary series on mental health, The Me You Can’t See , featuring stories from high-profile guests like Lady Gaga and Glenn Close will premiere on Apple TV+. May 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/up-close-with-halston/article34561774.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Macca on a stamp||Music icon Sir Paul McCartney is being honoured by The Royal Mail in a set of 12 special stamps (to be released on May 28), eight of which will feature artwork from his solo albums — from his 1970 debut to last year’s McCartney III . Preorder on shop.royalmail.com. Early next week, The Berklee College of Music will present the second edition of INO CON, a globally-streamed music and technology conference that will host networking opportunities between startups, experts, artistes. May 18-21. inocon2021.heysummit.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/macca-on-a-stamp/article34561778.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||For the artists||Design platform Baro Market and brand agency Peepul have come together to help 10 artists. As part of Chitrakar Relief Sale, works by these artists can be purchased at baromarket.in.9892213907. Surat-based Indian womenswear label Saundh, through its CSR arm Ikjot, has set up a helpline for those who have lost a loved one and need financial aid to perform the last rites. The initiative has a budget of Rs. 75 lakh and a maximum amount of Rs. 10,000 will be given to each family.9924019434||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/for-the-artists/article34561780.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai While critics have dissed the movie, calling it everything from mindless to cringeworthy while adding that Salman Khan is seen in the same mould once again, fans of Bhai presumably want exactly that! On May 13, over 1.25 million people tried to stream the Eid release, directed by Prabhu Deva, on ZEE5, causing the servers to crash around noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34561784.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Motherhood memoirs||Actor Kalki Koechlin, who became a first-time mum last year, takes an honest look at motherhood in the form of personal essays, journal entries, and anecdotes in her book, The Elephant in the Womb. Featuring illustrations by Valeriya Polyanchko, it will be published later in the year. Speaking of pachyderms, British author Paul Pickering’s new novel, Elephant , to be released today, is a love story that spans two historical periods. Pickering has said there is an Indian connection as “the [titular] elephant has her roots in India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/motherhood-memoirs/article34561786.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The virtual stage||Catch a live reading of actor Ila Arun’s play focussing on the loneliness of old age, Yeh Raste Hain Pyar Ke, presented by Surnai Theatre and Folk Arts Foundation in collaboration with Mumbai Theatre Guide . May 15, 7 pm. No entry fee. insider.in. Watch Chennai-based Theatre Nisha’s productions of two short plays by playwright, author and comic strip artist Manjula Padmanabhan — The Dhobi’s Wife and Famous Last Words. The plays, directed by V Balakrishnan,  have been pre-recorded. May 15, 16. Rs. 200 in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-virtual-stage/article34561788.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Modern Love returns||Modern Love, based on the eponymous NYT column, has returned with a new season. From a meet-cute to open marriages, hear all the stories. New episodes every Wednesday on Spotify. Look beyond clothes and trends in a new podcast, Shop Talk, by radio network RED FM and digital magazine The Voice of Fashion . Hosted by the magazine’s editor, Shefalee Vasudev, the podcast will feature conversations with India’s leading designers, stylists, and crafts practitioners. On the RED FM India app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/modern-love-returns/article34561790.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||One for the museums||With International Museum Day on May 18, museums around the world are marking the occasion under the theme, The Future of Museums: Recover and Reimagine . In China, a special exhibition featuring more than 50 rarely-exhibited artefacts from 23 museums and cultural heritage institutions will be launched at the Capital Museum in Beijing. May 17, 18. Farther away in Central America, the Museum of Belize is calling on high school students to create “clever and creative” memes on this year’s theme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/one-for-the-museums/article34561792.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Lockdown’s super babies||A generous outflow of babies appeared during the pandemic — suggesting that Netflix probably came in second in the entertainment stakes while locked down. And no, Amazon Prime wasn’t the first. Now growing up, these babies have demonstrated inexplicable syndromes that have psychologists scratching their heads. Recognise these? Multiple Shoe Disorder Lockdown Baby has no idea why a shoe exists, definitely not why many shoes do. She will refuse to wear any. She will grow up to single-footedly destroy the shoe industry which will accuse her of toe-much footscrimination. Worldwide, she will be feted for feats of feet-freeing. She will become a shoe-burning activist, and pad around barefoot, ankling for justice, baring her sole. Lip-o-phobia Lockdown Baby breaks down when shown people in a book. She is convinced that faces consist of eyes, eyebrows, and a large cloth patch. The only noses and mouths she sees are of her own parents. Everyone else is masked. Seeing a stranger’s nose — or God forbid, lips or teeth — is red alert! Big-bad-wolf equivalent in baby terms. Cover the faces in your book — and Baby will transform into a higher-order bookaholic instantly. God Complex Lockdown Toddler harbours the conspiracy theory that his school is a screen. Teachers and classmates are an inch tall, and in little cages on a laptop. The Toddler towers over them. Even better, with the flick of his chubby jam-covered finger on the mouse, he can make their voices disappear, and their faces too. Yawn! He decides when to turn the room of people off. On. Off. The God Complex will fade, thank God (the one upstairs).  Bell Curve No other sound will carve Lockdown Baby’s growth as much as the doorbell. It rings and brings tidings of great joy. Nappies. Toys. Groceries and Mommy smiles. Baby’s hearing evolves to better than an owl’s. (Yes, owls have ears, one is up on their heads, and since your baby is in competition, go check this out now!) Baby can tell from the ring of the doorbell whether it is ice-cream or medicine for tummy-ache from that ice-cream. Rubber-ball-ism Contrary to what it suggests, this is not the shape that Baby will become, despite Mommy’s complaints that all-eat-and-no-gym is rapidly turning her spherical. No. Lockdown Baby is a knockdown baby with an innate ability to bounce back. Having rolled through the toughest times, with no play and no playmates, with worry lines and whispers from those she loves, with the future as impenetrable as fog — Lockdown Baby will emerge fighting. The chubby legs will grow stocky enough to withstand any rocking of the boat, the sparkling eyes far-sighted, able to spot the faintest glimmer of a silver lining. Lockdown Baby will grow stronger and braver than we grown-ups give her credit for, and more, honestly, than we ourselves are. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdowns-super-babies/article34562057.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Plate of the art||Neon signs and mah-jongg tiles, surreal three-eyed birds, and foxes wielding movie cameras. You’ll spot these and more on four art plates designed by fashion designer Suket Dhir, Pakistani-American contemporary artist Anila Agha, architect and illustrator Sahiba Madan, and mural artist INSANE 51 respectively. The designers have brought their unique perspectives to ‘A Memory of the Future’, a series of artworks to be showcased at the hybrid Art Basel Hong Kong 2021. Marriott Bonvoy, the travel programme of hotel chain Marriott International, is spearheading the project to spotlight the country as an arts and culture destination. It is being done in collaboration with The Plated Project, a charitable organisation that works with artists to create limited-edition plates (proceeds of sales are used for charity). “[Art Basel] Hong Kong is working on promoting traditions, specifically Cantonese Opera [which involves music, singing, martial arts, acrobatics and acting],” says Dhir, adding that his clothes and prints feature a huge element of art because “they have a narrative and a story to tell”. Dhir’s plate, titledCantonese Opera, features a warrior on a horse (a quintessential role in the opera) with a bionic leg, surrounded by different wild animals, each documenting the scene. A squirrel holds a boom mike, a panther operates the spotlight. “I was thinking about playfulness, and experiencing life through these creatures who are our co-inhabitants on the planet. The concept was ‘A Memory of the Future’, so the idea was to do a sort of coming together of the past and the future — looking at a beautiful world where animals and humans coexist.” Explaining how he watched a lot of theatre to research the traditional art form, he says, “The warrior is a quintessential role, but usually played by a man in Cantonese Opera. Here, I’ve given role to a woman. That’s also looking at how the future is, how [traditional] roles are now kind of dissolving; there aren’t men’s roles or women’s roles, but people’s roles.”  A Memory of the Future will be available to view at Art Basel VIP Online Preview from May 19 to 21, after which it will be open to the public. Madan’s plate focusses on hand-carved mah-jongg tiles, while Agha’s is on handmade stencils, and INSANE 51’s, titledNeon Signs, reflects the city at night. Details: artbasel.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plate-of-the-art/article34562061.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The gaze wasn’t right’||Filmmaker Nikhil Pherwani met 45-year-old  Abuli Mamaji, one of the leads of his début film Ahaan , in a care facility for individuals with autism, Down syndrome (DS), and other learning disabilities. “The first thing he said to me was that he loves acting and Salman Khan,” Pherwani recalls. Ahaan , which had its theatrical release earlier this year and just dropped on Netflix, is a film about a young man with DS who finds a friend in an older neighbour struggling with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), played by Arif Zakaria. The film, which Pherwani and his brother Abhishek have produced under their banner, Will Find Way Films, also stars Plabita Borthakur, Niharika Singh, and Rajit Kapur. It wasn’t enough for Pherwani to tell a story about an under-represented section of our society, he also wanted them to be seen on screen. “We talk about inclusion but I don’t think we see enough of it. When you watch world cinema, filmmakers there go the extra step. I didn’t want to hire an actor, put prosthetics on him, and try to replicate behaviour. In Abuli, I found someone with Down syndrome who wanted to act. He was really passionate about it and wanted to give it his all,” he says. On the sets with Mamaji Before he started filming, Pherwani did multiple rounds of workshops with just Mamaji to get him acclimatised to the camera. “I started with giving him simple instructions like walking towards the camera. I just wanted to see if he’d get nervous in front of it and how he’d react to instructions.” The second stage involved getting him to ‘act’. “Obviously he had never done anything like this before. So, we had to figure out a way for him to deliver various expressions. For example, I would tell him to imagine how he felt when his mother scolded him. He is very smart so he’d follow instructions quite well,” says the director. It was during the second set of workshops though, when he had Mamaji deliver dialogues, that Pherwani understood he had a huge challenge on his hands. “Abuli can’t read and definitely wouldn’t memorise dialogues. So, we’d have to prompt the dialogues to him from behind the camera. He also has a speech impediment because of his condition.” Once filming started, Mamaji would take multiple takes per scene to get the dialogue and emotions right. Zakaria remembers it being challenging during the early days of shooting. “I just had to unlearn everything and be spontaneous in our scenes together. If you really pay attention to Abuli’s dialogues you’ll realise that often he doesn’t complete his sentences or that parts of his lines are garbled. So, it took a while for my ears to train themselves but he’s just so endearing that it wasn’t much of an effort,” he adds. The right gaze In the time sinceAhaanwas shot, Mamaji has gone on to act in Hotstar’s Criminal Justice 2 and Pherwani couldn’t be prouder. “He is such a great example for other families like his. Most parents of children with special abilities think that their kids can’t do much but look at Abuli. He’s following his passion and building a life for himself.” This is exactly what Pherwani, who worked as an assistant director on films like Stanley Ka Dabba, had set out to do when he started writing Ahaan way back in 2013. “Our society looks at people with developmental disabilities with either fear or sympathy, but we don’t treat them ‘normally’. There have been other films about people with disabilities but I always felt the gaze wasn’t right. I wanted to make a film where the audience experiences their zest for life and optimism.” Ahaan is now streaming on Netflix||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-gaze-wasnt-right/article34562079.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Constant complaints, but authorities in denial||Many relatives of COVID-19 patients who are admitted at Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital and GTB Hospital have complained of patients not getting adequate care, lack of facilities in government hospitals and bodies lying on wards for hours. On Thursday, an IPS officer posted a distress message from her Twitter account that her cousin, who was admitted to GTB Hospital was not given proper care and has lost hope. The officer said he “feels like jumping from the 6th floor”. Namrata Saini, whose mother died at Lok Nayak Hospital on May 7, said the treatment was “pathetic” and her mother used to complain about unhygienic conditions in the ward. Meghna Sharma, who was admitted at the hospital for 25 days, complained that bodies were not removed on time, some remained for “four to five hours”. False allegations However, Dr. Suresh Kumar, Medical Director of Lok Nayak Hospital, refuted both allegations, saying those were false. On the complaints made by Ms. Saini, he said: “We had conducted an internal inquiry on her complaints and found that there was no problem. We treat thousands of patients and people are happy with the treatment. We try our level best, but some still complain.” About complaints of bodies lying in the wards for hours, he explained: “Once a death occurs, we have to inform the family first. It takes five to ten minutes to explain to the family what happened. Once that is done, we ask staff to shift the body to the mortuary. The body is packed as per COVID guidelines and labelled, and the area is disinfected. This takes 45 minutes to one hour and for this time, the body will be in the ward. It takes this much time anywhere in the world.” Time consuming Ms. Saini’s 60-year-old mother was admitted on the night of April 29, but she alleged her scan was done only on May 5. “A steroid injection was administered to her on May 5. They should have done it on the first day itself, but they didn’t. After giving the injection, my mother was better and she talked to us on video call for about two hours. She complained that the ward was very unclean and there was urine and stool,” she said. There were problems at the time of death too. “At 11.45 p.m. on May 6, I was outside the ward to get my mother’s phone and I saw two people in PPE kit carrying my mother’s body in a stretcher. But the hospital did not tell us at that time that she had died. On May 7, we got a call from the hospital around 8 a.m. that she had died. The time of death on the death certificate is 12.35 a.m. on May 7. They do this as if they do not have staff at night,” Ms. Saini said, fuming. When the family approached Dr. Suresh, he replied in a WhatsApp message to Ms. Saini: “We are analysing all deaths. Most deaths are due to bad and severe disease. Most patients come to LNH with 70% to 85% O2 level. With DM or any long underlying disease this virus strain is difficult to treat. Nothing works. Even Remdes or steroids don’t work madam. Even in UK and USA deaths are there. They are fully developed nations [sic].” Dr. Suresh said that the hospital has outsourced cleaning and more than 400 people are deployed for sanitation and cleaning is done five times a day in all wards. He said that COVID-19 patients stay alone at the hospital and are frustrated, in many cases depressed too. So under this duress, they blame government facilities. Little care Aslam Khan, an IPS officer, posted a distress message from her Twitter account about her cousin in a Delhi government hospital on Thursday. “My cousin admitted in GTB Hospital for more than a week. 102-3 fever. No medication. CT done yesterday, but no medi started. He is 6th floor new building, bed no 35. cald up just now to say that he has lost hope & feel like jumping from 6th floor. No care. Whom should I tag here [sic]?” the post read. She deleted the tweet about five hours later saying the Delhi government has reached out to the patient. In another instance, Mahender Kumar Sharma, whose 29-year-old daughter has been admitted to GTB Hospital for more than 10 days, complained that there was no proper care. “There is no care here . When she wants to go to the bathroom and needs help, there is no one to help. She says that at times she has to wait for two hours to go to the bathroom,” he said. “When we say something, they get angry. But on the other hand, they are also working long hours and have more workload. They have given a helpline number, but it doesn’t work at times,” he said. Another person whose father is admitted said the hospital helpline number was not working and the patient was not even given a pillow. “There is apathy towards the patients and there is no proper care,” he said. On the other hand, Manoj Kumar, whose brother is admitted to the hospital, said he was happy with the treatment given by the hospital. “My brother says it is clean and he gets food on time. His wife was also admitted here and she recovered,” Mr. Kumar said. GTB Hospital and Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to queries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/constant-complaints-but-authorities-in-denial/article34562129.ece
15 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM tells villagers to keep away outsiders||With rural areas of Punjab now showing a spike in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday urged villagers to restrict movement into their areas to only those free of the virus. In a live Facebook telecast, Capt. Singh called for strict measures in rural areas over the next two months, which, he described as extremely crucial. “Now the rural areas are seeing a surge in cases, so we need to be very careful,” he said, urging villagers to keep outsiders away. Exhorting people to “save your mohallas and villages to save yourself, your families and Punjab,” the Chief Minister asked them not to delay going to hospitals in time. “We have teams of doctors everywhere, approach them if you feel unwell,” he urged them, stressing that delay in going for treatment was leading to people ending up in L3 level. Occupancy of beds While occupancy of L2 beds is 50%, at the L3 level, around 90% of the beds are currently occupied, and the State government was in the process of adding another 2,000 beds. He said Punjab so far had 4.75 lakh plus cases, with Thursday’s 24-hour case load at 8,484. While the total deaths stood at 11,297, the State had lost 184 lives to COVID-19 on Thursday. There are 9,619 patients on oxygen support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-cm-tells-villagers-to-keep-away-outsiders/article34562342.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kumbh Mela cited as reason behind COVID surge, says Jain||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that Kumbh Mela is being widely cited as the reason behind the spread of COVID-19 to rural areas. “In the previous three waves that Delhi faced, we hardly saw any COVID cases coming from the villages in the countryside. But in this wave, we have seen a number of cases. The entire nation is in fact tackling the spread in rural areas. It is being widely said that the reason behind this spread in villages and rural areas has been Kumbh Mela where people went in large numbers,” Mr. Jain said. Commenting on the shortage of many drugs, the Minister said that for Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, all the management and control is being done by the Central government and the drugs are supplied to the hospitals through a website managed by the Centre. “The State wise distribution is also being controlled by the Centre. The Centre has mandated hardly 1,000 units of Tocilizumab injection in one month, which means hardly 30 units per day, while the demand is much more than this. Thus, we have passed the order and formed the expert committee to streamline the supply effectively and mobilise it,” he said. Meanwhile, AAP leader Atishi said that for vaccination of people above 45 years, healthcare and front-line workers, Covaxin’s stock is left only for three days and Covishield’s stock only for two days. For the 18-44 age group, Covaxin’s stock is over and Covishield’s is available for eight days, she said. Appeal to supply vaccine “People who had already taken their first dose of Covaxin, and are ready to take the second shot, cannot get the jab due to unavailability of vaccines. Humble appeal to the Centre to supply sufficient vaccines for those between 18-44 age group and those above 45 as well,” Ms. Atishi said. She said that Delhi has administered a total of 43,67,243 doses of vaccine and 10,00,000 people have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kumbh-mela-cited-as-reason-behind-covid-surge-says-jain/article34562127.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||250 ICU beds attached to Lok Nayak to become functional today: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday visited the makeshift COVID treatment facility coming up at the Ramlila Main attached to the Lok Nayak Hospital here. He thanked doctors, engineers and workers who worked round the clock on a war footing to construct the facility, which has 500 ICU beds in just 15 days. According to Mr. Kejriwal, 250 ICU beds at the facility would become available on May 15 and 250 more would be available over the next two days. Health Minister Satyendar Jain also accompanied Mr. Kejriwal to oversee the preparations. ‘Situation improving’ “I visited the GTB Hospital on Wednesday where another 500 ICU beds have been set up. This makes the total count to 1,000 ICU beds. Another 200 ICU beds are being prepared at the Radha Soami COVID facility in Chhatarpur, which means a total of 1,200 ICU beds will be added in Delhi in the next 1-2 days. The COVID situation in Delhi is improving, because of which lesser beds are getting occupied in the hospitals. However, ICU beds are still full,” he also said. This, Mr. Kejriwal said, meant the hospital system still had serious patients and so more ICU beds were required. While the oxygen situation had been managed, he said, it was time to ensure that as many citizens as possible were vaccinated as soon as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/250-icu-beds-attached-to-lok-nayak-to-become-functional-today-cm/article34562125.ece
15 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Ambulance charges soar in Odisha as cases spike||Last week when 27-year-old Saroj Baliarsingh (name changed) from Bhubaneshwar frantically searched for an ambulance to shift his COVID-19 infected father to a hospital, ambulance operators demanded Rs. 20,000. His father lost the battle against the virus before he could be shifted to a hospital. “On normal days, an ambulance operator would charge Rs. 800 to Rs. 1000 for taking a patient to the hospital where I wanted to admit my father, about 10 km away. But private ambulance operators now say they are risking their lives, to justify the astronomical costs,” said Mr. Baliarsingh. Earlier this month, Nagen Sahu in Keonjhar was faced with a similar plight to shift his father, who had tested positive, from Kalikaprasad to the State capital, a distance of 250 km. “The only ambulance, which was air-conditioned and equipped with emergency machines and oxygen and available in the district, quoted Rs. 50,000. The price was too high for us. After rounds of persuasions, a mining company agreed to send its ambulance and the charge was nominal,” Mr. Sahu said, adding that people with limited resources were forced to resign to their fate. Similarly, Rajesh Rout had to drop his idea of shifting his brother-in-law from Jharsuguda to Bhubaneswar with the ambulance operator not ready to settle below Rs. 35,000.  Demand soars With active cases steadily rising in the State and condition of people with comorbidities worsening in home isolation, demand for ambulances has soared. If a critical COVID-19 patient is formally referred by a district level hospital to bigger hospitals in Bhubaneswar or Cuttack, ambulance charges are generally borne by the government. But families trying to shift critically ill COVID-19 patients face an uphill task. “Ambulance operators cannot charge an exorbitant price. We will surely act against violators if a formal complaint is lodged with police,” said Y. K. Jethwa, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), who has been assigned to check the extortion. As many as 22 flying squads comprising of personnel from the State police, Health department and Directorate of Drugs have been deployed to act against unscrupulous elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ambulance-charges-soar-in-odisha-as-cases-spike/article34562343.ece
15 May 2021||Agartala,||Mass testing drive launched in Agartala||The Tripura government has launched mass testing in areas of the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC), which is the epicentre of COVID-19 infections in the State. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb announced that Rapid Antigen Tests will be conducted for every household under the AMC. He said the testing drive will be completed in three days. Most of the recent infections in the State have been detected in Agartala.  Containment zones Three wards of the AMC have been declared containment zones for 10 days and security forces have been deployed to prevent movement of residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mass-testing-drive-launched-in-agartala/article34562345.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Belated Eid||Pitaara in South Delhi has an extended Eid celebration on until May 16, with chef Udit Maheshwari having put together delicacies from across India. There’s khoja keema samosas , stuffed with moong dal and mutton keema; Bohri hara masala chicken, served with tawa malai paratha; Moplah kozhi biryani and more. At pitaarakitchen.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/belated-eid/article34562056.ece
15 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam starts vaccinating transgenders||Azizur Khan was caught in two minds. But her faith in Swati Bidhan Baruah, the first transgender judge in the northeastern region, convinced her to take a Covaxin shot. She was the youngest of some 40 transgenders in the 18-44 age group who were vaccinated against the SARS-CoV-2 virus at Tritiyo Nivas, a shelter home for the third gender in Guwahati’s Hatigaon locality. Some of those who turned up for the vaccination programme could not take the shot as they had either not registered or did not carry any identity card. The transgender-specific vaccination conducted jointly by the All Assam Transgender Association and the State Directorate of Health Services was being billed as the first such programme for the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-starts-vaccinating-transgenders/article34562344.ece
15 May 2021||Ludhiana,||Six drown in pond||Five children and a migrant worker died due to drowning in a pond in Mangarh village, about 20 kms from here on Friday. Police said that one of the children entered the pond to take a bath and he slipped. When the other four boys saw him drown they jumped into the pond in a bid to rescue him. Seeing the children drown, a 22-year-old migrant worker, who was standing near the pond, also entered inside to rescue them. However, he also lost his life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-drown-in-pond/article34562120.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Children and anxiety||Not-for-profit Routes 2 Roots is organising a series of digital workshops for children, to help overcome anxiety due to the lockdown and COVID-19. They have developed Virsa, a platform that children can log onto, to attend the interactive sessions, free of cost. Tools will include mindfulness and other ways of managing stress. At r2rvirsa.com; daily 8:30 am to 11 am; 11:30 am to 2 pm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/children-and-anxiety/article34562063.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Australian fliers fail to turn up at IGI Airport||More than half the number of passengers who are supposed to board a flight to Australia didn’t turn up at a hotel prior to their departure, said an official at Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) on Friday. The official said that a flight carrying medical aid is scheduled to land at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport on Friday and around 150 passengers (Australian citizens) are to board the same flight returning to Australia on Saturday early morning. Half the passengers “Prior to the boarding, as per the protocol, all passengers were tested for COVID-19 and after their negative report they were to be quarantined at a hotel before they board the flight to Australia. But on Thursday, only half of the passengers reported at the hotel,” said the official. He added that it appears that the passengers who didn’t turn up at the hotel have tested COVID positive. The flight has yet to land at IGIA till Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/australian-fliers-fail-to-turn-up-at-igi-airport/article34562130.ece
15 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Give free jabs to all, demands Delhi Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Friday demanded that all Delhiites should be given free vaccination, both in government and private hospitals. It said that instead of delivering on its promise of providing free vaccination, the Delhi government, on the contrary, shut down over 100 vaccination centres citing vaccine shortage while private hospitals continued to charge a high sum for the vaccine. The party alleged that due to vaccine shortage in government centres, poor people are being compelled to get vaccine shots at exorbitant rates from private hospitals, ranging from Rs. 950-Rs. 1,250 for a jab. “Private hospitals have been fleecing people for a vaccine shot, charging many times more than the actual price. It was to help private hospitals earn profit that the Delhi govt. did not place timely orders for buying the vaccine, nor did it float global tenders to stock up vaccines,” Delhi Congress Chief Ch. Anil Kumar alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/give-free-jabs-to-all-demands-delhi-cong/article34562122.ece
15 May 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- Gupta COVID||State BJP president Adesh Gupta on Friday said the Delhi government needed to learn from the second wave of COVID, especially its “critical phase” from April 20 to May 5, and conduct an oxygen audit to assess future demand as it prepares for the expected third wave of the pandemic. likely to hit the city later this year. Though new COVID cases were going down, he said, ICU beds were still full at city hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-gupta-covid/article34562123.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||The Ultimate AI Masterpiece: While renowned artists like Andy Warhol have designed BMW Art Cars in the past, AI was used to create ‘The Ultimate AI Masterpiece’, a virtual art installation at Frieze New York 2021. An AI software cross-referenced over 50,000 art images, and then generated entirely new works of art that were projected on to the 8 Series Gran Coupe. bmw.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article34562064.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Up close with Halston||Ryan Murphy’s new five-part series on Netflix, Halston , starring Ewan McGregor, follows the legendary and openly gay 1970s fashion designer’s life — from his designs that defined the look of the Studio 54 era, to his friendship with entertainer Liza Minnelli, and the rise and fall of his fashion empire. Meanwhile, Prince Harry and Oprah Winfrey’s documentary series on mental health, The Me You Can’t See , featuring stories from high-profile guests like Lady Gaga and Glenn Close will premiere on Apple TV+. May 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-close-with-halston/article34562065.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Macca on a stamp||Music icon Sir Paul McCartney is being honoured by The Royal Mail in a set of 12 special stamps (to be released on May 28), eight of which will feature artwork from his solo albums — from his 1970 debut to last year’s McCartney III . Preorder on shop.royalmail.com. Early next week, The Berklee College of Music will present the second edition of INO CON, a globally-streamed music and technology conference that will host networking opportunities between startups, experts, artistes. May 18-21. inocon2021.heysummit.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/macca-on-a-stamp/article34562066.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||For the artists||Design platform Baro Market and brand agency Peepul have come together to help 10 artists. As part of Chitrakar Relief Sale, works by these artists can be purchased at baromarket.in.9892213907. Surat-based Indian womenswear label Saundh, through its CSR arm Ikjot, has set up a helpline for those who have lost a loved one and need financial aid to perform the last rites. The initiative has a budget of Rs. 75 lakh and a maximum amount of Rs. 10,000 will be given to each family.9924019434||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/for-the-artists/article34562067.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai While critics have dissed the movie, calling it everything from mindless to cringeworthy while adding that Salman Khan is seen in the same mould once again, fans of Bhai presumably want exactly that! On May 13, over 1.25 million people tried to stream the Eid release, directed by Prabhu Deva, on ZEE5, causing the servers to crash around noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article34562068.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Motherhood memoirs||Actor Kalki Koechlin, who became a first-time mum last year, takes an honest look at motherhood in the form of personal essays, journal entries, and anecdotes in her book, The Elephant in the Womb. Featuring illustrations by Valeriya Polyanchko, it will be published later in the year. Speaking of pachyderms, British author Paul Pickering’s new novel, Elephant , to be released today, is a love story that spans two historical periods. Pickering has said there is an Indian connection as “the [titular] elephant has her roots in India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/motherhood-memoirs/article34562069.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The virtual stage||Catch a live reading of actor Ila Arun’s play focussing on the loneliness of old age, Yeh Raste Hain Pyar Ke, presented by Surnai Theatre and Folk Arts Foundation in collaboration with Mumbai Theatre Guide . May 15, 7 pm. No entry fee. insider.in. Watch Chennai-based Theatre Nisha’s productions of two short plays by playwright, author and comic strip artist Manjula Padmanabhan — The Dhobi’s Wife and Famous Last Words. The plays, directed by V Balakrishnan,  have been pre-recorded. May 15, 16. Rs. 200 in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-virtual-stage/article34562070.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Modern Love returns||Modern Love, based on the eponymous NYT column, has returned with a new season. From a meet-cute to open marriages, hear all the stories. New episodes every Wednesday on Spotify. Look beyond clothes and trends in a new podcast, Shop Talk, by radio network RED FM and digital magazine The Voice of Fashion . Hosted by the magazine’s editor, Shefalee Vasudev, the podcast will feature conversations with India’s leading designers, stylists, and crafts practitioners. On the RED FM India app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/modern-love-returns/article34562071.ece
15 May 2021||May 15 2021 00:00 IST,||One for the museums||With International Museum Day on May 18, museums around the world are marking the occasion under the theme, The Future of Museums: Recover and Reimagine . In China, a special exhibition featuring more than 50 rarely-exhibited artefacts from 23 museums and cultural heritage institutions will be launched at the Capital Museum in Beijing. May 17, 18. Farther away in Central America, the Museum of Belize is calling on high school students to create “clever and creative” memes on this year’s theme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-for-the-museums/article34562072.ece
