17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram/ Mangaluru / Pune,||Five killed as gale force winds, rain pummel Kerala, Karnataka||Gale-force winds, heavy rainl and high tidal waves swept the coastal belt of Kerala, Karnataka and Goa as Cyclone Tauktae hurtled northwards towards Gujarat on Sunday, leaving at least five persons dead, damaging hundreds of houses, uprooting electricity poles and trees and forcing large-scale evacuation. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Tauktae, which has intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm”, is likely to intensify further during the next 24 hours and reach the Gujarat coast on Monday evening. High wave warnings with flooding of low-lying areas and damage to property have been issued for Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Lakshadweep, and south Tamil Nadu. A joint bulletin issued by the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) in Hyderabad and IMD forecast “damage” over Porbandar, Amreli Junagarh, Gir Somnath, Botad and Bhavnagar, plus the coastal areas of Ahmedabad. An estimated 1.5 lakh people are being shifted from low-lying coastal areas in Gujarat while 54 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed in the State. Maharashtra, too, is bracing for the cyclone as the Met Department predicted heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in north Konkan, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar, and extremely heavy rainfall in Raigad on Monday. Four deaths were reported from Karnataka’s Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts. Roads in coastal districts were washed away and about 12 km of beachfront from Kulai to Sasihithlu in Dakshina Kannada district was eroded, leaving several houses in danger. Levels in Kerala dams up The water level in many dams across Kerala rose after heavy rain in the catchment areas, prompting the authorities to sound an alert. The IMD issued orange alerts for heavy to very heavy rain in three Kerala districts — Ernakulam, Idukki and Malappuram — and 11 districts have been put on yellow alert for Monday. The cyclone-related toll in the State went up to three after a 71-year-old woman from Kozhikode district died when a coconut tree fell on her on Saturday. Gusty winds and heavy rain started lashing several parts of Goa since Sunday morning. Power supply in several areas was disrupted as hundreds of electric poles were uprooted due to the high-speed winds, State Power Minister Nilesh Cabral said. Restoration work was hampered due to the strong winds, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-killed-as-gale-force-winds-rain-pummel-kerala-karnataka/article34575227.ece
17 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State-wide phase II lockdown begins||The phase II lockdown in 10 districts and triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts clamped to bring down the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus began on Sunday midnight and will be in force till May 23. The restrictions are being imposed as the test positivity rate of COVID-19 has not shown any significant decrease even after the phase I lockdown was enforced from May 8, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy has said. Slight relaxation In addition to the relaxations allowed in the phase I lockdown, shops selling construction materials, including plumbing and electrical materials, have been allowed to function from 11 a.m. to 6 p. m. observing strict COVID-19 protocols during the phase II. Delivery of books through e-commerce/ home delivery has also been allowed. Sale and transportation of natural rubber has been allowed on May 17 and May 21 to help the rubber growers. Banks to work 3 days However, banks will function only on Monday, Wednesday and Friday with limited staff and restricted timings in all the 14 districts. In the four districts where the triple lockdown has been enforced, distribution of newspapers, milk and sale of fish at the doorstep will have to be completed by 8 a.m. The District Collectors, who also head the District Disaster Management Authorities, issued additional stringent restrictions. The inter-district boundaries have been closed. There will be only one entry and exit point to and from the places. The districts have been divided into zones and the task of control has been given to higher police officials. An additional 10,000 police personnel have been deployed to enforce the triple lockdown. Drones will be used to detect crowds and geo-fencing technology will be used to track those in quarantine at homes. Ward committees under the local bodies will deliver food from community kitchens and Janakeeya hotels for those in need. Unnecessarily going out of houses, crowding, not wearing masks, or violating any other COVID protocols will be subject to severe legal action as per Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020.  The restrictions are being imposed as the test positivity rate of COVID-19 has not shown any significant decrease. V.P. Joy Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-wide-phase-ii-lockdown-begins/article34575438.ece
17 May 2021||Chennai,||The second COVID-19 wave shows signs of peaking||Weeks after registering a sudden bump in cases and leading the world in daily case load, the number of new COVID-19 cases in India has shown a consistent dip in the past week — from a seven-day rolling average of 3.92 lakh on May 8 to 3.41 lakh on May 15. There was also a drop in the test positivity rate (TPR: number of positive cases identified per 100 tests) that fell from 22.6% to 19% in the same period. While these figures suggest that India’s second COVID-19 wave is on the wane, a look at data using three parameters — the TPR, average daily cases and average daily tests over time — shows that the drop in cases was not accompanied by an increase in testing. In fact, the number of tests carried out remained stable around 18 lakh per day even as the TPR reduced after May 8. Breaking the data down also shows that the COVID-19 picture is not uniform across the States. While some States managed to bend the COVID-19 daily cases curve, others achieved a peaking of cases only by decreasing the number of tests conducted. At least 11 major States have reduced their testing levels recently. Of those 11, in four States, the positivity rate is on the rise. Lowering the number of tests would mean missing out on identifying a number of infected people even as the COVID-19 graph would show an “artificial peaking”. In States such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka and Rajasthan, the positivity rate has been on the increase, even as the number of tests have decreased. This is not an optimal strategy for the States as the reported infections have been kept low due to fewer tests and an “artificial” peaking of cases has been depicted. In Maharashtra, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Gujarat, Goa and Delhi, on the other hand, both the testing rate as well as the positivity rate are on the decline. While these States are better off than the previous set, data indicate that they should maintain their testing rates, instead of letting them fall, to ensure the share of positive cases is not going down due to decreased testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-second-covid-19-wave-shows-signs-of-peaking/article34575220.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Congress flays arrests by Delhi police||Challenging the arrests of over 20 persons by Delhi Police for posters that surfaced across the city questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to donate vaccines to neighbouring countries, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi posted the “offending” poster on Twitter, daring the police to arrest him. All the posters pose the question: “ Modiji humare bachon ka vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya ?” (Why did you send vaccines meant for our children abroad?). Mr Gandhi said, “Arrest me too.” The persons were arrested under the rarely used Prevention of Defacement of Property Act and most of them have been released on bail. “Celebrate, India is a free country. There is freedom of speech, except, when you ask a question of the Honourable Prime Minister,” Congress leader P. Chidambaram wrote on Twitter. Congress Chief Whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, put up the poster next to his nameplate at his official residence opposite the Lodhi Garden. ‘Lawless state’ “I am shocked and stunned. May vehemently disagree but under what authority, what law, what power can you arrest those who put up posters,” said Rajya Sabha member Abhishek Manu Singhvi said. He said this “smacks of a lawless state gone amuck”. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera asked who else does one pose the question to if not the government. “Narendra Modi wanted to be known as the vaccine guru of the world. So, it is obvious that only one person — Mr. Modi — alone can answer these questions.” He said the vaccine policy was kept centralised till the situation was in control. As soon as it went out of hand, the Centre handed over the power to the States to negotiate on their own with the manufacturers. CPI general secretary D. Raja said, “Narendra Modi and Amit Shah are not monarchs to run this country as they please.” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the vaccination drive has slowed down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-flays-arrests-by-delhi-police/article34575642.ece
17 May 2021||Mangaluru,||Nine on tugboat remain stranded at sea||Nine crew members of tugboat ‘Coromondel Supporter IX’ remained stranded at sea at “Mulki Rocks,” about 6 km off the Kaup coast in Udupi district, after the vessel ran aground on Sunday owing to Cyclone Tauktae-induced strong winds and rough waves in the Arabian Sea. Karnataka Coast Guard Commander, DIG S.B. Venkatesh told The Hindu that efforts were on to rescue the crew. However, the process was getting affected by inclement weather. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said the crew members were safe. New Mangalore Port Trust chairman A.V. Ramana told The Hindu that the vessel’s contract with Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., (MRPL) ended last December and it was on the port’s outer anchorage since May 5 waiting instructions from owner, M/s Atlantic Shipping. Owing to the splashing of water into its engine room, the boat lost propulsion and began drifting northwards, finally running aground. This comes close on the heels of another tugboat, ‘Alliance’, owned by M/s Underwater Services and hired by MRPL, capsizing on Saturday with eight crew members. As many as three persons swam to safety and two bodies were recovered. Search was on for the remaining three missing persons. The boat was found near the Padubidri coast. MRPL in a statement said the vessel had facilitated crude offloading from a very large crude carrier (VLCC) vessel by Friday evening and was supposed to return to NMPT the same night. However, it started on Saturday morning and underwent distress upon reaching the port facilities. Meanwhile, one sailor reportedly slipped into the raging Arabian Sea and three were injured on container vessel SSL Ganga that left NMPT on Saturday morning towards Hazira, at about 28 nautical miles from the port. High waves hit the crew when they were on a routine deck inspection, injuring three while one slipped into the sea. The vessel returned to NMPT waters and injured sailors were being treated in a Mangaluru hospital. One agriculturist died of electrocution in Kaup taluk of Udupi district on Saturday when he came in contact with a snapped power line. A fisherman in Uttara Kannada district was swept away in the waves when he attempted to retrieve a drifting boat. The raging sea caused severe erosion of the beach-ront all along the 370-km Karnataka coast and brought down several houses and damaged fisheries roads. While about 200 houses were damaged in Udupi district, over 110 houses were damaged in Dakshina Kannada district, according to the respective district administrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-on-tugboat-remain-stranded-at-sea/article34575261.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Remdesivir to be sold directly to hospitals||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday revised the protocol for the sale of Remdesivir. From May 18, hospitals will have to send their representatives to the designated centres to collect the drug. The system of relatives visiting these centres to get the drug was dropped as it led to chaos and prompted fears of spread of COVID-19 due to the long queues. The change was announced after a meeting between Chief Minister M.K. Stalin with Minister for Medical and Family Welfare M. Subramanian and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. On a website to be opened by the government, hospitals will have to upload the details of patients and the required doses of the medicine. Once the drug is allocated, the hospitals will have to send their representatives to collect it from a designated centre. Mr. Stalin asked the hospitals to administer the drug only to eligible patients and charge the price at which the drug was supplied. Officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare will keep tabs on its sale to prevent black marketing of the drug. Legal action will be initiated against hospitals that seek the drug unnecessarily or do not follow the new protocol. Earlier, relatives of patients waited in long queues, forcing the government to shift the venue to the spacious Nehru Indoor Stadium from the Government Kilpauk Medical College. But the crowds did not diminish. In the past week, many had to return empty-handed or wait at the centres overnight because only a specific quantity of the drug was supplied each day. Mr. Stalin wrote to Union Minister Piyush Goyal, thanking the Centre for increasing the number of Remdesivir vials for the State from 7,000 a day to 20,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/remdesivir-to-be-sold-directly-to-hospitals/article34575315.ece
17 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Single-day infections hit new peak at 24,171||The State has again hit a new peak in COVID infections with 24,171 new cases reported in 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The daily death toll also crossed 100 for the second time as 101 persons succumbed to the virus in the past day. The toll increased to 9,372 and the cumulative tally of COVID-19 cases jumped to 14,35,491 with a recovery rate of 84.69% and death rate of 0.65%. The number of recoveries crossed 12 lakh and reached 12,15,683, including the 21,101 recoveries in the past day. It was the highest single-day recovery tally so far. The number of active cases increased to 2,10,436. The daily positivity rate has been increasing even after the 18-hour curfew was imposed on May 5. Of the 94,550 samples tested in the past day 25.56% turned positive and the overall positivity rate of 1.79 crore samples was 7.99%. District-wise count Anantapur reported 14 deaths and was followed by Visakhapatnam (11) and Chittoor (10). East Godavari, Guntur, Krishna and Vizianagaram reported nine deaths each, Vizianagaram seven and Kurnool, Prakasam and Srikakulam reported six each. West Godavari reported three and Kadapa two deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/single-day-infections-hit-new-peak-at-24171/article34575223.ece
17 May 2021||Pune,||Cyclone Tauktae lashes coastal Maharashtra||With Cyclone Tauktae pummelling Maharashtra’s coastal regions on Sunday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed district administrations, especially in Raigad, Thane, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, to ensure that there was no power outage in hospitals and Covid care centres. He also instructed them to make sure that there is uninterrupted oxygen supply for COVID-19 patients. Though no loss to life was reported, strong winds damaged houses along the coastline, and cities and districts in western Maharashtra. During an online interaction, Mr. Thackeray apprised Union Home Minister Amit Shah of the precautions being taken in villages along the coastal areas of the State. The Chief Minister assured the Home Minister that oxygen backup provision of 12 to 16 hours had been ensured in the districts expected to be the worst-hit, while several patients in jumbo COVID-19 facilities in Mumbai had already been shifted to other hospitals. With the cyclonic storm fast approaching the Gujarat coast, the Indian Coast Guard on Sunday said all fishing boats, except 18 in Maharashtra and one in Gujarat, had reached their harbours or were anchored at the nearby ports. The Pune-based 5th battalion of the National Disaster Response Force has deployed four teams in Mumbai and Goa. It has also kept 14 more teams on standby, which can be mobilised at short notice. Red alerts issued Red alerts have been issued in Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts, which witnessed heavy rain and gusty winds, felling trees, damaging property and affecting commuting. Effects of the cyclonic storm were felt in rural areas of Pune district as well, with some damage to property reported in taluks like Khed, district authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyclone-tauktae-lashes-coastal-maharashtra/article34575732.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||As tests come down by 20K, COVID cases fall by 500 on Sunday||In spite of the lower number of tests compared to the previous day, 3,816 new COVID-19 cases and 27 deaths were reported in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Sunday, taking their cumulative total to 5,28,823 and 2,955. Although the COVID screening tests were lesser by nearly 20,000 on Sunday compared to Saturday, the positive cases came down by only about 500 as the positive cases reported on Saturday were 4,298 against 64,362 tests done. On Sunday, the tests done were 44,985. According to a bulletin issued by the Public Health department on the status of COVID-19 cases, a total of 5,892 infected persons were declared recovered on Sunday taking their total to 4,74,899 so far. The active cases were at 50,969 as of Sunday. Based on the active cases in a particular locality, there were 109 active micro containment zones in the State on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-tests-come-down-by-20k-covid-cases-fall-by-500-on-sunday/article34575669.ece
17 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||HC: get MP examined at Ramesh Hospital||Capping the day-long suspense on the fate of Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju, who was arrested on May 14 allegedly for promoting disaffection against the government and making hate speeches, the A.P. High Court on Sunday directed the CID to implement the order of the VI Additional Junior Civil Judge for his (the MP’s) medical examination at the Ramesh Hospital in Guntur. The order came in the wake of submission of a report called for by the court from the medical board it constituted, which comprised Guntur GGH doctors. Appearing for the State, Additional A-G P. Sudhakar Reddy said the MP was in good health, devoid of any injuries said to be caused during his detention, as found out by the medical board. He also expressed reservations on referring Mr. Raju to Ramesh Hospitals, which, he said, was mired in a criminal case arising from the death of 10 patients in a fire accident at the COVID Care Centre run by it in Vijayawada last year. Petitioner’s counsel B. Adinarayana Rao said the remand order passed by the CID court was not in accordance with law, and asked HC to record his submission that there was a threat to his client’s life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-get-mp-examined-at-ramesh-hospital/article34575229.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,||‘COVID-19 response over next 6-18 months critical’||Predicting that the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to have subsequent waves as well, Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the World Health Organization, who has been maintaining a keen eye on the developments in India, says the efforts put in in the next 6-18 months will be most critical in battling the pandemic. “A lot depends also on the evolution of the virus itself, the ability of vaccines to keep up with variants, and it also depends on the duration of protective immunity of vaccines. A lot of this is changing,” she says. “We know that there will be definitely an end to the acute phase of the pandemic — when we have vaccinated about 30% of the world’s population, which is what we would like to see by the end of 2021. Then we can start seeing a significant reduction in the deaths.” Then 2022 can be about ramping up vaccination. Making clarifications on treatment protocols, Dr. Soumya said it was important for the people to understand that the wrong drug given at the wrong time could actually have more bad effects than good. Many of the drugs commonly being used now have not been shown to have any effect. Nations can customise the WHO protocols for their local contexts, she advises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-response-over-next-6-18-months-critical/article34575218.ece
17 May 2021||Pune,||No vaccination today too||In view of the warning over Cyclone Tauktae, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has suspended its vaccination drive for Monday, postponing it to Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday instead. “The walk-in facility would be extended to citizens above 60 years for the first dose of Covishield between May 18 and 20,” a BMC notice said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-vaccination-today-too/article34575733.ece
17 May 2021||MEDAK,||Upset over DSC exam delay, youth ends life||A youth hanged himself at Veldurthi on Sunday reportedly worried over District Selection Committee (DSC) exams not being held. K. Venkatesh (21) was found hanging at home by his parents when they returned from their farm. He had completed Teacher Training Certificate course and was waiting for DSC notification. Family members alleged that he had committed suicide as DSC exam was delayed.Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/upset-over-dsc-exam-delay-youth-ends-life/article34575674.ece
17 May 2021||Belagavi,||Black fungus cases in KIMS||Black fungus cases have been detected in the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences in Hubballi. Director of the Government Medical College Ramalingappa Antartani has in a release said that the details would be shared with the Deputy Commissioner during a meeting. Head of the Department of ENT in KIMS Ravindra Gadag is treating the patients. There is no need to panic as it is not a communicable disease, he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/black-fungus-cases-in-kims/article34575390.ece
17 May 2021||GAZA/JERUSALEM,||Israel bombs home of Hamas Gaza chief||Israel bombed the home of Hamas’ chief Yehya Al-Sinwar in Gaza early on Sunday and sirens warning of rocket attacks sounded in Israeli border towns shortly after dawn as hostilities stretched into a seventh day with no sign of abating. At least 153 people have been killed in Gaza since Monday, including 42 on Sunday, the highest daily death toll. Israel has reported 10 dead, including two children. The Security Council met on Sunday to discuss the outbreak of Israeli-Palestinian violence. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres reminded all sides “that any indiscriminate targeting of civilian and media structures violates international law and must be avoided at all costs,” said UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric in a statement on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/israel-bombs-home-of-hamas-gaza-chief/article34575221.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,||A week into lockdown, hospital cases decrease||A week into the lockdown, healthcare personnel have said that the caseload in hospitals has declined. This has reduced the demand for general beds. The case positivity rate has also declined over the last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-week-into-lockdown-hospital-cases-decrease/article34575263.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Pandemic raises demand for senior living units’||In what has increasingly become the new way of living — mostly indoors, highly alert about hygiene, and in preparedness of medical emergencies —realtors say demand for housing units specifically catering to senior living is on the rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pandemic-raises-demand-for-senior-living-units/article34575264.ece
17 May 2021||Mysuru,||Rural surge of virus takes toll on farming||The rural surge of the pandemic in South Karnataka is beginning to have an impact on agricultural activities. Farmers said the situation in rural areas was such that labour was difficult to come by to start land preparation for sowing or even harvest summer crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rural-surge-of-virus-takes-toll-on-farming/article34575265.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Lockdown extended till May 24, says Kejriwal||The Delhi government on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown by another week till May 24. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the lockdown has brought about a reduction in the number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-extended-till-may-24-says-kejriwal/article34575638.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi sees less than 10,000 cases for 3rd day||The Capital recorded 6,456 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with 262 deaths and 9,706 recoveries, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The bulletin added that 62,059 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 10.40%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-sees-less-than-10000-cases-for-3rd-day/article34575639.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Can FCRA account deadline be extended’||The Delhi High Court has asked the Union Home Ministry to consider whether the April 1 deadline for opening Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act account for NGOs seeking to receive foreign funds can be extended in view of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/can-fcra-account-deadline-be-extended/article34575640.ece
17 May 2021||Vijayawada,||Rs. 15,000 for funeral expenses||The State government has resumed sanction of Rs. 15,000 towards funeral expenses for every death due to COVID-19 in the State. A G.O. in this regard was issued by Health Secretary A.K. Singhal on Sunday. The Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare was asked to release the funds. The Collectors were permitted to sanction it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-15000-for-funeral-expenses/article34575224.ece
17 May 2021||Chennai,||State-wise positivity is uneven||While the number of new COVID-19 cases in India has shown a consistent dip in the past week and there was also a drop in the test positivity rate; the drop in cases was not accompanied by an increase in testing in some States. Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal are the States where positivity rate is falling even as testing levels increased, suggesting that these States are following an optimal testing strategy. However, in rural areas in the States in the north, there are anecdotal reports that testing has been minimal, which brings into question the actual spread of cases. States such as Punjab, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh have been increasing their rate of testing, but their TPR has also increased, suggesting that they still need to augment testing to capture more infections. In Kerala and Himachal Pradesh, there is a slight drop in the tests conducted. Across the world, keeping a high testing level has been part of the strategy to identify, trace and isolate positive cases and maintaining higher testing levels by ensuring kit availability, and manpower has helped authorities manage caseloads over time. Death count Even as the rolling average of the cases began to fall, the number of registered COVID-19 related deaths has been consistently above the 3,900-mark for the past week in India. As deaths are a lag indicator of the case load, the decrease in cases, if natural, will result in a decrease in fatalities at a later time. Various reports have also suggested that the number of recorded COVID-19 deaths are being under-counted in several States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-wise-positivity-is-uneven/article34575137.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rural spread a reality, says govt.||COVID-19’s ingress is now being seen in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas as well, the Health Ministry admitted on Sunday, weeks after a rising number of cases were reported from rural areas in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and other States. The Ministry, in its document “SOP on COVID-19 containment and management in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas”, said there was a need to enable communities and strengthen primary-level healthcare infrastructure at all levels to intensify COVID-19 response in these new areas, while continuing to provide other essential health services. The Ministry said with the larger spread of COVID-19 cases, it was important to ensure that these areas were equipped and oriented to manage COVID-19 cases. “In every village, active surveillance should be done for influenza-like illness/severe acute respiratory infections [ILI/SARI] periodically by health workers,” the Ministry said in its latest SOP (standard operating procedure). The Ministry said depending upon the intensity of the surge and the number of cases, as far as feasible, contact tracing should be done as per the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) guidelines for contact tracing of COVID-19 cases in community settings. It added that symptomatic cases could be triaged at the village level by tele-consultation with the Community Health Officer (CHO), and cases with co-morbidities/low oxygen saturation should be sent to higher centres. Also, every sub-centre (SCs) should run an ILI/SARI OPD at dedicated time slots/days. The Ministry has also said staff should be trained in performing rapid antigen test (RAT) and provision for test kits should be made at all public health facilities, including sub-centres/health and wellness centres and primary health centres (PHCs). These patients should also be counselled to isolate themselves till the test results were available. “Those asymptomatic but having history of high-risk exposure to COVID patients (exposure of more than 15 minutes without a mask within 6 feet distance) should be advised quarantine and tested as per ICMR protocol,” noted the Ministry. The document further noted that on discharge, patients should be counselled on post-COVID management at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rural-spread-a-reality-says-govt/article34575164.ece
17 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmers, police clash in Haryana||Several farmers, including women, and police personnel, sustained injuries in a clash during the visit of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal to Hisar on Sunday to inaugurate a hospital for COVID-19 patients.  Siege call withdrawn Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, in a video message, alleged that the police pelted stones on the farmers and fired rubber bullets at them. BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said that farmers across the State blocked roads for two hours in protest against police action and a call was given to lay siege to all police stations in Haryana on Monday. Later the call to lay siege was withdrawn as the police released the detained farmers. The clash broke out around noon when a large number of farmers gathered at the venue for the inauguration of the 500-bed Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjeevani Covid Hospital in Hisar to protest against the visit of Mr. Lal. Suresh Kumar, Haryana vice-president, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, claimed that the farmers were holding a peaceful protest against the visit of the Chief Minister in accordance with the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha when the police allowed a few hundred of them inside and resorted to unprovoked lathi-charge. He added that the police fired tear gas shells on them. “It is immediately difficult to ascertain the exact number of farmers injured, but at least 50 have sustained injuries. It includes women as well. The police also fired rubber bullets,” said Mr. Kumar. Agitated farmers later laid siege to the residence of Hisar Superintendent of Police, Balwan Singh Rana, demanding action against the erring police officers and the release of farmers detained by the police. The Haryana Police in a press statement claimed that 20 police personnel, including five women, and Deputy Superintendent of Police Abhimanyu Lohan had been injured in an attack by “miscreants” on a police team outside the Hospital. The police claimed that the “miscreants” also damaged five police vehicles. Assistant Superintendent of Police Upasna told The Hindu over phone that the farmers continued to hold the protest even after the Chief Minister had left the venue, and pelted stones on the police. “The mob turned violent and tried to run over the police officers with tractors. We fired tear gas shells and used mild force,” said Ms. Upasna. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, and AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta, also the AAP’s in-charge for Haryana, condemned the use of force against the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-police-clash-in-haryana/article34575453.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||NIA conducts searches in Madurai||A Hindu man from Madurai who converted to Islam in 2013 is at the centre of an investigation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for posting an “incriminating post” on Facebook in December last. On Sunday, the agency conducted searches at four locations in Madurai where it seized 16 digital devices and pamphlets. The accused identified as Mohammad Iqbal alias Senthil Kumar was arrested on December 2, 2020, by the Tamil Nadu police. He is presently in prison. The NIA re-registered the case in April this year. An NIA spokesperson said Iqbal posted messages on Facebook page “Thoonga Vizhigal Rendu is in Kazimar Street” for denigrating a particular community. “The posts were designed to incite communal disharmony among different religious groups, in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order,” the spokesperson said. The Facebook page in Tamil loosely translates to two eyes that never slept. Kazimar Street is a place in Madurai where Iqbal resided. Iqbal, who studied till Class X, used to run a mobile phone repair shop before he was arrested. Banned groups The agency said Iqbal was advocating the ideology of the Islamic State (IS) and the Hizb-Ut-Tahrir (HuT), a fundamentalist organisation. The HuT, an Islamist organisation that has been banned by many Muslim countries including Bangladesh, is often at odds with the IS. While the IS and its affiliate groups were declared an unlawful organisation in India, no such declaration has been made for HuT by India yet. The outfit’s website is accessible in India. A First Information Report filed by the agency said the “Facebook page denigrates Hindus, instigates Muslims to act against Hindus and creates communal disharmony among different religions in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. It added that an examination of the mobile phone of the accused revealed that “he was in contact with several prohibited international terrorist groups and network of ISIS, Hizb-ut-Tahrir through social media.” The accused was arrested under Section 13 (1) B of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act punishable by up to seven years on conviction to anyone who “advocates, abets, advises or incites the commission of, any unlawful activity”. Other Sections of the Indian Penal Code such as 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups) have also been invoked. The agency said on Sunday that the searches were conducted at Kazimar Street, K. Pudur, Pethaniyapuram and Mehaboob Palayam in Madurai. “During the search, 16 digital devices, including laptop, hard disks, mobile phones, memory cards, SIMs, pen drive and many incriminating books / pamphlets / documents have been recovered,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-conducts-searches-in-madurai/article34575145.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,||‘What we know so far is that variant B.1.617 is definitely more transmissible’||Among the key voices of the World Health Organization (WHO), Soumya Swaminathan , with her clarity of thought, articulation and deep awareness of the Indian context, has emerged as a reliable voice amid the COVID-19 pandemic maelstrom. In an online interview , she provides detailed responses to a range of topics that are simmering, resolves some doubts, and advocates strategies to adopt gainfully. Investments in healthcare are crucial, she says, because it is now clear that there is nothing without health, and without sufficient physical and mental well-being, it would be impossible to take the path to recovery. Edited excerpts from the interview:  There seem to be signs that the variant B.1.617 that was first described in India is highly transmissible, but is there data to show that it is more virulent or resistant? Yes, I think what we know so far is B.1.617 is definitely more transmissible, one and a half to two times more than the original strain. In fact, it’s even more transmissible than the B.1.1.7, which was identified in the U.K., and which had at one point become the predominant strain in India. But it’s now being replaced by the B 1.617. So far, the WHO has four variants of concern, the latest being the B.1.617, now found in about 50 countries worldwide. Now, there are sub-lineages that have been described, the B.1.617 itself has been divided into different strains — each of them has a slightly different set of mutations, with slightly different properties. We are looking for more results coming through at the moment. I haven’t seen any data that say it causes more severe disease, there is some preliminary data that it has a reduction in vaccine neutralising antibody activity. Now, that’s a lab study. What we don’t have is data from the real world as to whether there is a higher chance of getting infected, or of getting seriously ill with the new variant after vaccination with either Covishield or Covaxin, or any of the other vaccines. There’s really an urgent need for us to do more comprehensive research studies, which go hand in hand with sequencing. The sequencing alone is not going to give us the information we want; you need the data on the clinical profile of patients, epidemiology and transmission. We need data on people who received the vaccine and have been followed up for a period of time to look at breakthrough infections [and] what the rate and pattern of breakthrough infections is. We expect breakthrough infections. So, it’s not a surprise, but we need to see the rate at which they are occurring. And, whether people are really getting ill, or getting mild infections after vaccination. So, that is really going to give us the information we need about this variant and will be important for us to plan ahead. As far as people are concerned, does it make any difference? I think for the public what is important is that it doesn’t really matter what variant it is. The variant of the virus is still the same virus, and it’s still behaving in the same way and having the same effects on people. A particular variant may be more transmissible, which is what we’re seeing in India today, that it spreads much more easily, but you have to give it the opportunity to spread. So, I think people should remember that they have to do the same things — they have to wear a mask, avoid crowds, preferably avoid meeting people in indoor settings with poor ventilation, maintain physical distance as far as possible, and [follow] basic hygiene. So, the principles of public health and of personal protection have not changed at all. They are the same. So, it really doesn’t matter whether it’s one variant or another, we need to do the same things especially when community transmission is happening at such a high rate. So the message is to go ahead and get vaccinated? Absolutely. As per our current knowledge, the vaccines that are available in India are still highly effective against the new strain. Of course, everybody knows somebody who has had two doses of the vaccine and was infected, maybe even hospitalised. There is no doubt that such cases will occur because none of the vaccines offers 100% protection. But the vast majority of people who receive two doses will be protected against severe disease that leads to admission to the ICU. That is why we need the data at the population level, and anecdotal evidence is not good enough for us to say that vaccines are not working at this point. We firmly believe that vaccines are providing a good amount of protection to people. You have mentioned future waves. Is it possible to have a prediction about how long COVID-19 is going to last? We’re at the stage of the pandemic where it’s still a very acute and difficult phase. We have to focus on how we get through the next six to 18 months, which could be the most difficult. And then talk about the long-term plan on whether it’s going to be elimination or control. A lot depends also on the evolution of the virus itself, the ability of vaccines to keep up with variants, and on the duration of protective immunity of vaccines. At this point, I think it’s hard to predict the long term. We know that there will be definitely an end to the acute phase of the pandemic — when we have vaccinated, let’s say, about 30% of the world’s population, which is what we would like to see by the end of 2021 . Then we can really start seeing quite a significant reduction in the deaths due to this infection, and then 2022 can be really ramping up vaccination to cover 60% to 80%. With so many variations in treatment protocols, what is the right path for governments to take? At the WHO, we have ‘living guidelines’, which are evidence-based, and they are updated regularly whenever there is a change in the available evidence. So, based on that, we have made recommendations on a number of drugs. So far, we have only one drug that has a big impact on mortality, and that is steroids (dexamethasone). But again, it is important to note that it only has an impact when it is given to people who are in hospital receiving oxygen. So, it is given at the stage of the disease where there is inflammation that is preventing the oxygen from flowing to the lung, and it’s given to reduce that inflammation. It is important for people to understand that the wrong drug given at the wrong time can actually have more bad effects than good. Many of the drugs commonly being used now like doxycycline, azithromycin and ivermectin have not been shown to have any effect. In fact, the WHO has provided a recommendation against the use of ivermectin except in clinical trials, and also against the use of remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir, etc. Countries need to develop national treatment guidelines, that are evidence-based, frequently updated, and context-specific for each country. (Read the full interview at http://bit.ly/SoumyaInterview  We expect breakthrough infections ... but we need to see the rate at which they are occurring||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/what-we-know-so-far-is-that-variant-b1617-is-definitely-more-transmissible/article34575151.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. flays arrests by Delhi police||Challenging the arrests of over 20 persons by the Delhi Police for posters that surfaced across the city questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to donate vaccines to neighbouring countries, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi posted the “offending” poster on Twitter, daring the police to arrest him. All the posters pose the question: “ Modiji humare bachon ka vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya?” (Why did you send vaccines meant for our children abroad?). Mr Gandhi said, “Arrest me too.”  The persons were arrested under the rarely used Prevention of Defacement of Property Act and most of them have been released on bail. “Celebrate, India is a free country. There is freedom of speech, except, when you ask a question of the Honourable Prime Minister,” Congress leader P. Chidambaram wrote on Twitter. Congress Chief Whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, put up the poster next to his nameplate at his official residence opposite the Lodhi Garden. “I am shocked and stunned. May vehemently disagree but under what authority, what law, what power can you arrest those who put up posters,” said Rajya Sabha member Abhishek Manu Singhvi said. He said this “smacks of a lawless state gone amuck”. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera asked who else does one pose the question to if not the government. “Narendra Modi wanted to be known as the vaccine guru of the world. So, it is obvious that only one person — Mr. Modi — alone can answer these questions,” he said. The BJP is now trying to disown its own campaign of “vaccine diplomacy”. Its spokesperson, Sambit Patra, recently claimed that only one crore doses out of the six crore went as aid for the neighbouring countries — the remaining were part of contractual obligations of the two manufacturers, Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute. D. Raja, general secretary of CPI, said, “Narendra Modi and Amit Shah are not monarchs to run this country as they please. Every citizen has the right to question the government.” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the vaccination drive has slowed down. “As the pandemic surges relentlessly claiming countless lives, vaccination drive is in shambles.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-flays-arrests-by-delhi-police/article34575157.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||CoWIN updated for Covishield dose||The CoWIN digital portal has been reconfigured to reflect the change in the dose interval for the Covishield vaccine. The Centre had on May 13 extended the gap between the first and second doses of the vaccine to 12 to 16 weeks. Appointments for the second dose of the vaccine have to be in alignment with the enhanced duration between the two doses. However, appointments already booked online for the second dose will remain valid. “The COVID Working Group chaired by Dr. N. K. Arora had recommended extension of the gap between the first and second doses of Covishield vaccine to 12-16 weeks. This has been accepted by the Government of India on May 13,” said a Union Health Ministry release, adding that this had been communicated to the States and the Union Territories. The Ministry clarified that the requisite changes had now been carried out in the CoWIN portal. “As a result, further online or on-site appointments will not be possible if the period after the first dose date for a beneficiary is less than 84 days,” the Ministry said. “Further, the beneficiaries are advised to reschedule their appointments for a later date beyond the 84th day from the date of first dose vaccination,” said the release. The Ministry noted that there had been reports in a section of the media suggesting that people who had pre-booked their appointment for the second dose of Covishield in less than 84 days on CoWIN were being turned away from vaccination centres. The Centre had reiterated to the States and the Union Territories that the online appointments booked for the second dose prior to the change of the interval should be honoured and that field staff should be given necessary instructions in this regard. Such beneficiaries must not be turned away, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cowin-updated-for-covishield-dose/article34575140.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Can FCRA account deadline be extended, HC asks Centre||The Delhi High Court has asked the Union Home Ministry to consider whether the April 1 deadline for opening Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) account for NGOs seeking to receive foreign funds can be extended in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Justice Prathiba M. Singh asked the Ministry whether it could allow NGOs that have not been able to open FCRA accounts to receive foreign contributions, as long as they maintain records of the same, in accordance with the provisions of FCRA.  The court’s query came during hearing of petitions filed by two NGOs operating out of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The NGOs claimed that they were “facing tremendous difficulty both in the opening of the FCRA account and also in the subsequent approval which is to be obtained from the Ministry”. The petitions raised issues relating to the opening of FCRA account in State Bank of India (SBI), New Delhi, pursuant to the amendment to Section 17 of the 2010 Act, which came into effect from September 2020. As per the new amendment, NGOs that receive foreign contributions are required to open an FCRA account in the New Delhi branch of the SBI. The NGOs have sought an extension for the April 1 deadline by a period of six months and a direction to the Ministry to grant FC-6C certificates to the NGOs in an expeditious manner. While both the NGOs have opened their respective FCRA accounts in SBI, they are awaiting approval of the Ministry on their FC6 form. They said the Ministry had not processed the forms. “The MHA is directed to process the documents and grant the approval, if there are no defects, by the next date of hearing,” the court said, posting the case for further hearing on May 20.  “The amendment to Section 17 (FCRA) is not under challenge in these petitions. However, owing to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and various difficulties which the organisations are stated to be facing, the MHA shall consider as to whether the deadline of 1st April, 2021 can be extended and if so, till when,” the court ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/can-fcra-account-deadline-be-extended-hc-asks-centre/article34575152.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi/Pune,||Congress leader Rajeev Satav dead||Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Satav died on Sunday following post-COVID-19 complications after 24 days of hospitalisation. He was on ventilator support for the last few days. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said that Satav had recovered from the COVID-19 infection but died of fibrosis in the lungs. He is survived by his wife and two children. The Congress leader was elected to the Rajya Sabha in March last year, for what was his first term in the Upper House. He served as a Lok Sabha member from 2014 to 2019 from the Hingoli Lok Sabha constituency in Maharashtra and had been a legislator in the Maharashtra Assembly. Former Chief Minister Ashok Chavan recalled how Satav had a meteoric rise through his abilities. Satav was counted among the inner circle of supporters of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi.  Mr. Gandhi condoled his demise. “ He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of Congress,” he said on Twitter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed sorrow at his death. Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee president Nana Patole and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar expressed their condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-leader-rajeev-satav-dead/article34575161.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adoption issues to the fore as COVID-19 leaves many orphaned||At Ganjam district in Odisha, a 45-day-old girl was found next to her mother’s body when neighbours broke open the door of their house at Golapalli village. Suspecting it to be a case of death due to COVID-19, the local police sent the corpse for post-mortem and contacted the centre in charge for Childline 1098, the national helpline for children, to arrange help for the infant. In Delhi, a mother left two daughters, a 15-year-old and a seven-year-old, with her neighbours before getting admitted in a hospital and losing her battle against COVID-19. At Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, COVID-19 dealt a cruel blow and claimed the lives of four members of a family over 12 days, leaving behind two daughters aged six and 10. “I will not send the girls to any institution, I will raise them,” said Anil Kumar (name changed), their paternal uncle. “It is what their father wished. Just two days before his death, he kept asking us to look after them if something happened to him. Earlier, too, he had raised this issue on several occasions,” Mr. Kumar added. The second wave of COVID-19 has left many children extremely vulnerable, particularly those who have been orphaned. Childline 1098 recorded 51 calls between May 1 and 12 for children whose parents had died of COVID-19, but the actual number was likely to be much higher as there were several other helplines and many cases go unreported. Earlier this month, alarm bells started ringing among child rights activist after messages on social media and WhatsApp groups began circulating containing adoption appeals for children who had recently been orphaned by COVID-19. Within days, Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani took to Twitter to flag such adoption requests as “illegal”, and urged people to prevent trafficking in the garb of adoption and report all such cases to 1098, to the police or a child welfare committee (CWC). On May 6, the Ministry asked the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to add a column in hospital admission forms asking patients to specify in whose custody their children could be left in case of any eventuality. Only a district CWC could decide the future of children found orphaned in such circumstances. Take the example of the child found in Odisha. No one has come forward yet to claim the little girl, though efforts were made to contact the estranged husband of the deceased and the child’s maternal and paternal grandparents, according to Sai Prasad Samal, Childline centre in charge in Ganjam. As a result, the district CWC referred the child to a special adoption agency for interim care. The District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) would now undertake a social investigation, which would include efforts to find members from the extended family who could be given the custody of the child. Failing that, the child may be declared orphaned, surrendered or abandoned before she is declared legally free for adoption. In the case of the two Delhi sisters, though the neighbours were keen on keeping the girls with them, they would have to be produced before a CWC. The CWC would first make efforts to find members of the birth family and then make an assessment. Kinship care Experts said adoption for such children was neither the first nor the best option, and recommended kinship care as a more suitable alternative. “We have learnt from disasters such as the tsunami of 2004, cyclones in Odisha, and the Latur and Kutch earthquakes that if children have faced one crisis such as a loss of a family member or separation from their parents due to death and desertion, then the emotional trauma for them is very high. Over the years, we have learnt that the best way to respond to such a crisis is to retain the child within the birth family so that the child doesn’t face double trauma. In the case of COVID-19 orphans, they may have grandparents or uncle and aunts who are willing to take care of them. The intervention required in such situations is assistance and support for the prevention of family separation,” said Nilima Mehta, a child rights and adoption expert. Bharti Ali, co-founder of HAQ: Centre for Child Rights, agreed. “This is the time to focus on kinship care. The Ministry of Women and Child Development and all State departments concerned should immediately roll out a kinship care programme and make it part of foster care provisions under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015.” She said additional measures should be taken such as assigning DCPUs the task of surveillance as well as follow up of children directly affected due to the loss of one or both parents, or those whose parents were in hospital with nobody to look after them. Activists said State governments must make kinship care part of the child protection system such as Maharashtra’s Bal Sangopan Yojana, where the State grants educational support of Rs. 1,000 per month to families to look after orphaned children. Where relatives are interested to help, as in the case of the Uttar Pradesh family, they could follow the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, 1956, or the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, to adopt or seek legal custody under the Guardianship and Wards Act, 1890.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adoption-issues-to-the-fore-as-covid-19-leaves-many-orphaned/article34575173.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two CDSCO officials held on bribery charge||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested two Medical Device Officers with the Ahmedabad-based Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for allegedly demanding bribe to facilitate issuance of a medical device manufacturing licence. The arrested officials have been identified as Parag Bhushan Gautam and R. Mohan. “The agency has seized Rs. 25 lakh in cash during the searches on their premises,” said an official. The agency received a complaint from Jinish Patel, director of Hygeia Ortho Private Limited (Ahmedabad), alleging that Mr. Gautam had demanded a bribe. On March 24, Mr. Patel submitted an application to the CDSCO for a licence. Upon inspection of the factory premises, Mr. Gautam allegedly demanded Rs. 3 lakh each for himself and Mr. Mohan and about Rs. 5 lakh for the Deputy Drugs Controller for issuance of the licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-cdsco-officials-held-on-bribery-charge/article34575154.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Entire globe is a unit, Centre told SC on vaccine exports||The “entire globe is a unit” during a pandemic, said the government in the Supreme Court for its decision to export vaccines amidst a raging second wave of COVID-19 in the country. A page in the Ministry of External Affairs’ website shows that between January and April 2021, India exported 663.698 lakh “Made in India COVID-19 vaccine supplies” to over 90 countries and UN health workers and peacekeepers. “Once an epidemic takes [the] form of a pandemic, its management has to be done keeping the entire globe as [a] unit,” a March 11 affidavit of the Health Ministry said. According to the affidavit, the government reasoned it was not possible to take a country- or States-specific approach. The government envisaged vaccine export as part of a “global action to vaccination”. The Centre reasoned that it was necessary to protect high-risk populations in other countries to “break the chain of transmission” and “minimise chances of import of COVID-19 cases to India”. “India is not immune to the pandemic till the world at large has contained the disease,” the Centre argued. It said the export was “limited” and done giving “highest priority to domestic needs”. Moreover, the government, in the affidavit, said both vaccine exports and staggered immunisation were done to avoid disproportionality between the production of COVID-19 vaccines and the country’s “available” health infrastructure and manpower. Simultaneous vaccination without priority classification would have led to “commotion”, the Centre told the Supreme Court. The document indicates that the available health infrastructure and manpower may not match up. “To illustrate, having received one crore vaccine doses for a particular State or city, the vaccine drive would need sufficient number of medical staff who can administer the vaccines and infrastructure like hospitals, primary health centres, etc … It is needless to mention that manufacturing of vaccine would not be proportionate to the available manpower and infrastructure facilities in the country,” the government said. Even if such infrastructure was available, the Centre said, “simultaneous vaccine without priority classification would lead to commotion”. “Under the circumstances, the produced vaccine, which is beyond manpower and infrastructure facilities available, is exported,” the government explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/entire-globe-is-a-unit-centre-told-sc-on-vaccine-exports/article34575159.ece
17 May 2021||Chennai,||2.73 lakh new cases, 3,901 deaths recorded||India recorded 2,73,632 new COVID-19 cases until 9.30 p.m. on Sunday, while 3,901 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported 2,49,56,874 cases and 2,74,222 deaths. Maharashtra reported 34,389 infections, followed by Tamil Nadu (33,181) and Karnataka (31,531). Maharashtra also recorded 974 casualties, followed by Karnataka (403) and Tamil Nadu (311). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Ladakh and Tripura. The data is sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins.  Samples tested Around 18.32 lakh samples were tested on Saturday (the results of which were made available on Sunday), which is around 1.39 lakh more than those conducted on Friday. The average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) is showing signs of decline. It was 22.7% on May 9 and came down to 19% as on May 15. Around 17.33 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Saturday, which is 6.3 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 2.9 lakh doses less than what was recorded in the same period, one week ago. Only about 15.2% of the adult population have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine as on Sunday. Among major States/U.T.s, the three with the highest coverage of at least the single dose among the adult population are Delhi (27.5%), Chhattisgarh (25.8%) and Kerala (24.2%). On the other hand, the three with the lowest are Uttar Pradesh (8%), Tamil Nadu (8.9%) and Bihar (9.9%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/273-lakh-new-cases-3901-deaths-recorded/article34575166.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Israel bombs home of Hamas chief||The AP condemned the attack, and asked Israel to put forward evidence. “We have had no indication Hamas was in the building or active in the building,” it said in a statement. In what Hamas called a reprisal for Israel’s destruction of the al-Jala building, Hamas fired 120 rockets overnight, the Israeli military said, with many intercepted and around a dozen falling short and landing in Gaza. Israelis dashed for bomb shelters as sirens warning of incoming rocket fire blared in Tel Aviv and the southern city of Beersheba. Around 10 people were injured while running for shelters, medics said. In a burst of air strikes early on Sunday, the Israeli military said it struck the home of Yehya Al-Sinwar in the southern Gaza City of Khan Younis. Mr. Sinwar, who was released from an Israeli prison in 2011, heads the political and military wings of the Hamas in Gaza. Another air strike killed a Gaza neurologist and wounded his wife and daughter, Palestinian medics and relatives said. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a televised address late on Saturday that Israel was “still in the midst of this operation, it is still not over and this operation will continue as long as necessary”. Hamas began its rocket assault on Monday after weeks of tensions over a court case to evict several Palestinian families in East Jerusalem, and in retaliation for Israeli police clashes with Palestinians near the city’s Al-Aqsa Mosque, Islam’s third holiest site, during the Muslim holy month of Ramzan. Speaking to crowds of protesters in Doha, Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh said late on Saturday the underlying cause of the hostilities was Jerusalem. “I say to Netanyahu: do not play with fire,” he said, amid cheers from the crowd. “The title of this battle today, the title of the war, and the title of the intifada, is Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Jerusalem,” using the Arabic word for ‘uprising’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/israel-bombs-home-of-hamas-chief/article34575135.ece
17 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Several injured as farmers, police clash in Haryana||Several farmers, including women, and police personnel, sustained injuries in a clash during the visit of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to Hisar on Sunday to inaugurate a COVID-19 hospital.  Suresh Kumar, Haryana vice-president, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, claimed that the farmers, who have been agitating against the three farm laws, were holding a peaceful protest against the visit of the CM when the police resorted to unprovoked lathi-charge on them. The police also lobbed tear gas shells at them. “At least 50 have sustained injuries. The police also fired rubber bullets,” he said. The police in a statement claimed that 20 personnel, including five women, and Deputy Superintendent of Police Abhimanyu Lohan were injured in the attack by “miscreants” on a police team. They claimed that five police vehicles were also damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/several-injured-as-farmers-police-clash-in-haryana/article34575138.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Editors Guild condemns attack on Gaza building||The Editors Guild of India on Sunday condemned the air strikes by Israel on a building in Gaza City that housed the offices of media outlets such as Al Jazeera and The Associated Press.  The Guilt in a statement said: “Besides the loss of hardware and office space, the bombing destroyed what was described as ‘home’ by some of the journalists. Given the recent background of escalating conflict in this region, EGI sees this as a de facto attack on news media by the Israeli government, which can disrupt the flow of news from this highly volatile region and which has global security implications.” It urged the Indian government to take up the issue with the Israeli government and demanded an independent inquiry. It also reiterated the need for ensuring the safety of journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editors-guild-condemns-attack-on-gaza-building/article34575141.ece
17 May 2021||Chennai,||‘Due to pandemic, unidirectional teaching has become multimodal’||SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu , hosted its sixth webinar on ‘How COVID-19 is Redefining Jobs and Lifestyle’, as part of the SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021. Krishnan C.A., Business Unit head, TCS iON, highlighted how the pandemic has disrupted educational systems. “Traditional classrooms have become outdated and what used to be unidirectional teaching has become multimodal. While there is an explosion of content, it has to be personalised to ensure that it is consumed effectively.” There are significant learning opportunities even now, he said. “Opt for well-curated virtual internship. Credibility of certificates matters. Corporates don’t look merely for students with an MBA, but for those who are upskilled. Look for programmes that are phygital, so that you can apply what you learn. Network with potential recruiters to acquire skills that the industry looks for and work on communication skills.” ‘Attitude is key’ Anshula Verma, life coach and founder of HappyFitYou, spoke about students having to cope with lack of personal interactions and existing career paths changing drastically. She stressed that it was important to pursue one’s passion and advised students to develop both skill sets and positive outlook. “Your attitude can make or break you,” Ms. Verma said. “Make the most of what you have and be ready to adapt to changing situations.” Roles refined N. Venkata Sastry, director, Career Center, SRMIST, pointed out that the pandemic had redefined the roles of both students and teachers. While the latter are now using online tools, quizzes and polls, students have become active learners, he said. “Prepare for VUCA — Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity and Ambiguity. Focus on what you have and can control, while embracing reality so that you can create another VUCA — Vision, Understanding, Clarity and Agility,” he advised. The session concluded with the speakers fielding questions from the audience. The session can be viewed at https://bit.ly/3tVdjnk||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/due-to-pandemic-unidirectional-teaching-has-become-multimodal/article34575144.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||5 killed as rain pummels Kerala, Karnataka||In Karnataka, more than 70 villages in seven districts, including Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu and Hassan, were affected by the cyclone, the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials said. The highest rainfall of 385 mm was recorded at Nada Station in Kundapura taluk of Udupi district, which was the worst-affected, and 15 stations recorded more than 200 mm of rainfall in the district. Rainfall was accompanied by strong winds with speeds reaching up to 90 km per hour. According to the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD, by May 18 the wind speed is expected to increase to 150-160 km per hour, gusting up to 175 km per hour. High waves in the range of 3.5-6.6 m till Monday night and high winds are forecast beyond 10 km off the coast of Kerala, Karnataka. Maharastra, Goa and Gujarat, the INCOIS bulletin added. Officials said nearly a dozen relief camps were functioning in the State. There had been damage to 112 houses, 139 electricity poles and other infrastructure in the coastal areas. Severe sea erosion in the coastal districts of Kerala forced the district administrations to open more relief camps. Eight new camps have been opened in Alappuzha. In all, 359 people from 122 families have been shifted to 19 relief camps in the district. Rise in river water levels led to waterlogging in parts of Kuttanad. The Irrigation Department raised 23 shutters of the Thottappally spillway and majority of the Thanneermukkom bund. In Ernakulam district, the coastal stretch from south Chellanam to Nayarambalam has been ravaged by sea erosion. The Thrissur district administration said spillway shutters of the Peringalkuthu dam would be opened if the water level crosses the permitted limit of 419.41 m. In a statement, the administration urged people living on the banks of Chalakudy river to be cautious. Shutters of the Malankara dam in Idukki district are expected to be opened as the water level has increased, the district authorities said. Twenty-one houses were fully destroyed and 354 others were damaged in the district. Crop damage was reported in 294 hectares. Families living in coastal areas and low-lying areas of the State have been shifted to relief camps. The Navy on Sunday deployed its diving and quick reaction teams in the coastal village of Chellanam in Ernakulam district, which was hit by tidal waves. Tidal waves also lashed Kaipamangalam, Chavakkad and Kodungallur in Thrissur, Pallithura in Thiruvananthapuram, Thri- kkannapuzha in Alappuzha, and Beypore and Koyilandy in Kozhikode districts. NCMC meets The National Crisis Management Committee, headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, met on Sunday in the national capital. He directed the agencies to ensure “uninterrupted” functioning of COVID-19 hospitals in the States affected by the cyclone and secure “zero loss” of lives. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Saturday reviewed the preparedness of the States, Central Ministries and agencies concerned to deal with the situation arising out of the cyclone and asked them to take every possible measure to ensure that the people were safely evacuated.   The IMD said Tauktae would cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district by early Tuesday and tidal waves are likely to inundate several coastal districts during the landfall. “The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae over the east-central Arabian Sea moved nearly northwards with a speed of about 11 kmph during the past six hours,” it said. “It is very likely to intensify during the next 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach the Gujarat coast on the evening of May 17 and cross the coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district early on May 18,” the IMD said. With the cyclone intensifying, wind speeds along and off the Gujarat coast in Porbandar, Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Amreli districts will reach 150-160 kmph gusting to 175 kmph by Tuesday morning. It will reach a speed of 120-150 kmph, gusting to 165 kmph over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar districts during the same period, the IMD said. “With the cyclone likely to affect power supply, hospitals treating COVID-19 patients have been asked to ensure power back-up. Arrangements have also been made to ensure uninterrupted generation of medical oxygen in the eight manufacturing units and buffer stock has also been created,” Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said.  (With inputs from Hyderabad and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-killed-as-rain-pummels-kerala-karnataka/article34575146.ece
17 May 2021||Hyderabad,||Second consignment of Sputnik V arrives in India||India on Sunday received the second consignment of Sputnik V, the Russian vaccine that recently joined the country’s arsenal against COVID-19. “Second batch of Sputnik V arrives in Hyderabad, India!,” the vaccine developers tweeted. Russia’s Ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev said in a tweet: “Given the recent launch of the Russian vaccine in the Indian vaccination campaign, this second delivery has become very timely.” Describing Sputnik V as a Russian-Indian vaccine, he told news agency ANI, “We expect that its production in India will be gradually increased up to 850 million doses per year... There are plans to introduce single-dose vaccine soon in India-Sputnik Lite.” Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, the marketing partner of Sputnik V in India, tweeted that “the consignment that arrived today in Hyderabad contains 60,000 doses of the second dose component of the #SputnikV vaccine. Samples from the consignment will be sent for release to the Central Drugs Laboratory.” The first consignment consisting of 1.5 lakh doses that arrived in Hyderabad on May 1 was cleared for use on May 13 by the Central Drugs Laboratory in Kasauli. Samples drawn from all consignments would be sent to the central facility in Himachal Pradesh and the vaccine used on getting clearance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/second-consignment-of-sputnik-v-arrives-in-india/article34575149.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Oxygen firms fret over Cyclone Tauktae’s impact||With Cyclone Tauktae expected to make landfall in the coastal parts of Gujarat and Maharashtra soon, medical oxygen producers in the region are worried about possible power cuts that will impact output and the Centre has been requested to help with routing back-up supplies from the eastern parts of India to the two States. Top officials from Gujarat and Maharashtra said contingency plans were in place at COVID-19 facilities and hospitals, including stockpiling medicines, oxygen cylinders and making adequate power back-up operational, to cope with any disruption that the cyclone may cause for a couple of days. However, they have mooted alternative arrangements if the disruption lasts longer. “We mentioned this in the meeting with the Home Minister as well. A lot of oxygen comes [to Mumbai and Maharastra] from Jamnagar. That area is also likely to be affected by the cyclone. So whatever oxygen we get from there every day, in case of disruption, we request the Central government to get us oxygen from Bhilai or the eastern parts,” said Aseem Gupta, Principal Secretary, Disaster Management, in the Maharashtra government. Commerce, Industry and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal, who chaired a meeting to review the cyclone preparedness in the two States and Goa, asked Railways officials to keep some back-up arrangements for supplying oxygen from eastern India to Gujarat and Maharashtra, should the need arise. “We have to monitor this closely on a minute-to-minute basis,” he said. A top official from Linde India said a number of air separation units (ASUs) around Mumbai, Pune and coastal Gujarat were supplying medical oxygen across the two States, which appear within the cyclone’s impacted areas. “I hope the power supply lines remain stable and there are no disruptions to the ASUs. Because if they trip, they typically take 12-15 hours to come back online,” he said. Inox Products managing director Siddharth Jain also said the single most critical factor for medical oxygen producers was power supply. “There could be disruptions in power — even a minute voltage dip could cause a disruption for at least 6-8 hours,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oxygen-firms-fret-over-cyclone-tauktaes-impact/article34575168.ece
17 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘1,621 teachers, staff died during polling duty in U.P.’||The number of teachers and staff who allegedly died of COVID-19 after being assigned duty in the panchayat polls has gone up to 1,621, a union for the primary teachers in Uttar Pradesh claimed on Sunday. The union also alleged that despite assurances by the State Chief Secretary on May 1, a day before counting, that unwell teachers and staff would not be asked to be on polling duty, those who were absent due to illness on counting and voting days had faced suspension and salary cuts. Uttar Pradesh Prathmik Shikshak Sangh president Dinesh Chandra Sharma said the number of primary education department teachers and staff to die on polling duty during the pandemic had gone up to 1,621. The union released a list of the 1,621 people. Moreover, he added, many teachers and staff with heart conditions died due to “tension” and heart attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1621-teachers-staff-died-during-polling-duty-in-up/article34575643.ece
17 May 2021||Bhopal,||Curfew extended||The coronavirus-induced curfew in State capital Bhopal and Berasia town in Madhya Pradesh was on Sunday extended till May 24 by Collector Avinash Lavaniya, an official spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curfew-extended/article34575644.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Shahid Jameel quits INSACOG advisory panel||Shahid Jameel, eminent virologist and head of the advisory group to the Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), resigned from his post on Friday. Dr. Jameel confirmed to The Hindu that he had quit but did not give any reasons for his departure. Multiple scientists who are part of INSACOG — a group of 10 laboratories across the country, tasked with tracking evolving variants of the coronavirus — told The Hindu that Dr. Jameel’s decision appeared to be sudden as he had not communicated reasons for his resignation to consortium members but one of them cited “government pressure” as a potential reason. Dr. Jameel, who is Director, Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, has been critical of aspects of the government’s handling of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shahid-jameel-quits-insacog-advisory-panel/article34575142.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||States to get 51 lakh doses in three days||More than 1.84 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the States and the Union Territories, while nearly 51 lakh doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The Centre had so far provided 20,28,09,250 doses to the States and UTs free, it added. Of this, the total consumption, calculated based on an average up to May 14, including wastage, was 18,43,67,772 doses, according to the data available at 7 p.m. on Saturday. “More than 1.84 crore doses [1,84,41,478] are still available with the States and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption [including wastage] than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to the Armed Forces,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-to-get-51-lakh-doses-in-three-days/article34575147.ece
17 May 2021||Srinagar,||Shortage in Kashmir||The vaccination drive has come almost to a naught in the Kashmir Valley, with all the 10 districts failing to administer doses on Sunday. However, 9,144 doses were administered in the Jammu region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shortage-in-kashmir/article34575148.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||AAP worker was behind posters: police||After arresting a number of people for putting up posters across the capital questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the vaccination policy, the Delhi police on Sunday claimed that an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) worker is behind the plot. “Police, while patrolling to enforce Lockdown announced by DDMA, created by GNCTD, noticed walls in several areas being defaced by pasting posters. Accused persons on questioning told an AAP member & President of Ward 47, Arvind Gautam, was behind it in Mangolpuri. He is absconding,” the Delhi police said in a tweet. An FIR was registered under relevant sections at the Mangolpuri police station earlier this week for defacement of a wall adjacent to Kanjhawala Road by pasting posters that said, “ Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyu bhej diya [PM why did you send vaccines of our children to foreign countries?]” There were no details of the printing press or the publisher mentioned on these posters. From the video footage, the accused pasting the posters around 4 a.m. were identified, the police said. The accused disclosed during interrogation that Mr. Gautam of Sultanpur Majra, an AAP worker, had sent an order on WhatsApp to one Rahul regarding the subject matter of printing and Rs. 9,000 for printing and affixing these posters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-worker-was-behind-posters-police/article34575153.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Use PM-CARES fund for vaccines: plea||A plea was filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to utilise the PM-CARES fund for immediate procurement of vaccines and establishment of oxygen plants, generators and their installation in 738 district hospitals across the country. The petition, filed by advocate Viplav Sharma, said the government should loosen its PM-CARES purse strings and help common people in accessing medical care and oxygen. “These government hospitals are easily accessible at no cost to common people of every district in the country who are desperately seeking medical oxygen as basic life-saving support,” the petition said. The petition also asked for a stay on an April 24 notification of the Centre granting exemption on “import duty of medical equipment relating to oxygen generation” owing to its acute demand. It said the exemption was wrongfully capped for only three months and people may need these equipment beyond that period. “Three months’ cap on the exemption period is too short a period from the standpoint of logistics involved in importing these highly sophisticated medical equipment in India by over 300 hospitals,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-pm-cares-fund-for-vaccines-plea/article34575155.ece
17 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Virus situation worsens among tribals||The COVID-19 situation appears to have worsened in certain areas inhabited by Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs) in Odisha. As many as 23 persons belonging to the Dongria Kondh community, a PVTG in the Niyamgiri Hill range of Rayagada district in Odisha, have tested positive for COVID-19. The district administration said the infection level was high in the community as the tribals were shying away from getting tested for COVID-19. Similarly, in Malkangiri district, Bonda Hill, home to the Bonda community, another PVTG, has been declared a containment zone after 12 from the tribe tested positive for COVID-19. The infections detected among the PVTGs in the second wave of COVID-19 has rung alarm bells in the administration. “We are facing difficulties in convincing members of the Dongria Kondh community to come for tests. According to the information reaching us, many in the community are symptomatic. The situation is likely to worsen,” said Saroj Kumar Mishra, Rayagada Collector. Mr. Mishra, however, said rapid response teams, community elders and social activists would be roped in to convince the members to come to camps for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-situation-worsens-among-tribals/article34575162.ece
17 May 2021||Aligarh,||‘No new virus strain behind AMU deaths’||Genome sequencing of COVID-19 samples has not found any new coronavirus strain behind the infection around the Aligarh Muslim University campus, university authorities said Sunday as another member of their fraternity died. Professor Abu Qamar, 75, former Dean of Faculty of Medicine, died here on Sunday after battling the virus for three weeks.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-new-virus-strain-behind-amu-deaths/article34575647.ece
17 May 2021||Jaipur,||Gehlot urges PM to increase oxygen quota||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday and requested him to increase the State’s quota of oxygen in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases. The Chief Minister said that after an assurance from the Prime Minister, discussions were also held with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-urges-pm-to-increase-oxygen-quota/article34575646.ece
17 May 2021||Kolkata,||Tunnelling for East West Metro project completed||The tunnelling for the mega infrastructure East West Metro project here has been completed. On Saturday, the tunnel boring machine, ‘Urvi’, pierced the diaphragm to complete the Howrah-bound tunnel. “With this breakthrough the entire TBM tunnelling for the Kolkata East West Metro Project is completed,” a press release by PIB said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tunnelling-for-east-west-metro-project-completed/article34575423.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Airtel offers free recharge pack to low-income customers||Bharti Airtel on Sunday said it would offer a recharge pack of Rs. 49 for free to about 55 million low-income customers on its network, as a one-time gesture, to help them stay connected during the pandemic. Additionally, the company added that its prepaid customers buying the Rs. 79 recharge coupon would get double the benefit. These benefits, it added, would be available in the coming week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/airtel-offers-free-recharge-pack-to-low-income-customers/article34575169.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 surge: Lockdown in Delhi extended for another week||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the ongoing lockdown that was in place till May 17 would be extended for another week due to the pandemic. It was first imposed on April 19 and the Delhi government has been extending it every week. Last week, the Delhi Metro that was earlier functioning was also shut down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-surge-lockdown-in-delhi-extended-for-another-week/article34575175.ece
17 May 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal govt. to vaccinate COVID-19 volunteers, journalists, vegetable sellers, hawkers on a priority basis||COVID-19 volunteers, journalists, vegetable sellers, hawkers, taxi and auto drivers as well as rickshaw pullers will be administered vaccines by the West Bengal government on a priority basis. It has also decided to roll out vaccines for sex workers and transgenders. The move to vaccinate people “forcibly exposed to public mingling” has been lauded by different sections of society. “It has been decided that, as per availability of vaccines, which in insufficient, the scarce vaccine available at the disposal of the government of West Bengal may be divided into two streams as detailed below, in terms of decision taken in the State executive committee of the State Disaster Management Authority on 15.5.2021,” a document made public by the State government said. The notification states that the two streams include, general for people at large: to be taken care of by the Health Department hospitals, and the other groups which are super-spreaders public-facing/forcibly exposed to public mingling: groups that are endangered and potential spreaders. The second category includes hawkers, retail sellers of vegetables, grocery sellers; sex workers and transgenders; transport workers, including taxi and auto drivers and rickshaw pullers; and lawyers, law clerks and court staff. The list includes COVID-19 volunteers, inmates of social and correctional homes, dealers of essential services and residue section of governmental and para-governmental staff. The notification entrusts the State Health Secretary for delegation of responsibility among different departments of the government for preparation of a database of such categories and arranging sites for vaccination. On May 2, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced that certain sections of the population such as transport workers and journalists would be administered vaccines on a priority basis. The latest State government notification brings in more categories in the list of “people forcibly exposed to public mingling”. Meanwhile, the Kolkata Press Club has already started the vaccination drive for journalists as per the announcement on May 12. Its president Sneahish Sur said that about 870 journalists have been administered the vaccine as “Covid warriors” in the past few days by the West Bengal government.  The scarce vaccine available at the disposal of the government may be divided into two streams Notification issued by West Bengal government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-govt-to-vaccinate-covid-19-volunteers-journalists-vegetable-sellers-hawkers-on-a-priority-basis/article34575176.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Committee formed to advise on black fungus treatment||The State government has decided to form a committee to advise on the treatment of Mucormycosis – a rare fungal infection also known as black fungus. A press release on Sunday stated that Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar had said that a four-member panel, including an opthamologist, was formed to examine the issue. The Minister also added that from Monday, the treatment for the disease would be launched at Bowring Hospital. Common symptoms People who are recovering or have recovered from COVID-19 were found to be infected with the disease. Some of the symptoms include partial loss of vision, nasal congestion and pain under the eyes. Speaking to reporters, Dr. Sudhakar said that black fungus was more likely to occur among people with low immunity, those with diabetes and those with steroid use. The Minister also said that the treatment for black fungus should be given for seven consecutive weeks and costs Rs. 2 to 3 lakh. He said that he would discuss with the Chief Minister the possibility of the State government providing treatment free of cost. Administering steroids Dr. Sudhakar said they had urged the Centre to provide 20,000 doses of Amphotericin B. He warned people not to take steroids without consulting a medical practitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-formed-to-advise-on-black-fungus-treatment/article34575179.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||33,181 new cases and 311 fatalities in T.N.||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu rose to 2,19,342 with another 33,181 people testing positive for the infection on Sunday. Till date, the number of people who tested positive is 15,98,216. On Sunday, 311 persons died of the viral infection, taking the toll to 17,670. At the same time, 21,317 people were discharged after treatment from various health facilities. So far, 13,61,204 people have been discharged, according to the daily bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health. On Sunday, 1,66,812 samples were tested in the State. Chennai’s daily tally saw a marginal dip with 6,247 people being diagnosed with the infection. On Sunday, 5,023 people were discharged and the district recorded 60 deaths. The district has 47,330 active cases. Till date, 4,38,391 people in the district have contracted the infection while 3,85,297 have been discharged. The district has recorded 5,764 deaths. In Tiruvallur district, the tally rise to 80,850 and the number of patients discharged stood at 71,383. There are 8,452 active cases and the toll crossed 1,000 and stood at 1,015 with 15 deaths on Sunday. Of the 52,294 beds allocated for COVID care in the State, 28,954 remained vacant. Of the 53,284 earmarked beds in COVID Care Centres, 24,330 were occupied and 28,954 beds were vacant. Out of 311 persons who died on Sunday, 84 had no co-morbidities and 227 had pre-existing health conditions. A 74-year-old man from Karur, who was admitted on May 12 to the Karur Medical College Hospital, tested positive the next day and died the same evening due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure induced by COVID pneumonia, the hospital recorded. 21,801 vaccinated The number of people vaccinated in a day fell to 21,801 with 6,067 senior citizens being inoculated in a day. In 2,516 sessions, 616 healthcare workers, 2,594 front line workers, and 12,524 people aged 45 to 59 with co-morbid conditions were vaccinated. Till date, 2,71,203 sessions have been held to administer Covishield and Covaxin. While 8,08,232 healthcare workers and 9,59,110 frontline workers were vaccinated, 27,59,677 people with co-morbidities in the 45 to 59 age group and 23,73,524 senior citizens were vaccinated. In all, 69,00,543 people in the State have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33181-new-cases-and-311-fatalities-in-tn/article34575345.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools and colleges to turn COVID care extension centres||The Greater Chennai Corporation, with support from NGOs, is set to launch “extension centres” of government medical college hospitals to provide COVID-19 treatment to city residents. These extension centres will have dedicated teams of doctors and nurses to save lives during the pandemic, reducing the load on government tertiary care hospitals. Many residents died because of a delay in reaching tertiary care hospitals, with the city registering around 7,000 cases a day. On Sunday, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi visited schools, such as Don Bosco, Egmore, to develop COVID care “extension centres” of the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. The Corporation will provide beds, oxygen support and other infrastructure for the extension centres, while NGOs will constitute the team of doctors and nurses, sponsoring them. For instance, the Don Bosco Foundation has formed a team of doctors, consultants and nurses to treat the patients at the hospital to be developed on the school premises in Egmore. “Today, we went to Don Bosco School. We are opening a 104-bed hospital. The Corporation is giving the beds, infrastructure, the medicine, taking care of the sanitation and other facilities. The Don Bosco Foundation is giving us eight doctors, three consultants and 24 nurses, sponsoring them on their own. Beds have already been shifted, oxygen concentrators will come in a day or two. We will start by Wednesday and link it to a medical college as their extension facility," said Mr. Bedi. In addition to the “extension centre” in Egmore Don Bosco, such centres will be developed at more than 10 locations, including Nungambakkam, Royapettah and Perambur. HR and CE Minister P.K.Sekar Babu, who inspected the facility, along with Corporation Commissioner on Sunday, said the new teams of doctors and nurses appointed by non-governmental agencies would get all support from the government to save lives during the pandemic. “Civic officials are coordinating with various agencies to reduce case fatality during this pandemic. Government officials will monitor the extension centres,” said Mr. Sekar Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-and-colleges-to-turn-covid-care-extension-centres/article34575317.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Take over Integrated Vaccine Complex, Anbumani urges govt.||PMK leader and Rajya Sabha member Anbumani Ramadoss on Sunday urged the State government to take over the Integrated Vaccine Complex in Chengalpattu. In a letter to Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian, Dr. Anbumani pointed out that 90% of the work on the complex was over, and the Union and State governments could get the remaining work done on a fast track basis. He said the facility could be used to produce vaccines for COVID-19. “It needs only a few hundred crores of rupees, which is less that the amount that Tamil Nadu requires to procure the vaccines,” he said. Dr. Anbumani said the facility could produce seven types of vaccines — Liquid Pentavalent Vaccine (LPV), Hepatitis-B vaccine, Haemophilus Influenza Type B, Rabies vaccine, Japanese Encephalitis E vaccine, BCG vaccine and Measles & Rubella vaccine, besides the COVID-19 vaccine, needed in India and the world. “If the Tamil Nadu government creates the vaccine producing infrastructure, it will be helpful for the present and the future. There is a precedent of Tamil Nadu taking over ESI hospitals; similarly, it can take over the vaccine complex,” the PMK leader said. Dr. Anbumani urged the State government to initiate talks with the Centre and sign an MoU to take over the complex and make Tamil Nadu a hub for vaccine supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-over-integrated-vaccine-complex-anbumani-urges-govt/article34575349.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin launches new scheme||Minister for Milk and Dairy Development S.M. Nasar on Sunday said Aavin was procuring an additional one lakh litres of milk from farmers due to the lockdown. Speaking at the launch of the sale of Aavin milk at reduced prices, he said the government would ensure that milk producers were not put to hardship. Bad practices at Aavin would be weeded out and the brand would be strengthened and expanded, he said. Aavin Managing Director R. Nanthagopal was present on the occasion. Dealers’ plea Milk dealers urged the government to fix timings for milk shops during the lockdown. They complained that they were being forced by the police to down hutters in many places. “People purchase milk in the evening too. We need to remain open for longer periods and during odd hours if we are to ensure that milk reaches consumers. If we don’t sell milk in time, it will get spoilt,” a dealer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-launches-new-scheme/article34575351.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin to head 13-member all-party committee||The State government on Sunday roped in former Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar of the AIADMK in a 13-member multi-party advisory committee, headed by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, to provide suggestions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the State. The panel comprises a member each from all political parties that have representation in the newly constituted Legislative Assembly, including parties which contested on symbols of their alliance partner. The other members of the committee are Dr. N. Ezhilan (DMK), A.M. Munirathinam (Congress), G.K. Mani (PMK), Nainar Nagendran (BJP), Dr. Sadan Thirumalaikumar (MDMK), S.S. Balaji (VCK), V.P. Nagai Mali (CPI-M), T. Ramachandran (CPI), Dr. M.H. Jawahirullah (MMK), R. Easwaran (KMDK), T. Velmurugan (TVK) and Poovai Jagan Moorthy of Puratchi Bharatham. The advisory committee will meet as per urgency and need of the emerging COVID-19 situation, the government said in an official release. The committee was constituted as per a resolution adopted at a multi-party meeting held by Mr Stalin on May 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-to-head-13-member-all-party-committee/article34575347.ece
17 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Isha Foundation joins issue with Palanivel Thiagarajan||The Isha Foundation has joined issue with Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, who assailed its founder Jaggi Vasudev for demanding that temples be freed from the control of the State Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. In an open letter to the Minister issued by Isha volunteers, Isha Foundation said they were “appalled that a man of his [Jaggi Vasudev] stature has been subject to the Minister’s unparliamentary and uncalled for personal attack in a recent media interview [toThe Hindu], calling him a ‘publicity hound’ and a ‘commercial operator’. It is deeply unfortunate that a person holding high public office should resort to name-calling of a highly respected public figure. This unseemly attack trivialises the efforts and dedication of millions of Isha volunteers worldwide who are working tirelessly in service of humanity.” The letter said: “In true democratic spirit, Sadhguru and Isha Foundation have worked with various elected governments from across the political spectrum and will continue to do so for the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu. Cooperation and support have been the nature of our relationship with every government. We regret the deterioration of this culture and the poor standard of public discourse. This is certainly unbecoming of an elected representative and an honorable member of the State’s Cabinet.” Lists initiatives The letter said that for nearly 30 years, thousands of volunteers of Isha Foundation had been working in Tamil Nadu to bring physical, mental and spiritual well-being to Tamil people through yoga, social outreach and ecological projects. “The activities of Isha Foundation have always received great support from strong partners, including the Government of Tamil Nadu,” it said. According to the Foundation, several social development programmes were initiated for rural communities in health, education, holistic development and farmer welfare, reaching over 7,500 villages, impacting at least 11 million lives. The outreach included Isha Vidhya, an education initiative for students of nine districts, the Rally for Rivers, an ecological movement, and increasing green cover “by contributing over 38 million trees,” it said. The Foundation had also launched the ‘Cauvery Calling’ movement, as part of which 2.42 billion trees are to be planted in the Cauvery basin, benefiting not only the ecology but also more than five million farmers. “In 2020, under the Cauvery Calling project, farmers in the two States [Karnataka and Tamil Nadu] planted 11 million saplings on their farmlands,” it said. “Over the last year and continuing into this year, Isha COVID Action has serviced the villages surrounding the Isha Yoga Center,” it added. All of this work had been done with the support of the people and the Government of Tamil Nadu, the letter added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-foundation-joins-issue-with-palanivel-thiagarajan/article34575350.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation comes to the aid of migrant workers||As migrant labourers have gradually started leaving the city due to the lockdown, the Greater Chennai Corporation has made arrangements to avoid any confusion like last year. Ever since the complete lockdown began, the GCC has helped 900 guest workers reach their destinations safely. After May 10, migrant labourers started arriving at Dr. MGR Chennai Central Railway Station to leave for their hometowns, as many shops and industries where they worked were shut. “Many of them had come with reserved tickets. Unlike last time, trains are available this year. So confusion is less. But I am not sure how it is going to be in the coming days,” said P.M. Vijay Bhaskaran, who along with friends Vimal and Younous, has been providing food for the workers at the Central railway station. Many migrants arrive at the railway station in the morning, hoping that some group would help them get a bus or train and assist them in reaching their hometown. “We are a bit scared to stay back as getting food is a big issue. So many of us feel it is better to go home,” said Dileep, a migrant worker at the station. Meghanath Reddy, Deputy Commissioner, revenue and finance, GCC, said that 960 migrant workers were housed in five shelters and of them, 900 had gone back to their hometowns. “We have formed a joint help centre — with the police, GCC and Labour Department officials — to help the workers. If they have trains on the same day, we allow them to remain in the station. If they have tickets for any other day, we take them to the relief centre and provide them food and accomodation,” the official explained, adding that the GCC was prepared to handle the crowds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-comes-to-the-aid-of-migrant-workers/article34575322.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patients return to hospital to express gratitude||Seeing their loved ones recover from COVID-19 is what many families eagerly wait for. Going a step ahead, some of them are giving back to the government hospital that played a pivotal role in the recovery of family members. The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), one of the major COVID-19 hospitals in the city, has been receiving contributions from a number of such families. Whether in cash or kind, their donations are a way of expressing their gratitude and enabling the hospital to get the consumables required for patients. For some of them, like the family members of Nivedha (name changed as she wished to remain anonymous), this was the first time they had stepped into a government hospital for treatment. On April 21, Ms. Nivedha, a professor in a government college, her 75-year-old father, husband and son tested positive. While she and her son had mild symptoms and were in home isolation, her father and husband required hospitalisation because of lung involvement. “That day, I spent hours pleading with many private hospitals on the phone to admit the two of them. But no beds were available. The private hospital where we usually go to asked us to wait until the next day to see if there was any discharge,” she recalled. It was her colleagues who suggested that they approach RGGGH or the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy. “They said the hospitals were providing good treatment according to protocols. While my father got an oxygen bed, my husband was admitted to a normal ward at RGGGH,” she said. Her husband said the hospital had doctors and nurses on round-the-clock duty, gave nutritious food on time and maintained cleanliness. “Both of us were discharged after 10 days. We would have spent a lot of money in a private hospital. Here, we did not spend a rupee. So we thought it was best to make our own contribution to the hospital,” he said. The couple donated Rs. 1 lakh to the RGGGH. E. Theranirajan, Dean of RGGGH, said a number of persons returned after treatment to donate. “A retired Central government officer donated Rs. 1 lakh, while the father of a patient donated Rs. 1 lakh on his wedding day. A former IAS officer and a doctor from Tiruvallur were among others who donated to the hospital,” he said. Many of them have contributed to the ‘Wall of Kindness’ (Anbu Suvar), an initiative started at the hospital to help patients, especially those who come in emergencies, have access to essential things by receiving contributions from people. “People have contributed clothes and a range of toiletries under the ‘Wall of Kindness’. Some of them have donated money that is deposited in the hospital’s account. This is used to buy consumables. We have purchased clocks for rooms and television sets. We have also purchased and installed water heaters in patient rooms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patients-return-to-hospital-to-express-gratitude/article34575326.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown violations: over 3,000 cases filed, vehicles seized||The city police have filed a total of 3,028 cases against those who violated lockdown rules on Saturday and seized 3,252 vehicles. On Sunday too, police intensified checks, besides fining motorists across the city. The State government imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to 24, and checking has been intensified over the past few days to curb people from roaming around unnecessarily in an attempt to reduce the spread of the virus. However people have been allowed to travel for essential work, including medical needs. Till Saturday night, the traffic police registered 1,933 cases and seized 446 vehicles. The law and order police registered 1,095 cases and seized 2,806 vehicles. Besides, 2,485 cases have been filed in connection with not wearing masks, 278 for not following personal distancing norms and 55 against those who opened their shops despite restrictions. On Sunday morning, people were seen zipping on the empty city roads. At a checkpoint set up in Red Hills near the Puzhal Central Prison, policemen stopped motorists and conducted checks. On being found roaming unncessarily, they were made to pay a fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-violations-over-3000-cases-filed-vehicles-seized/article34575318.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MCC launches community initiative for COVID-19 patients||The Madras Christian College has set up a COVID-19 isolation facility on its premises to help MCCians, alumni and the local community. The institution converted its international guest house into a COVID-19 quarantine facility with 10 beds. Another hall with five beds has been allocated to accommodate asymptomatic patients, who have been in contact with a COVID-19 infected person. The college has an infirmary and an ambulance, whose driver is trained to provide oxygen support. Only patients with mild symptoms will be admitted, based on a certificate from a triage centre, said Prince Annadurai, associate professor of Social Work at the college. The institution has an infirmary with a doctor and two nurses. Another nurse has been hired from the community, Mr. Prince said. “We plan to increase the number of nurses to six, if necessary. We have a visiting doctor as well, apart from the medical officer at the infirmary,” he added. Those referred by an MCCian or an alumni of the institution are being admitted, said principal P. Wilson. “In fact, we are getting more calls from the public to help reach hospitals,” he added. The institution will provide free food services, three times a day, to quarantined persons. “Apart from that, if people can afford to pay for the food we connect them to caterers,” Mr. Wilson said. Student volunteers from the National Social Service have come forward to distribute the food, the principal said. The college has also set up an online consultation service for those requiring counselling during quarantine. People could provide their particulars over the phone, and the doctors would offer advice. College medical officer T. Premalatha said she had been receiving 50 calls a day. “I have received calls from outside the campus. Most of them ask for oxygen beds. For people with SpO2 below 90, it is very difficult to get beds in Chennai,” she said. Mr. Prince said the project had received support from the “excellent network of alumni, who are willing to take care of poor patients.” Mr. Wilson said the non-teaching staff, students, the College Union Society, the Alumni Association and the Staff Wives and Women Staff Association were all part of the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mcc-launches-community-initiative-for-covid-19-patients/article34575320.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unit tests for Class 12 students set to begin||A few districts are set to conduct unit tests for Class 12 students of government schools from Monday. These students have been waiting to take the board exams, which were supposed to be held in May but were postponed due to a spike in COVID-19 cases. “The question papers have been prepared by the subject teachers, and they will be administered to the students through WhatsApp groups. The students are required to send in the answer scripts through WhatsApp, and we will evaluate them,” a teacher said. Students will take the tests for one-and-a-half hours, and will be graded on 50 marks. Noting that they had received instructions from the education officials in their respective districts to conduct the tests, K.P.O. Suresh, president, Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers’ Association, said this would serve as revision for students. “We are unsure how many students would be able to take these tests. We hope we can help them with revision later,” he said. A. Ramu, State president, Directly Recruited Post Graduate Teachers’ Association, said that while these tests were “good revision” for the students, they should only be considered as practice exams. “Many students in rural areas will face issues with connectivity and accessibility. We don’t want the tests to be mandatory,” he said. Ever since the board exams were postponed, schools have remained shut and students have been preparing for the exams at home. Over the last week, a series of meetings was held by the School Education Department, and Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi has reiterated that the board exams would take place and the dates would be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unit-tests-for-class-12-students-set-to-begin/article34575328.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM urged to locate missing fishermen||Fishermen associations have urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to step up the efforts to locate nine fishermen from Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Cuddalore districts, who have gone missing after their boat capsized due to Cyclone Tauktae. The fishermen from six hamlets put out to sea on April 29 from the Kochi harbour. Durai Mahendran of the Tamil Nadu Meenavar Sangam urged Mr. Stalin to take urgent steps to locate the fishermen. “The people in these hamlets have not eaten or slept for the past two days,” he said. He said their boat was said to have capsized while returning to the Kochi harbour, having been warned about the cyclone. U. Arulanandam, a community leader from Rameswaram, said the responsibility of searching for the fishermen rested with the nation. “We don’t trust the Navy or the Coast Guard when they say searches are being carried out. To make the search more effective, they have to take along fishermen who know the sea and who have been been in touch with these men or who have seen the boat along with them,” Mr. Arulanandam said. The men hail from Samanthanpet and Akkaraipettai in Nagapattinam, Vanagiri and Muvalur in Mayiladuthurai district, Samba Thottam in Nagore and Killai in Cuddalore. S. Saravanan, president of the Samanthanpet Fishermen Cooperative Society, said the boat belonged to Manikandan Idumban, 27, who had left for Kochi some four months ago for fishing, along with his father Idumban Chinnaiyan and brother Manivelu, 22. “The entire village is sitting in the Kamakshiamman temple waiting for some information. We have not received any news about their whereabouts. They only told us that the Coast Guard was searching for them,” he said. Minister for Fisheries Anitha R. Radhakrishnan said the government was making all efforts to trace them.  Their boat is said to have capsized while returning to Kochi harbour, having been warned about the cyclone Durai MahendranTamil Nadu Meenavar Sangam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-more-efforts-to-locate-missing-fishermen/article34575333.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. plans separate counters for disabled||All Deputy Directors of Health Services and City Medical Officers have been instructed to open separate COVID-19 vaccination counters for differently-abled persons, wherever feasible. In a letter to all DDs and CMOs, Director of Public Health T. Selvavinayagam said they should be given priority in places where it was not possible to have separate counters. Every vaccination centre should display prominently specific details. The vaccination centres should be barrier-free for differently-abled persons and have ramps. The Greater Chennai Corporation has been instructed to arrange special camps in consultation with the district differently abled and rehabilitation officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-plans-separate-counters-for-disabled/article34575343.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two officers deputed to Bhubaneswar, Rourkela||The State government has deputed two officers conversant in Odia and Hindi to be stationed at Bhubaneswar and Rourkela to coordinate transportation of liquid oxygen from Kalinga Nagar and Rourkela. The State has been allotted 100 tonnes of liquid oxygen a day from Kalinga Nagar and Rourkela. A. Periyasamy, Conservator of Forests, Salem, and Nishant Krishna, Under Secretary to the Government, Agriculture Department, have been deputed for two weeks for the task. “Since Tamil Nadu is expecting a continuous stream of tankers with liquid oxygen following this route, Pankaj Kumar Bansal, CMD, Tangedco, who is [in-charge of the team of officers] had requested to depute the two officers who are conversant in Odia/Hindi to be stationed at Bhubaneswar and Rourkela for two weeks to follow up on the logisitc arrangements,” the Government Order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-officers-deputed-to-bhubaneswar-rourkela/article34575355.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for trying to sell Remdesivir at a higher price||A special team, attached to Adyar Deputy Commissioner of police, arrested three persons on the charge of trying to sell Remdesivir for a higher price in Indira Nagar on Sunday. Following reports about Remdesivir being sold in the black market for a very high price, City police commissioner Shankar Jiwal had ordered his force to keep a look-out on such incidents. According to police sources, members of the special team, including sub-inspector Selvakumar, head constables Venkatesan and Shankar, received information that some people were selling the in-demand medicine worth Rs. 800 for Rs. 25,000, after they were contacted by prospective clients online. During their vigil, they noticed three persons standing suspiciously in Indira Nagar. They were having two Remdesivir bottles with them. They were identified as Adithyan, a medical salesman from K. K. Nagar, Rajkumar who runs a pharmacy in Pattalam and Syed Amjed, who works in a medical shop in Thousand Lights locality. Medicine, cash seized Police claim that they were trying to sell the medicine at a higher price to the clients. The medicine and Rs. 89,000 cash were seized from them. "We suspect that the medicine was routed from Bangladesh through Tripura. We are investigating how they got it. Only a detailed inquiry will reveal this," said V. Vikraman, deputy commissioner, Adyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-trying-to-sell-remdesivir-illegally/article34575323.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-registration must for exempted industries||Continuous process industries and those manufacturing essential commodities, which have been exempted from the COVID-19 lockdown, have been mandated to apply for e-registration of vehicles. The government has asked the industries permitted to operate as per G.O. (Ms) No. 348, dated April 20, 2021, and G.O. (Ms) No. 377, dated May 12, 2021, to complete the e-registration of vehicles. The company PAN card is required to complete the process. The e-registration is company-based, and the representative of each firm has been asked to register the vehicles of employees in a single application. All types of vehicles, including motorcycles, are allowed to be registered for intra-district, inter-district and inter-State movement of vehicles. A company can re-apply for e-registration by submitting a fresh application. Firms have been asked to login athttps://eregister.tnega. org/to apply for e-registration of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-registration-must-for-exempted-industries/article34575354.ece
17 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight COVID-19 deaths in Tiruvallur GH||Amidst rumours that eight people died due to oxygen shortage in the Tiruvallur Government Hospital, hospital authorities said those who died were critically ill, and that they have sufficient oxygen. A total of 250 COVID-19 patients are admitted in the Tiruvallur Government Hospital, and of them 160 are on oxygen support. On Saturday evening, four patients died and on Sunday morning, four more died. “A few of those who died have been in the hospital since April 25 with severe lung infection. There is also a patient with lung cancer while another was a 68-year-old woman. All had become critically ill,” said a hospital official. According to sources, there are two 1 KL and one 6 KL liquid oxygen tanks and 90 oxygen cylinders available in the hospital. “We have been providing oxygen to those who come as outpatients too. We don’t have any shortage as of now. Besides an oxygen production plant that can fill 15 cylinders at a time is also being set up here,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-covid-19-deaths-in-tiruvallur-gh-in-2-days/article34575324.ece
17 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMCH opens waiting area with oxygen supply||The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on May 16 opened a waiting area with oxygen supply to prevent patients requiring oxygen support from waiting in ambulances outside the COVID-19 ward. The hospital administration built an annexe to the COVID-19 outpatient ward with 15 beds, each with a portable oxygen concentrator. CMCH Dean A. Nirmala said patients brought to the hospital with immediate requirement of oxygen support would be first admitted to the new facility. The medical team in the waiting area would stabilise the patients and shift them to the COVID-19 ward when oxygen bed requirement arises, she said. The new facility was established within three days after the hospital started to witness patients in need of oxygen support waiting in ambulances. According to senior doctors, the tertiary level hospital was receiving a large number of patients referred by private and government hospitals in Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur and Erode districts, due to which ICU beds and oxygen beds remain occupied most of the time. After inspecting the hospital on May 15, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said that CMCH and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, were handling COVID-19 cases efficiently. According to the Minister, the hospital increased the total number of beds earmarked for COVID-19 treatment from 555 to 1,273 in the second wave. The number of oxygen beds were increased from 245 to 854.  The medical team in the waiting area will stabilise the patients and shift them to the COVID-19 ward when oxygen bed requirement arises. A. Nirmala CMCH Dean||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-opens-waiting-area-with-oxygen-supply/article34575384.ece
17 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 control room revamped in Coimbatore||The COVID-19 control room at the Coimbatore Collectorate has been revamped by adding more telephone lines to respond to enquiries from people. The control room that functions round the clock has 10 telephone lines. Calls made to ‘1077’ will be routed to these lines and 10 staff who work in a shift will respond to queries. People who call from other districts need to add the code 0422 before the number. An official from the Revenue Department said that a doctor and a health inspector would also be present at the control room. People can call the control room to get information regarding availability of beds in different hospitals, availability of vaccines at vaccination centres, to know the nearest triage centre, and to clarify doubts with a doctor on medication and health conditions. Those awaiting COVID-19 test result can also check the information with the control room by sharing the Specimen Referral Form (SRF) ID, said the official. More beds in CCCs Meanwhile, the Coimbatore district administration is taking efforts to increase the bed strength in COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) in the district. The bed strength at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex would be increased to 1,500, according to Health Department. It already has 700 beds and 800 beds would be added. Eight CCCs in the district together had 2,567 beds as on Saturday, the district administration said.  Plea for oxygen beds MDMK youth wing secretary V. Eswaran on Sunday appealed to Food Minister R. Sakkarapani, who is overseeing COVID-19 containment works in Coimbatore district, to convert the Government Hospital in Madukkarai in to a COVID-19 treatment centre. He said that the hospital, which handled COVID-19 cases in the first wave from August to December 2020, was not offering treatment for the disease at present. According to Mr. Eswaran, Madukkarai region does not have a government hospital or CCC for COVID-19 patients. The hospital has all basic facilities and can be improved by adding more oxygen beds. The hospital already has more than 50 beds, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-control-room-revamped-in-coimbatore/article34575386.ece
17 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rain continues to lash rural parts of Coimbatore district||Incessant rain lashed many rural parts of Coimbatore district for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. Sources from Valparai said the region has been witnessing heavy rain from Thursday night and the spell continued on Sunday. Sholayar near Valparai registered 170 mm rain, the highest rainfall in the district in the 24 hours that ended at 8 a.m. on Sunday according to the district administration. Coimbatore district recorded a total rainfall of 706.3 mm and an average rainfall of 50.45 mm, it said. The rainfall recorded in other places during the 24 hours period were: Valparai PAP 114 mm, Valparai taluk 108 mm, Chinnakallar 100 mm, Cinchona 91 mm, Aliyar 52 mm, Pollachi 25 mm, Sulur 11 mm, Coimbatore south 10 mm, Coimbatore airport 7.8 mm, P.N. Palayam 7 mm, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University 6 mm and Mettupalayam 4.5 mm. On Sunday, moderate showers continued at Siruvani foothills. The water level at the popular tourism spot Kovai Courtam increased after its catchments received rain for about four days. Rural areas namely Thondamuthur, Pooluvapatti and Karunya Nagar also received incessant rain. Moderate rain continued in and around Pollachi for the third consecutive day on Sunday. Coimbatore city and suburbs experienced drizzling and mild showers even as rain clouds hovered throughout Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-continues-to-lash-rural-parts-of-coimbatore-district/article34575361.ece
17 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MNM loses vote share in seven out of 9 constituencies||Actor-turned politician Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam, which tested waters in the 2019 Parliamentary election and contested its second election in the just-concluded Assembly election had lost votes, except in two Assembly constituencies. In analysing the vote share of the 2019 Parliamentary election and 2021 Assembly election, Mettupalayam Assembly election could not be considered because the candidature of the person who the party had nominated, K. Rajkumar, was rejected due to an error. Of the remaining nine Assembly constituencies in Coimbatore district, MNM lost vote share in seven. It gained and massively at that in Coimbatore South, where party president Mr. Haasan contested and emerged second. And, in Singanallur, where vice-president R. Mahendran showed a near three percentile point improvement to bag the third place. In the 2019 Parliamentary election, in the Coimbatore South Assembly segment, MNM candidate for the Coimbatore Parliamentary constituency, Mr. Mahendran, had polled 23,838 votes. Or 16.12% votes polled. Coimbatore South Assembly segment is a part of the Coimbatore Lok Sabha constituency. This, sources had said, was one of the reasons that Mr. Haasan chose to contest the seat. In the just-concluded Assembly election, Mr. Haasan polled 51,087 votes. Or, 33.26% of the total votes polled, which is more than twice the votes polled in 2019. In Singanallur Assembly segment in 2019, MNM had polled 28,634 votes. Or 15.40%. This time, the party secured 36,553 votes. Or 18.24%. The Singanallur Assembly segment is also a part of the Coimbatore Parliamentary constituency. In the remaining seven Assembly seats, in Sulur, MNM lost nearly two percentile point, in Kavundampalayam it was a near five percentile point decrease, in Coimbatore North the loss in vote share was just above a percentile point, in Thondamuthur, it was about four-and-half percentile point loss, in Kinathukadavu, it was more than one-and-half percentile point reduction, in Pollachi it was around one percentile point and in Valparai, the party had less than one percentile point reduction. Third spot Sources said in the 2019 Parliamentary election, MNM candidates stood third in nine of the 10 Assembly segments in the district and fifth in Valparai. In the 2021 Assembly election, of the nine seats, they stood third in six seats, second in one and fourth in two. And, the candidature of Mr. Haasan had not helped other candidates gain more because Assembly election was, perhaps, a different contest vis-à-vis Lok Sabha election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-loses-vote-share-in-seven-out-of-9-constituencies/article34575367.ece
17 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Codissia seeks financial support||The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association has appealed to the Central and State governments to arrange for COVID-19 vaccination at the earliest for all eligible persons. In a press release, association president M.V. Ramesh Babu said the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) need support as businesses are struggling because of the pandemic. Vaccination is one of the demands of the association to control the spread of the pandemic. Banks should give the units moratorium for a year to repay both, term loans and interest. The MSMEs need a stimulus package and additional 20% loan under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme. The NPA norms should be relaxed and Income Tax rate should be reduced to 20 %. All payments pending for MSMEs from Central and State governments and public sector undertakings should be released immediately. The government should use the reserve funds with ESI to treat COVID-19 patients, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/codissia-seeks-financial-support/article34575357.ece
17 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man wanted in sexual assault case found dead||A 52-year-old man, who was wanted by the police for alleged sexual assault on a minor boy, was found dead near Chettipalayam near Coimbatore on Sunday. R. Mani from K.G. Chavadi was found hanging in a deserted area, said the police. Anuradha, inspector of the All Women Police Station (AWPS), Perur, said that a case was registered against Mani at the station on April 30 after he was accused of sodomising a four-year-old boy from his locality on April 29. He had been at large since then. Navaneethakrishnan, Sub-inspector of Chettipalayam police station, said that Mani owned a house at Bharathi Nagar at Chettipalayam where he used to stay alone whenever he had issues at his home. Though the police searched the house soon after the case was registered at the AWPS, Perur, he managed to escape. On Sunday, a man from Chettipalayam took his cows for grazing in a deserted area and found the decomposed body of a man hanging from a tree. The body was identified as that of Mani by his family members. The skeletal remains were shifted to the mortuary at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-wanted-in-sexual-assault-case-found-dead/article34575364.ece
17 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable farmers in Pollachi hit hard by pandemic||A vegetable farmer at Sultanpet in Coimbatore district had to dump the harvest last week as there were no buyers. Rakimuthu, another vegetable farmer at Aandipalayam, Navakarai, has snake gourd on 70 cents and is hoping to harvest soon. But, he is not sure of buyers. Moorthy, another vegetable grower at Pollachi, says there are nearly 300 acres in Pollachi and nearby areas in Coimbatore district that are under climber vegetables (snake gourd, bitter gourd, ridge gourd, and bottle gourd). The months of April-June see high harvest of these vegetables. This year, with the spread of the pandemic these farmers face acute shortage of workers and with the lockdown there are no buyers. “We can start harvesting from 45 days or so and it continues for nearly three months. Buyers will come to the farms and take the vegetables, especially when the area under these vegetables is large. However, this year, the Kerala market is closed completely and buyers are not willing to take the vegetables,” he says. The local markets are closed and retail and wholesale traders in Coimbatore wanted only limited quantities. Retail outlets close early because of restrictions and hence, sales have dropped, he says. If a gourd variety is sold for Rs. 30 to Rs. 45 a kg in the retail market, farmers are selling it for Rs. 7 a kg, he points out. Mr. Rakimuthu points out that snake gourd is sold by farmers for Rs. 3 a kg. “A farmer spends about Rs. 40,000 an acre for snake gourd. If the harvest and sales are good, he will realise nearly Rs. 1.4 lakh are profit. If the price drops below Rs. 8 a kg, he suffers loss,” Mr. Rakimuthu explains. These farmers have appealed to the government to come out with support and solution. This is an unprecedented situation and farmers never anticipated such a fall in demand. Most of them are dumping the vegetables and incurring huge losses. The government should support them, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-farmers-in-pollachi-hit-hard-by-pandemic/article34575371.ece
17 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Medical camps inspected||P. Kumaravel Pandian, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner, on Sunday inspected the measures taken across the city to control the spread of the pandemic. Control rooms He visited some of the medical camps held in different areas to test people for COVID-19 and also the control rooms that have been set up. He urged the public to wear masks and maintain physical distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-camps-inspected/article34575365.ece
17 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Contributions to CM’s fund||Trade and industry in Coimbatore have been contributing for the Chief Minister’s relief fund to support measures to contain the spread of COVID-19. N.K. Nandhagopal, Managing Director, and A.C. Vineet Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, of SCM Group companies handed over cheque for Rs. 1 crore to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday. Ashok Bakthavathsalam, Founder and Director of KG Information Systems, gave a cheque for Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister on behalf of Chairman G. Bakthavathsalam, KG Hospital, KGiSL, and KGiSL Educational Institutions, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contributions-to-cms-fund/article34575359.ece
17 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Isolation ward set up||Kumaraguru Institutions offered its premises to set up a COVID-19 isolation centre with 375 beds on Saturday.     Chennai-based NGO All the Children donated medical equipment worth Rs. 10 lakh to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isolation-ward-set-up/article34575366.ece
17 May 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects GH at Oddanchatram||Food Minister R. Chakrapani inspected the government hospital at Oddanchatram on Sunday and held discussions with the doctors about the need to enhance infrastructural facilities. The Minister was accompanied by Collector M. Vijayalakshmi, DRO K. Govindaraju, among other officials. He told reporters that there has been a proposal to increase the bed strength and he would take it up with the Health Minister. In a press release, he appealed to the DMK cadre to stay indoors and not to gather in places to greet him. He gave away Rs. 2000 relief to eligible ration card holders at Kallimanthayam and Saravanapatti in Thoppampatti panchayat union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-gh-at-oddanchatram/article34575729.ece
17 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Work begins to establish 500 beds at Erode Medical College Hospital||With a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases, work has started to add 500 beds to the Government Erode Medical College Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai. There are currently 550 beds at the hospital providing treatment only to COVID-19 positive patients. Since the beds were occupied and the demand for beds attached with oxygen and ventilator support has gone up, the district administration proposed to add more. On Sunday, S. Muthusamy, Minister for Housing and Urban Development, along with Collector C. Kathiravan laid the foundation stone for establishing the facility in the hospital premises. Addressing media persons, the minister said that while 300 beds will be ready within 10 days, another 200 beds will be ready in 25 days. “Patients from nearby districts also come to the hospital and hence we decided to add 500 beds”, he added. Mr. Muthusamy said that testing for persons with symptoms, treatment for patients and vaccination for the public will be done at separate places to prevent the spread of the virus. COVID-19 patients are treated only at the GEMCH, Perundurai, and at the District Headquarters Hospital that has 150 beds apart from the private hospitals. “The rest of taluk government hospitals and primary health centres will treat only general patients”, he added. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, K. Selvarasu, R. Mani, Dean, GEMCH and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-begins-to-establish-500-beds-at-erode-medical-college-hospital/article34575382.ece
17 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Five volunteers ensure food for the needy during lockdown||With food being a necessity during the lockdown, five volunteers here ensure that the elderly, COVID-19 positive patients in home isolation and the needy receive food packets at their doorstep free of cost every day just by a phone call. P. Mega, founder of Thaimai Trust, said that they prepare the food themselves and give it to people in the afternoon and evening. Her team -- M. Madhu, K. Bhuvanesh Kumar, C.G. Prakash and Vijay-- plan the day based on the calls received. “Patients in home isolation, senior citizens, daily-wagers who lost their livelihood due to lockdown and a few others call us and we provide food to them,” she said. On an average, 250 to 300 food packets are given everyday to the needy in the city limits and in the outskirts. “We even distribute food to elderly persons in Thalavumalai village, which is located 30 km from Erode, and they are very happy,” said a member. While the lunch is delivered by 1 p.m., dinner is delivered by 7 p.m. every day.  People in need of food can contact 96889-80581.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-volunteers-ensure-food-for-the-needy-during-lockdown/article34575369.ece
17 May 2021||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Two killed, one lakh plantain trees uprooted in Kanniyakumari||Two persons, including a two-year-old child, were killed in the widespread rain that lashed in Kanniyakumari district on Sunday. The rains experienced for the third consecutive day due to the 'Tauktae' cyclone, resulted in inundation in low lying areas and there were also complaints of sea erosion in fishermen colonies. Fisheries Minister Anitha Radhakrishnan visited Arumanai and Ramanthurai hamlets and consoled the family members on the loss of their kin and handed over Rs. 4,00,000 cheque each as compensation. In Arumanai, a wall reportedly collapsed, in which Yugin (20) died, while the two-year-old child identified as Regina, daughter of Bedmin was killed after a tiled roof collapsed. Accompanied by District Collector M. Aravind, Kanniyakumari MP Vijay Vasanth, local MLA Rajesh Kumar and senior officials, the Minister inspected the banana groves that were inundated. At least one lakh plantain crops had submerged or had been uprooted in the wind in the district. The catchment area in Chitrar 2 recorded the highest rainfall of 79 mm on Sunday, PWD officials said. An inflow of 2,485 cusecs in Pechiparai dam led to rise in the storage level to 43.13 feet and discharge was 4,427 cusecs. Heavy inflow As a result, Tirparappu falls, Tamirabarani river, Valliaru, Pazhaiaru, and Paraliaru received heavy inflow. PWD officials said that they had adequately warned people to stay away from the river bank and move over to relief centres. Fishermen in Vallakadavu complained that many hamlets had been inundated. At Thengapattinam, Midalam, Puthanthurai coastal hamlets, sea erosion led people to pile up sandbags to keep water from flooding their houses. The worst affected pockets included Azhagiyapandapuram, Irachakulam, Siramadai, Kalpadi, Villukuri, where standing crops had either submerged or were uprooted in the wind. The fire and rescue service personnel had formed 18 teams and worked round-the-clock attending to calls. According to the IMD forecast, there may be rains for the next 48 hours until the cyclone weakens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-one-lakh-plantain-trees-uprooted-in-kanniyakumari/article34575337.ece
17 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Roads are deserted in southern districts as people remain indoors||The Sunday lockdown was total across the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. Police pickets and check posts had come up at vantage locations, especially in areas bordering other districts, officials said. With the rise in COVID-19 cases, the State government had tightened restrictions since the last two days. Many concessions were either withdrawn or timings were reduced. All arterial roads and commercial areas in Madurai saw minimal traffic movement as residents stayed indoors. Only those having medical emergencies, and government employees were allowed to travel after they submitted necessary proof. A senior police official said that violators, who were travelling unnecessarily, were charged fine under Section 179 of Motor Vehicles Act. “Our main aim is to ensure that there is no unnecessary crowding which will lead to spread of more positive cases,” he said. All shops were closed and only 50% of hotels functioned with take away services being allowed. Pharmacies and other medical-related operations were also allowed to function. Those seen on the roads were intercepted by police teams and only after due verification, they were let off, otherwise, they were instructed to return home, Thoothukudi SP Jeyakumar said and added that only milk vendors and pharmacies were open. In Ramanathapuram, the usually busy markets and temple town Rameswaram wore a deserted look. A large posse of police personnel were deployed at the check posts from Saturday night onwards, said Superintendent of Police E. Karthik. Beginning Monday, the government has reintroduced the e-pass system. Hence, those travelling from one district to another or from one State to another, have to apply for an e-pass. “Motorists will be taken to task as per the law if there was any violation or negligence,” an officer in Tirunelveli said. Collectors of Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari and Theni told reporters that surveillance at checkposts bordering Kerala had been stepped up. More number of personnel had been deployed from Sunday onwards as they have to check for e-pass. Health teams have also been deployed to check for COVID-19 and swab tests would be mandatory. Bodinayakkanur DSP Parthiban said that Bodimettu check post, which was a major intersection point for vehicular movement, has been buttressed with more manpower. Due to the downpour on Saturday night, trees had fallen obstructing vehicular movement and policemen removed them ensuring free flow of traffic, he added. Likewise, an Inspector of Police at Shencottah in Tenkasi district said that vehicles carrying essential commodities such as milk and vegetables were permitted. The SPs at Theni, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts also held a review meeting with their officers on the need to deploy additional strength. As a precautionary measure, a check post has come up at the entry point to the ghat section of Kodaikanal. Residents climbing up have to produce valid document to show that they were residents as tourist entry to Kodaikanal has been banned . At Silver Cascade point, health teams were conducting swab tests, officials said. In Virudhunagar, senior police officials, led by Superintendent of Police, S. Perumal, supervised police picketing at all important junctions. “We had barricaded all roads leading to towns from rural areas, so that no unnecessary movement takes place,” said Additional Superintendent of Police, S. Marirajan. Besides, propaganda vehicles with public address system appealing to the people to remain indoors was doing the rounds of the town. Motorists were advised to return home with a warning after registration number of their vehicles were noted. Police personnel were posted at ration shops to ensure social distancing as people waited to get Rs. 2,000 COVID special assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-are-deserted-in-southern-districts-as-people-remain-indoors/article34575727.ece
17 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Web portal and helpline for COVID-19 launched||People from all walks of life must work with the government in its efforts to tackle the present crisis as COVID-19 cases are rising, said Su. Venkatesan, MP, here on Sunday. He was addressing the participants through a virtual platform after inaugurating ‘covidfreemadurai.in’ and a COVID-19 helpline, run by a group of volunteers from various sections of the society. Mr. Venkatesan said that around 8,000 COVID-19 positive patients are taking treatment in Madurai. In each of the government hospitals, private hospitals, COVID-19 Care Centres and home isolation, around 2,000 patients are under treatment. Only four private hospitals in the district have around 100 oxygen-supported beds each to treat COVID-19 patients. So, the rest of the patients have to be treated in government hospitals. “Government Rajaji Hospital is the one with highest capacity of oxygen with around 26 Kl. But, the current situation is such that the beds are almost occupied,” he said. Hence, all sections of the people must work together with the government to help in tackling the crisis, the MP added. Shivarajah Ramanathan, Founder and CEO of Nativelead; J. K. Muthu, Managing Director of Kamalam Group; Thirumurugan Subburaj, Head Operations of HCL, Madurai; and Umadevi Sathiyarajan, Director, Hive IT Sheeevaari Consulting, London; are the lead volunteers for the initiative. Ms. Umadevi explained that the web portal would guide the public regarding availability of beds, oxygen support, blood and other needs in Madurai district. Apart from this, the telephone service, which operates on 044 46313133, works round the clock to also guide the public. A team of volunteers are deployed to guide the public through the helpline number. Mr. Shivarajah said they aim to spread this initiative to other districts to help the public. Karthikeya Sivasenapathi, State secretary of DMK’s Environmental Protection Wing; and K. Sivaraman, renowned Siddha practitioner, also attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/web-portal-and-helpline-for-covid-19-launched/article34575469.ece
17 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Diabetics must approach doctor for symptoms of mucormycosis’||People, especially diabetics, must approach the doctor immediately if they develop symptoms of mucormycosis (black fungus infection), said Usha Kim, Director (Paramedics) of Aravind Eye Care System. Addressing mediapersons through a virtual platform on Friday, Dr. Kim said there was an increase in incidence of mucormycosis among patients. The number of cases that they attended to in the past week was equal to the number they used to attend to in a year. People either develop this infection after they recover from COVID-19 or after testing COVID-19 positive. “The commonality is that they are all diabetics,” said Dr. Kim. The major signs and symptoms were: pain or redness in and around eyes, facial or hemifacial pain, discolouration around eye, sudden loss of vision, swelling in the eye, forward protrusion of eyeball, no eye ball movement, nasal stuffiness, discharge or nose bleeding. The coronavirus can attack the pancreas and alter the blood sugar level, either because of the disease, or due to the treatment. “When the body’s immune system becomes weak, sugar presents an excellent ground for the mucormycosis to develop, especially in uncontrolled diabetes patients whose blood sugar levels are very high. It is of utmost importance to keep the blood sugar level under control during the course of treatment and afterwards,” said Dr. Kim. . Mucormycosis could be cured if it was identified early and the patient referred to the appropriate specialist. “Delayed treatment can even turn fatal,” she added. She said patients with diabetes must control blood sugar level by taking medicines as prescribed by the doctor and follow a healthy diet and do exercise. “Blood sugar level must be monitored every day. If it is high, they must consult a physician, irrespective of whether there are mucormycosis symptoms or not,” she said. Diabetics need to be extra careful in following the safety measures to prevent COVID-19 infection, she added.  When the body’s immune system becomes weak, sugar presents an excellent ground for the mucormycosis to develop Dr. Usha Kim||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diabetics-must-approach-doctor-for-symptoms-of-mucormycosis/article34575456.ece
17 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||1,095 COVID-19 cases reported in Madurai||A total of 1,095 new COVID-19 positive cases were recorded in Madurai district on Sunday, increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 47,159. A total 534 persons were discharged on Sunday, and the active cases are 9,246. Fifteen deaths were recorded on Sunday, increasing the district's toll to 674. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district on Sunday reported 439 positive cases that took up the number of active cases to 4,144 after the discharge of 297 patients. With the death of a 72-year-old man at Railway Hospital in Madurai on May 14, the death toll in the district has increased to 282, as per the medical bulletin. Meanwhile, the total number of positive cases has gone past 26,000-mark and stood at 26,330 with a total of 21,904 discharged patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1095-covid-19-cases-reported-in-madurai/article34575470.ece
17 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Siddha centre with 200 beds set up in college||Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy inspected a new Siddha COVID-19 Care Centre established at The American College here on Sunday. It will become functional from Monday. A few days back, a Siddha COVID-19 Care Centre with 120 beds was inaugurated at Yadava College. The COVID-19 Care Centre at The American College will have 200 beds. This Centre is run jointly by Madurai Corporation and Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Mr. Moorthy said that since ancient times, people had followed Siddha medicine. The treatment provided at the Centre will be on par with private hospitals. The Centre will have a team of five Siddha doctors and three nurses, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siddha-centre-with-200-beds-set-up-in-college/article34575462.ece
17 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for DVAC probe into embezzlement at Aavin||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths should investigate the misappropriation and financial loss reported to the tune of Rs. 13.71 crore in Aavin’s Madurai unit, C. Anandraj, a Madurai-based activist, said on Sunday. In his petition to the Chief Secretary of State government, a copy of which was released to the press, he said the March 2021 audit report revealed that Rs. 13.71 crore had been siphoned off by officials in the Aavin over the last two to three years. Based on complaints sent to the Aavin management in Chennai, the Commissioner had suspended some of the officials and a few others had been shunted out of Madurai. “The new government should suspend all officials involved in the embezzlement until the probe is completed,” he said. TTD returns ghee The audit report, according to Mr. Anandraj, had found that the Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanam (TTD) had returned ghee to Aavin citing ‘poor quality.’ However, the Aavin-Madurai did not make an entry about it in its books nor at the register at the security gate. The report has also pointed out shortage of 28,138 kg of butter valued at Rs. 78.78 lakh. The Aavin had procured pet jars for packing ghee to sell it in the market. But, according to the audit report, there was a shortage of 3.18 lakh kg of ghee. However, the books showed that the pet jars were all sold. So the Chief Secretary should direct the DVAC to investigate, and not by senior Aavin officials, to bring out the truth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-dvac-probe-into-embezzlement-at-aavin/article34575464.ece
17 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||500 beds being set up with oxygen support||Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy inspected the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur here on Sunday, where 500 beds with oxygen support is being set up. The Minister said that currently COVID-19 positive patients are admitted to the wing with 336 beds at the hospital which is spread across 110 acres. A couple of days back Health Minister Ma. Subramanian inaugurated 28 beds in the hospital. In addition, 500 new beds with oxygen support are to be set up here. In the initial phase, 200 beds and in the next phase 300 more will be set up, in the next one week. The additional beds are being arranged to meet the demand for beds with oxygen support in hospitals across the district. Currently, water and other basic facilities are being arranged. A transformer would be erected to ensure continuous electricity supply in the new ward, the Minister added. Mr. Moorthy urged the public not to panic if they test positive for coronavirus infection. They can contact the War room set up at Collectorate, which functions round the clock to clarify their doubts, he added. He urged the public to strictly comply with the rules of the complete lockdown. The public must wear face masks and avoid travelling in crowded places, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/500-beds-with-oxygen-support-coming-up/article34575458.ece
17 May 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 129.60 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 2,478 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 62.93 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 930 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,879 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Thekkadi 55, Periyar dam 53.8, Gudalur 15.3, Sothuparai dam 15, Veerapandi 13, Uthampalayam and Vaigai dam 9.4 each, Shanmuganathi dam 7.6, Kodaikanal 4, Manjalar dam 3, and Melur 1.2. Tirunelveli The water level in Papanasam dam was 105.60 feet (143 ft) with an inflow of 2629.05 cusecs and discharge of 254.75 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 86 ft (118 ft) with an inflow of 734 cusecs and discharge of 250 cusecs. Rainfall (in mm): Papanasam 40, Servalaru 33, Manimuthar 9.2, Nambiar 3, Kodumudiyar 40, Ambasamudram 11, Cheranmahadevi 3.6, Radhapuram 15, Nanguneri 16.5, Kalakkad 28.4, Moolakaraipatti 8, Palayamkottai 2 and Tirunelveli 1. In Tenkasi district: Gadana 6, Ramanadhi 6, Karuppanadhi 13, Gundar 19, Adavinainar 35, Aykudi 22, Shencottah 18, Tenkasi 42.4, Sankarankoil 11 and Sivagiri 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34575468.ece
17 May 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Bring to use Namakkal Medical College’||Members of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee have appealed to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin to bring to use the Namakkal Medical College at the earliest. In a petition, P.V. Senthil, State vice-president of OBC wing of the party, said the medical college building was inaugurated on February 26. At least 300-400 beds with oxygen supply could be set up in the building. The State government should provide permission for the functioning of the college and appoint doctors on emergency basis. The members also urged the government to depute a district officer to coordinate the oxygen requirements to prevent shortage of supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bring-to-use-namakkal-medical-college/article34575378.ece
17 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||32 deaths recorded in Puducherry||The Union Territory recorded 32 deaths in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day toll yet, as the toll mounted to 1,151 on Sunday even as 1,961 new cases were detected from 9,446 tests. Puducherry recorded 25 of the deaths, Karaikal six and Mahe one. The patients, including 11 women, were in the 40-84 age range and eight of them had no recorded co-morbidity. The region-wise toll is Puducherry (933), Karaikal (125), Yanam (70) and Mahe (23). Puducherry reported 1,585 of the new cases in the Union Territory, followed by Karaikal (255), Yanam (111) and Mahe (10). The test positivity rate was 20.76%, case fatality rate 1.36% and the recovery rate 77.73%. With 1,491 patients registering recovery, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 17,666. Of this, 2,169 were in hospitals and 15,497 in home isolation. The bed occupancy position in Puducherry was JIPMER (519), IGMCRI (440) and Covid Care Centres (701). The aggregate caseload was 84,506 cases and total number of patients recovered 65,689. Vaccination continues Meanwhile, 165 healthcare workers, 228 frontline staff and 880 members of the public took their first shot of vaccination in the last 24 hours across the Union Territory. The total number of persons vaccinated in the Union Territory stood at 2,30,485, including 20,177 healthcare staff, 1,26,785 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/32-deaths-recorded-in-puducherry/article34575331.ece
17 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Clip shows wrapped body kept between COVID-19 patients in U.T.||A video clip of a visit by Orleanpet MLA (Independent) G. Nehru to the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMCRI), which shows the wrapped body of a COVID-19 victim kept between patients undergoing treatment, has been circulating on social media since Sunday morning. The footage, recorded by an aide to the masked-up legislator, also shows several COVID-19 patients on the floor or seated on chairs due to a lack of beds. “When I was there, I saw the body of a patient kept between two patients undergoing treatment, while two more bodies were being wrapped,” the MLA told the media. ‘Insufficient response’ Mr. Nehru claimed that the administration’s response to the pandemic had been insufficient. The legislator’s visit has sparked consternation in official circles as safety protocols require him to wear a PPE kit inside a corona ward. Sources in the Health Department said at least seven of the 32 deaths reported on Sunday were from IGMCRI, and there were bound to be delays in the wrapping of bodies and completion of formalities by the deceased’s kin before they are transported for final rites. “Patients with breathlessness keep turning up without prior notice, and there is some delay before they can be provided a bed. The 100-bed transit oxygen ward opened at IGMCRI seeks to address this,” an official said. Health Secretary T. Arun visited IGMCRI as part of a regular review to take stock of the treatment facilities there. He also inspected the civil works being taken up for upgrading the oxygen bed infrastructure at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clip-shows-wrapped-body-kept-between-covid-19-patients-in-ut/article34575329.ece
17 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Modi calls Puducherry Lieutenant Governor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday had a call with Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to enquire about the status of COVID management in the Union Territory, especially the positivity rate, availability of oxygen beds, the vaccination status and medicine availability. According to a press note from the Raj Nivas, the Prime Minister, who was apprised of all essential data, assured the Lt. Governor that the Central government was ready to extend all support over and above that had already been provided. The Prime Minister also conveyed that the agencies of the Central government were just a call away for extending a helping hand. Mr. Modi also enquired whether the ventilators that had been provided by the Central government were being put to productive use, the Raj Nivas said. He enquired about the health of Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, who is undergoing treatment for COVID-19, the press note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-calls-puducherry-lieutenant-governor/article34575332.ece
17 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||101 containment zones in Salem||The number of active containment zones in Salem district crossed the 100-mark on Saturday as 101 zones were reported here. According to health officials, as on Saturday, 6,079 swab samples were collected for tests and 829 COVID-19 positive cases were reported, highest in recent times. The district has 4,309 active cases and 1,331 patients from other districts are undergoing treatment here. Health officials said 1,381 patients are undergoing treatment in home isolation. At least half of the daily load of cases in Salem are reported in corporation limits and the corporation has intensified containment measures. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that they have increased door-to-door checks to improve screening of patients with symptoms. Mr. Ravichandran said, “we have increased the number of field workers to about 650 persons and they have been allotted streets permanently. These workers would visit the streets frequently and conduct screenings. Urban health nurses are tracking the health condition of persons in home isolation.” He added that besides fever camps, the drive-in swab testing centre has also been received well by the public and over 400 samples have been collected on a day. Mr. Ravichandran said that they have also arranged mobile grocery vehicles and vegetable vehicles to prevent crowding of the public in markets and shops. He added that a voluntary group has also been helping with meals for patients under home isolation. Mr. Ravichandran added that the Corporation has identified additional buildings to set up COVID-19 care centres, if there is further increase in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/101-containment-zones-in-salem/article34575380.ece
17 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Caregivers crowd COVID-19 patients in Salem GH||Safety protocols went for a toss at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Sunday as caregivers of COVID-19 patients in large numbers crowded the ward. Police personnel were called to regulate the crowd inside the ward. The caregivers entered into an argument with the police personnel and questioned who would take care of the patients if they were sent out. According to doctors, over 900 patients are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and SARI in the hospital and attenders were present to get the patients food and other needs. However, as part of measures to avoid attenders from contracting the disease and leading to further spread, the hospital authorities advised them to leave the hospital premises. Police personnel later pacified the attenders and sent them away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caregivers-crowd-covid-19-patients-in-salem-gh/article34575377.ece
17 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three found dead in Salem||A couple and their daughter were found dead at their house near Annadhanapatti here on Saturday. According to the police, preliminary investigation revealed that the couple took their lives after allegedly murdering their daughter. According to the police, the deceased were identified as K. Gopinath (31), G. Pavithra (29) and their daughter G.Nandhitha (5) here. Gopinath’s mother Sengamalam found the couple hanging and the daughter lying unconscious on the floor when she went to check upon them on Saturday evening. Annadhanapatti police rushed to the spot and recovered the bodies. Reportedly, Gopinath is a differently-abled person. Annadhanapatti police have registered a case and are investigating. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-found-dead-in-salem/article34575358.ece
17 May 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||825 cases registered for not wearing masks||The Namakkal district police on Sunday registered 825 cases on people who ventured out without masks. The complete lockdown was almost successful here on Sunday with vehicle movement being minimal. Those who were on roads were questioned by the police and many travelled to get food and for medical services. Very few hotels functioned for home deliveries and orders were mainly taken through online applications. Long queues were noticed outside pharmacies on Sunday as well. The Salem City police on Saturday alone seized 28 vehicles for violating COVID-19 safety protocols and venturing out unnecessarily. The district police on Sunday registered 195 cases for violating lockdown regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/825-cases-registered-for-not-wearing-masks/article34575376.ece
17 May 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||SHGs will be revived: Minister||With the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) back in power, self-help groups (SHGs) in Tamil Nadu will be revived, said Rural Development Minister K. R. Periakaruppan here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters after presiding over a review meeting, attended by senior officials including Hans Raj Verma, K. S. Palanisamy, P. Jothi Nirmalasami and District Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy, he said that Chief Minister M. K. Stalin believed in women empowerment. The SHG concept, which was conceptualised by late M. Karunanidhi, had not only empowered the womenfolk, especially, in rural pockets, but also gave them economic well-being. The Minister said that in the last 10 years, SHGs had not been given the due importance they should have been given. Mr. Periakaruppan said that they would look to revive and rejuvenate the SHGs in a professional manner. He appealed to the field staff to take note of the SHGs in their regions and discuss modalities to give them a new lease of life. In Sivaganga district, he said that there were about 1 lakh SHG members who had been given a revolving fund of about Rs. 425 crore. The revolving fund should be enhanced in such a way that the SHG members were able to utilise it in a productive manner. He suggested that the officials should encourage the SHGs to look for opportunities beyond agriculture. By growing milch animals, they can be rest assured of a monthly income. Similarly, by creating farm ponds, they can grow fish, which would be a money spinner. The womenfolk can be encouraged to take up stitching clothes for garment industries. “As Karaikudi Chettinad dishes are popular among Tamils settled abroad, the SHGs can be involved in a big way to produce these dishes,” he noted. The Women Development Corporation and other agencies would be available to suggest innovative and cost effective ideas to the SHGs, Mr Periakaruppan said. MLAs A. Tamilarasi and Mangudi and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shgs-will-be-revived-says-minister/article34575338.ece
17 May 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||5,250 IMFL bottles seized||In a major haul, Prohibition Enforcement Wing sleuths seized 5,250 IMFL bottles that were stocked in a coconut farm near Thanipparai on Saturday. The police said that the contraband worth more than Rs. 5 lakh was kept in the motor room of a coconut grove belonging to Muthammal. P. Manickam, 42, of Elanthaikulam was picked up in this connection. Police suspect that a former supervisor of a TASMAC shop was behind the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5250-imfl-bottles-seized/article34575730.ece
17 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CM to decide on water release from Mettur Dam||Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan on Sunday said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will take a call on opening the Mettur dam for irrigation on June 12. Chairing a consultative meeting with leaders of various farmer associations and Collectors of delta districts, Mr. Duraimurugan said that the water level in the dam stood at 97 feet as on Sunday. There was a convention of opening the Mettur dam on June 12 every year if the dam had comfortable storage. However, Mr. Stalin had specifically asked him to elicit the views of farmers on opening the dam on the scheduled date, the Minister said and added that several farmers had demanded the opening of the dam as the storage was comfortable for taking up kuruvai cultivation. He would convey their views and demands to the Chief Minister, who would take a decision. Mr. Duraimurugan said the State government was committed to ensuring equitable distribution of water, in particular to the tail-end areas. There was a need for desilting waterways and courses so as to carry water to all areas in the delta districts. Several watercourses were yet to be desilted. He had received representations from various farmers. Taking into account the demands of farmers, a special programme on desilting and rejuvenation of waterways and waterbodies would be announced soon. He said that the desilting would be started as early as possible. The government was committed to ensuring transparency. He, along with the Principal Secretary of the Public Works Department and senior officials of the government, would visit the areas frequently to ensure proper implementation of the scheme. The respective District Collectors should regularly check the quality of work, Mr. Duraimurugan added. Ministers K.N. Nehru, M.R.K. Panneerselvam and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Public Works Secretary K. Manivasan, Agriculture Secretary K. Gopal, Thanjavur Collector M. Govinda Rao and Collectors of other delta districts were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-decide-on-water-release-from-mettur-dam/article34575342.ece
17 May 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Govt. will consider demands of anti-Sterlite movement participants, says Kanimozhi||The State government would consider the demands of people in connection with the anti-Sterlite movement, said Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters after launching a COVID-19 vaccination camp at Maapilai Oorani, she said though the AIADMK government had given jobs to some of the victims of the anti-Sterlite movement, who had suffered disability during the firing, these people wanted right jobs suiting their profile. Many victims had submitted petitions to the MP recently to consider relocating them as per their educational qualification. Some others had stated that their names were ‘mistakenly’ included in the FIRs and prayed for ‘removing’ or ‘quashing’ the same. “I will surely take it up with the government,” she said and added that the interim report of the Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission had just been submitted. She hoped that the government will examine and do good for the people. On the vaccination drive, she said the district administration had formed 36 teams exclusively for administering the vaccine. The number of COVID-19 cases was on the rise and the government, under the leadership of M K Stalin, had stepped in to fight the pandemic. To achieve this, people’s support was essential in very many ways, Ms Kanimozhi underlined. On the missing fishermen hailing from Nagapattinam, Fisheries Minister Anitha Radhakrishnan said that steps were being taken to search for them. According to reports reaching the TN government, out of the three boats, fishermen in two boats have reached the shore safely after the cyclone call. Search was on by Central and State agencies to rescue the missing fishermen and the boat, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-will-consider-demands-of-anti-sterlite-movement-participants-says-kanimozhi/article34575461.ece
17 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Auto drivers overcome odds to serve people amid pandemic||Two autorickshaw drivers have dedicated their time and energy to ferrying patients to and from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The drivers say they go out of their way to help the needy during these trying times, charging only nominal fares. Notwithstanding the pressure of fulfilling family needs, P. Karthi, a debt-ridden, middle-aged man, continues serving the public even if his philanthropic mentality has meant the re-possession of his autorickshaw by his creditor. He now uses a rental vehicle to ferry patients. The other driver, S. Manikandan, lost his wife to COVID-19-induced complications last year. “She was being treated for lung cancer when she was diagnosed with the infection,” he said. He ferried her from Tiruchi to Madurai for treatment in his autorickshaw as he was unable to afford an ambulance, but to no avail. Six months after her death, he returned to ferry patients facing similar struggles. Patients referred to COVID Care Centres, those who have been discharged, attenders and those searching for beds in private hospitals are ferried in these vehicles. The passengers pay how much ever they can afford. The drivers make at least 10 trips each a day, earning only about Rs. 1,000, of which at least 50% is spent on fuel. “We do not do this for profit. We need some money to sustain our families but other than that, we are looking to help in our own way,” Mr. Manikandan said. In spite of their good deeds, they are troubled by other autorickshaw drivers, they alleged. “There is an autorickshaw stand right outside the government hospital. These men chase us away and charge the patients exorbitant fares. We have to take patients while trying to keep them off our backs,” Mr. Karthi said. The duo is also looking to get vehicle passes from the district administration for their service. “We are stopped by the police and do not usually have any documents to show that we are ferrying patients. It would be wonderful if they can help us,” Mr. Karthi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-drivers-overcome-odds-to-serve-people-amid-pandemic/article34575353.ece
17 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 4,361 fresh positive cases for the first time||The central region reported 4,361 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, the sharpest single-day rise the region has witnessed since the outbreak of the pandemic. The region reported 39 deaths. Tiruchi reported over 1,500 cases for the first time. Tiruchi and Karur reported an equal number of deaths with 10 patients succumbing to the viral infection in each district. Nagapattinam and Thanjavur reported seven deaths each. Perambalur reported two deaths, and Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur reported one death each. Tiruchi district reported the highest- ever single-day spike in the number of COVID-19 cases. As many as 1,569 patients reported COVID-19 positive. Intensive-care beds and oxygen support beds were at capacity at most hospitals in the district, including private hospitals. According to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Public Health, there were zero oxygen support beds, zero ICU beds and 538 normal beds. Speaking toThe Hindu, S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner said t the civic body was scaling up testing. “We have identified 700 workers who will go door-do-door with pulse oxymeters and test the oxygenation levels of the residents. If it is over 95%, they will be given a kit with antibiotics, vitamin and Zinc tablets. If it is less than 95%, we will lift an RT-PCR test and refer them to the Tiruchi GH." A total of 56 fever camps was being conducted on a daily basis, and as many as 45 containment zones had been created. In Thanjavur, 650 patients tested positive. Nagapattinam reported a spike with 604 patients reporting positive, while similar trends were also reported in Tiruvarur, with 529 fresh cases, and Pudukottai with 334. Perambalur and Ariyalur both reported a sharp rise with 255 and 227 cases. Karur reported a dip with 193.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-4361-fresh-positive-cases-for-the-first-time/article34575753.ece
17 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Law enforcement agencies on their toes to check hoarding of liquor bottles||Hoarding of liquor bottles for illegal sale has been reported in parts of Karur and Pudukottai districts after closure of TASMAC outlets in view of the complete lockdown announced by the State government. Liquor bottles were seized in large numbers during raids conducted jointly by teams of Prohibition and Enforcement Wing (PEW) and local police. Over 6,500 liquor bottles have been confiscated from hoarders in the two districts since May 10 and the police have booked a slew of prohibition cases and arrested the accused, official sources said. Illicit distillation of liquor was detected in Pudukottai district and several litres of fermented wash apparently meant to be used for the manufacture of illicit arrack were confiscated. In Karur district alone, police sources said, 3,878 liquor bottles were confiscated from May 10-15 during raids based on specific information. Fifty-five prohibition cases were booked during the period with the raiding parties arresting 56 accused so far. During one raid conducted at Vengamedu in the district, a police team acting on information seized 1,714 liquor bottles illegally stocked in the house of S. Murugesan, 41, who was subsequently arrested and sent for remand. In Pudukottai district, a special police team seized 2,692 liquor bottles that were illegally stocked in a house in Udayalipatti police station limits in Keeranur sub division. The raid was conducted based on secret information that liquor bottles were hoarded in the house for illegal sale to customers during the lockdown period. The team arrested three persons including the owner of the house where the bottles were found illegally stocked in 72 boxes. Inquiries with the accused revealed that the bottles were purchased a few days before the lockdown was clamped and illegally stocked in the house belonging to K. Kaliyaperumal as it was located on the outskirts of the village. Similar drives were conducted near Keeranur and at Tirumayam in the district in the last two days leading to the seizure of over 280 liquor bottles that were stocked illegally. On Saturday, a special team led by Superintendent of Police, Pudukottai, L. Balaji Saravanan seized 3,150 litres of fermented wash from a desolate bushy area at Karukakurichi village in Alangudi sub-division. The fermented wash was kept there apparently for distillation of illicit arrack. Although none was arrested in connection with the seizure, the district police were conducting investigation with regard to the accused involved in the illegal act, said the sources. Even as law enforcers were involved in strictly enforcing the lockdown they were also simultaneously monitoring closely if such illegal acts were happening in Pudukottai district, said Mr. Balaji Saravanan. He warned that stringent action would be initiated against the accused. Prohibition raids were being conducted every day and police were also keeping a watch on previous prohibition offenders in Karur district, said Superintendent of Police, Karur, G. Shashank Sai. The raids would continue and additional strength had been provided to the Prohibition and Enforcement Wing by drawing manpower from the District Armed Reserve unit to carry out the raids, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/law-enforcement-agencies-on-their-toes-to-check-hoarding-of-liquor-bottles/article34575755.ece
17 May 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Amaravathi Dam||Water was released from Amaravathi Dam on Sunday for irrigation of 4,686 acres in the old ayacut area coming under Madathukulam block in Tiruppur district. Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj released the water in the presence of District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, officials from the Public Works Department (Water Resources Organisation), the Revenue Department and farmers. A statement issued by the district administration said that 1,728 million cubic feet of water will be released from the dam in phases for a period of 135 days between May 16 and September 28. The actual release of water will be made in phases for 80 days during the period and the shutters will remain closed for the remaining days. The 4,686 acres in the old ayacut area coming under Madathukulam block include 1,259 acres at Kumaralingam, 661 acres at Sarkarkannadipudur, 580 acres at Sozhamadevi, 1,171 acres at Kadathur, 390 acres at Kaniyur, and 625 acres at Karatholuvu. The Minister appealed to the farmers to use water judiciously for irrigation during the period, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-amaravathi-dam/article34575363.ece
17 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers to visit houses in containment zones to check people for symptoms||The district administration has mobilised more than 300 volunteers to visit the COVID-19 containment zones in the district and check people for symptoms associated with the infection. The volunteers have been tasked with conducting the COVID-census to ascertain whether people exhibiting mild symptoms were getting tested for COVID-19. Officials said that many people who contract the coronavirus delay treatment as they feel that the symptoms associated with the infection were mild, and that they would recover without treatment. “As a result, many people undergo severe lung damage, which could have been prevented if they had received treatment right away,” they said. District Collector J. Innocent Divya said the exercise would be carried out over a period of six days starting from May 13. Each of the volunteers would visit around 25 houses in the containment zones and check for symptoms. The volunteers have been instructed to maintain personal distancing as well as wear masks while visiting the homes. Residents above the age of 45 would also be asked if they have been inoculated against COVID-19. The volunteers would then report to medical officers from the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-to-visit-houses-in-containment-zones-to-check-people-for-symptoms/article34575387.ece
17 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Monetary relief for residents||Forest Minister K. Ramachandran handed over COVID-19 monetary relief to residents in the Nilgiris on Saturday. In a press release, the district administration stated that Rs. 43.21 crore in cash would be distributed in total to over 2.16 lakh ration card holders in the district. The district administration stated that a token for the controlled distribution of monetary relief was handed over to residents between May 10 and 13. Residents should go to the ration shops and receive the relief on the date and time mentioned in the tokens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monetary-relief-for-residents/article34575375.ece
17 May 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore police choose music over lathis to create awareness||Keeping aside lathis, the Vellore police have picked up instruments like French horn, clarinets and drums to create awareness of COVID-19 and the importance of following lockdown norms in curbing the spread of the virus. The Tamil Nadu police band has been playing music at important junctions in the district to draw the attention of the people, before speaking on the dos and don’ts. As DGP J.K. Tripathy asked his personnel not to use force or lathis to enforce the lockdown, the department has been creating awareness and taking action against repeat violators. In Vellore district, S. Selvakumar, SP, roped in the Tamil Nadu police band, Vellore unit, which has 26 members. The band started creating awareness from May 11. “We go to important junctions in different police station limits with the brass, reed and rhythm instruments, including French horn, slide trombone, clarinets, drums and cymbals. We start playing march past music and everyone stops to look at us,” said R. Mahesh, a Grade 1 constable, who is part of the unit. He plays the clarinet. He joined the band in 2010. The band plays music for 10 minutes, before the inspector or the sub-inspector from the respective station starts giving awareness messages. “They ask the people to maintain personal distance, wear masks and to not venture out necessarily. We also educate them on the action that can be taken against them if they violate the lockdown rules,” he added. The band starts work around 6 a.m. and continues till around 10 a.m. when the shops are closed. “In this second wave of COVID-19, the police have assumed the role of a mass awareness creator. We also follow policies which reduce confrontation with the public while enforcing lockdown. Enforcement is strict, but equally aligned towards creating awareness of the need for staying home, and taking steps which automatically demotivate people from wandering around,” said Vellore ASP Albert John.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-police-choose-music-over-lathis-to-create-awareness/article34575336.ece
17 May 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Two held for forcing Dalits to prostrate||The police in Villupuram district arrested two caste Hindus and booked six others for makingthree elderly Dalit men fall at their feetand apologise over a quarrel. The arrested persons were identified as Gokul Raj and Seetharaman, of Ottanandhal Panchayat. Cases were filed under Sections 147, 294 (b) and 506 (1) of the IPC, read with various provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Though the incident took place last Tuesday, it came to light only after the video went viral on social media platforms. In his complaint, R. Kumaran, 28, of Ottanandhal colony, claimed that eight persons from the panchayat, including Gokul Raj and Seetharaman, forced three elderly Dalit men to prostrate before them and apologise for organising a musical event in the village. The police said the Dalits had organised the function on Tuesday. The caste Hindus lodged a complaint against them for organising the event in the midst of the pandemic. An altercation ensued after a group from the colony questioned a youth from the village for lodging a complaint. Inquiries revealed that though the issue was initially resolved, it escalated after the panchayat decided to deal with it on its own. It made three Dalit elders prostrate and apologise. The police also booked 54 residents of the colony, based on a counter-complaint lodged by R. Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-forcing-dalits-to-apologise/article34575334.ece
17 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Collector reaches out to elected representatives||Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan has sought the help of elected representatives of rural local bodies in the district administration’s fight against COVID-19. In an audio clip, Mr. Kannan has sought their assistance in maintaining the containment zones without any violations. “We hear that lot of people are coming out of containment zones and outsiders are entering the zone. This would lead to further spread of the viral infection,” the Collector said. The elected representatives of village panchayats, union panchayats and district panchayats have been asked to work within their jurisdictions and cooperate with the government officials in containing the pandemic. They can take up disinfection work and also curtail unnecessary movement of people in containment zones. The local representatives can also encourage people to avoid self-medication and instead get medical care in hospitals. Besides, the Collector has also asked people not to gather in large numbers at marriage functions and funerals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-reaches-out-to-elected-representatives/article34575466.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trading begins on West Boulevard Road||In spite of simmering differences, a section of wholesale traders shifted operations from Gandhi Market to West Boulevard Road in the city on Sunday night. After locking all gates of Gandhi Market to deny access to traders and customers, officials of Tiruchi Corporation made arrangements on West Boulevard Road from Kamaraj Arch to Vellamandi Corner for traders to set up temporary shops. While one side of the road has been earmarked for wholesale traders, the opposite side has been allotted for retailers. Under the arrangement, the wholesale traders will transact business in the night and the retail traders from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m.. In order to ensure social distancing, circles have been drawn on the road. According to sources, traders were divided on shifting the operations from Gandhi Market. They held an emergency meeting on Sunday night near Marakkadai to discuss the issue. While a section of them was in favour of the new arrangements, others reportedly expressed reservations. They felt that all traders were not consulted before the decision was taken. Some said they were forced to accept it. Though a consensus was elusive, a section of wholesale traders went ahead with transacting business on West Boulevard Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trading-begins-on-west-boulevard-road/article34575750.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,166 positive cases in Coimbatore district||A total of 3,166 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 1,15,532. Discharged The Health Department said that 1,151 persons from the district recovered from the disease on Sunday. The district had 22,181 active cases of the disease on Sunday. This included 10,177 patients who were in home isolation. The district’s toll increased to 872 after 15 more persons died of COVID-19 at different hospitals between May 9 and 16. In Tiruppur district, 919 persons tested positive while 533 persons recovered. It had 6,025 active cases of COVID-19. The district’s toll increased to 275 after two patients died on Friday and Saturday.  According to the Health Department, Coimbatore district had 272 and Tiruppur district had 513 beds without oxygen support earmarked for COVID-19 patients vacant as on Sunday evening. Erode district reported 1,232 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 33,100. While 642 persons were discharged, 6,088 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the death toll to 190. As many as 822 positive cases were reported in Salem district.  According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 383 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Seven deaths were reported in Salem. In Krishnagiri, 684 cases were reported, including one imported case. In Dharmapuri, 339 indigenous cases were reported. Four persons, including an 80-year-old woman, died in the district. 377 cases in the Nilgiris In the Nilgiris, 377 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 12,716. The number of deaths stood at 59 while 1,910 persons are undergoing treatment. In Namakkal, 370 cases were reported. As per health bulletin, all cases were indigenous.  Six deaths were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3166-positive-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article34575374.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister wants BHEL to begin oxygen production||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru on Sunday expressed hope that BHEL would begin production of medical oxygen within a month. Inaugurating an exclusive Siddha Covid Care Centre on the city campus of Bharathidasan University at Khajamalai, Mr. Nehru said he visited the factory to gather first-hand inputs. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had expressed the importance of augmenting oxygen production sources. BHEL came forward to start oxygen production as early as possible. All steps were being taken to start production. Mr. Nehru said 200 beds had been established at the Siddha Covid Care Centre and focus would be on treating patients as per the Indian medicine systems. The patients would be given kabasura and nilavembu concoction daily. Besides, they would be provided with healthy food to improve their health. Special focus would be on physical exercise and yoga. The patients, who expressed their willingness for Siddha treatment, could use the facilities. However, they would not be admitted to the centre directly. They would have to be referred by Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Collector S. Divyadharshini, MLA S. Inigo Irudhayaraj, District Siddha Medical Officer S. Kamaraj and other senior officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-wants-bhel-to-begin-oxygen-production/article34575748.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NSS volunteers to lend helping hand to COVID-19 patients at Pudukottai GH||Minister for Law S. Regupathy on Sunday said that National Service Scheme volunteers in the district had come forward to provide assistance at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital where COVID-19 patients were being treated. Sixty volunteers would lend their service in shifts at the hospital where they would assist patients in taking necessary steps to get admitted without any delay, Mr. Regupathy said while inaugurating the programme at the venue. Mr. Regupathy called upon the NSS volunteers to render service in a way that would remove fears from such patients. They should also guide them to places where tests were being conducted, advise them to stay in the place allocated to them, and ensure that they do not venture out. Pudukottai district was in the forefront in involving volunteers at the government medical college hospital, he said, adding that the initiative would be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister for emulation in other hospitals all over the State in order to help in reducing the work pressure of the hospital staff. Minister for Environment Siva .V. Meyyanathan said a similar initiative involving volunteers had started in Aranthangi Government Hospital. Necessary steps had been taken to provide nutritious diet to COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. He appealed to the general public to adhere to COVID-19 related safety guidelines stipulated by the government. Collector P. Uma Maheswari, Superintendent of Police Balaji Saravanan, Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital Principal Poovathi, State NSS coordinator Senthil Kumar and others participated, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nss-volunteers-to-lend-helping-hand-to-covid-19-patients-at-pudukottai-gh/article34575757.ece
17 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||South Western Rly. ready to face challenges posed by cyclone||South Western Railway has made preparations to face challenges posed by cyclone Tauktae. General Manager Gajanan Mallya has instructed heads of all departments to take steps to prevent the loss of lives or railway property. All frontline staff members have been instructed to ensure safe train operations. Disaster Control Cell at South Western Railway Headquarters in Hubballi has been activated and an interdisciplinary team of officers from various departments is monitoring the situation round the clock. Weather warnings are disseminated in a timely manner to stations to alert Station Masters, Trackmen, Engineering, Electrical and Signal and Telecom maintenance staff. All officers and staff have been asked to act as per the Disaster Management Manual in anticipation of heavy rain. Day-and-night monsoon patrolling has been stepped up in the coastal and ghat sections as per norms. Personnel are deployed at stations to attend natural events such as tree falling, earth or boulder fall at locations and, then, clearing tracks immediately. All bridges and other susceptible locations have been identified by the Engineering Department and they are being patrolled. Monsoon reserve wagons have been provided in the Mysuru division with 33 wagons and 30 wagons in the Hubballi division with boulders, sand and other material. Earth-moving equipment are kept ready for emergencies. One full rake ballast train is kept ready at Londa station. Released sleepers are available at various spots in the ghat sections. Frontline teams of electrical technicians are mobilised and they are on alert in various sections of the railway zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/south-western-rly-ready-to-face-challenges-posed-by-cyclone/article34575397.ece
17 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Oxygen supply goes up to 27 kilolitres in Belagavi||Supply of oxygen to COVID-19 hospitals in Belagavi district has nearly doubled, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said here on Sunday. The total amount of oxygen supplied to Belagavi district till now was 15 kilolitres. But now it has increased to 27 kilolitres. Of this, the State government is supplying 22 kilolitres and three local oxygen production units are supplying five kilo litres. As of now, there is no scarcity of oxygen, the Deputy Commissioner told journalists. The district administration has agreed to a demand made by Indian Medical Association to maintain an accessible buffer stock of 50 oxygen cylinders at all times. “We are also running mobile oxygen banks, such as buses and ambulances fitted with oxygen,” he said. The government has set up COVID war rooms in Belagavi and other taluks. Personnel from these rooms counsel all people who have tested positive and are isolated in their houses, by calling them up and providing medical advice. A total of 25 COVID Care Centres has been opened in the district. They have 980 beds, in all. There are a total of 4,146 beds in government and private hospitals in the district and 2,144 COVID-19 patients are being treated. Of the total 10,464 active cases, 8,320 are in home isolation. Of the targeted 38.77 lakh persons to be vaccinated in the district, 6.7 lakh have received their doses. Of these, 5.4 lakh have got their first dose and 1.27 lakh their second dose. In the newly approved target age group of 18-44, there are 23 lakh persons. Of these, 4,125 have got their vaccine. The State government has supplied 12,902 vials of Remdesivir injection. Of these, 152 are available for patients and the rest have been utilised. The rate of positivity has risen to 38.43% and the rate of recovery is 75.91%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-supply-goes-up-to-27-kilolitres-in-belagavi/article34575396.ece
17 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Some trains cancelled||South Western Railway has cancelled some trains to avoid accidents in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae. The cancelled services are train no 07342 Vasco da Gama-Kulem Passenger Special, train no 07343 Vasco da Gama-Kulem Passenger Special, train no 07344 Kulem-Vasco da Gama Passenger Special, train no 07340 Vasco da Gama-Yesvantpur Express Special, train no 07339 Yesvantpur-Vasco da Gama Express Special, a release from the Divisional Railway Manager, Hubballi, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-trains-cancelled/article34575398.ece
17 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Centre releases 75 tonnes of oxygen for North Karnataka||The Centre has released 75 tonnes of oxygen for North Karnataka districts, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said in Hubballi on Sunday. A release from his office said that three trucks with imported oxygen cylinders of 25 tonnes each will reach Hubballi by Monday. One of them will be sent to Belagavi and the other to Dharwad district. The third will be shared between Haveri and Gadag districts. Mr. Joshi has thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Foreign Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and others for their gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-releases-75-tonnes-of-oxygen-for-north-karnataka/article34575395.ece
17 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Four of family fall to COVID-19 in Bagalkot||Four members of a family died of COVID-19 in Bagalkot district in two weeks. Rajeshwari Ontagodi (40), a government primary school teacher, her husband Venkatsh Ontagodi (45), a government hostel superintendent, Rajeshwari’s mother Lakshmibai Udapudi (68) and father Ramanagouda Udapudi (74) died within 13 days. Rajeshwari Ontagodi, who was a teacher in Salahalli in Belagavi district, tested positive first. Then every one else who lived with her, tested positive. They were all being treated in private hospitals in Bagalkot district. Mr. Venkatesh Ontagodi hailed from Devinal in Bagalkot district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-of-family-fall-to-covid-19-in-bagalkot/article34575394.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A week into lockdown, hospital cases decrease||A week into the lockdown, healthcare personnel have said that the caseload in hospitals has declined. This has reduced the demand for general beds. The case positivity rate has also declined over the last week. Now, there is a growing chorus from health care experts to extend the lockdown by at least another week. On May 10, when the lockdown began, the positivity rate for the day was 31.66%. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported was 39,305 against 1.24 lakh tests. On May 16, the positivity rate for the day stood at 27.84 %, with 31,531 new cases, while the number of tests conducted was 1.13 lakh. As a result, many health experts, including those in the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), are batting for an extension of a lockdown for at least another week. “It is a known fact that the transmission cycle lasts for three weeks from the time the person is infected to the onset of the disease. Therefore, there is a need to ensure that the lockdown is extended by at least one week,” a TAC official said. However, the number of positive cases detected in Bengaluru city has dipped, while the number of cases in other districts has seen a sharp rise. A member of the TAC said this was because many residents of Bengaluru moved to their hometowns. The positivity rate in Bengaluru from May 1 to May 10 was 39.68%, while the same as on May 16 was 36.89%. Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), said that the decline in cases could be attributed to continued isolation of people and reduced interaction between people which had helped contain the virus to a certain extent. The lockdown, Mr. Gupta said, had helped keep a check on the number of new cases . “This has ensured that the existing health infrastructure can cope with the caseload,” he said. On the other hand, the number of tests conducted across the State are declining as only symptomatic people and those who are primary contacts of patients are being tested. However, the Chief Commissioner said that the civic body had ramped up their targeted testing, while random testing had declined. “There is no deliberate attempt to reduce testing. For the prevailing situation, eliminating random testing has helped ensure that those who give their swabs for testing get their results faster,” he said. BBMP officials also noted that the number of people who opt for voluntary testing had declined. “Voluntary testing may have reduced as there is no need to present negative certificates to their employers and people perhaps have stopped travelling to other States,” a BBMP official said. A Health Department official said the decision on the extension of the lockdown will be taken after looking at the number of new cases reported every day in the coming week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-week-into-lockdown-hospital-cases-decrease/article34575287.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Your doc could be anywhere in the world||Doctors living across the world — all alumni of the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) from the 1992 batch — have now banded together with a coalition of volunteer groups to offer end-to-end COVID-19 management for patients in Karnataka, particularly in Bengaluru. While the Karnataka COVID-19 Volunteers Team (KCVT), with over 500 members, has set up a helpline (080-47166115) which counsels patients, refers them to doctors for tele-consultation, helps in home management and to find hospital beds, Mercy Mission is operating two COVID-19 care centres and has a tie-up with the HBS Hospital in Shivajinagar for critical care. While the helpline and tele-consultation with doctors is available for patients across the State, other on ground facilities are in the city. “There are over 50 doctors, most of them from BMCRI 1992 batch, and many living in the U.S. and the U.K., who are offering free tele-consultation for COVID-19 patients. I have been doing this for a week now. Most cases are manageable at home. What patients need is guidance and some confidence,” said Umesh Nareppa, a senior cardiac surgeon at Vikram Hospital in the city, and an BMCRI 1992 batch alumnus. The doctors abroad have also raised funds to the tune of around Rs. 2 crore and sent 250 oxygen concentrators to the city for patients who need them during home isolation. Another BMCRI alumnus, H.V. Vasu, who is coordinating the KCVT, said the helpline also has over 100 trained counsellors and will follow patients through the entire course of the infection, advising them with course of treatment, diet, tele-consultation with doctors and try to organise oxygen, hospital beds, if need be. “We have helped book more than 200 beds in the last few days, all through diligent follow-up with the civic body,” he said. Meanwhile, the KCVT and BMC-92 have partnered with Mercy Mission, another network of NGOs is also running helplines organising oxygen, beds, food and even cremating COVID-19 patients, and for hospital infrastructure. “We have a tie-up with Al Ameen Hospital and HBS Hospital, both in Shivajinagar. While we refer mild to moderate patients to Al Ameen Hospital, we are partnering with HBS for critical care. Mercy Mission is also looking at partnering with CSI hospital, also in the same area, for which talks are in initial stages. Meanwhile, Mercy Mission has partnered with a hospital in Hassan,” said Ali Shariff, who is coordinating these efforts. Patients who need hospital care are being referred to these hospitals. Mercy Mission is also looking to reactivate the over 40 on ground triaging centres it operated last year in the city’s slums, with focus on vaccination this time. “There is vaccine hesitancy in the slums and we need to send in motivators who have earlier worked in these slums to get people to take the jab. Vaccine coverage is inequitable and low in these pockets. Once we are assured of vaccine supply, we will begin these centres, where we will also take up triaging for COVID-19 cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/your-doc-could-be-anywhere-in-the-world/article34575279.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Pandemic pushing up demand for senior living units’||In what has increasingly become the new way of living — mostly indoors, highly alert about hygiene, and in preparedness of medical emergencies —realtors say demand for housing units specifically catering to senior living is on the rise. Niranjan Hiranandani, National President, NAREDCO, said since the pandemic began, there has been demand for homes from the buyer segment which is above the age of 55, still independent and leading an active life. "Homes for this segment are referred to as ‘senior living units’, and these are mostly in gated communities. Defined by senior citizen-friendly architecture and design features, they offer facilities and convenient services and access to medical facilities. Some projects also offer medical support and holistic healthcare. This is a segment totally different from ‘assisted living’ for senior citizens which is largely, institutionalised," he explained. The pandemic, he said, has made those aged above 55 years, independent and active want to move to a home located in a community where they get safety and security along with services and amenities which add meaning to their lives - be it entertainment and social interaction or wellness options. Pune, Bengaluru and Chennai are among the cities where they've witnessed demand. Anuj Puri, Chairman - ANAROCK Property Consultants, said, “Presently, there is only limited supply in this segment. As per our research, there are as many as 55 projects (developed or ongoing) by top 12 players in this segment of which 60% are in tier 2 and 3 cities and the remaining 40% in Tier 1 cities.” Most of the existing senior living projects have sprung up either in the outskirts of the major cities or largely in tier II and III cities across the country. Region-wise, the southern cities have nearly 69% share of the total 55 projects. Explaining the reasons, Mohit Nirula, CEO, Columbia Pacific Communities, said over the last year, COVID-19 and its impact on society in general and on seniors living on their own in specific have caused a "dramatic and ongoing" surge in the demand. Columbia Pacific has over 1600 residential units under management in five cities. “Furthermore, the age group of future residents seeking accommodation in senior living communities has dropped with the 50 – 60-year-old demographic keen to buy into communities under development. The increase in demand is seen in Bengaluru, Chennai, Coimbatore, Kanchipuram and Puducherry,” he said. According to Mr. Nirula, the reason for this uptick in demand is the contrasting experience of seniors staying in senior living communities vis a vis those staying alone or in condominium complexes with mixed families. “Residents of senior living communities were able to count on the service provider to support and fulfil all their daily needs without exposing them to the external environment. On the other hand, seniors staying on their own had to either face increased risk of exposure or go without daily conveniences," he said. Further, the presence of on-property medical support in senior living communities gives both the seniors and their families the peace of mind necessary in these extraordinarily difficult times. “Ring-fenced from the external environment, residents of senior living communities continue to remain socially engaged while remaining physically distanced. Neighbours, who are friends and have the same needs allow senior living communities to be havens of safety and social interactivity at a time when loneliness and anxiety have been as debilitating as the virus itself,” he Mr. Nirula added. Concurring, S. Vasudevan from Ozone Group said that senior citizens don't want to be isolated. “They want to participate with other age groups. Round-the-clock medical facilities are available, and go beyond food, culture security and entertainment. The importance of geriatric care has made a lot of people move into gated communities.” “The cost is around 20% more for such units. The pandemic has changed people's priorities. We've seen people from the CBD move into gated communities even 30 km away,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-pushing-up-demand-for-senior-living-units/article34575278.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM holds consultation on cyclone situation||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday discussed the impact of Cyclone Tauktae on the State’s coastal districts and reviewed the assistance being given to those affected. A note stated that the Chief Secretary and the Deputy Commissioners of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada districts were part of the discussions to understand the ground reality following the cyclone hitting the coast. The Chief Minister also directed the administration to focus on rescuing fishermen caught in sea and to be in touch with the Centre. He directed officials to seek helicopters and other equipment needed in rescue efforts. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party national president J.P. Nadda spoke to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who appraised him of the situation in the coastal districts. Mr. Bommai told Mr. Nadda that over a thousand personnel have been deployed in the three affected districts. Mr. Bommai told reporters in Bengaluru that the government would be strengthening the State Disaster Relief Force with an allocation of Rs. 15 crore this financial year for purchases, including vehicles. SDRF offices are to be opened in two places in North Karnataka region since the area have been frequently affected by floods, he said after participating in a function organised at the fire services directorate. While 100 ex-servicemen have been appointed to the force, 100 more would be appointed, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-holds-consultation-on-cyclone-situation/article34575304.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Oxygen on wheels’ in all districts||The State road transport corporations are ready to provide ‘Oxygen on Wheels’ services in all districts if private groups or NGOs come forward to sponsor oxygen concentrators and equipment required for providing oxygen inside buses, Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said. Help from Hyderabad In a release, Mr. Savadi said that each bus can provide oxygen for 610 patients who are waiting for hospital bed. He added that a Hyderabad-based NGO has come forward to join hands with the RTCs and discussions areon. In Bengaluru, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) provided two such buses. An official said that 15 to 20 patients are using the facilities per day. From KSRTC On the other hand, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has provided two Oxygen on Wheels buses in Bengaluru and Chikkamagaluru. It has decided to provide two more buses in Chitradurga and Chickballapur in one or two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-on-wheels-in-all-districts/article34575285.ece
17 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. lying about deaths: Siddaramaiah||Accusing the government of misleading the public by releasing fudged data on COVID-19 deaths, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Sunday challenged the State to release the number of death certificates issued in recent months. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the number of deaths has to be reported meticulously, but the data released on testing, positivity, and deaths has been misleading. “The government is lying,” he said. He said that if the governments release proper data on the number of deaths since 2020, the truth would be known about the deaths in society. He also said that even the number of tests had come down from an average of 1.75 lakh daily in April to 1.15 lakh, bringing the figures down by 30%. The testing has been reduced citing a decline in positivity rate, while the rate remains around 50% in several districts, the Congress leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-lying-about-deaths-siddaramaiah/article34575294.ece
17 May 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘4.25 lakh Remdesivir vials given to State this week’||Union Minister for Fertilizers and Chemicals D.V. Sadananda Gowda on Sunday said that Karnataka has received a bigger share of the Remdesivir allocation made to the States this week. He said Karnataka has received 4.25 lakh vials of Remdesivir this week of the total 23 lakh vials allocated. In a statement, he said Karnataka had received the highest allocation as it had the highest COVID-19 caseload in the country. He also said that of the total 76 lakh vials allocated to the States since April 21, Karnataka had received 10 lakh vials. He pointed that about 40,000 vials of Remdesivir had come from other countries. Mr. Gowda said that the Union government has been making equitable distribution of the available resources to the States. Saying that there has been a decline in number of complaints coming about Remdesivir from 767 to 147, he said it was a sign of medicine supply coming to normalcy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/425-lakh-remdesivir-vials-given-to-state-this-week/article34575306.ece
17 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM to hold meeting with DCs, ZP CEOs today||In the midst of COVID-19 spreading in rural areas of the State, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will hold a meeting to review the situation on Monday. This meeting will be followed by a videoconference meeting involving Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Deputy Commissioners of 17 districts in the State on Tuesday. The meeting comes at a time when the positivity rate of COVID-19 is very high, even as the rate is showing signs of decline in Bengaluru. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had also raised the issue of increasing positivity rate in the other districts and reduced testing for COVID-19. Sources said Monday’s meeting would involve the whole district administration, including officials from the Revenue, Police, and Health departments. The spurt in cases in some districts has kept the administration on tenterhooks. Zilla panchayat CEOs also will be part of the videoconference meeting with the CM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-hold-meeting-with-dcs-zp-ceos-today/article34575305.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Teacher deaths: Report sought||Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar has directed officials to submit a report on teachers and PU lecturers who died after contracting COVID-19 after being deputed for elections and COVID-19 related duties. There are many reports of teachers succumbing to the COVID-19 infection after byelection duty in Basavakalyan and Maski Assembly constituencies and Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency. The Karnataka State Government Employees Association (KSGEA) had maintained that 250 primary and secondary schoolteachers lost their lives to the pandemic. KSGEA president C.S. Shadakshari had told The Hindu that teachers of Bengaluru and Kalaburagi divisions have been largely affected by the virus and around 150 of them succumbed to the pandemic in these two divisions. In a press release, the Minister said that he has asked officials to furnish information since April 2021 with the age and other details of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teacher-deaths-report-sought/article34575286.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||31,531 new cases||A total of 31,531 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Sunday. Now, the total case number is 22.03 lakh. Of the new cases reported on Sunday, 8,344 cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban.   According to the media bulletin by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the positivity rate for Sunday stood at 27.84%. The number of tests conducted on Sunday stood at 1.13 lakh and the case fatality rate at 1.27%. The number of COVID-19 deaths was 403, taking the total number of deaths in the state due to COVID-19 to 21,837. Meanwhile, as many as 36,475 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of discharges to 15.81 lakh. There are as many as 6lakh active cases in the State. As many as 17,462 people were vaccinated as of 3.30 p.m. on Sunday, taking the total number of people who are vaccinated in the State so far to 1.11 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/31531-new-cases/article34575288.ece
17 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Testing: VRDL attracts attention||The Viral Research Diagnosis Laboratory (VRDL) at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences has attracted the attention of the State by securing the first place among laboratories in terms of its performance against the daily testing capacity. The lab, with its daily capacity of 2,000 tests, conducted an average of 3,376 tests in the May 8 – 14 week, registering a performance of 169%. The Hassan district administration, in a communiqué here on Sunday, said the lab had been performing beyond its capacity, given the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district. The VRDL, set up in 2016, was among the first labs in the country to process samples for the infection when COVID-19 started spreading. For many months, samples collected in 7 to 8 districts were tested here. Then, it had the capacity to test only 300 samples in a day. Gradually, this was enhanced. The administration appreciated the efforts of HIMS Director B.C. Ravi Kumar and District Surgeon V.R. Krishnamurthy in making proper use of the lab. Hassan reported 1,310 cases of COVID-19 and 20 deaths on Sunday. With this, the total number increased to 64,309 and the death toll rose to 801. Among the dead, six are from Channarayapatna taluk, five from Arsikere, three each from Arkalgud and Hassan taluks, two from Sakaleshpur and one more from another district. So far 47,408 have recovered from the infection and 16,100 are under treatment. Among them, 133 people are in the intensive care unit. As many as 1,318 patients were discharged from the hospital on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-vrdl-attracts-attention/article34575289.ece
17 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Power supply hit as heavy rain uproots poles||Several parts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts experienced moderate to heavy rainfall on Saturday and Sunday. Thunderstorm coupled with gusty wind hit power supply as many electricity poles were uprooted. The climate remained cloudy and there was continuous drizzling. Many villages in Mudigere of Chikkamagaluru and Thirthahalli in Shivamogga taluk did not have power supply. A few electricity poles were spotted lying on the road obstructing vehicular movement at Bidarahalli in Mudigere taluk on Sunday morning. Residents in many villages of N.R. Pura, Sringeri, Koppa and Chikkamagaluru taluks were forced to remain indoors. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell, Chikkamagaluru received an average rainfall of 24.2 mm of rainfall against a normal of 3.7 mm in the 24 hours ended a 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. Similarly, Shivamogga district received 26.7 mm against a normal of 3.6 mm and Hassan received 12.2 mm against a normal of 3.5 mm. Among the taluks, Mudigere received 75 mm of rainfall against a normal of 5 mm on the day. Sagar taluk in Shivamogga recorded 61 mm against a normal of 2 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-supply-hit-as-heavy-rain-uproots-poles/article34575412.ece
17 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Fire destroys chilli bags in cold storage in Ballari||A fire broke out in a cold storage in the Ballari Industrial Area on the outskirts of Ballari city at around 8 p.m. on Saturday and destroyed a large number of red chilli bags. However, no loss of human life was reported. As the incident came to light late in the night, Fire and Emergency Services personnel and policemen rushed to the spot and began extinguishing the flames. The operation went off till the morning hours on Sunday. It was learnt that the heavy pungent generated by the burning red chillies was a major hurdle for the firemen. “A large number of red chilli bags were stored in the cold storage and the Fire and Emergency Services personnel and policemen found it difficult to approach the spot because of the intense pungent smell of the burning chillies. There were no casualties,” Superintendent of Police, Ballari, Saidulu Adavath told The Hindu over the phone. As per available information, the cold storage belonged to Kerala-based Jayanti Indian Products Limited. The fire did not come to light early as the building had little openings, just as cold storages normally have. The fire came to the notice of the public after the burning chilli smell spread in the area and the cold storage began emitting smoke. The exact cause of the fire and the amount of loss are yet to be determined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-destroys-chilli-bags-in-cold-storage-in-ballari/article34575401.ece
17 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Shobha Ranjolkar, theatre artiste, passes away||Senior theatre artiste and theatre director Shobha Ranjolkar died of a cardiac arrest at a private hospital in Kalaburagi on Sunday. She was 67. She is survived by her two sons. Ms. Ranjolkar, a native of Kodangal in Telangana, was married to Bheem Rao Kulkarni, an engineer from Ranjol in Sedam taluk of Kalaburagi district. She directed and acted in several theatre plays under Ranga Madhyma Kalatanda troupe and Sangameshwar Mahila Mandala. Last year, the veteran artiste performed a play titled Yuddha Bharata at Dr. S.M. Pandit Ranga Mandir in Kalaburagi, in which all the 35 characters were played by female artistes. Ms. Ranjolkar also acted in films such as Beladingalagi Baa and Mahadasohi Sharanabasaveshwar. She has performed in popular plays, including Kharokhar, Harake Kuri, Adhunika Drona, Grahana, Huliya Neralu, Hasya Taranga, Jeevana Chakra, Ameenpurada Santhe and Stree Loka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shobha-ranjolkar-theatre-artiste-passes-away/article34575403.ece
17 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘It will take more time than usual to clean up this time’||A 65-year-old fisherman Keshava Shriyan and his neighbour and a bank employee Tejpal H. have finished a round of clearing plastic and other waste fallen on a portion of the Hosabettu beach, which many children in the area used as their playground. “We could just clear a bit. We can only do a thorough cleaning of the area a few days later when the intensity of the sea waves comes down,” said Mr. Shriyan, who is among the residents involved in keeping the beach clean. “Cleaning the muck this time will take more time than usual,” said Mr. Shriyan, sitting on the lone bench on the beach that has remained intact, as the other benches, swings and a slide on the beach suffered damage in strong waves after the cyclone passed by on Saturday. It was at around 10 a.m. on Saturday that the sea waves started to gain intensity. Fishermen said that the intensity started to come down at around 2 p.m. “What you see today is just one-fourth of the intensity seen yesterday,” said another fishermen Madhu Kunder, who lives off the NIT-K beach road connecting Light House and NIT-K beach where several road stretches have suffered damage. “As the cyclone passed by during the daytime, we could save our boats and move them to safety,” Mr. Kunder said and added that this was the first time that he had seen such intense waves. “During the monsoon, the sea is rough but it is not as intense as it was this time,” he said, while showing a nearly 800 metre of eroded beach in front of his house. Among the many affected by the cyclone include Manoj, owner of a newly opened beachside ice cream parlour on NIT-K beach road. His refrigerator and other items were damaged after sea water entered his parlour on Saturday. “The lockdown hit me hard. This is the second blow,” Mr. Manoj said. The 12-km-long fisheries road from Kulai to Sasihitlu has also been affected. Several houses adjoining the fisheries road have been damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-will-take-more-time-than-usual-to-clean-up-this-time/article34575407.ece
17 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Over 300 houses damaged in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Over 300 houses, about 200 in Udupi district and about 130 in Dakshina Kannada district, have suffered damage, either partially or fully, as the passing Cyclone Tauktae induced heavy rain and gusty winds since Saturday. Similarly, considerable lengths of fisheries roads in both the districts have been affected due to sea erosion caused by raging waves since Saturday even as hundreds of coconut trees have been uprooted. Dakshina Kannada in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari held an emergency meeting on Sunday and directed officials to extend relief to all the affected. As many as 380 persons have been affected due to the cyclone, 14 houses have been completely damaged and 108 partially damaged, he said. Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, MLAs from the district and senior officials attended the meeting. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra directed the local authorities and the Revenue Department to clear vents of vented dams and bridges of wooden logs and other trash so as to avoid artificial flooding around the region. Udupi district in-charge Minister Basavaraj Bommai held a video conference with the district administration on Saturday evening and directed the officials to utilise Rs. 69 crore fund available under disaster relief to mitigate suffering. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha has in a statement said that nearly 200 houses in the district have been damaged in the cyclone and considerable length of roads affected. Roughly, the district has suffered damage worth about Rs. 70 crore, he said. Steps are being taken to offer immediate compensation as well as ad hoc compensation to the affected people. Both the districts have deployed teams from the National Disaster Response Force in addition to personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services of the State to undertake search and rescue operations. Major portions of fisheries roads along the Kulai-Sasihitlu stretch in Dakshina Kannada, Malpe-Padukare, Maravanthe and Shiroor in Udupi district have suffered damage. The district administrations have shifted over 500 affected people to relief centres, duly adhering to COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-300-houses-damaged-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article34575410.ece
17 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CAMPCO to buy arecanut||CAMPCO, which had temporarily suspended procurement of horticulture produces in view of COVID-19 restrictions, has decided to resume purchases on Monday. Arecanut will be procured at CAMPCO branches in Karnataka and Kerala from 25 members and 15 members at branches and sub-centres, respectively, at one quintal per member a day. Members can sell their produces once a week. Coca beans procurement will continue as earlier. CAMPCO president A. Kishore Kumar Kodgi and managing director H.M. Krishna Kumar sought cooperation from members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campco-to-buy-arecanut/article34575404.ece
17 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rural surge of virus takes toll on farming||The rural surge of the pandemic unfolding in South Karnataka is beginning to have an impact on agricultural activities. Though officials in the Agricultural Department have attributed the decrease in activity to inadequate pre-monsoon showers, farmers said the situation in rural areas was such that labour was difficult to come by to start land preparation for sowing or even harvesting of summer crops. Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association, said people in villages were reluctant to hire workers from outside because of the widespread prevalence of COVID-19. Mahanteshappa, Joint Director of Agriculture in Mysuru, said the rural surge of COVID-19 could affect agricultural activities in the days ahead though sowing per se was not labour intensive. But apart from sowing, there are other agricultural activities, including harvesting of summer crops, likely to be affected in the absence of labour. Srinivasmurthy, a rice conservator and progressive farmer from T. Narsipur, said it was a common practice to hire workers from adjoining villages for farm work. “But now, workers are increasingly reluctant to move out of their villages in search of employment. What is equally true is that local residents are objecting to the presence of workers from other places because of the pandemic,” he said. A vast swathe of land under paddy cultivated in early summer is ready for harvesting and many farmers are keen to hire paddy-harvesting machines to tide over the labour crisis, Mr. Srinivasmurthy said. A section of officials argued that there was similar fear even last year that agriculture would take a hit because of the COVID-19 outbreak, but instead what was witnessed was record sowing and harvesting. However, Mr. Shanthakumar pointed out that the first wave of COVID-19 had left the rural hinterland unscathed last year, but the situation was different in the second wave now. ‘Hiding illness’ Mr. Shanthakumar also said people in villages were hiding illness to avoid testing and isolation, and there were scores who had tested positive but were forced to remain in their villages as there were no hospital beds. Though the authorities have played down the negative fallout of the pandemic on agricultural activity, emerging trends indicate that the long-term impact will be felt in due course. In Mysuru district, there were 14,866 active COVID-19 cases as on Saturday, of which 8,991 were in the city. The rest were spread across the taluks. In Mandya district, which is predominantly agrarian, there were 7,872 active cases as on Sunday, including 996 in Malavalli tauk, 1,278 in Maddur taluk, 908 in Pandavapura tauk, 706 in Srirangapatna taluk, 716 in K.R. Pet, and 969 in Nagamangala. Mandya taluk alone had 2,202 active cases, underlining the seriousness of the crisis. In Chamarajanagar, there were 3,897 active cases, mainly in the rural hinterland, as on Sunday.  Workers are now reluctant to move out of their villages in search of work. What is equally true is that local residents are objecting to the presence of workers from other places Srinivasmurthy,progressive farmer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rural-surge-of-virus-takes-toll-on-farming/article34575299.ece
17 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Retired Dean of CAVA dead||Noted sculptor and retired Dean of Chamarajendra Government College of Visual Arts (CAVA) V.A. Deshpande passed away early on Sunday. Mr. Deshpande, 66, was ailing for some time. He leaves behind his wife and two sons. The last rites were performed near the Chamundi foothills. Born in Badami in 1955, Mr. Deshpande finished his early schooling there before joining the Drawing Teachers’ course at Dharwad School of Art (now called Halabhavi School of Art). He later moved to M.S. University in Baroda to pursue a five-year diploma course in Sculpture and a PG diploma in Metal Casting. Mr. Deshpande worked as a lecturer in the Department of Architecture at Malnad College of Engineering in Hassan before joining CAVA in 1983. After joining as a lecturer in the Department of Sculpture, he moved up the hierarchy as a Reader before becoming the Dean in 2005. He retired in 2015. According to retired Dean of CAVA Basavaraj M., the notable works of Mr. Deshpande include the 9.5-ft bronze statue of the late Deputy Prime Minister Babu Jagjivan Ram in front of the railway station in Mysuru, the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Square in Mysuru, and the statue of poet laureate Kuvempu at the entrance of Manasagangothri in Mysuru. Mr. Desphande was the recipient of several honours, including the Rajyotsava Award in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/retired-dean-of-cava-dead/article34575307.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Volunteers step in to help UPHCs||Since the end of February this year, 64-year-old D.S. Nathan, a resident of Nisarga Layout, has been spending hours every day at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) in Doddanekkundi ward. He ensures that those coming to get vaccinated follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour (CAB). “When I went to get vaccinated, I saw that the people coming to the UPHC were not maintaining social distance. When the number of people gradually increased, the problems also compounded. Someone needed to step up, and I decided to help out,” he said. Mr. Nathan, who has been isolating himself from his family, is at the UPHC every day between 9.30 a.m. and 3.30 p.m. “I have been active in various social work initiatives. People from the community recognise me. Though there have been instances of some disagreements, people are generally respectful in recognition of the time that I have been spending every day at the UPHC,” he added. Such voluntary efforts are essential in the UPHCs where testing and vaccinations are being carried out simultaneously. Following the spurt in cases, the demand for vaccination has increased. This has meant that more and more people are going to UPHCs either for testing or vaccination. The Ugly Indian (TUI), in association with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), has initiated efforts in ‘humane crowd management’ towards making Vibhutipura UPHC a model. According to a TUI volunteer, with testing and vaccination happening in the same premises, there was a need to ensure on-site safety. This could have been achieved by simply shifting the vaccination site away from the testing centre. “The government has recently announced a decision in this regard. Our objective was to put in place an implementable plan that can be scaled up,” the volunteer said. The TUI volunteer added that simple measures, such as providing uniform jackets and face shields to volunteers, portable mics to ensure that volunteers can be heard, good-looking tokens, making sure there are extra masks that can be handed over at the entrance to ensure people are double masked, markings on the ground, social distancing cues and well-placed signages had helped a great deal. “Over the past week, we have seen that these measures have worked. We started with Vibhutipura UPHC. The model can be replicated in other wards,” the volunteer said. TUI now has a rapid team of five members, who can provide hands-on training and assist communities to adopt UPHCs in their neighbourhood for similar initiatives. “We have been approached by a few communities. We are also working with non-governmental organisations and large donors who are helping the UPHCs on the medical side,” the volunteer said. To know about how TUI went about making the UPHC safer, watch https://youtu.be/PfwksApQHaY. To adopt a vaccination centre, drop an email to TUI (theuglyindians@gmail.com).  Though there have been instances of some disagreements, people are generally respectful in recognition of the time that I have been spending every day at the UPHC D.S. Nathan, resident of Nisarga Layout||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/volunteers-step-in-to-help-uphcs/article34575273.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mystery of source of Remdesivir on black market||In the last fortnight, not a day has gone by without the police making an arrest for sale of Remdesivir on the black market. Since government has regulated the Remdesivir market, both the police as well as the Karnataka State Drugs Control Department are intrigued about the source of the medicine on the black market. There are also concerns about fake medicines being sold. A senior drugs control officer explained that even the pharma company producing Remdesivir is not allowed free trade of the drug in Karnataka. “Hospitals have to raise indent with the local Drugs Control Officer on a dedicated portal, submitting details of the patient. The department will allot Remdesivir to the hospital based on severity of the case and availability of the drug. The supplier will have to supply to the hospital directly, strictly based on allotment made by the department,” the officer explained. “Given how the entire supply chain is regulated, we are curious about the source of vials on the black market,” he said. A review of several rackets indicates three sources – swindling from hospitals after allocation from the Drugs Control Department, procuring from States where Remdesivir is still available in the open market, and in a few cases, fakes, a senior police official said. “In multiple cases, we have arrested people working at hospitals for trying to sell vials in black. While the department allots five vials for each patient, in many cases, hospitals are administering lesser doses, in some cases raising indents for patients who do not need the medicine. Some of these are finding their way into the black market,” said Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. But they had not come across any widespread network selling fakes, except in one case where a lab assistant was refilling used vials and trying to sell them. The Drugs Control Department has now asked hospitals to preserve empty vials after administering the medicine to patients and be made available for surprise inspection, to ensure that the vials do not find their way into the black market, said a senior officer in the Remdesivir and oxygen war room established by the Department Health and Family Welfare. Online racket As the demand for Remdesivir is high, online fraudsters are taking money promising Remdesivir but not delivering the medicine. The city police cracked one such racket recently. “A chemist lodged a complaint that she paid Rs. 30,000 to an account based on a message on WhatsApp, but did not get Remdesivir as promised. We uncovered a string of mule accounts, and arrested an Indian and a Nigerian. Preliminary investigations revealed at least 14 transactions where people were duped to the tune of Rs. 4.2 lakh,” said a senior official probing the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mystery-of-source-of-remdesivir-on-black-market/article34575269.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Don’t divest public health from BBMP: Janaagraha||The need of the hour is for the BBMP to be empowered, besides integrating primary healthcare with water, sanitation and climate change functions, greater involvement of elected councillors and functioning area sabhas and ward committees. Instead, the Karnataka government has proposed to divest public health functions from the BBMP and hand them over to a parastatal under the Department of Health and Family Welfare, noted Janaagraha, a non-profit organisation. Opposing the proposed move, Janaagraha, in a press release on Sunday, urged the government to withdraw proposals that are in direct contradiction to the letter and spirit of decentralisation enshrined in the Constitution via the 74th constitutional amendment. Experience of Kerala over the last two decades clearly points to the benefits of devolution of public health functions, powers, staff and finances to local governments. Involvement of elected councillors at the ward and sub-ward level, and extensive citizen participation facilitated by the same, have brought tangible benefits to Kerala in its COVID-19 response. Involvement of self-help groups in Odisha, decentralised systems in Rajasthan, and most recently in Mumbai all point to the same lessons, the release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-divest-public-health-from-bbmp-janaagraha/article34575270.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nine on tugboat remain stranded||However, it started on Saturday morning and underwent distress upon reaching the port facilities. Meanwhile, one sailor reportedly slipped into the raging Arabian Sea and three were injured on container vessel SSL Ganga that left NMPT on Saturday morning towards Hazira, at about 28 nautical miles from the port. High waves hit the crew when they were on a routine deck inspection, injuring three while one slipped into the sea. The vessel returned to NMPT waters and injured sailors were being treated in a Mangaluru hospital. One agriculturist died of electrocution in Kaup taluk of Udupi district on Saturday when he came in contact with a snapped power line. A fisherman in Uttara Kannada district was swept away in the waves when he attempted to retrieve a drifting boat. The raging sea caused severe erosion of the beach-ront all along the 370-km Karnataka coast and brought down several houses and damaged fisheries roads. While about 200 houses were damaged in Udupi district, over 110 houses were damaged in Dakshina Kannada district, according to the respective district administrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-on-tugboat-remain-stranded/article34575311.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Beautification initiative||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beautification-initiative/article34575276.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to wreak havoc in the State and other parts of the country, politics too does not seem to be proceeding along conventional lines. A case in point is Pratap Simha(in picture), MP for Mysuru, training his guns on fellow partyman and Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar for commandeering oxygen cylinders from refilling agencies in Mysuru to meet the requirements of Chamarajanagar district, for which he is the Minister in charge. This elicited a sharp reaction from the latter, who justified the move. However, it was not lost on the people of Mysuru that the BJP MP barely winced while showering fulsome praise on Congress leader Siddaramaiah for setting up a super-speciality hospital on KRS Road in Mysuru when he was Chief Minister by releasing Rs. 127 crore. For, the hospital, inaugurated last week after expediting pending works, is expected to turn saviour to a large number of COVID-19 patients in Mysuru. Revolving around oxygen, hospital beds, medicine etc., politics in times of the pandemic has blurred party lines, with politicians not hesitating to either lock horns with leaders of their own party or sing paeans of leaders from rival parties.   The drive to vaccinate journalists, whom the State government has finally decided to classify as frontline warriors of COVID-19, has not gone down well with the public in Mangaluru. It has apparently irked people who are finding it difficult to get vaccines at government health facilities. During a conversation with a few reporters, MLA for Mangaluru City South D. Vedavyas Kamath (BJP) said he had received many calls criticising the government for providing a special facility to journalists who have, after all, been critical of State government’s COVID-19 management and vaccination programme. “I had a tough time convincing the public that you [journalists] are the fourth pillar of democracy and the government has declared you as frontline warriors,” he said. However, he did not forget to complain that despite this and other initiatives in COVID-19 management, the media had continued to show the government in poor light.   Minister for Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Umesh Katti(in picture)has been courting controversy even amid the pandemic and lockdown. The Minister, who is in charge of Bagalkot, claimed that the government has been doing more than enough for COVID-19 management. “We are providing beds, oxygen, drugs, and expert doctors. Still people are dying. Can we save them by pumping air into them?” he asked. At a meeting with officials and doctors in Bagalkot, he shocked all with his insensitive comment. When a doctor suggested that the government should allot oxygen concentrators for patients in home isolation, he said it might be difficult during the second wave but the government could consider the demand in the third wave. The doctor responded, “That is, if we survive the second wave!” Mr. Katti then sarcastically said, “We Ministers should survive to the third wave. I don’t know about you all.” A few days earlier, he had told a farmer to “go and die” when he demanded better quantity of food under the Public Distribution System during lockdown. Laiqh A. Khan Raghava M. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article34575302.ece
17 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Eight more relief camps in Alappuzha||The Alappuzha district administration has opened eight more relief camps as rain and sea erosion continued to batter parts of the district on Sunday. Officials said that a total of 359 people of 122 families were shifted to 19 relief camps opened so far in the district, which included six in Cherthala, five in Ambalappuzha, and four each in Mavelikara and Karthikappally taluks. Besides, the district administration has arranged 91 food distribution centres including 72 in Karthikappally and 19 in Ambalappuzha taluks for 6,692 people of 1,836 families. Coastal areas of the district were battered by rough sea for the fourth day in a row. A.M. Ariff, MP, visited the sea erosion ravaged areas of Valiazheekal and Arattupuzha on Sunday. Meanwhile, many parts of Kuttanad have been waterlogged following a rise in water levels in rivers. Floodwaters entered houses. Parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road have been submerged. “Heavy rains clubbed with an increase in flow of water from the eastern side have resulted in waterlogging in Kuttanad. We are closely monitoring water levels in rivers. The situation is under control for the time being,” said a revenue official. Kuttanad has witnessed a series of outer bund breaches in recent days, which resulted in the inundation of several houses. The Irrigation Department has so far raised 23 shutters of the Thottappally spillway. It also opened the majority of the shutters of the Thanneermukkom bund. With sea conditions expected to remain rough, fishermen have been asked not to venture into the sea until further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-more-relief-camps-in-alappuzha/article34575737.ece
17 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||It’s dashed hopes for student farmer||It was heartbreaking to see several dead Karimeen (pearl spot) floating on the surface of a pond at Pacha, near Edathua, in Kuttanad. Around 2,500 adult pearl spots and 5,000 fingerlings in the fish farm belonging to Sharon Anto Varghese, a college student-cum-fish farmer, died due to suspected poisoning by miscreants on May 14. Mr. Varghese started the farm a year ago after raising a bank loan. “Ours is a small farming family with both me and my sister undergoing college and school education respectively. The venture was started after my parents began to find it difficult to support our education due to a lack of funds. I was determined to make a living as a fish farmer and support my family. Now it has all gone in the blink of an eye. When I went to the pond, close to my home, on Friday morning, all I could see was motionless fish floating on water,” said Mr. Varghese, a final-year B.Com student at St. Aloysius College, Edathua. He suffered a loss to the tune of Rs. 3 lakh. “After all the hard work, I had just started to make a small profit from selling adult pearl spots and fingerlings. I don’t know how to overcome the harrowing situation,” he said. He lodged a complaint with the Edathua police. “We have registered a case and a detailed investigation is on. Water from the pond has been collected and sent to a lab for examination. There is no CCTV camera near the pond, which makes the probe a bit difficult. A couple of suspects are on our radar and we hope to crack the case soon,” said K.G. Prathapchandran, circle inspector, Edathua police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-dashed-hopes-for-student-farmer/article34575495.ece
17 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||1,761 new cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 1,761 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. It also recorded 10 COVID-19-related deaths. The fresh cases include 1,758 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of three others remains unknown. The test positivity rate stood at 25.91%. Areawise Of the 1,761 cases, 126 were logged from Ezhupunna and 99 from Alappuzha. Kandalloor (80 cases), Kayamkulam (66), Ambalappuzha North (58), Bharanikavu (58), Kadakarappally (57), Cherthala South (53), and Cherthala (50) also reported a high number of cases. Meanwhile, 2,050 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district fell to 25,528.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1761-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article34575738.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,KERALA||Telangana Council may face a piquant situation||A record of sorts will be created in the history of Telangana Legislature as the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Council will retire on the same day in June 2021. Incidentally, the deferment of the election of six members in Telangana and three in Andhra Pradesh to the Council under the MLA quota due to COVID pandemic situation has brought to the fore the question of the present upper house requiring a pro-tem Chairman to handle the affairs. Term ends on June 3 The term of office of the MLCs in AP ends on May 31 and those in Telangana on June 3. The Representation of People’s Act 1951 requires the Election Commission of India to conduct the biennial elections to the Legislative Councils and no notification for such election shall be issued three months before the date of retirement, according to S. Rajasadaram, former Legislature Secretary of Telangana, who was also the Chief Information Commissioner. The postponement has generated lot of interest in Telangana as Chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy and Deputy Chairman Nethi Vidyasagar are retiring on the same day creating a vacuum. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sadaram said Article 183 of the Constitution of India requires the members holding office as Chairman or Deputy Chairman to vacate their office if they cease to be members of the Council. This provision was incorporated because Legislative Council is a continuing institution without dissolution. Pro-tem chief “To overcome this contingency in the Legislative Council, the Governor has to appoint pro-tem Chairman under Art. 184 of the Constitution until the election of regular Chairman,” he noted. However, in the case of Legislative Assembly, the situation is different. After general elections, the existing Speaker will continue in office until a new Speaker is appointed by the Governor.  Karnataka only known case Mr Sadaram said the only known instance of the chairman and deputy chairman retiring creating a void was in Karnataka in 2018 when Shankara Murthy, Chairman, and Marithibbe Gowda, Deputy Chiarman, demitted office. Then the Karnataka Governor appointed Basavaraj Horatti as pro-tem Chairman. The former Legislature Secretary recalled that Puvvada Nageshwar Rao was appointed pro-tem Chairman when the Legislative Council was re-established in 2007 by Governor Rameshwar Thakur. He also pointed out that in 1979 Syed Mukasheer Shah, Deputy Chairman, was officiating as Chairman after Nivarthi Venkata Subbayya. To facilitate his election as Chairman, Abu Yousuf was appointed as pro-tem Chairman. In the history of States reorganisation, the Legislative Council was created for the first time in Telangana and at that time Nethi Vidyasagar Rao, Deputy Chairman was allotted to the State of Telangana. The established convention is - the senior most existing member will be given this responsibility. It would be interesting to see who would take over as the pro-tem Chairman till elections are held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telangana-council-may-face-a-piquant-situation/article34575178.ece
17 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Rain leaves a spell of damage in Idukki||Heavy damage to houses and standing crops were reported in the district following heavy rains for the second day on Sunday. Four houses were destroyed and 86 others were damaged in the rains accompanied by the wind. As per the data on the two days’ damage 21 houses were fully destroyed and 354 others were partially damaged. Standing crops in 294 ha of land were destroyed. Large scale damage to houses were reported in Vattavada in Devikulam taluk. Uprooted and fallen trees blocked the roads in Devikulam and Udumbanchola taluks. Plants destroyed Cardamom plants were widely destroyed in Vandanmedu, Vallakkadavu and Puliyanmala. Officials of the revenue department were taking the estimate of the damage and a report will be submitted to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-leaves-a-spell-of-damage-in-idukki/article34575739.ece
17 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Woman killed as tree falls on car||A woman was killed when a tree fell on a moving car at Puliyanmala near Kattappana on Sunday. The victim was identified as Thodupuzha resident Susamma, 64, of Venganam house. Two others, P.D. Sebastian,72, of Venganam house and his son Arunkumar,33, were also injured. The police officers said that that Arunkumar's wife Blesy was working as a doctor at the primary health centre at Mundiyeruma. The accident occurred when the family was returning after taking Susamma to the primary health centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-killed-as-tree-falls-on-car/article34575740.ece
17 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Rain wreaks havoc in Kannur, Kasaragod||Strong winds and rain caused by cyclone Tauktae deluged several areas in Kannur and Kasaragod districts, damaging houses and properties and forcing evacuation of people to safer places. In Thalassery taluk, 55 families were evacuated following sea incursion. Fifty families were relocated to makeshift camps. As many as 152 people from 44 families living at Pettipalam colony in Kodiyeri and Thiruvangadu were shifted to Mubarak High School at Thiruvangadu, and five families comprising 18 persons were shifted from the New Mahi area to the Punnol Mappila School. A house at Nirmalagiri, Koothuparamba, was completely destroyed in heavy rain. Eight houses in Dharmadam, Kathirur, Kodiyeri, Panoor, Peringalam, Thriprangottur, Bekkalam, and Cheruvancheri were partially damaged. Damage to houses and properties was reported from Chavara, Payam, Azhikode, Muzhappilangad, Kangol, Karivellur, and Korom North in Kannur. In Kasaragod Two houses were completely damaged in heavy rain in Manjeswaram taluk. As many as 110 members of 23 families in Shiriya and four families living on Kasaba beach were relocated to safer places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-wreaks-havoc-in-kannur-kasaragod/article34575487.ece
17 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Pazhassi dam partially opened||As heavy rain continues in the region owing to the formation of cyclone Tauktae over the Arabian Sea, the Pazhassi Dam was partially opened on Sunday evening. The dam was partially opened on the instructions of District Collector T.V. Subhash, who is also the chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority.  People living in Padiyoor, Irikkur, Narath, Koodali, Pappinisseri, Valappattanam, Kalliassery, Mayyil, Malappattanam, Chengalai, Anthoor, and Mattannur have been advised to remain vigilant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pazhassi-dam-partially-opened/article34575490.ece
17 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam logs 3,154 cases, 4,620 recoveries||Ernakulam logged 3,154 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The district’s test positivity rate (TPR) is 24.31%, when 12,971 tests were done. After hitting 35.10% on May 12, the test positivity rate has fallen to 28.56%, 24.59%, 25.28% and 24.31% on subsequent days. Of the new cases, 110 were reported from Thripunithura, 100 from Thrikkakara, 71 from Mulavukad, 69 from Payipra, 68 from Kumbalangi, and 66 each from Elamkunnapuzha, Kadungalloor and Chengamanad. One police officer and ten health workers have tested positive. A total of 19 people who arrived from outside the State have tested positive. The source of infection was unclear in 25 of the cases detected on Sunday. The number of people who were considered to have recovered on Sunday stands at 4,620, higher than the number of fresh cases recorded. While 402 people were discharged from hospitals and other treatment facilities, 370 people were newly admitted. A total of 1,19,196 people remain in quarantine. The district’s active caseload is 68,357. Of the people recovering from the infection, 60,346 remain at home. As many as 518 patients are admitted in intensive care units, up from 506 on Saturday. Vaccination Till Saturday, a total of 9,20,929 doses of the two vaccines had been administered in the district. While 7,07,867 people have taken the first dose, 2,11,727 people have taken the second dose as well. A total of 87 vaccination centres will function in the district on Monday, and around 20,000 doses will be administered on the day, using up the district’s existing vaccine stock, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination. While the district has so far been prioritising people for the second dose, from Monday onwards, people eligible for the first dose are being identified at the ward level, Dr. Sivadas said. Online slot bookings, which had remained suspended so far, would resume in two days, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-logs-3154-cases-4620-recoveries/article34575474.ece
17 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rain leaves a trail of destruction in coastal areas of Ernakulam||The coastal segment of the district stretching from South Chellanam to Nayarambalam has been devastated by floods caused by swell waves triggered by the spell of heavy rain following a low pressure area build-up in the Lakshadweep sea since early hours of Friday. The western areas of the Elamkunnappuzha are not as badly affected as the Chellanam panchayat but the situation is grim, said Razia Jamal, panchayat member. She said that Puthuvype, Valappu, Malippuram and Murikkumpadam have been devastated by the floods. Dozens of houses close to the beach have collapsed. Many have sunk down into the sand and need to be rebuilt completely before people can occupy them again, said I.S. Nixon, a former member of the panchayat. He, however, said that the situation appeared to have improved a little on Sunday with lower intensity rain throughout the day. He said the coastal road was flooded and a long segment of the road remained under water even on Sunday. The situation in the coastal segments of the Edavanakkad panchayat is equally grim. V.U. Dasan, a resident of the panchayat, said that eight houses have been flooded but people are refusing to move to the lone relief camp opened in the panchayat because of the COVID-19 fear. The sea wall protecting the beach at Aniyil got devastated over the years and the sea incursion has eaten away the beach to a large extent, he added. Situation eases The situation at Chellanam has eased a little but it will be difficult to return to homes immediately, said T.A. Dalfin of Paschima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samithi. He said that the relief camps opened for the people of Chellanam had not evoked great response mostly because of the pandemic fear even as the panchayat is in the grip of severe social spread of the viral disease. Father Dani Anthony, who is part of a charity organisation running an ashram, said the situation had eased a little but several dozens of people who had taken shelter at the Cortina Hospital were not in a position to move out immediately on Sunday. Mr. Dalfin said that more than a hundred houses had been rendered unliveable in the rain and flooding so far. Eighty-five per cent of the 10,3000 houses in the Chellanam panchayat have been flooded, he said. Only about 15% of the houses in the panchayat, most of them away from the beach, have been spared the hardship. The areas flooded include three fishers’ colonies where life has been rendered almost impossible now. Malikappadi and Companippadi colony dwellers need to be rehabilitated, he added. Authorities slammed Foji John, a resident of Chellanam, said the authorities, who should have provided protection to the lives and property of people, had utterly failed. He said people had lost what they had saved during a life time of work and they are being forced to flee their homes because of the failure of the authorities. Administrators have been giving hollow promises, he alleged but called on them to wake up and work to protect people and their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-in-coastal-areas-of-ernakulam/article34575486.ece
17 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘No legal hurdles in online swearing-in of Kerala govt.’||As the demand for online swearing-in of the new government in Kerala gets louder, jurists say there is no legal infirmity in a government assuming office through online mode. The Article 164 (3) of the Constitution states that “before a Minister enters upon his office, the Governor shall administer to him the oaths of office and of secrecy according to the forms set out for the purpose in the Third Schedule.” There is no ban on an online event as the Constitution does not insist on a physical mode, pointed out jurists. Incidentally, online platforms are abuzz with discussions and campaigns for holding the event on a virtual platform. Several organisations, including the Indian Medical Association, have favoured the online mode in the wake of the alarming spread of COVID-19. The State government, which had earlier planned a public event, had announced its decision to cut down the number of invitees. According to C.K. Abdul Rahim, former judge of the Kerala High Court, the Constitution speaks only about the Governor administering the oath of office and it has not been mentioned anywhere that the function shall be held in physical mode. There is no legal infirmity in holding the event online as the Constitution has not spelt out the manner in which it shall be held. Moreover, it has not prohibited any mode of event for the Ministers to assume the office, said Mr. Rahim. S. Siri Jagan, another former judge of the Kerala High Court, too opined that there was nothing illegal in holding the event online. However, there cannot be any change in the form of the pledge. Digital signatures B.G. Harindranath, former Law Secretary, felt that the makers of the Constitution had not foreseen the advent of online world and hence there was no mention about the mode of Ministers assuming the office. Even the signatures of the Governor and Ministers after the pledge could be made in digital form. K. Sudhakara Prasad, Advocate General, who too was of the view that the online event would be legally valid, felt that conventionally the swearing-in was held in a physical mode. Sticking to the convention, Mr. Prasad suggested physical mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-legal-hurdles-in-online-swearing-in-of-kerala-govt/article34575183.ece
17 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Triple lockdown takes effect in Ernakulam, Thrissur||Violators of triple lockdown norms, which will be in effect in Ernakulam till May 23 night, will be penalised under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, says an official press release. Shops selling provisions, vegetables, fruits, meat and fish will remain open from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Home delivery must be optimally relied on for sourcing these items, if need be by utilising service of ward-level volunteers. Banks will function from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, with minimal workforce. Hotels can do home delivery of food items from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Customers will not be able to fetch parcels directly from hotels. Wayside selling of items has been banned. Ration, public distribution, Maveli and Supplyco outlets are permitted to remain open till 5 p.m. every day while retail fuel outlets, medical labs and medical shops can operate as per their normal timings. Personnel employed by e-commerce portals to deliver essentials can do so from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. Home nurses and maids must procure online pass. Wholesale trading at fishing harbours has been permitted on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Auction will not be permitted. Weddings and other events must be postponed. Those which were fixed well in advance can be hosted with maximum 20 people in attendance. Pre-monsoon cleaning of drains and public spaces can be held as per COVID-19 protocol, having a maximum of five people at a work site. All district boundaries will be closed and only goods carriers and essential services will be permitted to proceed. In Thrissur Around 80% of the grama panchayats, and municipal and corporation divisions in Thrissur district have already been declared containment zones. The District Collector has listed additional control measures in the wake of the triple lockdown. People may venture out of their homes only for emergencies. Provisions stores and bakeries can be opened on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday while vegetable and fruit shops can open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. Meat, fish and poultry shops can function on Saturdays from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. But, distribution of goods should be done only via home delivery or through rapid response teams and ward-level panels. All banks will function on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/triple-lockdown-takes-effect-in-ernakulam-thrissur/article34575476.ece
17 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi start-up innovates compact COVID ventilator||At a time when reports are rife on the spike in the number of COVID-19 patients needing ventilator support and ICU care, a Kochi-based start-up has started commercial production of a cost-effective and compact COVID-specific ventilator at the Technology Business Incubator (TBI) of the Kalady-based Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering and Technology. The ventilator has been named Jeeva Vayu-50 or JV-50. Having turned its focus to biomedical products during the first wave of the pandemic, the start-up, Machbee Innovations Private Limited, has since developed three variants of the ventilator, each a refined version of the previous one. While it had multiple partners in the beginning, the latest version was developed solely by the start-up. “The latest version is far more compact and portable and weighs only around 7 kg unlike the previous model, which was far too bulky. We have redesigned the mechanical system making it easier to operate with just three control systems — breath per minute, inhalation / exhalation ratio, and tidal volume. The automated ambu bag means that the patient can breathe with the help of the ventilator mask alone, while the system can also be attached to an oxygen cylinder if need be,” said Rahul Mohan, CEO, Machbee Innovations. The redesigned product was calibrated and approved by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). Pricing, at Rs. 50,000, remains a major USP of the product, while quality ventilators are priced between Rs. 7 lakh and Rs. 14 lakh in the market. The product has evoked good response and has already been supplied to a Bengaluru-based voluntary organisation for donation to primary health centres and the Government General Hospital in Ernakulam. “We have also supplied five pieces to the United Nations and multiple units to various other agencies. We have the capacity to produce 300 ventilators in a month, which can be doubled in the event of an emergency,” said Mr. Mohan. It is also learnt that the State government has placed a bulk order with the start-up, though it is reluctant to confirm it. While the ventilator has been labelled COVID-specific, there is also a redesigned model, which can also be tweaked to serve as a paediatric ventilator and also for sleep apnea. The automated ambu bag makes it compatible with ambulances and even in households with specific purposes. While the initial model was developed in three weeks with a financial assistance of Rs. 1.50 lakh from Adi Shankara TBI, the start-up invested another Rs. 3 lakh to fine-tune and redesign it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-start-up-innovates-compact-covid-ventilator/article34575481.ece
17 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi Mayor for reviving dewatering method||The ‘petti’ and ‘para’ system to drain water from canals, which had been dismantled, will have to be revived to deal with the city’s waterlogging issues, according to Mayor M. Anilkumar. High tide accompanied by heavy rainfall causes flooding of the Perandoor canal and the drains associated with it, which is responsible for waterlogging in several areas, he said. The Perandoor canal traverses through Panampilly Nagar before emptying into the backwaters at Thevara. This could explain the recurrent flooding in the Panampilly Nagar area, Mr. Anilkumar said. He pointed out two solutions to waterlogging in the city — one is to complete projects suggested by Esteem Developers in a report prepared years ago, and the other is to revive the petti and para system. The petti and para system, that had been dismantled in most places over the past few years, involves using a shutter to prevent water from flowing in from the Vembanad lake, while pumping excess water back into the lake. Corporation officials have been directed to set up a petti and para system at Panampilly Nagar. In Vivekananda thodu, which is a part of the Mullassery canal, a stronger pump will be set up in the existing petti and para mechanism. Water from the Mullassery canal at one end also flows into the Perandoor canal through a railway culvert near the KSRTC bus stand. A pump placed there helps divert the water back into the Vembanad lake. To prevent waterlogging in the Kaloor area, the petti and para mechanism near PVS Hospital will have to be revived. The experience over the past two days has indicated that pumping water from areas prone to waterlogging is the city’s best bet, according to Mr. Anilkumar. A total of 15 pumps were used during the rainfall the city recently witnessed. These were placed at spots, including the KSRTC bus stand, Panampilly Nagar, near Yathra Auditorium, and the KSEB sub station at Edappally. The Esteem Developers report had suggested a drain through Sreekandath Road and into the Vembanad lake, and another rain through St. Benedict Road, to deal with waterlogging in M.G. Road and Ravipuram areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-mayor-for-reviving-dewatering-method/article34575483.ece
17 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||FACT helps in oxygen supply||Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Limited (FACT) is supporting the fight against COVID-19 by providing oxygen plants. The company has ordered five PSA plants to augment oxygen availability. Of these, four plants are for Kerala and one is for Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fact-helps-in-oxygen-supply/article34575735.ece
17 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||49 MGU colleges yet to appoint Principals||Forty-nine private aided colleges under Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) are yet to appoint Principals as per regulations prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and statutes of the varsity. Only 17 of the 66 private aided colleges have appointed Principals so far as per norms. Requests for approval of appointments in five colleges are pending before the Syndicate, according to official sources. Following the inordinate delay in the appointment of Principals, the varsity had issued an order on May 8, directing the erring managements to send the promotion orders of teachers with an undertaking by the college managers that principals would be appointed within three months. An order issued by the varsity on March 17 last year had asked managements to appoint principals as per norms and stay away from the practice of having drawing and disbursing officers of their choice in the absence of Principals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/49-mgu-colleges-yet-to-appoint-principals/article34575451.ece
17 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||No respite from rain in Kottayam||The incessant downpour continued to wreak havoc in the Central Travancore districts of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta for the third consecutive day on Sunday, disrupting normal life. With no respite from the rain, water level in the major rivers across the region continued to rise throughout the day, inundating the low-lying parts along the riverbanks. Water level in the Meenachil breached the warning level of 6.16 meter at Kidangur in the afternoon, though it came down later in the evening. Water level Water level in the Muvattupuzha river too remained well over the flood warning level throughout the day, though it showed a declining trend. The Manimala and Pampa rivers also flowed in full spate and breached banks at different points. As per the rainfall data available with the Hydrology section, Kottayam showed that the Kozha region received the highest downpour of 93.2 mm in the 24 hours that ended on Sunday morning, closely followed by Vaikom with 90.7 mm rains. As many as 13 district camps were opened across Kottayam, which together accommodated about 220 persons. In Pathanamthitta, the authorities have opened seven relief camps across the six taluks, which together accommodated 123 persons from 27 families. As per official statistics, Kurudamannil region received 62 mm of rainfall in the24 hours that ended at 8 a.m on Sunday, followed by Konni, which received 54 mm. The unending gush of flood water from the upper reaches have inundated most parts of the upper and Northern Kuttanad, damaging houses and crops including paddy in several hectares of land. The squally winds that accompanied the rains the other day had spewed wide-spread destruction along the high-ranges of Kottayam and Pathanamathitta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-respite-from-rain-in-kottayam/article34575742.ece
17 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,806 test positive in Kottayam||As many as 1,806 tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 1,799 including a health worker contracted the disease through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate during the day stood at 23.2%. With 253 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pala with 96 cases. About 2,461 recovered. Pathanamthitta The number of fresh cases here dropped to 798. Of this, all but four persons contracted the disease through contact. The district reported 10 deaths and the test positivity rate is 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1806-test-positive-in-kottayam/article34575744.ece
17 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||TPR drops to 20.06% in Kozhikode||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) dropped to 20.06% in Kozhikode district on Sunday when 2,406 of the 12,571 samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The number of recoveries from COVID-19 surged to 5,179 too. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 2,345 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of 58 others is not known. The Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 624 such locally acquired infections, Feroke 77, and Kakkur 71. Right now, the active caseload is 40,599. Meanwhile, Health Department officials said that 7,25,860 people have so far been vaccinated in the district. Of them, 1,68,462 have got both the doses and 5,57,398 got only the first dose. A total of 1,237 beds are vacant in 61 hospitals designated for COVID-19 treatment. High surveillance The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation will deploy squads for every 100 houses in an effort to tackle the spread of COVID-19. The squads will comprise people’s representatives, volunteers, Anganwadi workers, Kudumbashree members, and representatives of residents associations, besides corporation officials. The functions of the squads include ensuring that those in home isolation do not mingle with other members of the family. Those showing symptoms should be taken to testing camps. The services of special officers who have received police training will be used in clusters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-drops-to-2006-in-kozhikode/article34575479.ece
17 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||9 relief camps opened in Kozhikode||The number of relief camps in Kozhikode district was increased from three to nine on Sunday as part of measures to mitigate the threat of sea erosion and offer protection to the affected families. By complying with the COVID-19 protocol, 174 persons from 38 families were shifted to the camps, which were opened in Kozhikode and Koyilandy taluks. Revenue Department officials said there were 71 women and 42 children from various coastal villages who made use of the temporary facilities. Considering the difficulties involved in opening larger camps amidst the pandemic threat, many of the affected families opted to stay in the houses of their relatives, they said. On Sunday, the destruction of a seawall affected around 100 houses along the Azhithala-Kuriyadi stretch of the Vadakara coastline. According to officials, the 4-km-long seawall was caving in, unable to withstand the rough waves. Following the directive of the District Disaster Management Authority, 310 persons from affected houses were relocated to safer places. Vadakara taluk officials said the affected coastline had turned into a garbage dump with large amounts of plastic waste washed ashore after the collapse of the protective wall. Many relocated families would be able to go back to the spot only after the reconstruction of the seawall, they said. According to official figures, the incessant rain and related calamities damaged 10 houses in the district on Sunday. Revenue Department officials will soon submit a report to process eligible compensation for the house owners. A few other houses in Vadakara taluk remained waterlogged the whole day, forcing families to move out, in search of temporary accommodation. One dead Rain-related calamities claimed the life of an elderly woman in Arikkulam village. The victim was identified as K.M. Yasodha. The Koyilandy police said a coconut tree fell on the 71-year-old when she was working near a cowshed. She succumbed to her injuries on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/9-relief-camps-opened-in-kozhikode/article34575492.ece
17 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two arrested||The Thamarassery police on Sunday arrested two persons with 1,900 packets of banned tobacco products. C. Ashraf and K. Shaji were arrested during a vehicle checking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested/article34575473.ece
17 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Boat traced by rescue squads||Ajmir Shah, a fishing boat from Beypore which could not come back to the shore in time following rough weather conditions, was tracked by rescue squads off the Mangaluru coast on Sunday. The Coastal Police informed that all the 15 fishermen were safe on the boat. It was on May 5 that the fishermen ventured into the sea. There were also unconfirmed reports that the boat was missing. Though the fishermen organisation leaders from Kozhikode had tried to contact the crew, it had failed to work out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boat-traced-by-rescue-squads/article34575482.ece
17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination norms for 18-44 age group issued||With vaccination for prioritised groups in the 18-44 age group beginning in Kerala on Monday, the government has issued guidelines regarding the same. As the vaccines procured by the State are only in limited quantities, vaccination in this age group can only be taken up in phases, the government has said. The government has already released a list of co-morbidities for determining the eligibility of those in the 18-44-years age group for COVID-19 vaccination. Conditions Some of the conditions prioritised by the government include heart failure and other select cardiac conditions, end-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis/CAPD, immuno- deficiency diseases, cancer, liver cirrhosis, organ recipients or those on waiting list, disabled persons with high support needs and so on. Register on CoWin The beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group should first register in the Union Health Ministry’s CoWin site, https://www.cowin.gov.in. The list of co-morbidities and the format of the co-morbidity certificate can be downloaded from the site of the Health Department. They should then register in https://covid19.kerala.gov.in/vaccine/, where the list of co-morbidities have been detailed and upload the co-morbidity certificate for getting priority for vaccination. District RCH Officer/person designated by RCHO will scrutinise each application received in the portal and approve the eligible beneficiaries for priority vaccination. Subsequently, vaccination centre and date for vaccination may be scheduled by the district team, based on the availability of vaccine. Only those beneficiaries who get approval and an SMS on the scheduled session from the Health Department need report to the vaccination centres. At the centre, such beneficiaries should produce the appointment SMS, valid photo ID proof and the co-morbidity certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-norms-for-18-44-age-group-issued/article34575497.ece
17 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district under triple lockdown||Stringent restrictions have come into effect in the capital district with the clamping down of a triple lockdown on account of the COVID-19 situation. District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has said that the curbs will remain in force until May 23. A decision on extending the restrictions will be made at a later stage. Alternate days During the period, shops selling food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy products, meat and fish, animal fodder, poultry and cattle feed, and bakeries will be open on alternate days starting from Monday onwards. These establishments must wind their activities including home delivery by 2 p.m. While the government has permitted milk and newspaper distribution until 8 a.m., fair price shops including ration, public distribution system (PDS), Maveli and Supplyco shops and milk booths are permitted to function on all days till 5 p.m. Restaurants and hotels will be allowed to function from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. with home delivery services only. No dine-in and take-away (or parcels) will be permitted. Medical shops, petrol pumps, ATMs, shops selling life-saving equipments, hospitals and other clinical establishments shall be functioning on all days. The district authorities have advised the public to get provisions and vegetables from the shops near their houses and to refrain from travelling long distances for the purpose. Minimal staff Among commercial establishments, banks, insurance and financial services will function with minimal staff on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Cooperative Banks can function only on Monday and Thursday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. E-commerce entities and delivery services for essential items will be permitted to operate from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. on all days. The police will strictly regulate entry and exit in the district. Strict perimeter control will be ensured in containment zones. While inter-State road transport is permitted for goods and emergency services, registration is mandatory on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal for individuals for entering the State through the inter-State border. Household helps, home nurses, caregivers, technicians (engaged in electrical and plumbing services) must obtain the online passes (from pass.bsafe.kerala.gov.in) for travel. The City police have commenced barricading roads in each police station limits to streamline vehicular flow through designated entry/exit points. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said vehicles will be screened at entry/exit points in each police station limits. Sealed Certain other access points have been completely sealed. Such ‘blocking points’ include Chenkottukonam, Udayagiri, Attinkuzhy, Pallithura, Vilayilkulam junction, Kakkamoola, Pappanamcode, Punnamoodu, Uchakkada, Vellaikadavu, Nettayam, Keraladithyapuram, Kizhakke Mukkola and Mangattukadavu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-under-triple-lockdown/article34575446.ece
17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Directive to report fungal infection to medical board||With reports of increasing incidence of COVID-associated Mucormycosis (CAM), an invasive fungal infection, from across the country, the State government has alerted all hospitals to report any cases of CAM to the State Medical Board on a real-time basis. The guidelines issued by the Health Department say that details of all cases of CAM (popular as black fungus) reported from January this year should be shared with the medical board. The department has also suggested aeromycological studies in all ICUs at the earliest to assess fungal spore count. An aeromycological study can check for the presence and concentration of fungi in the air. According to infectious diseases experts, CAM was reported in Kerala even during the first wave of COVID-19 but the number of cases was below the background rate (the number of cases occurring naturally in a population) of invasive mucormycosis reported in immunocompromised patients, especially those with uncontrolled diabetes in the preceding years. The single-most risk factor for the development of mucormycosis is uncontrolled blood sugar levels and it can become one of the most devastating complications in patients with uncontrolled diabetes. Caution on steroids To prevent CAM, good glycaemic control amongst COVID-19 patients is essential. Also, systemic or oral steroids should be administered with caution. Steroids should be administered only to the right patients, in right dose and at the right time or else it can play havoc with the blood sugar levels of a COVID patient with diabetes. However, even without exposure to steroids, CAM has been reported in patients with diabetes in whom blood sugar control has not been achieved. ‘Not contagious’ The guidelines clarify that mucormycosis is not contagious. It can occur concomitantly with active COVID-19 infection or sequentially in weeks or months following recovery. It is not spread by oxygenation, humidifier, or water. The fungi enter the respiratory tract via air. The guidelines suggest universal masking and maintenance of strict aseptic precautions while administering oxygen to patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-to-report-fungal-infection-to-medical-board/article34575507.ece
17 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sea erosion relentless along capital coastline||Rainfall decreased in intensity in the district on Sunday with Cyclone Tauktae moving away, but some areas reported heavy rain even as sea erosion remained severe along the coast. In all, 1,197 people (308 families) were relocated to 23 relief camps opened in the district following the rain havoc, the district administration said on Sunday. Twenty-three houses were destroyed and 398 houses damaged in sea erosion in the heavy wind and rain which lashed the region over the past four days. Coastal areas including tourist hub Kovalam, Pozhiyoor, Vizhinjam, Kochuthope, Vettucaud, Pallithura, Shangumughom, Valiyathura, Adimalathura, Kochuveli and Anchuthengu have reported sea erosion. Minister Kadakampally Surendran toured the coastal stretches on Sunday to assess the damage. Thiruvananthapuram taluk has the highest number of relief camps. In all, 771 people from 186 families have been put up in 12 camps here. Three houses were destroyed and 60 damaged in the rain havoc over the past few days. In Neyyatinkara taluk, 91 families (342 people in all) have been evacuated to various camps. Of this, 48 families are put up at the St Mathew's High School, Pozhiyoor. Two houses have been destroyed and 38 houses damaged in the taluk, while four houses were destroyed and 80 damaged in Varkala. Three camps have been opened in Chirayinkeezhu taluk. Twelve houses were destroyed and 212 houses damaged in the taluk, the district administration said. In a 4 p.m. weather update on Sunday, IMD has forecast light to moderate rainfall in the district on Monday. However, the district can expect isolated heavy rainfall in the subsequent three days. The weather agency has put the district on yellow alert on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sea-erosion-relentless-along-capital-coastline/article34575449.ece
17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Small allies told to share Cabinet posts||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on Sunday reportedly prodded four minor Left Democratic Front (LDF) allies with not more than one seat each in the next Assembly to share a maximum of two Cabinet berths between themselves. The details of the close door talks were sketchy. Nevertheless, party persons privy to the negotiations said the CPI(M) had persuaded the Indian National League (INL), Congress (S), Kerala Congress (B) and Democratic Kerala Congress (DKC) to hold a Cabinet rank for two-and-a-half years and concede the remaining term to another single-member ally. It was unclear whether LJD with a single MLA would get a Cabinet post. The party might have to settle for a board or corporation. The LDF is scheduled to hold a crucial meeting to finalise government formation on Monday. It has asked allies to make up their minds on Cabinet formation. Other berths There were unconfirmed reports that the CPI(M) would take 12 Cabinet seats, including the Chief Minister. The Communist Party of India (CPI) might settle for four Cabinet posts and the chair of the Deputy Speaker. Kerala Congress (M) was likely to bag a Cabinet post and the office of the Chief Whip. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Janata Dal (S) might get one Cabinet post each. The minor allies were reportedly disappointed with the CPI(M) move. DKC legislator Antony Raju and KC(B) MLA K.B. Ganesh Kumar reportedly expressed dissatisfaction with the ‘decision.’ Mr. Ganesh Kumar, a four-time MLA, had served in the Oommen Chandy government as Minister. Mr. Raju was arguably the mainstay of the LDF in coastal Thiruvananthapuram in the Assembly polls. Both leaders had told the CPI(M) that they could achieve little as Ministers if the LDF restricted their respective terms to two-and-a-half years. Congress (S)’ Kadannappally Ramachandran and INL’s Ahamad Devarkovil were yet to articulate their position. By some accounts, the leaders might agree to the CPI(M) proposal. Mr. Ramachandran is currently the Ports Minister. The CPI(M) had earlier proposed that the LJD merge with the Janata Dal (S), which has two legislators. However, the socialist parties seemed unable to settle their differences at the national level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/small-allies-told-to-share-cabinet-posts/article34575498.ece
17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||At 29,704, a slight dip in cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph has been showing a slight dip in new cases ever since it registered the highest single day spike on May 12, when 43,529 new cases were reported. However, testing too has been dipping in the State. On Sunday, the State reported 29,704 new cases, when 1,15,982 samples were tested in 24 hours. Test positivity rate (TPR) on Sunday also showed a slight dip at 25.61%. The active case pool that had shown a steady rise till Saturday showed a dip for the first time on Sunday, dropping from 4,45,334 patients on Saturday to 4,40,652 on Sunday. This could be due to the fact that more recoveries than new cases were reported on Sunday, with 34,296 persons recovering. However, there is no let-up in hospital admissions. With 3,640 persons getting newly admitted to hospitals in the State on Sunday, the number of COVID patients currently hospitalised rose from 37,067 on Saturday to 37,117. ICU admissions have been steadily on the rise. A total of 3,686 persons are occupying ICUs in public and private hospitals across the State, with 64 patients newly entering ICUs in 24 hours. Of these patients, 1,441 are on ventilator support. 89 deaths Now, 10,06,759 persons are on home or institutional isolation. On Sunday, the State added 89 recent deaths to the official list, taking the cumulative COVID fatalities to 6,428. These are not deaths reported in the past 24 hours but which occurred over the past few days Thiruvananthapuram reported 29 of these deaths, Thrissur 14, Alappuzha 10, Palakkad nine, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad seven each, Ernakulam five, Kannur four, Kottayam two and Malappuram reported one death. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 21,47,967 cases. Ernakulam continues to have the highest number of active cases, 68,352. Thiruvananthapuram, with 45,093 active cases, has the highest number of hospitalisations at 5,628. Most in Malappuram Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 4,424, Ernakulam 3,154, Palakkad 3,145, Thrissur 3,056, Thiruvananthapuram 2,818, Kollam 2,416, Kozhikode 2,406, Kottayam 1,806, Alappuzha 1,761, Kannur 1,695, Idukki 1,075, Pathanamthitta 798, Wayanad 590, and Kasaragod 560 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-29704-a-slight-dip-in-cases/article34575506.ece
17 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||HC order opens Pandora’s box in higher education sector||The High Court order to quash the appointments of 58 teachers in Kerala University has opened a Pandora’s box in the higher education sector. The judgement is feared to pave the way for the annulment of numerous appointments made in at least five State universities since 2014. The court’s single-bench order has also put a question mark on the legal validity of the University Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2014 passed by the State Assembly, which formed the basis of the appointments made in 2017. Like many others across the country, the university had abandoned the practice of applying separate communal rotation for each category of teaching posts in each department. Instead, teaching posts were pooled category-wise by treating all the departments as a single unit. Other universities, including Kannur, Calicut, Mahatma Gandhi Universities, Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit and National University of Advanced Legal Studies, have all been following the procedure since 2014. While notifying 105 teaching posts in 2017, Kerala University had also implemented the 3% reservation approved by the government for Persons with Disabilities (PWD). Significant fall Official sources pointed out that while the manner in which the appointments were conducted ensured 50% for the reserved sections, reverting to the process of considering teaching departments as separate units for fixing reserved posts would have led to a significant fall. Applying the previous methodology, the number of ‘open’ (or general category) posts would have been 32 of the 44 Assistant Professor posts that were notified. Only 12 posts (27% of the total number) would have gone to the reserved sections. Likewise, department-wise rotation would have brought down reservation in the Professor and Associate Professor categories to 3% and 23% respectively. Pointing out that an appeal will be filed against the single-bench verdict, Kerala University Vice-Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai said that the previous system of appointments could never have fostered social justice as the existing one. “While many appointments could be made from reserved sections, these included two postings made from the PWD category, a first in the university’s history since its inception in 1937,” Dr. Pillai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-order-opens-pandoras-box-in-higher-education-sector/article34575443.ece
17 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,818 new cases in capital, 2,912 recover||Thiruvananthapuram district witnessed a considerable fall in COVID-19 caseload on Sunday when 2,818 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The cases were detected when 9,788 people were subjected to COVID-19 tests during the last 24 hours. The sharp dip in cases’ count did not provide cause for relief as the test positivity rate stood at a worrying 28.79%. Considering 12,076 people were tested previously, the significant decrease in the number of tests has been attributed to the inclement weather that has prevailed in the district during the last few days. With 2,912 people recovering from the illness, the number of active cases stood at 45,290. While most cases were attributed to local transmission of the infection, the source of infection is unknown in 190 cases. Five health workers were among those who tested positive. 29 deaths Twenty-nine more COVID-19 deaths were also reported in the district on the day. The deaths, which occurred between May 11 and 15, were of people whose ages ranged from 37 to 91. The pandemic has claimed 1,255 lives in the district thus far. The district authorities placed 5,033 more people under quarantine, taking the count of people being monitored in the district to 96,131. Conclude As many as 5,877 others were permitted to conclude quarantine during the last 24 hours.  The authorities placed 5,033 more people under quarantine, taking the count of people being monitored in the district to 96,131||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2818-new-cases-in-capital-2912-recover/article34575447.ece
17 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GST council meet first challenge for new FM||A big challenge awaits the State’s new Finance Minister as Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has convened the Goods and Service Tax (GST) Council on May 28 after a gap of seven months. The new Finance Minister (FM) of the next Left Democratic Front government will have only a week to do the homework and get a grasp of the complex GST issues, if the Council of Ministers’ swearing-in takes place as planned on May 20. In the online meeting to be chaired by Ms. Sitharaman from Delhi and attended by top Finance Ministry officials, the Minister will have a tough task to project the State’s demands and obtain more GST rate cuts for COVID-19 supplies. As the key agenda of the 43rd GST Council meeting is the GST rates on various medical devices, essential drugs and other COVID-19-related issues, the convention is seen critical for the State battling the second wave of the pandemic. Having implemented the Pay Commission report for government employees, teachers and retirees in April, the financial situation of the State is deemed not that healthy. Mobilising funds for the purchase of COVID-19 vaccine directly from manufacturers is also a challenge. Although it was stated in the last Budget presented by T.M. Thomas Isaac that COVID-19 vaccine would be made available free of cost, no allocation was made in the Budget head for medicines. Rate cuts sought The meeting is being convened even as several States are seeking GST rate cuts on essential COVID supplies. The Centre has already exempted integrated GST on imported items such as oxygen concentrators, ventilators and life-saving drugs that come through the donation route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-council-meet-first-challenge-for-new-fm/article34575493.ece
17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Internet radio 1.14 Sahithy Vani a hit with students||Varsha S.S., a Class 11 student of St. Thomas Higher Secondary School, Mukkolakkal, regularly listens to 1.14 Sahithy Vani, a novel Internet radio run by children. Varsha likes the story segment best, but what draws her to Sahithy Vani each week is that it is prepared and presented by children. “Their effort has to be appreciated. They must also be getting invaluable experience through this. They are an inspiration for all children.” 1.14 Sahithy Vani completed its 25th episode on Sunday. The celebrations were held on air in an episode that was nearly two hours long. Launched on November 20, World Children’s Day, last year to keep students creatively engaged during the pandemic, the Internet radio is brought to students by the voluntary organisation Sahithy. Filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan formally inaugurated Sahithy Vani on November 25. The ‘1.14’ in the name refers to the vehicle registration icon numbers of districts from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod in the north, says 1.14 Sahithy Vani director general Binny Sahithy who is also the secretary general of Sahithy. But it is not only students from across Kerala, but also those outside and even Malayali students in the Gulf countries who are part of Sahithy Vani. Sarvodaya Vidyalaya Class 11 student Alu Krishna, who is the station director, says besides a core team of 14, they have many other students who take turns presenting 12-odd segments. An online meeting is held every Monday to decided the week’s programmes. Coordination Alu’s main responsibility is to coordinate the presenters and their segments, including those shot by students abroad. Alu listens to each segment along with two teachers who are Sahithy Vani’s editors, relays the corrections required, and then sends the corrected audio for editing before it can be uploaded every Sunday. Alu finds all of it interesting. “We get to meet so many children, from the State, Bengaluru, and even Bahrain, and mingle with them and learn what their talents are. It is children who schedule the programmes and edit it. We learn interpersonal skills, coordination, and leadership skills.” Mr. Binny says but for three of their presenters, none of them have come face-to-face in real life; all is digital. The programme link goes to over 500 schools. The links also reach students through Facebook and WhatsApp. The bouquet of programmes include Star Chat in which prominent people are interviewed and Kurinjipookkal, a programme on environment in tribute to the poet and environmentalist, and a segment on main education news during the week. Students can also listen into songs, poetry, quiz, health, and beauty tips, cookery, and so on. Advisory panel Sahithy Vani’s advisory committee includes George Onakkoor and Palliyara Sreedharan. Its editors include Saga James, Suja J. Sahib, and Naseer Nochad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/internet-radio-114-sahithy-vani-a-hit-with-students/article34575442.ece
17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Focus on prevention of communicable diseases||Attention should be given to the prevention of communicable diseases even in the midst of the fight against COVID-19, Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja has said. The Minister was presiding over a meeting on pre-monsoon cleaning as part of the ‘dry day’ observance here on Sunday. She said National Dengue Day on Sunday was being implemented as a dry day on the directions of the Chief Minister. The government had decided to observe dry days frequently, instead of a single day. This would help in source-reduction activities to check proliferation of mosquitoes. Personal hygiene and clean surroundings were also important. Regular cleaning and chlorination should continue. Local self-government institutions should take the lead in organising these activities. Ward members should conduct inspections in every ward. Junior public health nurse, junior health inspectors, and ASHA workers, along with volunteers, should support them. The Minister said clean-ups and vector source-reduction should be taken up to gear up for the monsoon. The surroundings of centres where COVID-19 people were accommodated should be cleaned up, Ms. Shylaja said. She warned that as the possibility of leptospirosis, dengue, and other fevers was high during this time, people should not remain under the impression that fever was caused by COVID-19. Without correct treatment, these could even result in death. As part of the Arogya Jagratha campaign to prevent communicable diseases in association with local bodies in line with the slogan ‘everyday prevention,’ steps to be taken every day were charted and implemented. With more cases of leptospirosis being reported during the rains and in places that are inundated, those coming in contact with water, particularly sanitation workers and rescue workers, should be administered doxycycline by health workers. Water used in camps should be clean. Only boiled water should be used for drinking, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-prevention-of-communicable-diseases/article34575444.ece
17 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala University’s oldest pensioner dies at 106||Kerala University Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai and Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar condoled the death of the university’s oldest pensioner, Mathew Pereira, 106, who died on Sunday. Hailing from Kunnukuzhy, Mr. Pereira’s involvement with the university began as a steno typist to C.V. Chandrasekharan, who was appointed as special officer by Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma for setting up the university in 1937. He retired on January 31, 1971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-universitys-oldest-pensioner-dies-at-106/article34575505.ece
17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Now dial 104 for Disha||Disha, the National Health Mission and the Health Department’s round-the-clock helpline, has got a new toll-free number — 104. The new number comes in the wake of unification of health helplines nationally. Besides 104, Disha will continue to be available on 1056 and 0471 2552056. It was in January last year, during the initial phase of COVID-19, that Disha was made into a COVID-19 helpline. Many services Calls can be made to Disha to get general information regarding quarantine and its violation, mental health support, doctor-on-call, vaccination, migrant workers, e-Sanjeevani, Kerala Arogya Suraksha Paddhati (KASP), allergy, child development, availability of medicines, and so on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-dial-104-for-disha/article34575502.ece
17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. political affairs panel meet deferred||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran on Sunday cancelled the meeting of the party’s Political Affairs Committee (PAC) scheduled for May 18 and 19. He said the triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram had constrained the KPCC to defer the meeting. The KPCC would announce the new dates later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-political-affairs-panel-meet-deferred/article34575501.ece
17 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Admission after COVID screening||As heavy rain, winds, and sea erosion continued for the third consecutive day on Sunday in Thrissur district, relief camps were opened in Thrissur and Chalakudy, apart from the coastal areas of Kodungallur and Chavakkad. Two camps were opened at Chalakudy and one in Thrissur in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol. People are admitted to the camps after COVID screening. Of the camps, one is for COVID patients and four for those in quarantine. There are 28 COVID patients at the camp at St. Sebastian’s School, Pariyaram, Chalakudy, and 67 persons in quarantine have been accommodated in these camps. At present, there are 17 camps in the district. In all, 480 people from 174 families have been rehabilitated. They include 202 men, 189 women, and 89 children. Camps were also opened at Edavilangu, Eriyad, and Mathilakam on Sunday. Houses damaged Several houses were damaged and trees uprooted in strong winds and rain in the district. More than 100 houses were inundated at Eriyad, Chavakkad, and Kaipamangalam. Flooding is severe in these areas. A sand bund got breached at Kanakkankadavu. An electric post fell on a lorry near Kuthiran. Standing crops too were destroyed. The wall of the Kudalmanikyam Temple pond in Irinjalakuda collapsed in heavy rain. Call for vigil Meanwhile, the Assistant Executive Engineer at the Peringalkuthu dam has sounded red alert, as the water level in the reservoir is rising fast. The maximum water level at the reservoir is 419.41 metres, and it touched 419 metres at 6.30 p.m. on Sunday. Excess water will be released to the Chalakudy river once it reaches the maximum level. People have been asked to be vigilant. Injured in house collapse A man was injured when a house collapsed at Cherpu near Thrissur on Sunday. The house of Vasu Thekkiniyedathu was totally destroyed in the rain. Six others inside the house escaped unhurt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admission-after-covid-screening/article34575489.ece
17 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||3,056 cases in Thrissur||There were 3,056 fresh COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Sunday, while 2,989 patients recovered from the disease. The test positivity rate is 28.75%. Five local bodies in the district reported TPR higher than 50%. They are Varantharappilly (50.64%); Chovvannur (51.27%); Pazhayannur (80.81%); Porkkulam (55.84%); and Kodassery (50.00%) The number of active cases in the district is 56,091 and 77 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far 2,04,927 COVID-19 cases were reported from the district and 1,47,728 people have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3056-cases-in-thrissur/article34575477.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Life-breath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-breath/article34575720.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Small joys||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/small-joys/article34575191.ece
17 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur district records 14 deaths||Anantapur on Sunday registered 14 casualties and 3,356 COVID cases, the highest single-day toll and tally the district has seen since the outbreak of the pandemic. The active caseload as of Sunday stood at 17,465. The district tested 7,456 samples, out of which 3,356 returned positive. The surge in active cases has further led to shortage of oxygen-supported and ICU beds in the 45 government/private hospitals. In all, 2,554 patients are being treated at present in the hospitals (267 ICU, 1,536 oxygen beds, and 751 ordinary beds). At a press conference on Sunday, District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad said the administration was trying its best to bring in more oxygen-supported beds (500 of them) at Tadipatri at the earliest. The administration has also advertised for recruiting medical staff and paramedics at the temporary facility for a six-month period. The work on the construction of the ‘German tents’ was also progressing at a fast pace, he said. Meanwhile, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Sunday issued show-cause notices on two nurses and Super Speciality Hospital Superintendent for their alleged dereliction of duties due to which Andhra Pradesh Micro Irrigation Project(Anantapur) Director S. Subbarayudu died on Friday night. Doctors suspended Two duty doctors were suspended for their alleged non-availability at the time when he was brought for treatment. Also, it turned out that a faulty oxygen flowmeter at the Super Speciality Hospital reportedly delayed the process of treatment despite the District Collector alerting the staff to keep everything ready for Subbarayudu’s arrival. It took about 25 minutes for the treatment to begin and also there was no stretcher to carry the patient from the ground floor to the second floor, which forced his son and another relative to carry him in physically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-district-records-14-deaths/article34575230.ece
17 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red chilli destroyed as fire breaks out in Ballari cold storage||Red chilli bags were gutted in a major fire that broke out in Jayanthi Indian Products Private Limited, a cold storage in the Ballari Industrial Estate in neighbouring Karnataka on Saturday night. However, no human loss or injury was reported. The worst sufferers were the farmers from Uravakonda, Guntakal and Aluru Assembly constituencies of Anantapur and Kurnool districts who had stored their produce in the cold storage and the loss is estimated to be close to several crores of rupees. The five-floor cold storage facility belonging to a Kerala-based company caught fire at around 8 p.m. on Saturday, but the incident came to light a bit late as the cold storage was closed from all sides. People living nearby alerted the the fire safety officials after sensing the pungent smell of the burning chilli. Four fire tenders struggled till 9 a.m. on Sunday to douse the flames. Chillies stored in three floors of the facility were reportedly gutted. Farmers from Andhra Pradesh are now exploring all options to get compensation for the loss. ‘No casualty reported’ “A large number of red chilli bags were stored at the cold storage and fire personnel and police found it difficult to approach the spot because of the pungent smell of the burning chillies. There were no casualties,” said Ballari Superintendent of Police Saidulu Adavath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-chilli-destroyed-as-fire-breaks-out-in-ballari-cold-storage/article34575780.ece
17 May 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raids fail to deter some private hospitals from fleecing patients||Notwithstanding the efforts being made by officials, some unscrupulous private hospitals in the city continue to fleece patients taking advantage of the pandemic situation. The hospital managements do not seem to be bothered about the consequences, and are even arguing with officials during the raids. A private hospital, which is not a notified COVID Hospital, located in the heart of the city at Jagadamba Junction, has been admitting and treating COVID-19 patients. The hospital management was charging Rs. 50,000 a day for the treatment. In addition, it was charging Rs. 35,000 for each Remdesivir injection, after forcing patients to buy it at its drug store. ‘Shoddy maintenance’ “The hospital management even threatened patients with dire consequences if they complain to anyone. A patient, who had lodged a complaint with us that Remdesivir injections were being sold at high rates by the hospital, backed out when we went to the hospital for a raid. He changed his statement and said that he had procured the injection from outside,” D. Suneeta, Drugs Inspector (Vigilance), who was in the Flying Squad, which conducted the raid, tells The Hindu . “The case sheets were also not properly maintained. There is no mention of the drugs and injections given to the patient. When the hospital owner, a doctor himself, was questioned on the irregularities, he told the squad team carelessly that he had no time to go to the DMHO’s office to obtain permission for registration as a ‘COVID notified’ hospital. He maintained that the patient had bought Remdesivir from outside,” she says.  ‘Case filed’ “He had no answer, when the medical officer, who was part of the Flying Squad, pulled him up for the shoddy maintenance of the case sheets. A case was filed at the Maharanipeta police station against the hospital. A COVID notified hospital, at Gopalapatnam in the city, was asking the patient attendants to buy Remdesivir injections from outside, while the hospital was supplied adequate stock by the authorities. These injections are also not being given to the patients but sold in black to outsiders. There is no way of the patient knowing as to what injections are given, and not allowing attendants into the hospitals makes it easy for unscrupulous hospitals to cheat patients,” adds Ms. Suneeta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raids-fail-to-deter-some-private-hospitals-from-fleecing-patients/article34575797.ece
17 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus case graph sluggish in Kerala||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu rose to 2,19,342 with another 33,181 persons testing positive for the infection on Sunday. As on date, the number of persons who tested positive is 15,98,216. On Sunday, 311 persons died of the viral infection taking the toll to 17,670. At the same time, 21,317 persons were discharged after treatment from various health facilities. So far, 13,61,204 persons have been discharged, according to the daily bulletin provided by the Directorate of Public Health. Chennai’s daily tally saw a marginal dip with 6,247 persons being diagnosed with the infection. Kerala’s graph, after the highest spike on May 12 of 43,529 new cases, showed a drop. However, testing too was dipping. On Sunday, the State reported 29,704 new cases from 1,15,982 samples. The TPR showed a slight reduction at 25.61%. The State added 89 recent deaths to the official list. Active cases, on a steady rise till Saturday, showed a reduction, dropping from 4,45,334 to 4,40,652. However, there was no let-up in hospital admissions, and 3,640 more persons were admitted, while total hospitalised cases stood at 37,117. ICU admissions were rising. A total of 3,686 patients were in ICUs, and 64 werenewly admitted. There were 10,06,759 persons in home or institutional isolation. Ernakulam continued to have the maximum active cases at 68,352, while Thiruvananthapuram had 45,093. Andhra Pradesh hit a fresh peak with 24,171 new cases on Sunday, and added 101 deaths. Active cases rose to 2,10,436. The daily TPR had been rising even after the 18-hour curfew from May 5. The 94,550 samples tested in a day returned a TPR of 25.56%. In spite of a lower number of tests in Telangana, 3,816 new cases and 27 deaths were reported on Sunday. Daily COVID screening was lower by nearly 20,000 tests.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-states-exceed-25-positivity/article34575187.ece
17 May 2021||CHIRALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reeling under pandemic curbs||Shyam Sundar, a GenX weaver, decided to stick to the line of work that his ancestors engaged in, at a time when many his age from the community looked for greener pastures leaving their traditional occupation. Adapting himself to the changed circumstances, he came out with new computer-aided designs and even produced products from organic cotton and natural dyes to meet the environment-conscious customers who were ready to pay a premium price for such products. Much against odds, he stayed afloat producing colourful sarees during the first wave of the pandemic last year. Now the weaver, who heads Indira cooperative society, is clueless on continuing the work. With the virulent second wave ravaging the country, there are no takers for the products produced in the last six months. Similar is the reality of weavers who toil at the house-cum-worksheds in and around Chirala. Silence reigns at this once-bustling town renowned for handloom products. Usually, the demand that gradually increases from the harvest season peaks during the month of May coinciding with the marriage season. But now, many functions have been postponed to a later date. “Earlier, many women used to throng our worksheds for various social occasions. Nowadays, there is hardly anyone to buy our products,” lamented weaver B.J. Narasimhan while showing the piled-up stocks. It is high time the Union government comes out with an economic revival package to support the sector which provides employment to over 31.45 lakh households in the country, said National Federation of Handlooms and Handicrafts president M. Mohan Rao. As an immediate step, the Centre should provide Rs. 18,000 for six months to each weaver in addition to supply of essential commodities through PDS outlets. Economic activity could be revived by earmarking Rs. 5,000 crore for distribution of free Dhoti and saree to 23 crore families below the poverty line in the country. Another Rs. 2,000 crore should be allotted for market intervention, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reeling-under-pandemic-curbs/article34575238.ece
17 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rapid spread in all mandals in Chittoor worries officials||While the COVID situation in some parts of the country seemed to have turned a corner, the daily count in Chittoor district continued to remain alarming forcing the police personnel to tighten the lockdown restrictions. On Sunday, the number of new cases stood at 2,885, taking the district’s tally to over 1.6 lakh while the toll stood at 1,090. What’s added to their worries is that the spread, which till the first week of May was concentrated in Tirupati and Chittoor municipal corporations and Madanapalle municipality, has now begun to engulf all 66 mandals of the district rapidly. Since a week, the western mandals of Kuppam, V. Kota, Baireddipalle, Palamaner, Punganur and Bangarupalem have been registering fresh cases in double-digit. Nagari and Puttur mandals, whose daily tally was below 20 last week, recorded over 70 cases each on Sunday. Though there was some respite in eastern mandals of Satyavedu, Nagalapuram, Pitchatur, KVB Puram and BN Kandriga early this month, cases are now gradually increasing. Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Sunday announced that the government hospital at Punganur would be converted into a 100-bed COVID Hospital on a war-footing. The Minister said the truck with 150 oxygen cylinders is already on the way to Punganur from Gujarat. The facility is expected to be ready for the treatment of critically ill patients by Monday. Check-posts set up Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said in view of the mounting cases in Chittoor corporation limits, nine check-posts had been set up at important junctions - Reddigunta, Kajur Circle, MSR Circle, Chowdeswarai Temple, RR Garden Kanipakam, Santhapeta, LGB Towers, Karumaramma Temple and Darga Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rapid-spread-in-all-mandals-in-chittoor-worries-officials/article34575232.ece
17 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second Oxygen Express reaches Guntur||The second Oxygen Express carrying 76.39 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) chugged into the Concor siding, at Nallapadu in Guntur on Sunday. The LMO special had started from the Reliance Rail Terminal, Kanalus railway station, in Gujarat on May 14, and took 31.30 hours to reach its destination located at a distance of 1,854 km. In view of the rapid rise in the COVID-19 cases and a significant surge in the demand for LMO in various parts of the country, the Railways has created a signal-free green corridor to provide safe, secure, hassle-free, and fast transportation of oxygen to the different parts of the country. Later, the LMO was decanted into the containers to be supplied to various medical facilities across the State. Principal Secretary (Transport) and Special Officer M.T. Krishna Babu, Special Officer (Media) Arja Srikanth, district Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar, Senior Divisional Railway Manager Ram Babu, and Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Narendra Varma were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-oxygen-express-reaches-guntur/article34575782.ece
17 May 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala village bids adieu to Soumya||The village of Keerithodu in Kerala’s Idukki district on Sunday bid a tearful adieu to Soumya Santhosh, who was killed in a missile attack in Israel. Her body was brought to the village on Saturday night, and was placed for the public to pay homage till noon. People from all walks of life paid their last respects to her. Collector H. Dinesan placed a wreath on behalf of Governor Arif Mohammed Khan. Promises help Israel Consul General Johnatan Sadka reached Keerithodu to pay homage. He said that the people of Israel considered Soumya an angel. This was a very complicated time for all, he said. “Soumya was a victim of terrorism. It is an unbelievable loss to the family and her son. The Israel government will provide all support to the family,” he said. Soumya had been working as a caretaker to an elderly woman at a house in Ashkelon, which borders the Gaza strip. Her husband and nine-year-old son stay in Kerala. The funeral was held at Keerithodu Nitya Sahaya Matha Church at 2 p.m. Idukki Bishop Mar John Nellikkunnel led the funeral service. Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose, Kerala Janapaksham leader P.C. George and Idukki district panchayat president Gigi K. Philip attended the funeral. Mr. Kuriakose said the State government failed in adequately paying last respects to the woman who lost her life in a foreign country. Not a single representative of the State government attended the funeral or paid respects to the family. No one from the government was there to receive the body at Nedumbassery airport, he said. “The District Collector attended the funeral as a representative of the Governor,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-village-bids-adieu-to-soumya/article34575182.ece
17 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E.G. reports 22,000 cases, 47 deaths in a week||East Godavari district has witnessed more than 22,700 COVID-19 cases and 47 deaths over the past week, with every 30 people among 100 getting infected with the dreaded disease. More than 29,000 patients are undergoing treatment across the district as Kakinada and Rajamahendravaram cities remain the hotspots for the spread of the disease. According to the Health Department statistics, the highest number of 3,432 cases were reported on May 14. Over 10,000 cases were recorded in three days from May 13.  Meanwhile, Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha said a kilometre-long pipeline was being laid, connecting AP Paper Mill to the ESI hospital for the supply of 15 kilo litres of medical oxygen in Rajamahendravararam. “We are increasing production capacity of medical oxygen in the district to minimise dependence on Visakhapatnam city and Odisha,” he said. The oxygen production unit being funded by Vedanta group will shortly begin production, and is expected to meet the demand of Rajamahendravaram. Joint Collector G. Rajakumari said that additional 400 beds would be provided at the COVID Care Centre on the JNTU-Kakinada campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eg-reports-22000-cases-47-deaths-in-a-week/article34575767.ece
17 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kurnool blessed with better medical infra’||The district kept its COVID-19 positivity rate low at 24.80% during the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. Of the 2,944 samples tested during the period, only 730 turned positive. District Medical and Health Officer Rama Giddaiah told The Hindu that Kurnool was blessed with better medical infrastructure. “The district has three teaching hospitals. Besides, the setting up of COVID Care Centres in APTIDCO buildings in Kurnool, Adoni and Nandyal has turned out to be a blessing in disguise,” he said. The average positivity rate from May 9 to 16 was 6.76%, which was a result of the people’s COVID-appropriate behaviour and the lockdown being enforced by the police. ‘No dearth of beds’ “We do not have any shortage of ICU beds or oxygen-equipped beds in the district. We can tackle critical cases too as we have a good number of expert doctors in all the hospitals - both government and private,” Dr. Giddaiah said. “The occupancy rate in hospitals is close to 75%. We have enough beds available as the total number of active patients is only 7,568, and more than 80% of them are in home isolation,” he said. Meanwhile, the Greenco Foundation donated 13 oxygen concentrators and 10 oxygen cylinders to the Nandyal Government Hospital. It handed over the material to the hospital superintendent in the presence of Sub-Collector Kalpana Kumari. The foundation donated another 15 oxygen concentrators and 10 cylinders to the Kurnool Government Hospital in the presence of Panyam MLA K. Rambhupal Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-blessed-with-better-medical-infra/article34575234.ece
17 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||40-day Mahamrityunjaya Homam begins at Srisailam||The Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Devasthanam at Srisailam on Sunday began a 40-day Mahamrityunjaya Pashapatha Homam for global peace and welfare of the people. Special pujas were performed to the deity on the temple premises on Sunday morning. Meanwhile, with the number of devotees visiting the temple coming down drastically due to the curfew imposed in A.P., Telangana and other neighbouring States, the management has decided to re-introduce an online facility where people can view the sevas on YouTube. Temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao said the temple had introduced the online seva facility in April 2020 in a limited way for the devotees. The concept, christened ‘worship from home’, had become widely popular then. The fee for the ten services offered by the temple is fixed at Rs. 1,116. The sevas are: Ganapathi Homam, Rudra Homam, Mrityunjaya Homam, Kumkumarchana, Rudrabhishekam, Valli Devasena Sametha Subramanyeswara Swamy Kalyanam, Chandi Homam, Veda Ashirvachanam, Leela Kalyanotsavam, and Ekanta Seva. People can now visit the temple’s official website and book a seva by making the payment online at https://www.srisailadevasthanam.org/en-in/sevas-and-darshanam/paroksha-seva. After making the payment, one will receive a YouTube link where one can view the sevas. “We catered to 22,000 online requests over the past one year and accrued over Rs. 2 crore as fee for the services rendered. This kind of service is now being introduced in other Endowments Department-run temples in the State,” Mr. Rama Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/40-day-mahamrityunjaya-homam-begins-at-srisailam/article34575185.ece
17 May 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elephant trapped in slush rescued||An adolescent elephant that was stuck in slush at Bandipur was rescued by forest personnel late on Saturday. The female elephant was found wallowing in the slush in Moleyur range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Initially, it was thought to be rolling and taking a mud bath to beat the summer heat, as is the wont of the free-ranging elephants when they come across waterbodiesin forests. But soon it became apparent that the elephant had exhausted itself in its attempt to extricate itself out of the slush. It was unable to stand and was rolling from side to side to heave itself up, but struggling to do so given the slippery nature of the terrain. The Forest Department personnel, who reached the spot on being alerted by the watchers, informed their higher-ups and a heavy earth-moving equipment was pressed into service. It was used to gently nudge the elephant towards the edge of the slush where the ground was less slippery. This enabled the elephant to haul itself up. It appeared disoriented for some time, but gently ambled away into the jungles. The authorities said they monitored the elephant for a while and it appeared to be healthy. This is the second such incident in recent months. Early in January, a 20-year-old elephant was trapped in Nugu reservoir, in the fishing nets laid by local villagers. They disabled its ability to swim. But following a rescue operation and the removal of the nets, the elephant walked free into the jungles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elephant-trapped-in-slush-rescued/article34575189.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narsapuram MP moves apex court for bail in sedition case||Narasapuram MP Kanumuri Raghu Ramakrishna Raju has approached the Supreme Court seeking bail in a sedition case registered against him. Vocal critic Mr. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju, represented by senior advocate Adinarayana Rao and advocate Tatini Basu, alleged that the registration of the case against him was a “vindictive action” by his own party’s government led by Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Raju, a vocal critic of the State government, said the High Court refused to consider the grounds in his bail plea and asked him to approach the trial court for relief. The MP said his outspoken comments on various digital platforms against the State government have irked the ruling dispensation. Right to free speech He said the FIR has alleged that his comments on these platforms amounted to hate speech and would trigger enmity between various castes and religions. He urged the apex court to protect his fundamental right to speech and expression. Free speech should not be shackled by imposing penal provisions on the speaker, he argued. Staff Reporter from Guntur adds: Earlier in the day, Mr. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju was shifted to the district jail here after a medical board constituted by the Andhra Pradesh High Court said that he had no injuries. Mr. Raju, who had been sent to judicial remand on Saturday evening by the 6th Additional Magistrate Court, was examined by a team of doctors, led by GGH Superintendent G. Prabhavati. The doctors conducted several tests such as ultra scanning and colour doppler, and concluded that the MP did not bear any visible physical injuries. The report was put in a sealed cover and taken to the Division Bench of the State High Court through a messenger. Later in the evening, Mr. Raju was shifted to the district jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-cong-mp-moves-sc-for-bail-in-sedition-case/article34575177.ece
17 May 2021||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteers keeping the spirit of humanity alive in city||As the city battles the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, volunteer groups have sprung into action in offering support to those infected. From providing tele-counselling and facilitating tele-consultation with doctors to assisting in getting plasma donors and information on hospital beds, several groups are keeping the spirit of humanity alive with their effort. “We have not seen such an unprecedented flood of calls for COVID-19 related queries in the past one year. We are getting nearly 100 calls daily,” says Chandan Achary, co-founder of Vizag Volunteers, a Visakhapatnam-based non-governmental organisation.  Plasma donation The NGO was founded by Karnatakapu Satish in March last year, two days after the nationwide lockdown came into force, with the primary objective to help the poor and the needy affected by the lockdown. Vizag Volunteers brings a whole of information on a single platform on their website (www.vizagvolunteers.org) . These include availability of hospital facilities, essential drugs, emergency phone numbers for tele-consultation of doctors, free and paid services for oxygen cylinder suppliers and rentals, home sample collection, testing, doorstep food delivery services for home quarantined patients and plasma donation requests. “Our focus currently is on plasma donation and tele-consultation,” says Mr. Chandan. For plasma donation, Vizag Volunteers has tied up with the AS Raja Blood Bank in the city and works in close association with the Health Department for getting the data of COVID recovered persons. “We reach out to the recovered once they are eligible and counsel and encourage them to donate plasma. One of our main policies is to never connect a donor with a receiver. In the process, we have been able to eliminate the black marketing of plasma in the city that existed in the initial months of the pandemic,” he adds. People from across shores, too, have formed groups to provide support to such times of crisis. Ramya Janapareddy, Nihar Yerubandi, Ramya Kancharla, Nikhil Rampalli and Padmaja Bevara have all come together from different corners of the world to form the group Covid Help Pan India. Right from sourcing information on home ICU set-ups to assisting patients in connecting with doctors and hospitals, the group has been active across social media networks. “We follow a standard format of information which has all the essential information of the patient mentioned. We forward the information in our networks to find any lead for the requirement of the patient. The information also helps us get a fair idea about the current condition of the patient which we share in our networks,” says Ramya, who is based in the US currently. A 12-member team of Young Indians COVID Taskforce is actively working on cases for oxygen beds, ventilators and plasma donors. “The requests for ventilators are pouring in. But it’s important to celebrate the recovery stories. We have helped about 100 patients, including five pregnant women, and organised nearly 30 plasma donations,” says Ananya Gopalshetty of CII-Young Indians. Other organisations like JCI (Junior Chamber International) Vizag are updating information on their websites by providing contacts of service providers, helpline numbers of Andhra Pradesh and other statistics under one platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteers-keeping-the-spirit-of-humanity-alive-in-city/article34575793.ece
17 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases continue to soar in coastal districts of Nellore, Prakasam||There was no respite for people from COVID-19 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as 13 more patients succumbed to the viral disease and 3,200-plus persons got infected in a span of 24 hours. With this, the active cases rose to a new high of 37,988 in the region in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. The toll rose to 1,417 in the region as seven patients in SPSR Nellore district and six in Prakasam district died, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Sunday night. The overall tally crossed the 1.95 lakh-mark as 1,628 persons in Prakasam district and 1,593 in SPSR Nellore district tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. Pressure on the health infrastructure continued in the region as the gap between the number of new admissions and recoveries was over 1,500. As many as 1,188 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 500 patients in Prakasam district were discharged after recovery. Reviewing the health situation in Ongole, State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy wanted the health professionals to contribute their mite to ensure speedy recovery of the patients, and promised to extend all possible assistance from the government side. The medical officers told him that pressure on the Government General Hospital in Ongole had come down following setting up of temporary beds with oxygen facility. They wanted the Minister to augment the health infrastructure in the public health centres across the district. Helpline In Nellore, District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu reviewed the health situation and exhorted the patients to seek admission into hospitals or COVID Care Centres only by calling helpline number 104 instead of visiting directly private hospitals. Noting that a section of the patients approached quacks, he urged the public to pass on information about them to 1077. There was no oxygen shortage in the district as it received replenishment from RINL(Visakhapatnam) as also from Chennai and Sriperambadur in Tamil Nadu, he said. The Collector suggested that those requiring oxygen should get themselves into notified hospitals or CCCs. Demand for oxygen supply to individuals and non-notified hospitals would be discouraged, he made it clear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-continue-to-soar-in-coastal-districts-of-nellore-prakasam/article34575236.ece
17 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongole youth contracts black fungus infection||The family members of 26-year-old P. Srivasulu heaved a sigh of relief when doctors declared that he had been recovered from coronavirus infection recently. But, the relief was ephemeral as the youth residing in Seetharamapuram area here complained of blurred vision a few days after recovery.  After a consultation, the doctor diagnosed it to be black fungus infection. His wife, who is into sixth month of her pregnancy sought crowd funding to meet the medical expenses for mucormycosis which is expected to run up to Rs. 20 lakh. “We have already spent more than Rs. 3.50 lakh on a surgery performed on Mr. Srivasulu at a hospital in Chennai,” said his wife. Following the suggestions of a few eye specialists in Ongole, Mr. Srivasulu and his wife went from one hospital to another in Hyderabad before a super speciality hospital there admitted him. Then Mr. Srivasulu was referred to SRM institute of Science and Technology in Chennai, where he is now recuperating, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongole-youth-contracts-black-fungus-infection/article34575783.ece
17 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||9 volunteers sacked for dereliction of duty||Nine village/ward volunteers were removed from service with immediate effect in Srikakulam district. The volunteers reportedly failed to conduct the door-to-door fever survey properly in spite of repeated directives from officials, according to a release from Joint Collector K. Srinivasulu. “These volunteers submitted reports without conducting a field study and survey over fevers. We will not spare any volunteer for dereliction of duty. It will be viewed seriously since the fever survey is important to take corrective measures to control COVID-19 in the district,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9-volunteers-sacked-for-dereliction-of-duty/article34575770.ece
17 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industries hit by manpower shortage||Industries in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts are struggling to function at full capacity due to reduced manpower in the wake of a full-blown COVID-19 pandemic in the region. Though the State government has allowed a majority of industries to continue production, both major and medium industries are struggling to rotate their employees and labourers in three shifts. There are 35 major and 300 small- and medium-scale industries in the two districts. Many industries are learnt to be operating only with 70% of their manpower. Over 800 employees and workers of Pydibhimavaram-Pusapatirega industrial zone have tested positive in the last three weeks. The spurt in cases has led to panic, with many employees deciding to stay away from work by availing long leave. Lack of transport facilities for labourers from nearby towns and village has also become another obstacle for companies in ensuring sufficient manpower at their respective units. “We requested employees to work for 12 hours instead of eight. They are being paid extra wages and incentives. Somehow, production is continuing without any obstacle so far,” said a senior executive of a company at Pusapatirega in Vizianagaram district. As per the government’s orders issued on May 5, the industries involved in manufacturing of essential items can operate round-the-clock. Other industries should use manpower only for a single shift and workers should be relieved by 2 p.m. Industries involved in construction activity will have to function only in single shift so that workers would be able to reach home early. The industries were advised to submit self-certification while providing details about workers and shift timings to the General Managers District Industrial Centre-Srikakulam. The Industries Department will ensure permission for vehicles and their movement even during curfew hours. “We directed all industries to follow COVID-19 protocols such as wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing at their respective units. The units have to communicate to the Industries Department about the steps being taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” said B. Gopala Krishna, general manager of the Srikakulam district industrial centre. CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao asked factories to give special risk allowance and Rs. 50 lakh insurance coverage for all the staff. He also insisted on transport facility being provided to labourers as buses were being operated only for executives and employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/industries-hit-by-manpower-shortage/article34575763.ece
17 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plasma therapy has limited effect in COVID patients, says study||With the sharp spike in coronavirus infections and related deaths during the second wave the pandemic, there has been an increased clamour on plasma donation especially on various social media platforms. However, a study involving 464 adults with moderate symptoms of the infection last year suggests that the Convalescent Plasma Therapy (CPT) has shown a limited effect in reducing the progression to severe disease or death. The study ‘Convalescent Plasma in the management of moderate COVID-19 in adults in India: open label phase II multicentre randomised controlled trial (PLACID trial)’ was conducted in 39 public and private hospitals in India, involving 464 adults admitted between April and July last year. Tirupati connection Of the nearly 100 co-authors of the study report, five were from the Tirupati-based Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), including its Director and professor of neurology B. Vengamma, Alladi Mohan and K. Chandrasekhar (both from Department of Internal Medicine), K.V. Sridhar Babu and B. Suresh Babu (both from Department of Transfusion Medicine). As many as 235 patients were transfused convalescent plasma, while another 229 patients received standard care only. The first category received two doses of 200 ml of convalescent plasma 24 hours apart and the samples were studied for 28 days, after which progression to severe disease was witnessed in 44 patients in the first category (19%) and 41 patients (18%) in the second. The study, published in the British Medical Journal (BMC) last October, concluded that ‘convalescent plasma was not associated with a reduction of progression to severe COVID-19 or all cause mortality, though it seemed to improve resolution of shortness of breath and fatigue in patients.’ The researchers also found no difference in 28-day mortality or progression to severe disease among the patients in either category. Another study conducted by Argentina and published in New England Journal of Medicine this February on patients in the age group of 65 to 74 years, however, showed benefits in the elderly when CPT was administered within 72 hours of the onset of symptoms. Bottlenecks The studies discussed some practical problems too. Though all survivors of COVID-19 were encouraged to donate plasma, most of them were young and had only mild infection. The recovered patients who had moderate to severe infection were reluctant to visit hospitals for plasma donation, which proved to be a stumbling block in scaling up plasma treatment. As CPT is authorised for off-label use for COVID-19 in India, it questioned practices such as requests for donation on social media and sale of plasma in the black market at exorbitant prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plasma-therapy-has-limited-effect-in-covid-patients-says-study/article34575785.ece
17 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT Tirupati to become COVID Care Centre||Yet another COVID Care Centre is set to come up on the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) campus located in Yerpedu mandal of Chittoor district. The district administration is contemplating to make use of the facility, keeping in view the rising cases and the need to accommodate mildly-affected patients from the Srikalahasti constituency. On the directions of Collector M. Hari Narayanan, Revenue Divisional Officer (Tirupati) Kanaka Narasa Reddy visited the campus and explored the possibility of converting some of the buildings into a COVID Care Centre. Mr. Reddy also examined the vacant lands being identified for establishment of an oxygen plant near Srikalahasti. Meanwhile, Joint Collector (Development) K. Veerabrahmam held a meeting on Sunday with agents supplying oxygen to all hospitals in the district, where they were instructed to act on priority basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iit-tirupati-to-become-covid-care-centre/article34575240.ece
17 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic police to slap fine on curfew violators||Finding the movement of people rising during the curfew hours, the police department has announced to levy fine of Rs. 535 (including Rs. 35 as e-challan charges) under the Motor Vehicles Act on those moving on the road by violating the norms. The department also found a number of vehicles with fake stickers claiming to be ‘Press’ and ‘Police’ and travellers making fake claims of visiting hospitals and pharmacies. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu on Sunday appealed to the staff of medical, electricity, Press, municipal corporation, industrial, food delivery apps, cable operators and those in emergency services to affix the mandatory pass on their vehicles so as to avoid hassles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traffic-police-to-slap-fine-on-curfew-violators/article34575239.ece
17 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||39,000 with COVID symptoms identified during fever survey||Health, Medical and Family Welfare Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal has said that more than 39,000 persons with COVID related symptoms were identified during the ongoing fever survey across the State and all the cases are being followed up by medical teams. “As of Saturday evening, 39,000 persons with fever, cough and other symptoms associated with coronavirus infection have been identified during the survey being conducted by ANMs, medical officers and others. The survey is expected to be completed by Monday evening,” Mr. Singhal told the media. Already 30% to 40% of the people identified with the symptoms have been referred for COVID testing and isolation kits have been given away to them, he said. Black fungus Referring to the mucormycosis infection (black fungus), he said a detailed analysis with all the hospitals in the State was going on and a clear picture will emerge soon. “The Central government has allocated 1,600 vials of injection to treat mucormycosis and the government will make the purchases accordingly,” said Mr. Singhal. He further said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the State Cabinet will take a decision on the extension of partial curfew on Monday after reviewing the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/39000-with-covid-symptoms-identified-during-fever-survey/article34575777.ece
17 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP chief urges Governor to intervene||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday appealed to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to intervene and save the life of Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju, who was shifted to the Guntur Sub-Jail by the CID allegedly in violation of the orders of the High Court. In a letter to the Governor, Mr. Naidu said that the MP’s wife and other family members were worried as they perceived a “grave danger” to his life from the YSRCP government. “The MP sustained injuries while in CID custody. The court had ordered that he be sent for medical examination at the Ramesh Hospital in Guntur. But the police have defied the orders,” Mr. Naidu alleged. He said, “The CID police had illegally arrested the MP in Hyderabad on May 14 and brought him to the CID police station in Guntur, where he was allegedly subjected to custodial violence.” As per the court orders, the police should get the MP examined at the Government General Hospital in Guntur and then at Ramesh Hospital, also in Guntur, Mr. Naidu said. “This should be done in the presence of the ‘Y’ category security personnel provided by the Centre. The police did not take Mr. Raju to Ramesh Hospital for medical examination, and, instead, shifted him to the Guntur Sub-Jail. They shifted the MP through the back door at the GGH, without informing his family members ,” Mr. Naidu alleged. “There is a need for the Governor to intervene, as Mr. Raju has, time and again, been stating that he faces a threat to his life from the ruling dispensation in Andhra Pradesh, the State police, and the YSRCP leaders,” Mr. Naidu said. Mr. Raju’s wife Ramadevi too apprehended a threat to his life, he said, and added that the Central government had provided the MP ‘Y’ category security in 2020 considering the threat perceived from the ruling YSRCP. “It is a sad day for democracy. An elected people’s representativeis being treated like a common criminal ,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-chief-urges-governor-to-intervene/article34575787.ece
17 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A vengeful act, says GVL||Taking strong exception to the arrest and alleged custodial violence on Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju, BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao said that the episode has exposed the ‘vengeful attitude of those who are hell-bent on teaching the outspoken leader a lesson for launching a diatribe against the State government.’ Mr. Narasimha Rao also expressed doubt whether the charges framed against the Narsapuram MP, particularly the accusation that his speeches and actions amounted to sedition, were in compliance with the relevant guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court. “The claim that the Lok SabhaSecretariat was given prior information about the MP’s arrest is yet to be verified. It is a matter to be taken up by the protocol committee of the Lok Sabha if the circumstances warrants a fact-check,” the BJP MP told the media on Sunday. He said the MP was allegedly hauled up by the police at the behest of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who should remember that ‘this was not the way to silence his critics.’ The YSRCP was free to suspend the MP or expel him if he resorted to anti-party activities and made objectionable comments against the government, but it did not take any disciplinary action, pointed out Mr. Narasimha Rao. The MP was arrested in Hyderabad and brought to Guntur overnight and this appears to be a ‘premeditated act of vengeance’, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-vengeful-act-says-gvl/article34575790.ece
17 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engg. colleges seek nod for online exams||Members of the Andhra Pradesh Private Engineering College Managements’ Association have appealed to the authorities concerned to conduct exams in online mode and make it a one time affair for all students (UG and PG), in the current academic year. In a letter addressed to the Vice-Chancellors of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological Universities (JNTU) at Kakinada and Anantapur, the association president C. Gangi Reddy, general secretary M. Sridhar and treasurer S. Ramesh Babu said in the prevailing pandemic situation in the State, engineering colleges had been conducting online classes to complete the syllabus as per the academic calendar prescribed by the universities. Pointing to the grim scenario due to the rapid spread of the virus and an increasing number of positive cases, they sought permission from the universities for conduct of the exams online. "This will prevent crowding of students on campuses and will help avoid unnecessary delay in the academic schedule, especially for students in their final semester," they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engg-colleges-seek-nod-for-online-exams/article34575241.ece
17 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freedom of expression under attack: Sailajanath||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Sunday said that freedom of expression enshrined in the Constitution was under attack in the State. In a statement, Dr. Sailajanath condemned the arrest and alleged mishandling of Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju by the police. He said the YSRCP government was intolerant of anyone who criticised Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. In its “autocratic rule” in the last two years, the YSRCP government had unleashed a reign of anarchy, targeting its political opponents and news channels that refused to toe its line, the Congress leader alleged. “The Dalit community is at the receiving end of the lawlessness resorted to by the ruling party leaders. An assault on an MP in police custody is unheard of. The government is resorting to such acts to divert the people’s attention from its failure to contain the COVID-19 pandemic,” he alleged. He said the court of law should protect the people’s fundamental rights of freedom of speech and expression, and Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan should seek accountability from the government, whenever it overstepped its role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/freedom-of-expression-under-attack-sailajanath/article34575788.ece
17 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CID is victimising opposition leaders’||TDP leader K.S. Jawahar has alleged that CID Additional DGP P.V. Sunil Kumar is “victimising the Opposition leaders” to please his political bosses. He it was unbecoming on the part of Mr. Sunil Kumar “to give Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju the third degree” in the CID custody. It was Mr. Sunil Kumar who had arrested the MP, and, therefore, was answerable to the courts on “custodial violence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-is-victimising-opposition-leaders/article34575791.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chandanotsavam in virtual mode nets Rs. 15.45 lakh||Notwithstanding the celebration of Chandanotsavam in the virtual mode in view of the pandemic situation, the hundi collections at the temple of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Naraismha Swamy of Simhachalam on that day totalled Rs. 15.45 lakh. The biggest festival of the temple during the year draws thousands of devotees every year. This year it was held on May 14 without devotees in view of the second wave surge in COVID-19. The devotees, however, sent their offerings online. A total of 338 devotees offered Rs. 1,116 each for reciting their ‘gothram’ in front of the deity (total Rs. 4.33 lakh). Their ‘gothras’ and names were recited in front of the ‘Nijarupam’ on that day. The event was telecast live. A total of 56 devotees offered half kg sandalwood paste each Rs. 10,116 each (total Rs. 5.66 lakh) and 22 devotees offered 1 kg ‘chandanam’ or Rs. 20,116 each (total Rs. 4.42 lakh). Another Rs. 1.03 lakh was received through online donations. Chandanam and Sesha Vastram will be sent to devotees, who donated one kg chandanam, and chandanam will be sent to other eligible devotees in a couple of days to the address sent by them. The authorities have to decided to accept donations during the next three rounds of Chandanam offering to the deity this year. There is no limit on the sandalwood offerings. Those who send the donations should send a screen shot and ‘gothra namas’ to the WhatsApp no. 6303800736. They can call on the same number for any further queries. Donations can be sent to UPI ID:9491000635@SBIor SBI account no. 11257208642 IFSC code SBIN 0002795. Temple trustee Sanchaita Gajapati and Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala thanked the devotees for their cooperation in the successful conduct of Chandanotsavam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chandanotsavam-in-virtual-mode-nets-rs-1545-lakh/article34575772.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naval Dockyard teams repair two oxygen plants in Nellore and Srikalahasti||Teams from the Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, achieved a major breakthrough in repairing two major oxygen plants in Nellore and at Srikalahasti thus achieving a major boost to the oxygen supply in the State during the pandemic. Based on a request from the State administration, the Eastern Naval Command had airlifted the teams of specialists from Naval Dockyard by naval Dornier Aircraft from Visakhapatnam, about a week ago. The teams successfully repaired the oxygen plants on Sunday morning by overhauling the compressors and replaced certain adapters and accessories which were manufactured within the dockyard. The Krishna Teja Oxygen Plant in Nellore is a big cryogenic plant capable of charging 400 jumbo type cylinders a day and had been non-functional for the past six years. The naval team undertook the repairs of the plant and managed to achieve the cryogenic temperature of minus 186° Celsius and also achieve the requisite output oxygen pressure to charge bottles. The analysis of the output is 98% oxygen, 0% carbon monoxide and 0.01% carbon dioxide meeting the requirements of medical grade oxygen. The plant in Srikalahasthi, near Tirupati, is a big plant based on Vacuum Pressure Swing Adsorption (VPSA) technology and is capable of generating 16,000 litres per minute.  Requisite output The naval team undertook repairs of the plant and achieved the requisite output for medical grade oxygen above 93%, 0% carbon monoxide and 0.02% carbon dioxide by carrying out necessary adjustment of column and moisture absorption of the plant. The specialist teams led by Commander Dipayan worked tirelessly for almost seven days along with the engineering teams of the State Health Department to complete the task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naval-dockyard-teams-repair-two-oxygen-plants-in-nellore-and-srikalahasti/article34575801.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three arrested on theft charge at Anakapalle||The Anakapalle police arrested three persons on charge of stealing over 930 grams gold ornaments and Rs. 1.5 lakh cash from a shop and house at Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district. The arrested were identified as B. Eliya Raju of Anakapalle, P. Durga Rao of Vizianagaram and D. Thimothi of Anakapalle. The police said that one Patnala Sankar Rao’s son Raghavendra lodged a complaint that some unidentified person entered their shop and residence on April 25 night and decamped with gold ornaments. Based on the complaint, the police formed a special team to solve the burglary and they interrogated some old offenders and also interrogated some workers of the shop. The investigation has revealed that Durga Rao has been working in the shop for the past few decades and he has observed where Mr. Sankar Rao used to keep the money and gold. Later, Durga Rao, Eliya Raju and Thimothi gained entry into the shop and residence of Sankar Rao from the back door and decamped with gold ornaments and cash. The police said that the trio had spent the stolen cash. The police have recovered the stolen gold ornaments from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-arrested-on-theft-charge-at-anakapalle/article34575804.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||108 ambulances rise to the virus challenge||A total of 781 COVID-19 patients, requiring hospitalisation, were shifted to various hospitals in the district during April by the 108 emergency service ambulances. This apart another 1,412 pregnant women and other cases, all totalling 5,384 patients, were shifted to hospitals by the ambulances. A total of 521 COVID-19 patients were shifted to hospitals by the ambulances in the first nine days of this month. The number of pregnant women, shifted to hospitals for delivery by the ambulances, was 229. As many as four of these women delivered in the ambulances, while on their way to the hospital, K. Srinivas Rao, District Manager of Aurobindo Emergency Medical Services (AEMS), told The Hindu on Monday. He appreciated the dedication of the emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and ambulance pilots in the discharge of their duties. A total of 48 ambulances are available in Visakhapatnam district. Of these, 45 are in service, while three would be on standby. Thirteen ambulances are being used in the city and suburban limits, while there are nine vehicles each in Anakapalle and Narsipatnam divisions and 14 in Paderu division. “A total of 46,000 cases, including 4,000 COVID-19 cases, were attended by 108 ambulances between July 2020 and March 2021 in Visakhapatnam district” Aurobindo Pharma Foundation Chief Operating Officer M.S. Swaroop told this correspondent during his visit to the city last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/108-ambulances-rise-to-the-virus-challenge/article34575765.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take over makeshift hospital built by VSP, CITU urges officials||Members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) have urged the district administration to takeover the 1,000-bed hospital that was readied by the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) with immediate effect and declare it as a COVID hospital. CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said that based on the directive of the Ministry of Steel, the VSP has built the makeshift hospital at Gurajada Kalakshetram on a war-footing and about 200 beds with oxygen supply is already ready for takeover. Though the facility and infrastructure, including oxygen, will be supplied by the VSP, it is the responsibility of the State government or the district administration to take over the facility by providing the required staffing, he said. Mr. Narasinga Rao, said that since the pandemic was raging and there is a dire need for oxygenated beds, the district administration should immediately recruit the required staff and doctors for the facility. “Now we have 200 beds ready for occupancy, the remaining 800 will be set up in phases,” said a senior official from the VSP adding that there will be no dearth of oxygen supply. Pointing out that there was serious shortage of doctors and nurses, Mr. Narasinga Rao said that the State government had made a big mistake in sacking 500 contract nurses who were recruited during the first wave. He said that about 500 nurses in the age group of 20 to 23 years were recruited by the State government for Visakhapatnam district, when the pandemic was raging during the first wave last year. They were recruited in August, 2020, for a consolidated pay of Rs. 24,000 and later terminated without notice on November 27, under the pretext that COVID graph has fallen. They were also not paid the salary for the last three months, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-over-makeshift-hospital-built-by-vsp-citu-urges-officials/article34575795.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people seek vaccination centres in all Agency mandals||The tribal people of Neredubandha village in G. Madugula mandal in the district, staged a protest, under under the aegis of Girijan Sangham and the CPI(M) with placards, on Saturday demanding that the officials save them from falling a prey to the pandemic. They demanded that vaccination be conducted for those above 45 years of age at all PHCs in the Agency mandals and not just the mandal headquarters. Oxygen beds and quarantine centres should be provided at all PHCs and food should be provided to all those who come for the COVID tests, they said. CPI(M) district executive member K. Govinda Rao alleged that vaccination centres were being set up only at the mandal headquarters, which were more than 100 km away from the villages. The other demands include conduct of medical camps at all villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-people-seek-vaccination-centres-in-all-agency-mandals/article34575796.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Biocon chief bats for highly decentralised vaccination policy||In a country like India, where the demographics change from State to State, city to city, and even from one neighbourhood to another, a highly decentralised approach is needed where local governments can decide how to vaccinate people with appropriate precautionary measures, said Biocon chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw. She was speaking as a guest speaker at a webinar organised by in GITAM Deemed to be University, here on Sunday. She observed that there was a lot of confusion and mismanagement in the present vaccination programme in the country. She said that migration of industrial labour and elections are the main factors behind the present situation. “We need to focus more on cab drivers, construction workers and food delivery boys for vaccination otherwise they may turn as super spreaders,” she added.  ‘Focus on tech transfer’ While talking about Intellectual Property Rights(IPR) on vaccines, she said that instead of IPR we need to focus on technology transfer. She said that vaccine making is not simple and it involves technology that will take 8 to 9 months to establish. The country needs effective supply chain management and a token system for successful vaccination. She said that instead of child vaccination, parents must take vaccines to protect the family. She observed that people with obesity and diabetes are more vulnerable to the present situation. She said that all vaccines are potentially good and data analysis will prove their longevity. GITAM Strategic Programmes Director Nidhi Razdan moderated the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/biocon-chief-bats-for-highly-decentralised-vaccination-policy/article34575773.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains to continue||The railways have decided to continue the operation of 08645/08646 Howrah–Hyderabad-Howrah Special and 02877/02878 Howrah-Ernakulam-Howrah special. Train no. 08645 Howrah-Hyderabad special has been extended to run from May 18 to June 28 and 08646 Hyderabad-Howrah special has been extended to run from May 16 to June 30. Train no.02877 Howrah-Ernakulam special has been extended to run from May 22 to June 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-to-continue/article34575805.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 2,041 new cases, 11 deaths||The Visakhapatnam district in the last 24 hours recorded 2,041 new COVID-19 cases as on Sunday morning. With the new cases, the total cases have gone up to 1,12,847 and active ones increased to 20,952. The district also recorded 11 deaths, taking the total deaths to 771. According district COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, 2,161 patients, who were diagnosed as COVID positive were discharged, in the last 24 hours taking the total discharges to 91,124.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-2041-new-cases-11-deaths/article34575802.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains to continue||The railways have decided to continue the operation of 08645/08646 Howrah–Hyderabad-Howrah Special and 02877/02878 Howrah-Ernakulam-Howrah special, considering the requirements of the passengers. Train no. 08645 Howrah-Hyderabad special has been extended to run from May 18 to June 28 and 08646 Hyderabad-Howrah special has been extended to run from May 16 to June 30. Similarly, train no.02877 Howrah-Ernakulam special has been extended to run from May 22 to June 26 and 02878 Ernakulam-Howrah Special has been extended to run from May 24 to June 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-to-continue/article34575766.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death of CPI(M) and UTF leaders mourned||The death of CPI(M) City Committee member and Gopalapatnam Zone secretary D. Appala Naidu and United Teachers Federation (UTF) district president Sanapala Nagaraju due to COVID-19 was condoled by party leaders on Sunday. CPI(M) State Secretariat Member Ch. Narasinga Rao, district and city committee president and secretary K. Lokanadham and B. Ganga Rao recalled their contribution to society . In a statement, FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma recalled the contribution of Nagaraju to the promotion of scientific attitude among the masses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/death-of-cpim-and-utf-leaders-mourned/article34575798.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||111 patients join COVID Care Centre||A total of 111 patients joined the COVID Care Centre, set up by the Pragathi Bharath Foundation at Sheela Nagar in the city, till Sunday evening. They include 75 men and 36 women. While 66 joined on the first day, 45 were admitted till Sunday afternoon. On the advice of doctors, 16 patients were shifted to the VIMS Hospital on Sunday evening for better treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/111-patients-join-covid-care-centre/article34575799.ece
17 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Inspector’s gesture||Eliyas Mohammed, Inspector of police Chodavaram circle, distributed 100 face shields to all the 100 officers and men in the police stations under the circle, here on Sunday. He said that face shields were given away by Shirin Sultana of California in the name of son Khadar Baba, a young scientist, who died at a young age in California. Khadar Baba is the nephew of the police inspector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-inspectors-gesture/article34575803.ece
17 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Door-to-door fever survey taken up as virus spreads in villages||With many COVID-19 cases being reported from even remote villages of Vizianagaram district, the administration has laid focus on controlling the spread of the virus in rural areas with a multi-pronged approach. Special teams have been formed in all 34 mandals, including the tribal areas, for the purpose. As fever is an important symptom of COVID-19, officials have taken up a door-to-door survey in villages and have so far covered 2,63,248 houses against the total of 7,47,312 in the district. The results of the survey, expected to be completed in a couple of weeks, will help the authorities take up corrective measures. In view of the demand for vaccines from villages, more centres are likely to be set up in rural areas, since the existing 67 centres are mostly in towns and semi-urban areas. The first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine has been given to 2,53,861 persons and two doses to 1,02,432 in the district. Officials are planning to increase tests in rural areas. Currently, 4,000 tests are being conducted per day which will go up to 6,000 soon. In the last two weeks, 12,588 persons tested positive out of 47,636. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, who conducted a review meeting with senior officials, said that the recovery rate was good among the patients admitted to hospitals and COVID Care Centres at 87.3% and 95.9% respectively. The recovery rate is 83.8% among the patients in home isolation  Home isolation kits “We are giving priority to distribution of home isolation kits for quick recovery of patients and 6,115 out of 6,662 have got them, which is the highest in the State at 91.79% coverage,” said Mr. Hari Jawaharlal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/door-to-door-fever-survey-taken-up-as-virus-spreads-in-villages/article34575769.ece
17 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ plea||Forum for Registered Teachers’ Organisation State chairman Karanam Hari Krishna and general secretary Samala Simhachalam on Sunday urged the State government to involve teachers in school activities only after completion of the second dose of vaccination for them. In a press release, they said that hundreds of teachers succumbed to COVID-19 in the last one month and protective measures for them were the need of the hour. “The government should recognise teachers as frontline warriors and announce Rs. 50 lakh compensation for the kin of deceased teachers” said Mr. Simhachalam. He also sought cashless treatment in all hospitals for the COVID-19-infected teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-plea/article34575771.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TruJet to get Rs. 20 cr. as Viability Gap Funding||The State government has helped resume the TruJet airline services between Chennai, Kadapa and Vijayawada airports by providing the Viability Gap Funding (VGF) of around Rs. 20 crore for one more year as an extension to the Centre’s Regional Connectivity Scheme-UDAN which ended on May 1. According to a G.O. issued by Infrastructure and Investment Special Chief Ssecretary R. Karikal Valaven on Sunday, the government has decided to provide financial support to the airline as an extension to the three-year agreement between the State, Centre and Airports Authority of India (AAI) entered in 2016. With this, the TruJet will continue to operate on Chennai-Kadapa-Vijayawada and Vijayawada-Kadapa-Chennai routes. The G.O. states that the airlines have informed that due to withdrawal of funds from the Central government, it was not willing to operate in the said sector from May 1 and accordingly the bookings were also closed. “The Airport Director, Kadapa had requested the government to support the TruJet Airlines to run flights on the Chennai – Kadapa – Chennai and Vijayawada – Kadapa – Vijayawada routes,” the G.O. added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trujet-to-get-rs-20-cr-as-viability-gap-funding/article34575292.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heap of health||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heap-of-health/article34575775.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Triumphant return||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/triumphant-return/article34575808.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-first/article34575245.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Safe for infected mothers to breastfeed, say doctors||Dispelling fears of virus transmission through breast milk, doctors have asserted that mothers with COVID-19 can continue feeding their newborns as long as they follow certain hygiene precautions. It was observed that several new mothers, who tested positive for the virus, kept away from their babies immediately after delivery and refrained from breastfeeding them, fearing they might pass on the infection. Paediatricians, obstetricians and gynaecologists, however, have said breastfeeding is safe if the mothers maintain precautions such as wearing masks and washing their hands before handling their baby. They said the immunity and quality of nutrition provided by breast milk cannot be replaced by any other source of milk, including formulae milk. In an attempt to allay fears, the specialists also stressed that over 90% of COVID-positive patients are recovering. No evidence Current evidence suggests that breast milk is not likely to spread the virus to babies, according to the latest (May 13, 2021) communication from the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention. On the sidelines of a virtual press meet held by National Neonatology Forum (NNF)-Telangana chapter on Sunday, specialist senior doctors from Hyderabad also stressed that there is no established evidence which suggests transmission through breast milk. Head of Paediatrics department at Niloufer Hospital, T. Usha Rani said the problem of new mothers with COVID-19 choosing alternate sources of milk was observed more during first wave of the pandemic. Now, some of them are getting convinced upon counselling. “We counsel mothers with COVID-19 to breastfeed their children by maintaining precautions such as wearing masks, washing their hands and keeping the baby six feet away after feeding. Till date, there is no established evidence which suggests that coronavirus transmits from mother to child through breast milk. Instead, breast milk gives immunity to the newborns which lasts through their childhood,” said Dr Usha Rani, who is also a former president of the NNF-Telangana chapter. Clean up Regarding cleaning up, she said that taking bath once a day is sufficient. Repeated cleaning will wash away oil secretions leading to cracks on nipples which make feeding difficult, she explained. Current president of the Telangana Chapter, Srinivas Murki, and professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (OBG) department at Gandhi Hospital T. Vijaya Krishna also urged new mothers to breastfeed by maintaining all precautions, and to lay the baby on their chest. The mother and child can stay in the same room as long as the former wears a mask and six feet distance is maintained. The mask is important so that they don’t have to repeatedly clean up if they cough or sneeze on the bare breast. Caretakers of the mother-newborn duo have to ensure they too maintain COVID-19 precautions and stay in good health. During pregnancy Another common query that the OBGs received from pregnant women was about the precautions that they need to observe to stay safe from COVID-19. Dr Vijaya Krishna said standard measures such as masks, hand hygiene and distancing need to be strictly followed. She also advised that pregnant women must restrict in-person doctor visits to a minimum unless they have a health emergency or a complication. Tele-consultations were a safer option. In case a pregnant woman does step out, all consultations and medical investigations must be completed on the same day to cut down the number of outdoor visits, the doctor added.  We counsel mothers with COVID-19 to breastfeed their children by maintaining precautions such as wearing masks, washing their hands and keeping the baby six feet away after feeding. T. Usha Rani, Head of Paediatrics department, Niloufer Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/safe-for-infected-mothers-to-breastfeed-say-doctors/article34575680.ece
17 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rush buy at city’s vegetable, meat markets in four hours||It was a field day at vegetable and meat markets in the city as a large number of people swarmed these places to grab their quota. Haggling over prices This being the first Sunday of the 10-day lockdown imposed in the State, family heads and their attendants jostled into these cramped markets and were seen haggling over prices. The scene was no different even at small outlets selling meat in by-lanes. Prices jacked up Though there was no restriction on the movement of goods, prices were jacked up by at least 20-50% in the vegetable markets, and the same was the scene at fish and meat markets. However, at some frequently visited chicken markets, the crowds were comparatively thin on Sunday as some got the news that birds were affected by an unknown virus at some poultries. Like hot cake The fish market at Musheerabad is the go to market as regular consumers and big players place orders for more than usual consumption. There, hundreds of buyers were stacked-up like sardines to grab their portion of meat for Sunday’s feast. Meanwhile, local meat sellers in bastis and colonies jacked up the prices and made a killing by selling a kilogram of chicken at Rs. 250 to Rs. 270, whereas branded retailers were selling at a huge discount in the range of Rs. 150 to Rs. 170 per kilogram. “I went to four chicken shops in my area, and there was a huge crowd at every place. Forget about physical distance, people were not even wearing masks. Finally, I managed to get 1 kg of skinless chicken for myself and my roomies,” said Pranay of Film Nagar basti in Jubilee Hills, who shares a one bedroom house with two others. Similar was the situation near a multi-storied shopping mall at the busy Kachiguda, where pushcart vendors and other sellers occupied a good portion of the roadside to sell vegetables and fruits. Adding to the confusion was the huge trucks of GHMC which were out to collect garbage from dustbins at the same time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rush-buy-at-citys-vegetable-meat-markets-in-four-hours/article34575697.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mismatch in State’s coronavirus deaths||Officially, the number of the dead in Telangana due to the pandemic on May 13, 2021, is 2,867 persons or an average of seven persons per day from the first reported death on March 28, 2020. But an analysis of the data in the same health bulletin reveals that the number of dead due to comorbidities is 3,603. Put together the number of dead due to COVID is 6,470 or 15 persons per day, way higher than the official figure in the media bulletin. The ICD-10 mortality code recommended by World Health Organisation specifies that death after COVID positive test with conditions like heart disease, asthma, COPD, and Type-2 diabetes be recorded as underlying cause of death (UCOD). “Everyday, they have been bringing 20-30 bodies to burn and the smell pervades the area. Over the last two days, the number has declined to five per day and we are able to breathe normally,” says Srinivasulu Reddy, a resident of Rayasree Residency that overlooks the ESI Erragadda crematorium, the designated funeral ground for Hindus. How the numbers of COVID deaths do not add up is also revealed from a comparison between 2019 and 2020 data. The number of death certificates issued in July 2020 was nearly thrice the number issued in July 2019. The number of deaths in hospitals in July 2020 were nearly twice the number reported in July 2019, reveals a Right to Information application filed with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. Between January and November 2019, 48,275 death certificates were issued. In the same period of 2020, a total of 58,706. Contrary to the massive spike in deaths recorded by GHMC, according to the Telangana Health Department statistics, the number of deaths due to COVID were 179 in July, 263 in August, and the highest 306 in September. All deaths within the civic limits are recorded by the GHMC, which logs the deaths based on medical information and issues a primary document for cremation and burial purposes. Later, the civic administration issues a death certificate to the next of kin based on an application followed by a verification process. According to the information furnished by the GHMC, 9,578 death certificates were issued in July, which is an average of 319 certificates a day. A total of 1,957 deaths occurred in hospitals in July 2020, which averages 65 deaths per day. The number of deaths recorded in that month were way above the 1,313 deaths in hospitals averaging 43.7 per month and 3,802 death certificates issued in July of 2019 averaging 123.7. Not surprisingly, the data shows a surge in the number of deaths in hospitals as well as death certificates issued from April peaking in July and then dipping back by November. The rise and fall in the number match that of cases and deaths caused by COVID but by a wide margin. Incidentally, only 1,000 deaths occurred in hospitals in city in April 2020 when the lockdown was imposed like a security dragnet. Worldwide, there has been a similar mismatch between recorded deaths and deaths caused by SARS-CoV2 infection and is being tracked by multiple agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mismatch-in-states-coronavirus-deaths/article34575693.ece
17 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Oxygen supply scarce, patients in home isolation gasp for breath||With the focus on every litre of oxygen across the country, the situation has become grim for patients in home isolation needing regular supply. “We are forced to wait for four to six hours before getting a refill. But there is no guarantee. The supply has declined and we are finding it difficult to supply to patients who need oxygen cylinders at home,” said Ibrahim, a supplier in the Golconda Fort area. According to the Telangana government health bulletin, there are 53,072 active cases under treatment and isolation. A majority of the patients are in home isolation, needing regular oxygen supply. According to vendors, the supply has dipped as priority is being given to hospitals. NGOs and individuals trying to procure oxygen for supply to patients under isolation are finding the going tough. Refill shortage “The most important requirement for a COVID patient is assured supply of oxygen, which ensures that the saturation is kept up and thus the mental agony of the patient and attendants is drastically reduced. Unfortunately, for the past four days, we are facing a shortage of oxygen refills. Manufacturers are unable to give us refilled oxygen cylinders in time,” informed Azam Khan of Social Data Initiative Forum, which has created oxygen supply facilities just outside government hospitals for COVID patients awaiting treatment. Meanwhile, the police department has shared a WhatsApp number 9490617234 promising help with oxygen cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oxygen-supply-scarce-patients-in-home-isolation-gasp-for-breath/article34575677.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mutton sale down by 50% during lockdown||The four-hour window to buy essential supplies during the lockdown has led to a rush of buyers at mutton shops. But, while the seemingly large number of customers may give an impression that these shops are doing brisk business, the reality is quite different. Those in the mutton business for the past five generations like J Khadeer Miya from J Babu Miya and Sons in Monda Market, Secunderabad, say that business, in fact, has dropped by at least 50%. This is because restaurants and food stalls near liquor stores are seeing a drastic reduction in customers due to the lockdown. “On regular days, restaurants buy large quantities of mutton on Sunday. But with the lockdown, there appears to be a big drop in sale. Other buyers are these small food stalls near liquor stores where people go for dinner after having a drink. These are also closed. We are seeing a large drop in orders from restaurants. This is partly a reason for the drop in sale of mutton by about 50%,” Mr. Miya, who is a member of the Jamiatul Quresh Secunderabad, a body of butchers and mutton sellers, said. As on Sunday, the price per kg mutton with bones is Rs. 740, and boneless is Rs. 900. “The 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. relaxation is proving to be inadequate, and leading to traffic snarls near markets, with several customers having to leave empty handed,” he said. These timings have made it difficult to maintain social distancing also. “Not all customers can wake up at 5.30 a.m. and reach the shop at 6 a.m. ,” Mr. Miya added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mutton-sale-down-by-50-during-lockdown/article34575704.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ICMR-NIN, TS govt. planning sero-surveillance study||Bang in the middle of the COVID pandemic’s second wave, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National institute of Nutrition (NIN) is planning to conduct a first ever Statewide sero-surveillance study of the spread of SARS-COV-2 in Telangana, other than the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), in association with the TS Medical and Health Department soon. "We have earlier done similar sero-surveillance studies in three districts as part of the national-level estimation of the virus spread and later for the GHMC, so this effort will be to check for transmission all over Telangana by random sampling in each of the 32 districts," said ICMR-NIN Head of Public Health, Senior Scientist and Epidemiologist A. Laxmaiah on Sunday. The plan presented to the government for approval is to take up to 500 random blood samples from the different strata of the population across the State. The entire exercise along with sample collection of up to 16,000 samples - 500 from each district and subsequent analysis could be completed in 45 days from start to finish. "What it will help the government and the scientific community is have authentic information about the spread in the last couple of months during this surge and the remaining susceptible population. Policy makers would get an idea on how to prepare for any possible future waves by strengthening infrastructure and taking preventive measures through this data," he explained. Dr. Laxmaiah, as nodal officer, was part of a nationwide sero-surveillance when just three Telangana districts were covered - Jangaon, Nalgonda and Kamareddy with 1,300 samples collected when the exposure to the SARS-COV2 was found to be 24.1% in the third round conducted in December equal to the nation's average. It was up from 0.33% conducted in May in the first round and 12.5% when it was conducted in August last year in the second round. About 70 districts in 29 States were covered then. "We had established then that the virus was gradually spreading and three-fourths of the rural population was still susceptible to the infection. With this latest round, we will know to what extent and how many are vulnerable still," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/icmr-nin-ts-govt-planning-sero-surveillance-study/article34575711.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Aarogyasri COVID treatment: Governor urged to intervene||The Bharatiya Janata Party has urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to intervene and see that the State government immediately implements Aarogyasri health insurance scheme for COVID patients and enhances the eligibility from Rs. 2lakh to Rs. 5 lakh on par with the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat, besides providing special grants to government hospitals to ramp up infrastructure to meet any future exigencies. In a communication to Dr. Soundarajan, a copy of which was released to the media on Sunday, party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar explained that the coronavirus has now spread to the districts and scores of people have fallen sick but due to the lack of adequate public healthcare facilities, they are forced to depend on private hospitals who are “exploiting the situation and charging indiscriminately.” From the first wave of March 2020, the government here had failed to ramp up medical facilities in both rural and urban areas “despite getting funds from the Centre” - forcing poor people to rush to private hospitals as the government healthcare facilities are full. “Many poor people are unable to afford the treatment or are mortgaging their properties to be in debt for rest of their lives. Therefore, the only remedy is to bring the COVID treatment under Aarogyasri just like the Central government has brought it under the ‘Ayushman Bharat’ benefiting many citizens across the country. However, the State government has been dodging the issue for nearly a year,” he charged. Such a decision would immediately benefit 80 lakh people and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself announced in the Legislative Assembly that ‘Ayushman Bharat’ would be implemented in State and the Chief Secretary too had endorsed the same during the meeting with Prime Minister on Dec. 30, he said. While the pandemic magnitude has hit the lives and livelihoods across the spectrum, it is the poor who have been the worst sufferers and it is imperative to help the vulnerable sections get quality medical help, he said. Mr. Sanjay Kumar also disclosed that the government owes at least Rs. 1,000 crore to private hospitals with regard to the pending bills under the ‘Aarogyasri’ and there is a danger of the latter refusing to admit patients, so necessary instructions should be issued to them to ensure no patient suffers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aarogyasri-covid-treatment-governor-urged-to-intervene/article34575712.ece
17 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Stop fleecing by pvt. hospitals’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Sunday accused the government of being blind to the fleecing of people by private hospitals and said this was due to the heartless and negligent rule of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Addressing the meeting of the core committee of the TPCC through Zoom App here on Sunday, he said neither the government had intervened to spare the hapless patients charged with lakhs of rupees by the hospitals nor it has fulfilled its promise of providing free treatment. The Chief Minister did not take steps to add Covid to Aarogyasri or implement Ayushman Bharat which would provide free treatment to Covid patients. The TPCC chief called upon the party workers and leaders to distribute masks, medicines and food on the occasion of 30th death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on May 21. He said that relief works should be taken in every village on that day. Masks should be distributed to at least 50 people in each polling booth. Realising the need for ambulances, the party procured two ambulances and stationed them at Gandhi Bhavan with the financial assistance of Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy. Those living in the radius of 50 km of Hyderabad can call the control room and use the ambulance facility, he said. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, AICC secretaries Bose Raju, Srinivasan Krishnan, Madhu Yaski, Sampath Kumar, MLAs Sridhar Babu, Jagga Reddy, MLC Jeevan Reddy, MP K Venkat Reddy, PCC working presidents P Prabhakar, Kusuma Kumar, TPCC former presidents P Laxmaiah, V Hanumantha Rao and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-fleecing-by-pvt-hospitals/article34575714.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Break away from tradition of visiting new mothers, babies’||Neonatologists from Hyderabad have urged families to break away from the usual practice of visiting new mothers and babies immediately after delivery. They said that crowding in a small room increases the infection risk of mothers and newborns. The specialists said that they have witnessed people crowding at hospitals during the ongoing second wave too. Ramesh B. Damapuri, consultant paediatrician, suggested people to rely on video calling instead. “Family members will be eager and happy to see the newborns. But, in current times, it is better not to visit immediately after delivery and further to keep the mother and the child safe,” said Dr Ramesh, secretary of National Neonatology Forum (NNF)-Telangana chapter. President of NNF-Telangana chapter, Srinivas Murki said that there have been cases where a mother and her newborn were negative for COVID-19, but detected with coronavirus a week later. Visits by multiple people was suspected to be the source of infection. If the mother has tested positive for coronavirus and the newborn is negative, both have to be isolated for 14 days, Dr Srinivas advised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/break-away-from-tradition-of-visiting-new-mothers-babies/article34575682.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Postpaid 4G connections to Asha, ANMs for better coordination||As part of efforts to ensure effective coordination between field level functionaries deployed on health duties especially in areas having coronavirus patients and headquarters, the State government has decided to provide 4G SIM cards with postpaid connections to 25,000 Asha workers at village level and 4,000 sub-centre level ANM staff. The decision comes in the wake of network related problems encountered in accessing the data from villages by the headquarters. Amid fears of a third wave of COVID, the government has decided to ensure that there are no problems related to connectivity and data uploads. The Telangana State Technology Services had called for e-procurement bids on behalf of the Health Commissioner from telecom operators for providing postpaid 4G SIM cards (with all the three slots general, micro and nano) with data, voice calls and SMS. The last date for submission of the bids through e-procurement portal is May 24 and they would be opened on the same day. The bids come in the light of the fact that Asha workers were presently using their individual mobile phones and ANM staff were having Android based (TABS) devices without MDM using 2G/3G CUG SIM connections with data. Network availability has become a challenge in remote tribal areas from where the Asha workers and ANMs should send beneficiary data to the headquarters. Accordingly, it was decided to identify telecom service provider with 4G network availability in all the centres. A rate contract if required would be formed with the service providers matching the L1 price. Data (internet) speed at 4G / LTE should also be provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postpaid-4g-connections-to-asha-anms-for-better-coordination/article34575699.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccine second dose drive postponed||The COVID-19 second dose vaccination drive in Telangana has been put on hold. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said on Sunday night that in view of inadequate stock of Covaxin and non-receipt of fresh stocks from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the second dose drive for persons above 45 years of age is postponed. Inordinate delay As for Covishield, officials said there were no eligible beneficiaries who have completed 12 weeks as per the revised timeline set by Centre. “Details regarding resumption of the vaccination drive will be made available subsequently,” he said. On Friday, the senior official had said the Health department’s vaccination drive will not be conducted during the weekend (May 15 and 16) due to changes in time interval between first and second dose of Covishield. The time interval was recently increased from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks. The vaccination drive was set to resume on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-second-dose-drive-postponed/article34575685.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Balanced diet, workout key to controlling BP||Ahead of the World Hypertension Day on Monday, the Cardiological Society of India-Hyderabad chapter has recommended several ways to keep hypertension in healthy range. The measures include eating a well-balanced diet that is low in salt and limiting alcohol to two drinks a day for men and one for women, exercising for about 30 minutes a day at least five days a week, etc. The theme for this year is ‘Measure Your Blood Pressure Accurately, Control It, Live Longer’. Cut-off values Citing cut-off values recommended as per international and Indian guidelines, members of the society said that the recommended BP for hypertensive population with diabetes or chronic kidney disease is 130/80 mm/Hg. Risks attached “Hypertension that is really out of control could lead to a tear in blood vessel. It could lead to swelling in the brain, heart attack, stroke, permanent blindness and contribute to heart failure and kidney failure,” the society’s members stated. Early diagnosis Adding that awareness and diagnosis are key, they said that many patients may not have any symptoms and do not know they have a high blood pressure. Measuring pressure at least once a year was suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/balanced-diet-workout-key-to-controlling-bp/article34575683.ece
17 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Seethakka memorandum to Ambedkar’s statue||Demanding that the government bring COVID treatment under Aarogyasri immediately, Congress MLA from Mulugu Seethakka along with State NSUI president Venkat Balmoor staged a protest at Dr. Ambedkar’s statue on Tank Bund on Sunday. Ms. Seethakka also symbolically submitted a memorandum to Dr. Ambedkar’s statue so that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at least responds to the demand being made by people and political parties seeing their plight. She said the CM was silent on it despite the poor and middle class being robbed of their lifetime savings and forced to sell properties. She reminded the CM that he promised on the floor of the Assembly that the virus treatment would be included under Aarogyasri scheme so that poor people get relief from huge medical bills. Mr. Venkat said that the pandemic had caused unprecedented loss of life and financial loss and it was the government’s responsibility to provide free medical care to all people in all hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seethakka-memorandum-to-ambedkars-statue/article34575702.ece
17 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Greenko Group donates 200 oxygen concentrators||Renewable energy firm Greenko Group donated 200 large medical grade oxygen concentrators to the Telangana government on Sunday. On Sunday, an aircraft carrying the concentrators with a capacity of 10 litre/minute arrived in Hyderabad. Municipal Administration and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao accompanied by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar received the flight on behalf of the State government. Greenko co-founders Anil Chalamalasetty and Mahesh Kolli were present, a release said. Mr. Chalamalasetty, who is the MD and CEO, said, “It is first of the five dedicated cargo planes we are bringing in through the strong global supply chains that we have set up in the last two weeks.” This is the first consignment of 1,000 such large medical grade oxygen concentrators that Greenko will be bringing for use in tier 2 and tier 3 cities in the country as pre-ICU support and post-ICU stabilisation of patients. In the next five days, four more dedicated aircraft will land in Hyderabad, Bengaluru and New Delhi with medical grade oxygen concentrators, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/greenko-group-donates-200-oxygen-concentrators/article34575705.ece
17 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two arrested for making fake sanitisers||Two persons, including a woman, who were making substandard hand sanitisers without alcohol in it, were apprehended by the Cyberabad Special Operation Team of Shamshabad zone here on Sunday. S. Subramanyam (51) and K. Susmitha (28) were making hand sanitisers using blue colour and perfume and selling them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-arrested-for-making-fake-sanitisers/article34575698.ece
17 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Konda Surekha calls on Eatala||Former Minister and Congress leader Konda Surekha met Huzurabad MLA Eatala Rajender and discussed with him reasons leading to his removal from the State Cabinet and the political fall out of it. Mr. Rajender is said to have shared his version of the affairs in the TRS. Ms. Surekha is said to have extended her support to him both politically and personally. Ms. Surekha, who worked as a Minister in the YS Rajashekhara Reddy cabinet in the combined Andhra Pradesh was known to be a strong critic of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. However, she joined the TRS just before the 2014 elections and won as a MLA from Warangal (West). She was denied TRS ticket to contest 2018 Assembly elections, upon which she returned to her parent party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/konda-surekha-calls-on-eatala/article34575715.ece
17 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Multidisciplinary clinic to tackle Black Fungus||The Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital here has started a multidisciplinary clinic for management of Mucormycosis (Black Fungus). Consultations will begin on Monday. “Black fungus has a high predilection for nose, sinuses, eyes and sometimes brain. Being equipped with surgeons, who are experts in this region, along with the infrastructure to deal with such patients, the hospital is extending a helping hand to patients in need,” informed a press note. The surgical team includes ENT, head and neck surgeons, neurosurgeons, ophthalmic surgeons, reconstructive surgeons, and maxillofacial surgeon. Those suffering with the infection can get more information from Head Neck Department of BIACH&RI (040-23551235/ 23556655). On Saturday, the government earmarked a30-bed special ward to admit Black Fungus cases at Government ENT Hospital, Koti, which has been designated as nodal centre for treatment of the fungal infection. The hospital has attended five such cases in the past one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/multidisciplinary-clinic-to-tackle-black-fungus/article34575675.ece
17 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||More rain forecast||Cloudy sky and intermittent rainfall across the twin cities brought down the day temperature by seven degrees to 32.6 degree C with night continuing to be warm at 25.8 degree C on Sunday. More rainfall with thunder showers has been forecast for the capital and rest of State by the IMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-rain-forecast/article34575706.ece
17 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Social worker hugs COVID victim’s body, video goes viral||A video clip showing a social worker hugging the body of a COVID victim lying on a stretcher went viral on social media on Sunday. The video showed the town-based social worker Annam Srinivas Rao kissing the forehead of the victim’s body and hugging it while carrying it on a stretcher in front of an ambulance. According to sources, this happened two days ago near a private hospital in Khammam. The 40-year-old man, who succumbed to COVID-19, hailed from Madhira mandal. Mr Rao was responding to a request reportedly made by the bereaved family to help them perform his final rites as per COVID-19 protocols, sources close to him said. Mr Rao claims to have conducted the last rites of nearly 200 COVID victims in the old undivided Khammam district and several adjoining districts besides in the border mandals of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh so far. He himself battled COVID during the first wave of the pandemic last year. Mr Rao runs a shelter home under the aegis of the Annam Seva Foundation in Khammam. He was selected for Global Peace Prize-2021 instituted by Indore-based World Book of Star Records in recognition of his distinguished services to destitute and mentally-challenged persons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/social-worker-hugs-covid-victims-body-video-goes-viral/article34575690.ece
17 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Giving COVID patients a much-needed nutrition boost||To help COVID patients from poor families boost their natural immunity to fight the infection, the Telangana Girijana Sangham district committee served traditional, nutrient-rich food to nearly 50 patients under the aegis of the Bodepudi Vignana Kendram (BVK) here on Sunday. The BVK in association with a host of voluntary organisations recently set up a 30-bed COVID isolation centre at a private school building here for COVID patients who do not have isolation facilities at their homes. Telangana Girijana Sangham district general secretary Bukya Veerabhadram along with other members of the committee provided traditional tribal dishes, including fibre-rich jowar rotis and chicken curry, to the patients here on Sunday afternoon, said a press release. BVK Trust general secretary N. Nageswara Rao and other office-bearers P. Venkateshwara Rao, B. Ramesh, Y. Srinivasa Rao and K. Himabindu were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/giving-covid-patients-a-much-needed-nutrition-boost/article34575688.ece
17 May 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Three injured in blasting||Three persons had a close shave on Sunday in a blast that took place at Turkabankerpally in Toguta mandal on Sunday, when they escaped with injuries. Turkabankerpally is one of the tribal hamlets of Vemulaghat that would get submerged under Mallannasagar. Eighty-year-old P. Balamallu had died three days ago and his third-day ceremony was being performed on Sunday. The ritual was almost complete and the mourners were getting ready to disperse when all of a sudden. Thankfully, many escaped being hurt, expect for three persons who were identified as E. Kanakaiah, B Gopal and P. Babu. “Turkabanjerpally has a population of about 200 people with about 60 houses. Except five households all the other residents have vacated. We are waging a fight in the court and that is why we have not vacated. The blast took place near our houses resulting in the injuries. Balamallu who passed away was one among the earliest inhabitants of the village who arrived here about six decades ago along with his three brothers. With his demise a generation linked to the past has been completely lost. He died of heartbreak ruing the fate of the village and its submergence,” Mr. Lingam told The Hindu . Wall collapse In another incident, the wall of a newly constructed house at Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony at Mutrajpally in Gajwel mandal collapsed on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-injured-in-blasting/article34575718.ece
17 May 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Take steps to prevent soaking of paddy’||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy directed officials to take steps to prevent soaking of paddy at procurement centres in the next three days as weathermen predict heavy rains. In a release here on Wednesday, he said required tarpaulins will made available at the procurement centres to see to it that farmers do not incur losses due to rains. Officials were also directed to use Rythu Vedikas to stock paddy as already permissions were accorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/take-steps-to-prevent-soaking-of-paddy/article34575717.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Akin to wolf attacking herd of sheep’||“It is an attack on a herd of sheep by wolf,” was how former Minister Eatala Rajender described the meeting of Civil Supplies Minister Gangula Kamalakar with the former’s supporters in his native constituency Huzurabad to extract a promise from them that they would stand by TRS and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Rajender released a video saying Mr. Kamalakar was threatening his supporters who were all elected representatives that they would lose their posts, their bills would not be paid and that works in their villages would be stopped if they continued to toe his line.      Irrespective of the police efforts to enforce the lockdown in tune with the guidelines, some individuals and groups get their way somehow! However, the police appear to have a tricky job on their hands when it comes to politicians. On Sunday, the police prevented Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy from proceeding to Gandhi Hospital to supervise a food court that he started for the attendants of Covid patients. On the other hand, faraway in Huzurabad, a political opponent of former minister Eatala Rajender reportedly had his way in holding a press conference, and in Manthani, birthday celebration of ZP Chairperson P. Madhu was held flouting the lockdown and mocking social distancing!    Upsurge of Covid-19 has definitely stirred the proverbial hornet’s nest in the political circles with opposition parties raising a hue and cry over the government's alleged failure to take steps to universalise vaccine administration. The change in the timeline for admission of second dose of Covishield is the latest trigger. The deadline has been extended from six to eight weeks in the past to twelve to sixteen weeks now giving rise to a fresh bout of uncertainty over vaccination of Covishield. This was compounded by an announcement that the jab of those who already booked slots for second dose would remain unchanged whereas fresh bookings would be rescheduled in CoWIN as per the new interval. Further adding to the confusion, late in the night on Sunday, the government announced no vaccination programme in the State from Monday without setting the date for resumption. N. Rahul, B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/akin-to-wolf-attacking-herd-of-sheep/article34575713.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Six feet from your doorstep||Under the shade of a flyover at Lajpat Nagar stand about a dozen young men dressed in bright orange or red t-shirts, leaning against their modified motorcycles, the seat for the pillion rider replaced by a large, insulated case. Glued to their phones, the young riders maintain distance from each other, chatting about the number of deliveries they completed the previous day and the pandemic. Soon, as lunchtime begins to loom, they scurry to the numerous restaurants in the vicinity to pick up orders, navigating the somewhat empty roads of the Capital. “We are out at work while everybody is at home. These days, we don’t even see the face of the people who have ordered as most customers opt for contact-less delivery and ask us to leave the order on a stool outside their house,” says Rajesh Kumar, who works for an app-based food delivery service. Wearing a double mask and carrying a bottle of sanitiser in his pocket, Mr. Kumar says he prefers not to remove his helmet while making deliveries. He feels safer wearing it when entering residential spaces, he says. “During the initial phase of the lockdown last year, people were apprehensive of ordering from outside. It has changed this time and many are relying on us to deliver meals, as entire families are sometimes infected,” says Mr. Kumar. Mandeera Bora, a teacher, says when her entire family was down with COVID and nobody could step out, delivery apps came to their rescue. “Be it ordering food since we were not feeling good enough to cook or medicines, the entire process was so easy, convenient and stress-free,” says Ms. Mandeera. Demand for home food The pandemic has also witnessed a demand for home-cooked food due to diet regulations as well as pocket-friendliness. Sakshi Seth, a teacher, says courier service apps that pick up food from home chefs and deliver have been a blessing. “More than half my family, including cook and house help, were down with COVID together. When we craved for home food, courier services came as a blessing as they were reliable and made life so much easier by letting us focus on recovery instead of exerting ourselves in the kitchen,” she says. Many Delhiites with no experience in the food delivery space have started opening up their kitchens to help those in need. Kavita Dawar, who started Mother and Daughter’s Co along with her mother, says as a family, they were frustrated listening to news about people suffering so much due to the pandemic. But instead of feeling helpless, they started a venture to provide “maa ke haath ka khaana” and be a family to the ones staying away from their homes and those that have lost their near and dear ones. Food for needy “On the very first day, we provided 10 meals and now we are providingabout 100 to 150 meals every day at a minimal pricing. We use the proceedings to provide free meals to needy and unprivileged people,” Ms. Dawar says. She adds that the handwritten post-it notes they send with their deliveries have been appreciated and they have received feedback that the notes have helped several people stay positive, as they know there is someone to take care of them. Kavita’s husband Pranay used to run a wedding planning company and has employed workers who are out of work as delivery boys. “We have created an opportunity for these workers who were struggling without pay and have trained them to make contactless deliveries,” says Mr. Dawar. Changing dynamics While the home delivery ecosystem has stepped in, the restaurant industry that has been hamperedby the shutting down of dine-in services has been relying on the duopoly of the app-based delivery services for business. Restaurant owners admit the dynamics of the business have changed drastically during the pandemic and home delivery has become far more important than what it was in the pre-pandemic days. The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) says that with massive dollar-dumping, tech aggregators are trying to become digital landlords that control the entire ecosystem. To ensure that restaurants get a larger share of the profit, the association has partnered with tech providers to come up with an “order direct” platform so that alternate platforms can be explored for home delivery, giving restaurants a larger share of the profit as well as help them cater to loyal customers directly. Speaking on the initiatives the NRAI has taken, President of the association Anurag Katriar says: “We are committed to take better control of our business and our customer data and become digitally more self-reliant as an industry. Ordering directly from restaurants will benefit lakhs of small restaurants across the country and will give them an alternative from the current digital landlords.” He added that the NRAI will unveil industry-friendly tech solutions, “which will hopefully change the contours of this trade and benefit lakhs of business owners rather than a handful of digital giants”. Rahul Singh, founder and CEO of Beer Café, observes: “While we believe the aggregators need to be more business-friendly, one can’t deny the role they have played in creating a robust distribution channel, driving up volumes for the restaurants. We therefore will continue to coexist in the typical love-hate relationship. Tech, after all, has to be an enabler and not a distorter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/six-feet-from-your-doorstep/article34575659.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||The darkness deepens||“She died in my arms,” says Sunaina Magan, hervoice breaking over the phone, as she talks about her mother’s passing in Lady Hardinge Hospital last month. It was the 13th day of Ms. Magan’s brother’s death, and her mother, burdened by grief, the disease, and the trauma of getting medical help, succumbed to COVID-19. Ms. Magan, 41, whose father is recovering from COVID, bid goodbye to her mother and brother at a zoom prayer meeting on the latter’stherhavi(the 13th day ritual; she explains the Hindu belief of the soul leaving for its final abode). But while she is grappling with the loss, she recalls the horrors leading up to it, including rude, often absent, doctors. “I have held the feet of doctors, begging them to take my mother in,” she says of the third week of April, when hospitals and doctors could not cope with the number of people reaching them for COVID treatment. Gut-wrenching sights  She remembers bodies piling up in a courtyard behind her mother’s bed, people arriving in ambulances, even taxis and autos – brought dead. “ Koi pump kar raha hai [someone is giving CPR], someone is shaking their fathers, someone begging a doctor for help.” Her mind is embedded with the sight of a man in his early 30s. “He’d just finished dinner with his wife, and in a few hours he was gone,” she says, of the shock to the whole ward, who by then had bonded with each other. Young doctors newly experiencing death at this scale, some doing 24-hour shifts, took it more stoically, even rationally. “In the casualty ward, patients increased so rapidly that the doctors – five or six of them – could not cope with the 50 to 60 patients inside and the lines of stretchers outside,” says ShaazArif Beg, 24, who was interning at GTB Hospital in April. It is the unexpected nature of the blood clot formation in the disease that has left doctors feeling helpless. “There was a young girl, about my age, who was getting better. We had told her family we would be releasing her that day,” he says. At lunch, she threw up, and died. “Explaining the death of a young person to the family is hard, because they want to know why,” he says, adding that doctors may not know the reason immediately, and that is even more difficult to explain. Difficult task  His experience of telling a spouse of the loss of their loved one was also difficult, though he is not able to say why – his age showing through – at not identifying with the loss of a life partner. His most devastating encounter, which he calls “a nightmare”,was the death of friend and classmate Dr. Anas Mujahid. “Death is just a number on a sheet until it happens with family or close friends,” he says, honestly. But the cremation is not often a closure. Sandeep Kumar remembers first the difficulty in finding a space, the tug of war with the hospital that refused to keep the body of his uncle, the high cost of the ambulance to drive just a few kilometres, and the kriya-karam (rituals) that barely took place, three pandits among seven bodies, moving quickly from one to another. “The worst was the fact that the lakkad-walla was just wearing a thin mask and no PPE kit. There were several PPE kits just thrown around right there,” he says, adding that the men at the crematorium were so overworked that they had not a minute to even drink water. In a sense Mr. Kumar and his family – his aunt has just recovered from COVID; his cousin is still grappling with it – has still not come to terms with the death. “We have not been able to tell our mother, though she cross-questions us like a journalist,” he says. It has been 20 days since the death of his uncle. Shalini Masih, a Delhi-based psychotherapist, says there’s both a collective and individual response to death. While the individual response is based on several factors, some that may go back to childhood, the collective response has been one of “shared humanity”. “It’s good to remember that I am moved because I have the capacity to empathise, even with people we never had a chance to know.” She quotes a client, a fan of Harry Potter, who spoke of the end of the series, when the snitch (a golden ball with silver wings) opens. It had the message, “I open at the close,” with the Resurrection Stone at its heart that united Harry with all his loved ones who had died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-darkness-deepens/article34575661.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two foreigners arrested in oxygen racket case||Two foreign nationals were arrested for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of providing oxygen cylinders, the police said on Sunday. The accused were using more than 20 bank accounts and had duped more than Rs. 2 crore from over 1,000 people across India, said the officers. The accused have been identified as Cheema Benneth (42), hailing from Nigeria and Jonathan Kojo (44), a permanent resident of Ghana, they said. On May 5, one complainant reported that he was in need of an oxygen cylinder for his relative who was suffering from COVID-19 and found a phone number on social media, the police said. When the complainant contacted the alleged person, he asked him to pay Rs. 16,000 for the oxygen cylinder and Rs. 4,000 as transport charges, following which the complainant transferred Rs. 20,000. The accused assured him that the cylinder would be delivered to his address. However, the victim did not receive any cylinder and when he tried to contact the accused, they blocked his number, a senior police officer said. “During investigation, it was found that the foreign nationals were part of a cheating racket. On Thursday, the police apprehended Benneth from Green Park, South Delhi. On his instance, his accomplice Kojo was also arrested on Saturday,” Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Shibesh Singh said. The police recovered 163 SIM cards, 19 mobile phones, five laptops, four debit cards and other articles. Social media During interrogation, Benneth disclosed that he along with his accomplices in India and abroad were cheating people through different modes. After seeing the rising demand for oxygen cylinders in Delhi, they planned to cheat people through social media. They flashed their mobile numbers on different social media platforms promising to provide oxygen cylinders to needy, the police said. One of the accomplices in Bangalore provided bank accounts to receive the cheated money. Their other accomplices in Africa too assisted in this fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-foreigners-arrested-in-oxygen-racket-case/article34575663.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police arrest man over oxygen cylinder scam||A 22-year-old man was arrested for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing oxygen cylinders to them, the police said on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Jai Kishan, a resident of Jahangirpuri. The police said a case was registered on Tuesday in which complainant, Himanshu, said that his family members had tested COVID positive and he needed oxygen cylinders as his father-in-law’s condition had started deteriorating on April 27. He came across an advertisement on WhatsApp which assured home delivery of oxygen cylinders. After the complainant called on the mobile number, the man asked him to transfer Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 30,000 in advance for two oxygen cylinders of 20 kg each, a senior police officer said. The complainant transferred the money but did not receive any cylinder. When he asked the accused to refund the money, the man blocked his number, the police said. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that his family had no source of income due to the lockdown. He knew that there was a huge requirement of oxygen cylinders for COVID patients in the city, the police said. So he planned to cheat people who were in urgent need of the cylinders. He had cheated more than 10 people and collected around Rs. 3 lakh, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-arrest-man-over-oxygen-cylinder-scam/article34575664.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man stabbed to death by couple over Rs. 100||A 40-year-old man was stabbed to death on Sunday allegedly by a couple over Rs. 100 in west Delhi’s Raj Park, the police said. The deceased has been identified as Ajeet, a resident of P-block, Mangolpuri. On Sunday at 2.45 p.m., the police received information regarding the incident. The police reached Sanjay Gandhi Hospital and upon enquiry, it was found that Ajeet was brought to the hospital by his father. He was declared brought dead. He had a stab injury behind his right knee, a senior police officer said. During preliminary investigation, it was revealed that the deceased had to pay Rs. 100 to the accused, Jitender, a resident of P-block, Mangolpuri, the officer said. On Sunday, Jitender asked him to return his money. On this issue, a heated argument ensued between them which led to a quarrel. The deceased beat the accused on the spot and refused to pay the money. Thereafter, Jitender went back to his home and returned with a knife. His wife also accompanied him. In order to teach a lesson to Ajeet, Jitender and his wife Reshma again quarrelled with him and started beating Ajeet. Later, Jitender attacked Ajeet with the knife and the couple ran away from the spot, the police said. Reshma has been arrested while search for Jitender is under way, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-stabbed-to-death-by-couple-over-rs-100/article34575665.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||HC advances summer vacation of district courts||The Delhi High Court has advanced the summer vacation of district courts starting from May 17 to June 16 in view of the “alarming rise” in COVID-19 infections and the toll it has taken on the health and lives of judicial officers and staff of subordinate judiciary.  The 30-day period has been declared as vacation month for the current year for the members of Delhi Judicial Service. The High Court has also asked the district judges to ensure that bare minimum staffers are called physically and that “the majority of the officials mandatorily  work from home, till the time the situation becomes normal”. HC break On the other hand, the Delhi High Court has decided that its summer vacation would remain the same which was already scheduled from June 5 to July 2. It also said that the existing system of functioning through videoconference shall continue till June 4. The High Court also said all the pending routine or non-urgent matters listed in the court between May 17 and June 4 shall be adjourned to corresponding dates between July 30 and August 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-advances-summer-vacation-of-district-courts/article34575656.ece
17 May 2021||Gaza City,||UNSC calls for end to violence in Gaza||Israeli strikes killed at least 42 Palestinians in the Gaza Strip on Sunday, the worst daily death toll yet in the almost week-long clashes, as the UN Security Council met amid global alarm at the escalating conflict. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres pleaded for an immediate end to the deadly violence, warning that the fighting could plunge the region into an “uncontainable security and humanitarian crisis”. “Fighting must stop. It must stop immediately,” Mr. Guterres said as he opened a Security Council session delayed by Israel’s ally the U.S., calling the violence over the past week “utterly appalling”. The heaviest fighting in years, sparked by unrest in Jerusalem, saw the rivals again trade heavy fire, with the death toll rising to 192 in the crowded coastal enclave of Gaza since Monday and at 10 in Israel, according to authorities on either side. Israel told the UNSC that the violence was premeditated by Hamas, urging condemnation of the militants during the UNSC session. “It was completely premeditated by Hamas in order to gain political power,” said Israel’s Ambassador to the world body, Gilad Erdan. Mr. Erdan said that Hamas escalated tensions due to internal Palestinian political manoeuvring after the Palestinian Authority President, Mahmud Abbas, delayed long-awaited elections. Israel said on Sunday morning its “continuing wave of strikes” had in the past 24 hours struck over 90 targets across Gaza, where the destruction of a building housing news media organisations sparked an international outcry. In Gaza, the death toll kept rising as emergency teams worked to pull out bodies from vast piles of smoking rubble and toppled buildings, as relatives wailed in horror and grief. Israel’s Army said that about 3,000 rockets had been fired from the coastal strip towards Israel — the highest ever — of which about 450 failed launches fell in the Gaza Strip. Israel’s Iron Dome anti-missile system had intercepted over 1,000 rockets, the Army said, in almost a week during which Israeli residential buildings have been hit, with over 280 people suffering injuries. “The intensity of the conflict is something we have not seen before, with non-stop airstrikes in densely populated Gaza and rockets reaching big cities in Israel,” said the International Committee of the Red Cross. At least 58 children have lost their lives in Gaza, local health authorities said, more than 1,200 people have been wounded and entire buildings and city blocks reduced to rubble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/unsc-calls-for-end-to-violence-in-gaza/article34575132.ece
17 May 2021||Kandahar,||Fighting resumes in southern Afghanistan||Fighting between the Taliban and Afghan government forces resumed on Sunday in the restive southern province of Helmand, officials said, ending a three-day ceasefire agreed by the warring sides to mark the Id-ul-Fitr holiday. Violence has soared as the U.S. military presses ahead with a plan to withdraw all of its troops by September, bringing an end to a 20-year military operation in Afghanistan. “The fighting started early today and is still ongoing,” Attaullah Afghan, head of the Helmand provincial council, told AFP as a three-day temporary truce ended late on Saturday. He said Taliban fighters attacked security checkpoints on the outskirts of Lashkar Gah, the capital of Helmand province, and some other districts. ‘Don’t blame us’ An Afghan Army spokesman in the south confirmed fighting had resumed, and the Helmand Governor’s office said that 21 Taliban fighters had been killed so far. “They (Afghan forces) started the operation... do not put the blame on us,” Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told AFP. Washington has vowed to end America’s longest war but missed a May 1 deadline to pull out, as agreed with the Taliban last year in return for security guarantees and a promise to launch talks with the Afghan government. President Joe Biden pushed back the date to September 11 — exactly two decades on from the terrorist attacks in the United States which led Washington to invade Afghanistan and oust the Taliban. Tens of thousands of Afghans have been killed and millions have since been displaced by the conflict, which has seen a resurgent Taliban take hold of large swathes of the country. Nishank Motwani, an independent Afghanistan expert based in Australia, said the Taliban viewed the American withdrawal as a win. “It gives the insurgents a proclamation of victory, bookends their removal and eventual return to power, and signals that the end is in sight for the Afghan republic in its current state,” he said. Government forces have continued to receive vital air support from U.S. warplanes, and there are concerns over whether they would be able to hold back the insurgents without Washington’s help. “It is now going to be very difficult for us to conduct operations,” an Afghan army officer said. “Our aircraft can’t fly at night so the night operations are going to be difficult.” The truce was largely held during the Id holidays that ended on Saturday. The calm was, however, broken on Friday by a blast at a mosque on the outskirts of Kabul, which killed 12 people. The Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the blast, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors jihadist groups, .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fighting-resumes-in-southern-afghanistan/article34575128.ece
17 May 2021||London,||As U.K. prepares to reopen, B.1.617.2 strain sparks worry||As England, Scotland and Wales prepares to unlock parts of their economy on Monday, the future roadmap for reopening has been put in doubt over the more transmissible B.1.617.2 strain, or the Indian strain. According to government data, the case numbers of the Indian variant have risen from 520 to 1,313 this week. However, Heath Secretary Matt Hancock expressed confidence that existing vaccines are effective against the new variant. Mr. Hancock said the government had a “high degree of confidence” that vaccines would stand up to the B1.617.2 variant, following new early data from Oxford University. “That means that we can stay on course with our strategy of using the vaccine to deal with the pandemic,” he said. Facing criticism The British government has come under criticism from opposition politicians over its decision to put Pakistan and Bangladesh on its red list before India. Mr. Hancock rebuffed the suggestion the decision was influenced by a planned trip by Prime Minister Boris Johnson in April to assist in post-Brexit trade talks. “We take these decisions based on the evidence,” he said over the visit which was eventually scrapped because of surging COVID-19 cases in India. Indoor hospitality and indoor entertainment such as cinemas, museums and sports venues are to open their doors in most parts of the U.K. for the first time in months on Monday. People and families will also be able to meet with some restrictions in private houses under the new measures. Mr. Hancock said the reopening could go ahead because of the country’s successful vaccination campaign and close monitoring of cases. However, he sounded a note of caution over plans to completely lift restrictions on June 21. “We’re in a race between the vaccination programme. And the virus, and this new variant has given the virus some extra legs in that race, but we have a high degree of confidence that the vaccine will overcome,” he said. The government’s former chief scientific Adviser said the U.K. now found itself in a “perilous movement”. “We have a variant that shows good evidence of being more transmissible and possibly significantly more transmissible,” he added. Britain is one of the countries the worst hit with over 127,000 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-uk-prepares-to-reopen-b16172-strain-sparks-worry/article34575134.ece
17 May 2021||Washington,||India calls for ‘immediate de-escalation’ of hostilities||India called for an immediate de-escalation of the situation between Israel and Palestine at the first public United Nations Security Council meeting held since the current surge in hostilities between the two parties entered its seventh day, killing at least 149 people in Gaza and 10 in Israel, including many children. The virtual public meeting was held on Sunday after diplomats reached a compromise following U.S. objections to a public meeting, Reuters reported. “Immediate de-escalation is the need of the hour, so as to arrest any further slide towards the brink. We urge both sides to show extreme restraint, desist from actions that exacerbate tensions, and refrain from attempts to unilaterally change the existing status-quo, including in East Jerusalem and its neighbourhood,” India’s Permanent Representative and Ambassador to the UN, T.S. Tirumurti, told the Security Council on Sunday. “The indiscriminate rocket firings from Gaza targeting the civilian population in Israel, which we condemn, and the retaliatory strikes into Gaza, have caused immense suffering and resulted in deaths,” Mr. Tirumurti said, adding that India had lost one of its citizens, a caregiver in Ashkelon (Soumya Santosh, 30, from Kerala). The trust deficit between Israel and Palestinian authorities was increasing, as there were no direct negotiations between the two, he said. “We believe that every effort should be made to create conducive conditions for resumption of talks between Israel and Palestine,” Mr. Tirumurti said. The UN, Qatar and Egypt are trying to broker a ceasefire. Mr. Tirumurti said India had already voiced its concern over the violence in Jerusalem at closed-door meetings of the 15-member council held earlier this week (neither of which resulted in a joint statement). “In both these meetings, we had expressed our deep concern over the violence in Jerusalem, especially on Haram Al Sharif/ Temple Mount during the holy month of Ramadan [Ramzan] , and about the possible eviction process in Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan neighbourhood in East Jerusalem, an area which is part of an arrangement facilitated by the UN,” he said. He said India supported the efforts of the Quartet (UN, U.S., EU and Russia) and others, and expressed India’s support to the “just Palestinian cause” and its “unwavering” support for the two-state solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-calls-for-immediate-de-escalation-of-hostilities/article34575129.ece
17 May 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar rebels say six dead in clashes||Six opposition rebels have been killed after days of clashes in Myanmar, an anti-junta defence force made up of civilians said on Sunday, as Britain and the United States condemned the military’s violence against civilians. The country has been in uproar since the military ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi in a February 1 coup, triggering a massive uprising which authorities have sought to quell with lethal force. Some in the anti-junta movement have set up local militias armed with home-made weapons to protect their towns from security forces — which have killed at least 790 civilians according to a local monitoring group. In the western state of Chin, the town of Mindat has emerged as a hotspot for unrest, where some residents have formed the Chinland Defence Force (CDF). “Six members of our CDF who tried to protect the security of the people in Mindat attacked (junta forces) and sacrificed their lives for the national revolution,” said a CDF statement on Sunday. A spokesman also told AFP that over 10 have been wounded this week, while five Mindat residents were arrested by the military. With mobile data blocked across the country, details about the fighting have been slow to come out, and on-the-ground verification is made harder as locals are fearful of retaliation. The spokesman, who declined to be named, said CDF fighters set fire to several army trucks, destroying them, and ambushed reinforcement troops, while the military has attacked the town with artillery. By Sunday, the CDF had retreated into the jungle, he said. “We will not stay any more in the town... but we will come back to attack soon,” he said. “We only have home-made guns. This was not enough.” He added that residents remaining in Mindat — which has been under martial law since Thursday — were afraid to leave their homes for fear of being targeted by the military. The United States and U.K. embassies in Myanmar sounded the alarm on Saturday on Mindat’s unrest, calling for security forces to cease violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-rebels-say-six-dead-in-clashes/article34575124.ece
17 May 2021||Jakarta,||Seven die in Indonesia after selfie bid on boat||Seven Indonesians drowned after an overloaded boat capsized because of tourists attempting a selfie in a reservoir on Java island, police said Sunday. The accident happened when all 20 passengers suddenly moved to the one side of the vessel to take a group photo on Saturday in the Boyolali regency, said Central Java police chief Ahmad Lutfi. ‘Overcapacity’ “The cause of the accident was overcapacity,” Mr. Lutfi told reporters. “The 20 people took a selfie on the right side then the boat lost balance and flipped.” Police added that 11 people were rescued but seven were found dead. Rescuers were searching for two people still missing. Authorities said they will look into whether there was negligence by those managing the boat rides at the reservoir. Lutfi said that the boat was helmed by a 13-year-old. Boat accidents are common in Indonesia, a Southeast Asian archipelago of around 17,000 islands, due to lax safety standards. In April, rescuers were rushed to find 17 fishermen after two boats collided in West Java. Three were found dead and 13 were still missing when the search ended. And in January last year, 10 people went missing after a boat carrying 20 migrant workers to neighbouring Malaysia capsized off the coast of Sumatra island.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/seven-die-in-indonesia-after-selfie-bid-on-boat/article34575125.ece
17 May 2021||Rio de Janeiro,||As toll spirals, Brazil struggles to vaccinate||Four months into a COVID-19 vaccination campaign marred by shortages and delays, hard-hit Brazil is still struggling to find enough doses, as political and diplomatic blunders prolong its pandemic nightmare. Around 33 million people — 15% of the population — have received at least one vaccine dose in Brazil. Brazil has lost more lives to COVID-19 than any country except the United States — more than 4,30,000 — and has one of the highest death tolls per capita in the world. Though the current wave has eased somewhat since April, the virus is still killing a staggeringly high number of people in the country — nearly 2,000 a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-toll-spirals-brazil-struggles-to-vaccinate/article34575126.ece
17 May 2021||tehran,||Iran press worried over poll turnout||Iranian newspapers voiced concern on Sunday about the potential turnout for next month’s presidential poll, a day after candidate registration ended with several heavyweights joining the race. The reformist press was particularly worried, arguing that a low turnout would favour the conservative camp as in legislative elections last year. According to the election committee, close to 600 hopefuls including 40 women have registered for the June 18 vote to elect a successor to moderate President Hassan Rouhani, who is constitutionally barred from running for a third consecutive term. But only a handful will be allowed to run after vetting by the Guardian Council, a conservative-dominated, unelected body in charge of overseeing elections. According to the reformist Shargh daily, “various polls” show that “more than half” of eligible voters are expected to stay away. The election is already widely viewed as a likely showdown between conservative Ali Larijani, a former parliament speaker, and ultraconservative judiciary chief Ebrahim Raisi. A record 57% of Iranian voters stayed away from the February 2020 legislative elections. This was attributed to the disqualification of thousands of candidates, many of them reformists and moderates, as well as voter disappointment with the economy and Mr. Rouhani’s performance. The government-run Iran daily called for authorities to “guarantee the presence of candidates from (different) political orientations” to promote a “formidable turnout”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-press-worried-over-poll-turnout/article34575130.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The road from Ladakh is paved with disruptions||It has been a year since the news of tensions between Indian and Chinese troops on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh first broke. Dismissed as a “routine” event in the first few weeks by officials, the truth about the extent of Chinese ingress could no longer be hidden when India lost 20 soldiers in a violent clash with soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in mid-June. As has been evident from commercial satellite imagery, sparse official statements and a few interviews, the crisis eventually involved seven places: Depsang plains, Galwan, Gogra, Hot Springs, North bank of Pangong Tso, Kailash range and Demchok. Border crisis The situation at Galwan was resolved a few weeks after the deadly clash, and the two sides disengaged from the face-off site. The Indian Army had occupied certain heights on the Kailash range in end-August, where it was in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation with the Chinese. In February this year, the two sides agreed to disengage from this location and from the north bank of Pangong Tso. This was announced by India’s Defence Minister in Parliament, where he also said that the two armies will convene the next meeting of the senior commanders within 48 hours after the complete disengagement in the Pangong lake area “to address and resolve all other remaining issues”. The last such meeting of commanders was held on April 9, but the Chinese have refused to even discuss the remaining issues. Such an outcome was not entirely unexpected. It was written in this newspaper (“Looking after the Ladakh walkback”, February 17, 2021; https://bit.ly/3bsLvAi) that India had lost its only leverage on the Kailash range for the sake of disengagement on the north bank. This happened after India reversed its position of simultaneously resolving all the flashpoints in Ladakh rather than deal with them piecemeal. India’s military rationale was evident: with soldiers and tanks of the two armies barely a few metres apart, the situation was explosive and could escalate into a major crisis with a minor incident or accident. It was also clear that by restricting itself to its own side of the LAC on the Kailash range, India had not taken control of the more dominating peaks like the Black Top and had a weak hand to play with. Politically, the Narendra Modi government seemed keen to announce a closure of the border crisis by creating the impression of an honourable solution against a major power. Three months later, no such closure is in sight. With the PLA troops denying India access to territories it controlled by patrolling, the government’s avowed aim of restoring the status quo ante as of April 2020 remains unfulfilled. Even on the north bank of Pangong, a new status quo has been created where the patrolling rights are yet to be restored. Similarly, the Kailash range has seen neither de-escalation nor de-induction so far. In each statement, both India and China reiterate the need “to ensure peace and tranquillity” in border areas. Even if there have been no further deaths after June and no firing after early September, the peace on the border is both unstable and unsustainable. Ongoing tensions, with massive deployments on each side, belie any hope of tranquillity. That the security establishment in New Delhi is cognisant of the volatility and risk can be gauged from the fact that the Indian Army has undertaken a major reorientation of its units and formations towards the China border. COVID-19 and geopolitics Even as the situation on the border poses a tricky challenge for India, its geopolitical concerns have been exacerbated by the devastation caused by the mismanagement of COVID-19. Through its ‘Vaccine Maitri’ programme, New Delhi was presenting itself as a better alternative to Beijing’s vaccine diplomacy, particularly in South Asia. Shaken by scenes of massive suffering and public criticism, the Modi government has backtracked on existing contractual commitments to supply vaccines to its friendly neighbours. Countries such as Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have started procuring vaccines from China, further casting doubts on India’s reliability as a partner and raising questions about its ability to act as a counter to China. Sensing the opportunity, Beijing also moved in quickly, organising a meeting with all South Asian countries except India, ostensibly to deal with the pandemic. New Delhi was also the lynchpin of the Quad’s pledge to deliver a billion doses of COVID-19 vaccine throughout the Indo-Pacific by the end of 2022, an effort focused on countering Chinese influence in the region. With India now trying to import vaccines for its own population and reneging on its commitments to other poor countries under GAVI’s COVAX scheme, the proposal now seems to be on a weak footing. The abysmal failure of the Modi government to anticipate and deal with a public health crisis has diminished India’s aura as an emergent power. A Prime Minister tom-tomming the mantra of ‘Atmanirbharata’ or self-reliance has been forced to reverse a 16-year-old policy to accept global aid has laid bare India’s vulnerabilities, further reducing its standing as the Quad’s anchor. A weaker India is not only less attractive as a partner globally, it makes New Delhi more dependent on the United States to deal with China. That India has been acting at the behest of the U.S. has been one of China’s presumptions and this would only confirm Beijing’s worst fears. It would further strain India-China ties, directly linking them to the vagaries of the China-U.S. relationship. The hypothesis that India can safeguard its land borders by strengthening its oceanic prowess could then be put to test, a scenario New Delhi wants to avoid at all costs. Meanwhile, the threat of a two-front collusive threat after the Ladakh crisis forced the Modi government to seek peace with Pakistan. The back channel talks, facilitated by the United Arab Emirates, led to the announcement of the ceasefire on the Line of Control which has held so far. But there have been contradictory voices emerging from Islamabad and the process seems to be floundering, as Pakistan awaits the steps on Kashmir promised by the Modi government. No political environment has been created in India for any such step so far. New Delhi’s preoccupation with the pandemic may brook a delay of few weeks but fears of failure, a routine happening in India-Pakistan engagements, loom large. It is hard to predict the Pakistani course of action hence, but if the past is an experience to go by, it has usually been spiteful, reckless and dangerous, especially when India is seen as weak. Coupled with the imminent American military withdrawal from Afghanistan and a win for the Taliban, the signs are ominous. An assertive China and a vengeful Pakistan acting in concert on the land borders is India’s military nightmare, which New Delhi will have to avoid at all costs. Chinese supplies Meanwhile, Beijing has made certain significant moves towards New Delhi in the recent days. China’s President Xi Jinping sent a message to Mr. Modi to convey sympathy and express condolences over the pandemic, which was the first communication between the two since the border crisis began last year. The Chinese Foreign Minister spoke to his Indian counterpart twice and offered help to deal with the pandemic, which led to an early clearance and approval of cargo flights from China. The Chinese Ambassador to India has been highlighting the supplies and the material being sent to India. Beijing’s efforts have been largely confined to private companies and donations from the Red Cross and Red Crescent societies, unlike other countries which have pledged government help to India. Curiously, much of the Chinese media ambiguously frames it as Chinese aid, while India explicitly avoids that framing and lays stress on the point that these are largely commercial contracts between private companies. Even if the Chinese intent is to project itself on a par with other global powers providing relief and aid to India, the fact remains that India is heavily dependent on China for crucial medical supplies. State-owned Sichuan Airlines had suspended cargo flights to India for 15 days beginning last month, but the supply chains have since been kept open by Beijing. This is in tune with the Indian demand from Beijing that the supply chain should remain open but the other demand to ensure stable product prices has not been met. More point scoring If the recent weeks during the pandemic provided an opportunity for the two Asian giants to work together, that hope has been lost as both governments have focused on point scoring. That reflects the broader state of bilateral ties, but is also a fundamental difference emanating from the ongoing border crisis. As the talks between India and China have floundered, New Delhi has taken a position that the border issue is central to the bilateral relationship. This runs contrary to Beijing’s argument that the boundary question cannot be seen as the whole of the bilateral relationship. In an ideal world, New Delhi can hope for a settlement that delineates and demarcates the LAC in some form but Beijing has ruled out any such proposal. With soldiers of both armies facing each other in Ladakh and a lack of trust between the two countries as the two governments talk past each other in a period of geopolitical churn, it is clear that the China-India bilateral relationship is moving into a zone of increasing disruptions, and attendant risks of conflagration on the disputed border. Sushant Singh is a Senior Fellow with the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-road-from-ladakh-is-paved-with-disruptions/article34575108.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||In Kerala, a humane lockdown||At a time when several States are already under one form of lockdown or another, it seems facile to debate whether there should be a national lockdown or not. Indians are witness to never-before-seen sights of bodies floating in the Ganges, drought of medical oxygen, collapsing health infrastructure, a faltering vaccination drive, and the pandemic stretching its tentacles rapidly into rural areas. With a national positivity rate of about 20% and over 4,000 daily deaths, India must do what it needs to do — a national lockdown if unavoidable; if not, regional lockdowns/micro-containment zones. It should, however, ensure that the implementation of any lockdown is humane and protects the interests of those likely to be worst affected. Lockdowns should be imposed only after adequate preparation and planning, involving experts. Moreover, adequate notice should be given to the affected people so that they have enough time to prepare themselves. The Kerala model The lockdown in Kerala offers some important lessons. Realising that night curfews and weekend lockdowns were insufficient to halt the rapid rise in infections, a complete lockdown from May 8 to 16 was announced on May 6. This provided the State with about two days to prepare for the event as compared to the national lockdown imposed last year with a four-hour notice. From the beginning of the pandemic last year, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan took command and was the main face of the government’s response. Through daily press briefings, he provided detailed information on the rate of infections and fatalities; the availability of beds, ICUs, oxygen and vaccines; as well as measures taken to deal with the crisis. This paid handsome dividends in the recently concluded Assembly elections for the Left Democratic Front. The people liked the idea of a strong leader presiding over their interests and acting as a guardian in a time of crisis. Assured now of a second term, Mr. Vijayan has provided a smooth continuum in leadership and decision-making. He has continued his daily press briefings and communicated the gravity of the situation with facts and figures, steps being taken by the government, and the need for the public to cooperate. The response to the second wave at the national level and in Delhi has been marked by confusion, conflicting authorities, lack of transparency and no clear assumption of responsibility or willingness to answer uncomfortable questions. People have been forced to use personal networks to scrounge for oxygen and beds in hospitals. In refreshing contrast, in Kerala, there is clarity on where the buck stops. Most Chief Ministers value their engagement with the media and are open and accessible. It is, however, not known how many of them engage with the media on the COVID-19 issue as intensely as Mr. Vijayan does and that too on a daily basis. The Prime Minister, Home Minister and Health Minister as well as Chief Ministers of the worst-affected States would be well advised to follow suit and see transparency as an important part of the COVID-19 response toolkit. A direct, open and proactive approach in this regard would go a long way in building popular trust and confidence that the crisis can be overcome. A commendable aspect of the current lockdown in Kerala has been a clear articulation of the principle that no one in the State should suffer from hunger or lack of medical attention. To this end, food kits are being delivered to homes. Community kitchens and Janakeeya hotels (people’s hotels) have been opened. First-level treatment centres and second-level treatment centres have been set up to ensure that patients are screened and treated appropriate to their symptoms. Only the most serious cases reach the district and specialty COVID-19 hospitals. Domiciliary care centres have also been created to provide shelter, food and treatment to those who do not have the space at home to be quarantined. In private hospitals, 50% of the beds have been declared as COVID-19 beds. Focused efforts are underway to assure migrant workers that they need not flee to their hometowns in panic because of the lockdown. Communications in Hindi have been issued, clarifying that they will be provided food as well as vaccination. Similar to the ‘Mumbai model’, beds are allotted through centralised control rooms in each district. These rooms also monitor requirements of oxygen and ambulances. Orders have been issued pegging the cost of RT-PCR testing and treatment charges in private hospitals at a reasonable level. The Kerala High Court has stepped in to supervise the government’s response. It has dismissed challenges from private labs to the reduction of charges and in response to a PIL, approved a rate card for hospitals prepared by the government. Coming down on private hospitals, the court pointed out how shocked it was at the usurious charges levied by some for the simplest of services. Having empowered local bodies and devolved finances to them long before the crisis, elected officials at the grassroots level are Kerala’s first line of defence in the fight against COVID-19. Panchayat members and municipal councillors, irrespective of their political affiliations, function as foot soldiers. They look out for fresh infections amongst their constituents, motivate people to get vaccinated, supervise the implementation of the lockdown and ensure the supply of medicines and provisions to those in need. Commendably, the Opposition led by the Congress has called upon everyone to work together. Leaders from both the Opposition and ruling party have been setting up help desks, providing ambulances and organising food packets. As a new government assumes office on May 20, the crisis will continue to be the most important item on its agenda. While good systems have been set up, there are complaints that the health workers are unable to cope. There are also reports of oxygen shortages in some parts of the State. There is fear that if numbers continue to rise, bed and oxygen shortages will become unavoidable. Preparing for future waves Clearly, the war against COVID-19 is going to be long-drawn and even a well organised State like Kerala will be kept on its toes. The second wave will pass but preparations still need to be made for a third and fourth wave. More lockdowns will be inevitable until such time the vaccination programme makes adequate progress and herd immunity is acquired. What is important is to mitigate the impact of these lockdowns on the lives of the poor by guaranteeing food and equitable access to healthcare. The Kerala model deserves attention in this regard. There are also best practices from other States which could be emulated across the country, such as the Tamil Nadu government’s announcement of incentives for healthcare workers. Twelve Opposition parties have in a joint letter urged the Centre to immediately begin a free universal mass vaccination campaign and ensure uninterrrupted supply of medical oxygen and vaccines. They have also called for the invoking of compulsory licensing to expand domestic vaccine production. The convening of an online meeting of non-BJP Chief Ministers to support and reiterate these demands would be good follow-up to the letter. This could serve as a useful exercise in cross-learning amongst States. It could also reinforce the need to protect the people and formulate a just and equitable response to the pandemic. Venu Rajamony is former Ambassador of India to the Netherlands and former Press Secretary to President Pranab Mukherjee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-kerala-a-humane-lockdown/article34575120.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||It is getting from bad to worse for women workers||The COVID-19 pandemic has destroyed millions of livelihoods and led to a sudden and large increase in poverty and a massive disruption of the labour market in India. Women workers, in particular, have borne a disproportionate burden. As the country meets the challenge of the second wave of the pandemic, it is crucial to learn lessons from the first wave to chart the policy path ahead. A widening gap Even prior to 2020, the gender employment gap was large. Only 18% of working-age women were employed as compared to 75% of men. Reasons include a lack of good jobs, restrictive social norms, and the burden of household work. Our recently released report, ‘State of Working India 2021: One Year of Covid-19’ (https://bit.ly/2RmW29p) shows that the pandemic has worsened the situation. The nationwide lockdown hit women much harder than men. Data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy Pvt. Ltd. show that 61% of male workers were unaffected during the lockdown while only 19% of women experienced this kind of security. Even by the end of the year, 47% of employed women who had lost jobs during the lockdown, had not returned to work. The equivalent number for men was only 7%. Men who did lose work were able to regain it, even if it was at the cost of increased precarity or lower earnings, because they had the option of moving into fallback employment arrangements. Thus, 33% of formal salaried men moved into self employment and 9% into daily wage work between late 2019 and late 2020. In contrast, women had far fewer options — only 4% and 3% of formal salaried women moved into self employment and daily wage work, respectively. Nearly half of the women workers, irrespective of whether they were salaried, casual, or self-employed, withdrew from the workforce, as compared to only 11% of men. Even as new entrants to the workforce, women workers had poorer options compared to men. Women were more likely to enter as daily wage workers while men found avenues for self-employment. Daily wage work is typically far less remunerative than self employment as on average, between September to October 2020, a daily wage worker earned about Rs. 7,965 compared to a self-employed worker who earned nearly twice that at Rs. 12,955. So, not only did women enter into more precarious work, it was also likely to be at very low earnings compared to men. Women tended to lose work disproportionately irrespective of the industry in which they were employed. For instance, the share of women in job losses in education was three times their share in that industry. So, while around 20 out of 100 workers in education were women, amongst those who lost work, about 70 out of 100 were women. Similarly, in the health sector, 40 out of 100 workers were women, while of the 100 in this sector who lost work, 80 were women. Growing domestic work With schools closed and almost everyone limited to the confines of their homes, household responsibilities increased for women. Married women and women from larger households were less likely to return to work, suggesting that the burden of care may be a reason for poor employment recovery. But even for those women who managed to remain employed, this came alongside a massive increase in the burden of household work. The India Working Survey 2020 found that among employed men, the number of hours spent on paid work remained more or less unchanged after the pandemic. But for women, the number of hours spent in domestic work increased manifold. In February-March, about 10%-20% of women reported spending between two to four hours on domestic work. This share had increased to about 50% by September. This increase in hours came without any accompanying relief in the hours spent on paid work. The course to take The long-standing question of women’s participation in India’s economy has become more urgent with the pandemic disproportionately impacting women’s paid work and increasing the burden of unpaid care work. The following measures are needed now: expansion of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and the introduction of an urban employment guarantee targeted to women as soon as the most severe forms of mobility restrictions are lifted. We further propose co-ordinated efforts by States to facilitate employment of women while also addressing immediate needs through the setting up of community kitchens, prioritising the opening of schools and anganwadi centres, and engagement with self-help groups for the production of personal protective equipment kits. Further, a COVID-19 hardship allowance of at least Rs. 5,000 per month for six months should be announced for 2.5 million accredited social health activists and Anganwadi workers, most of whom are women. But this is not enough. The National Employment Policy, currently in the works, should systematically address the constraints around the participation of the women’s workforce, both with respect to the availability of work and household responsibilities. The pandemic has shown the necessity of adequate public investment in social infrastructure. The time is right to imagine a bold universal basic services programme that not only fills existing vacancies in the social sector but also expands public investments in health, education, child and elderly care, and so on, to be prepared for future shocks. This can help bring women into the workforce not only by directly creating employment for them but also by alleviating some of their domestic work burdens, while also overcoming nutritional and educational deficits that we are likely to be confronted with as we emerge from this crisis. Rosa Abraham is Senior Research Fellow, Centre for Sustainable Employment, Azim Premji University. Amit Basole is Associate Professor of Economics, Azim Premji University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/it-is-getting-from-bad-to-worse-for-women-workers/article34575112.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The elusive mustard seed||Last week, three letters reiterated a point I had made in my earlier column, ‘An inclusive public sphere’ (April 19), in which I had cited a study by the American Press Institute documenting the disjunction between core journalistic values and the expectations of a privileged citizenry. The first letter questioned the wisdom of the editorial, ‘Out of line’ (May 15), which pointed out a straightforward constitutional flaw. It argued that Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s visit to violence-hit areas in West Bengal was a breach of constitutional propriety. The second was a letter that came in defence of BJP MP Tejasvi Surya. It said that he too has his freedom of expression and the media should not gag him. The third letter was from a regular contributor, V.N. Mukundarajan, from Thiruvananthapuram, who was very unhappy with the newspaper’s coverage of the pandemic. The narrative on positivity The first two letters were virulent. Mr. Mukundarajan tried to make a case for positivity. Given the layered nature of his arguments, I reproduce here substantial portions of his mail. He wrote: “Not a day passes without the paper’s front page screaming death and destruction. The paper’s defining mood has been one of negativity underlined by a fetish for the macabre. Gruesome and revolting depictions of bodies floating on rivers and people choking to death in ICUs flashed as front-page headlines made me wonder whether I was reading a potboiler. Under the garb of telling truth to power, the paper seems to have embraced doomsday journalism. Nobody wants The Hindu to whitewash a tragedy, but over catastrophising makes one pause and look for ostensible reasons [for The Hindu’ s coverage].” He further invoked the international audience and wrote: “Whether intentionally or unintentionally, The Hindu seems eager to tell its international audience that India is collapsing under the weight of a catastrophe; that India is a failing state. Sections of the western media, ever on the lookout for India’s negative side, have already picked up the noise.” He made a distinction between holding a mirror to a tragedy and holding a magnifying glass to the tragedy that distorts reality. He said there is a total abandonment of sensitivity in a moment of tragedy when politics should take a backseat. The present narrative of positivity, seen even in the high-profile Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh event called ‘Positivity Unlimited’, intended to counter the ‘negativity’ around the fight against COVID-19, urges citizens not to question those in power and their failure in planning for a disaster and mitigating the pain caused by the pandemic.  Glossing over failures Some slogans have had the power to transform people’s life. Mahatma Gandhi’s anti-colonial struggle had a powerful slogan at its heart: ‘Quit India’. B.R. Ambedkar mobilised millions of people to walk out of humiliation through his powerful writing, ‘Annihilation of caste’. But if slogans are meant to save those in power and gloss over the complete failure of governance, then their vacuousness is seen by all. Rhetorical flourishes touch no one’s heart. This government came to power with the slogan, ‘minimum government, maximum governance’. But the pandemic has clearly proved that what we have is more government and less governance. A famous story in Buddhism, ‘Kisa Gotami and the Mustard Seed’, should be the guiding principle for journalism. The Buddha did not gloss over death, loss and pain. When Kisa Gotami went to the Buddha with her dead son and asked him to bring her son back to life, the Buddha asked her to bring him a mustard seed from a home that had not seen death. Those who are talking about positivity are in search of that elusive mustard seed. What the Buddha taught Kisa Gotami was that loss is universal. The task of journalists is to bring attention to the toll that this pandemic is taking on everyone. It is also a fact that those who are worried about the international media’s coverage of India are also jubilant when these publications carry positive reports about India. This does not mean that the newspaper is not covering positive developments. For instance, it carried a long-form report titled ‘Beating back the pandemic in Mumbai’ (May 15). This report meticulously documented how the financial capital of India is trying to contain the spread of the pandemic. It pointed out that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation met the second wave of the COVID-19 challenge on a war footing by learning from the lessons offered by the first wave. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-elusive-mustard-seed/article34575116.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Using all options||As the second COVID-19 wave continues to ravage the country, it is now clear that universal and swift vaccination is the only way out to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. But with only 3% and 10.4% of the total population estimated to have taken the second and a single dose, respectively, the goal of vaccinating a substantial number of people to achieve immunity against SARS-CoV-2 and its variants, remains a tall order for India. Supply constraints in delivering the only two vaccines available to Indians so far — Covishield and Covaxin — (the Russian-developed Sputnik V vaccine has just been deployed) are one of the reasons why the pace of vaccination has fallen. Karnataka and Maharashtra have halted vaccination for the 18-44 age group to address this as well. While the manufacturers, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, have promised an augmentation in production capacity, the dependence on them till other vaccines, including those from abroad, are made available over the long term, will remain a constraint in the pace of vaccination and expose much of the population to the possibility of infection. India has rightly sought (along with South Africa) a temporary waiver of provisions in the TRIPS Agreement to facilitate universal access to COVID-19 vaccines. But the Centre has done nothing to bring vaccines and medicines under a statutory regime in India to allow for wider availability and a diversity of options. In fact, the Centre’s submission to the Supreme Court that the “exercise of statutory powers... under the Patents Act, 1970... can only prove to be counter-productive at this stage”, is clearly contradictory to its international position for a temporary waiver in the TRIPS Agreement. The Agreement allows exceptions to the rights of patent owners by grant of compulsory licences. Section 100 of the Patents Act, 1970, allows the Centre to license specific companies to manufacture the vaccines, while Section 92 of the Act allows the Centre to issue a compulsory licence in circumstances of a national or an extreme emergency. Considering the impact of the second wave, the daily toll and the high case load, the Centre should revisit its rigid and contradictory stance on the issue of compulsory licensing that would allow the manufacture of vaccines and important drugs without the consent of the patent holder. In the case of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which was developed in collaboration with the publicly funded ICMR and the NIV, even this route is redundant. The ICMR can license other public sector vaccine manufacturers to help augment its supply over the medium term. As of now, two central PSUs, Indian Immunologicals Ltd and BIBCOL, have already entered into a technology transfer agreement with Bharat Biotech, besides the Haffkine Bio-pharmaceutical Corporation based in Mumbai. Other manufacturers can also re-purpose their plants to produce the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/using-all-options/article34575103.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Artless and heartless||The Government of India’s Central Vista redevelopment project is highly questionable as a national priority at any time, and more so in the midst of a pandemic. The project includes the construction of a new Parliament building, and new residences for the Prime Minister and the Vice President. A new Parliament building is indeed required; and there is a strong case for reorganising the existing offices of the central government. However, the architecture and timelines of the redevelopment as it is happening now are less about the need and more about an imperious obsession with grandeur. The irony is that a colossus built amid the ruins of a pandemic could turn out to be a monument to the government’s disregard for public good. The misplaced determination of the Centre to complete the project before the next Lok Sabha election in 2024 is characteristic of the showmanship that has befallen governance in India, but there is no justifiable urgency in razing to the ground a row of buildings and then rebuilding. Last week, 76 scholars, artists, writers, curators and museum professionals put the spotlight on a particularly concerning aspect of the project. The National Museum of India, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), and the National Archives Annexe are set to be demolished to make way for new buildings. These experts have called for an immediate suspension of the project, and wide public consultations on the path ahead. There are valid concerns about the conservation of the collections housed at these centres. Relocation of the treasures at the National Museum, archival records at the National Archives and manuscript holdings at the IGNCA can be an extremely challenging task even during ordinary times. It is a complex operation that requires detailed planning and expertise. Such changes around premier institutions take place only after wide consultations in any part of the world; and certainly not in the opaque and cavalier manner as is being planned here. Artefacts at the National Museum still lack a complete inventory, the experts have pointed out, flagging the risk of loss or mishandling. The Central Vista redevelopment project is clearly being implemented in a hurry. The government’s intolerance towards any public scrutiny of the project is such that even photography of the construction is now banned. The country is facing an unprecedented health crisis, the ripple effects of which are being felt in the economic, social and political spheres too. The government will lose nothing if it were to suspend the project, and take the Opposition and the public into confidence on the future course, in calmer times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/artless-and-heartless/article34575104.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Restructuring the tribunals system||The Centre has abolished several appellate tribunals and authorities and transferred their jurisdiction to other existing judicial bodies through the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance 2021. This Ordinance has been challenged in the Supreme Court. Sharp criticism The Ordinance has met with sharp criticism for not only bypassing the usual legislative process, but also for abolishing several tribunals such as the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal without any stakeholder consultation. Despite the Supreme Court’s direction in Rojer Mathew v. South Indian Bank (2019), no judicial impact assessment was conducted prior to abolishing the tribunals through this Ordinance. While the Ordinance has incorporated the suggestions made in Madras Bar Association v. Union of India (2020) on the composition of a search-cum-selection committee and its role in disciplinary proceedings, it has also fixed a four-year tenure for Chairpersons and members of tribunals “notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, order, or decree of any court” by blatantly disregarding the court’s direction for fixing a five-year term. Further, the Centre is yet to constitute a National Tribunals Commission (NTC), an independent umbrella body to supervise the functioning of tribunals, appointment of and disciplinary proceedings against members, and to take care of administrative and infrastructural needs of the tribunals. The idea of an NTC was first mooted in L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India (1997), but it has still not seen the light of day. Initiating dialogue and promoting awareness about the NTC is vital for overcoming the government’s inertia in establishing such a body. Developing an independent oversight body for accountable governance requires a legal framework that protects its independence and impartiality. Where the institutional design is not properly conceived, partisan interests can twist the law to serve political or private interests. In India, executive interference in the functioning of tribunals is often seen in matters of appointment and removal of tribunal members, as well as in provision of finances, infrastructure, personnel and other resources required for day-to-day functioning of the tribunals. Therefore, the NTC must be established vide a constitutional amendment or be backed by a statute that guarantees it functional, operational and financial independence. One of the main reasons that has motivated the idea of NTC is the need for an authority to support uniform administration across all tribunals. The NTC could therefore pave the way for the separation of the administrative and judicial functions carried out by various tribunals. A ‘corporatised’ structure of NTC with a Board, a CEO and a Secretariat will allow it to scale up its services and provide requisite administrative support to all tribunals across the country. Administrative duties The NTC would ideally take on some duties relating to administration and oversight. It could set performance standards for the efficiency of tribunals and their own administrative processes. Importantly, it could function as an independent recruitment body to develop and operationalise the procedure for disciplinary proceedings and appointment of tribunal members. Giving the NTC the authority to set members’ salaries, allowances, and other service conditions, subject to regulations, would help maintain tribunals’ independence. Administrative roles of the NTC include providing support services to tribunal members, litigants, and their lawyers. For this purpose, it would need to be able to hire and supervise administrative staff, and to consolidate, improve, and modernise tribunals’ infrastructure. As the Finance Ministry has been vested with the responsibility for tribunals until the NTC is constituted, it should come up with a transition plan. The way to reform the tribunal system is to look at solutions from a systemic perspective supported by evidence. Establishing the NTC will definitely entail a radical restructuring of the present tribunals system. Aakanksha Mishra and Siddharth Mandrekar Rao are Research Associates with DAKSH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/restructuring-the-tribunals-system/article34575117.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Lala Lajpat Rai||Lala Lajpat Rai emphasised that the spirit of fearlessness and courage to stand by principles, for which the Congress was fighting, was demanded of every Indian at this supreme moment. 150 years of British rule, he said, had produced such a slave-mentality that even great intellectuals among Indians, thought that the attainment of Swarajya by India, by 32 crores of the population within one year, was impossible. It was to remove this mentality that the time of one year was given. When India gives up this slave-mentality, she would attain Swarajya. He was glad that the courage with which Congressmen went to gaol was quiet proof. Personally, he had attained Swarajya, which was knowing the truth, speaking the truth fearlessly, and even dying for the vindication of truth. Referring to the posibilities of the Afghan invasion, he asked those who threatened them with it to remember that they who were Non-Co-operating with the British Government, would not have any other foreign power ruling over them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lala-lajpat-rai/article34575113.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. wary of giving aid to Pakistan||President Yahya Khan’s special emissary, Mr. M.M. Ahmed, has so far made no significant headway in his quest for American aid to bail Pakistan out from imminent bankruptcy though he was readily given a hearing by President Nixon and Mr. Henry Kissinger, National Security Adviser. The Administration has so far been wary about making any commitment to Pakistan in this regard because of the sustained pressure from Congress and the press in this country [Washington, May 16]. East Bengal sources here who have been keeping a tab on Mr. Ahmed’s activities say that in return for U.S. assistance, Mr. Ahmed has offered a package deal which includes drastic devaluation of the Pakistan rupee and the early establishment of “a responsible Government, in East Pakistan by the “representatives of the people”. Both are recognised as fake offers here. Economists doubt whether in Pakistan’s current financial plight even a 100 per cent devaluation can boost its export earnings. The other proposal — “a representative government” — under the aegis of discredited politicians handpicked by Mr. Yahya Khan is also not regarded as a durable political solution by the authorities here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/us-wary-of-giving-aid-to-pakistan/article34575114.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Beyond all suffering, tears and loss||The most optimistic hearts have been broken by the second wave, and the stoic are shaken. Society struggles to get out of the pit rushing to the aid of a neighbour, stranger or a loved one to procure oxygen, medication or a hospital bed. Battles are waged every day. Won or lost, at the end of it are the bills. What is the situation if one has to make a COVID-19 health insurance claim? If you have a hospitalisation policy, it will pay for your COVID-19 treatment as per policy terms. The disappointment is that many non-medical expenses, like PPE kits and sanitisation costs, that characterise COVID treatment protocol are not payable. However, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India has announced that treatment at home, provided it is on a doctor’s recommendation, is covered, as also treatment at makeshift or temporary hospitals, including hotels with COVID-care facilities, which have come up in response to the surge in cases. These are pandemic-specific measures and they don’t apply to isolation which is a precaution, not a treatment. Cashless treatment Coming to cashless treatment, yes, you are entitled to cashless treatment at network hospitals, as usual, including at makeshift or temporary hospitals put up by the network hospital. Another pandemic instruction to insurers has been that they should sanction cashless claim requests within 60 minutes. You should hold your insurer and TPA to these norms. If you find resistance, please send a written complaint to the grievance officer of your insurance company — their contact information and instructions are available on the IRDAI website (www.irdai.gov.in) under the link ‘Grievances’. You can escalate the complaint through IRDAI’s call centre and the Integrated Grievances Management System, both of which are available in the same ‘Grievances’ section. If treatment is at a non-network hospital, you should pay your hospital bills and seek reimbursement from the insurer by going through the claims process. Claims for treatment costs at such facilities follow the same norms depending on whether they are put up by a network or a non-network hospital. A network hospital means one that is empanelled by your insurance company and is part of its Preferred Provider Network which is usually countrywide. Insurers have arrived at pricing matrices for treatments at these hospitals and have put in place systems for documentation and payments. Your insurer will provide you with a list of the network hospitals along with your policy. Or you can get it from your agent, the company’s website or your Third-Party Administrator (Health Services) or TPA. Inform your TPA The TPA is an important link in your claims process. It is to the TPA you first intimate your impending hospitalisation. In case of emergency hospitalisations, you can inform them at the earliest with the policy details and other information they need. Usually, your health insurance identity card will suffice to start the process. The smart thing to do is to ensure it is handy and keep a scanned copy of it on your phone. Document check Ensure you have all relevant documents such as doctors’ prescriptions and every document and bill from the hospital including the discharge summary, payment receipts, medicine bills – ensure the patient’s name appears on each bill, it’s easy to forget amid anxiety – test requisitions, results, bills and receipts, bills for consumables like PPE kits, gloves and masks. This applies especially if you are not going the cashless route. And in the melee, don’t forget to renew your health insurance policy. COVID-19 treatment at government facilities is free and some States have started announcing free treatment at private hospitals also, for beneficiaries of mass insurance programmes. If you know any such case where somebody has succumbed to the virus, you can advise the family to make a life insurance claim under schemes such as the Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, which has a sum assured of Rs. 2 lakh with an automatic premium debit of Rs. 330 through the linked bank account — usually the Jan Dhan Account on June 1 every year. Similarly remind them to claim under any employer schemes and EPFO Group insurance schemes as also group policies under their bank accounts, credit cards or even mobile phone connections. With entire families facing financial devastation, every little bit helps.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/beyond-all-suffering-tears-and-loss/article34575102.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article34575101.ece
17 May 2021||ROME,||Swiatek ‘double bagels’ Pliskova||Polish teenager Iga Swiatek crushed Czech ninth seed Karolina Pliskova 6-0, 6-0 to win the Italian Open on Sunday. The 19-year-old reigning French Open champion took just 45 minutes to ‘double bagel’ the 2019 Rome winner two weeks before she opens her title defence in Roland Garros. Swiatek, ranked 15, claimed her third WTA title having followed her Roland Garros success with a win in Adelaide in January. Overwhelmed “I’m really, really happy,” said an emotional Swiatek. “I’m overwhelmed, at the beginning of this tournament I would not have dreamed of winning it.” Swiatek swept through the first set in just 20 minutes, with Pliskova winning just four points. Pliskova tried to fight back in the third game of the second set, holding a double break to go 2-1, but the Polish player ruthlessly snuffed out any return. “I will just quickly forget about today,” said Pliskova, the World No. 9, who was playing in her third consecutive Rome final. The former World No. 1 retired injured in last year’s final to Romania’s Simona Halep. “I’ve had some great matches here, in the past I did well.” Djokovic makes it Meanwhile on Saturday, defending champion and World No. 1 Novak Djokovic battled past Italian Lorenzo Sonego 6-3, 6-7(5), 6-2 to set up a clash with nine-time winner Rafael Nadal for the sixth time in the Italian Open final. Djokovic had two match points in the 12th game of the second set of his semifinal before Sonego forced a third set to the delight of the home crowd in the Foro Italico. The Serb saved three break points in the first game of the third set, coming back from 0-40 before powering towards his 11th Rome final. “I think I bounced back very well after the second set and 0-40, maybe if he started with a break up in the third it would be different,” said Djokovic. “I’ve only myself to blame for not closing the match in the second set, I could have and should have.”  The results: Women: Final: Iga Swiatek bt Karolina Pliskova 6-0, 6-0.   Men: Semifinal: Novak Djokovic bt Lorenzo Sonego 6-3, 6-7(5), 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swiatek-double-bagels-pliskova/article34575202.ece
17 May 2021||KOCHI,||Shankar wins the Big 12 meet again||A couple of months ago, Tejaswin Shankar made it clear that his next big goal was to jump 2.33m, and it did not matter whether the Olympics happened or not. He explained that the height, being the Olympic entry standard, would make him happy even if the Tokyo Games are not held. The 22-year-old from Delhi, representing Kansas State University, was close to his best on Saturday while winning the high jump gold in the Big 12 outdoor track and field championships at Manhattan, USA. He was just a centimetre below his Indian men's record as he retained the Big 12 title with 2.28m. He had won the Big 12 gold in 2019 earlier. Opening at 2.06m, Shankar needed his third jump to clear 2.25m but sailed over 2.28 with his first try. He attempted 2.31m twice and the Tokyo height of 2.33 once, but could not clear them. The 2.28m will place him in the joint 12th spot in the World Athletics' high jump top list this year and could put him in a decent rung in the Road to Tokyo rankings in the next few days. There are 32 spots in the high jump in Tokyo and 14 athletes have already made the cut through the entry standard. Third title this year It was Shankar's third title this year — he won the Jim Click Shootout in Arizona with 2.19m on April 10 and the John Jacobs Invitational with 2.25 in Oklahoma later that month. His next event could be the NCAA outdoor championships in Oregon in early June. Shankar, who is on a scholarship at the KSU, missed out the three Indian Grand Prix legs and the Federation Cup in Patiala in February and March. But now while the other Indian athletes are unable to travel for training and competitions abroad, he is on good ground competing in the US with the Olympics just over two months away. The next two national meets in India, the Grand Prix-4 and the Inter-State Nationals, are scheduled to be held in Bengaluru in June but that look doubtful with the rising COVID-19 cases in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shankar-wins-the-big-12-meet-again/article34575247.ece
17 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Lovlina finds Pune camp useful||The elite women's boxing camp at the Army Sports Institute (ASI), Pune, is proving beneficial for Olympics-bound Lovlina Borgohain. Starting from her seven-day quarantine period on May 4, during which she used a personal gym and an exclusive training area, Lovlina has got adequate support for her training at Pune. Lovlina, who generally struggles to get good sparring partners, is pleased to find some fine 69kg male boxers to train with at the ASI. “Sparring with men is a different type of challenge, both physically and technically. Their punches are harder. It helps me improve a lot of aspects of my game. Their height is also beneficial for me as it prepares me for taller boxers,” Lovlina told The Hindu . The two-time World championship medallist is happy that the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) accepted her request and included 69kg World youth champion Arundhati Choudhary in the camp. Good sparring partner “Arundhati is a promising boxer and, like me, she likes to box from a distance. It will be good to have sparring sessions with her. It will help me in my preparation.” Having taken the first jab of the COVID-19 vaccine, Lovlina feels good. “It is a massive boost to be here in Pune and focus on training for the Olympics in a safe environment. It was good to get vaccinated and take another step in defeating the virus. Although we still need to take maximum precautions and stay safe, mentally it has helped a lot." She missed out on a long stint in Europe, having contracted the infection, but got some exposure when she competed in the Boxam event in Spain in March last. The lanky boxer is now keen to make the most of the Asian championships in UAE later this month. "Before a mega event like the Olympics, it is very important to test our mettle. The Asian championships is a perfect platform for putting our preparations to test against the best boxers from Asia. This will also boost our confidence and help us improve our game," said Lovlina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lovlina-finds-pune-camp-useful/article34575193.ece
17 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Rajendra Jadeja passes away||Rajendra Jadeja, the former Saurashtra and Bombay pacer, passed away in Rajkot on Sunday after contracting COVID-19. He was 65. Jadeja, who played in 13 First-Class seasons from 1974-75, picked up 134 wickets in 50 matches. Besides leading Saurashtra’s pace attack for a decade, Jadeja made the cut for Bombay for two seasons (1978-79 and 1979-80) where he was a regular in club and corporate cricket. Jadeja also represented West Zone in the highly-rated Duleep Trophy during his career. He was also selected against the touring Marylebone Cricket Club side, for West Zone and Indian Universities Under-22, in 1976-77. The lanky bowler, with his trademark moustache, also served as coach and a BCCI match referee. His last assignment was coach of Saurashtra’s Under-23 season in 2019-20. “It is an immense loss to the world of cricket. Rajendra Sir was one of the finest men I have met. “I am fortunate to have played many matches with him as our head coach, manager and mentor,” said Jaydev Shah, the Saurashtra Cricket Association president who is the longest-serving captain in First Class cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajendra-jadeja-passes-away/article34575197.ece
17 May 2021||Uncasville (Connecticut),||Kobe Bryant inducted into Hall of Fame||Los Angeles Lakers legend Kobe Bryant was inducted posthumously to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame on Saturday, as the class of 2020 was enshrined after months of delay due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The five-time NBA champion died last year aged 41 in a helicopter crash alongside his daughter and seven others. Bryant’s widow Vanessa offered an acceptance speech on his behalf as presenter Michael Jordan stood nearby. Word of thanks “Dear Kobe, thank you for being the best husband and father you could possibly be,” she said. “Thank you for never giving up on us. Thank you for all of your hard work.” The 18-time All-Star joined the NBA straight out of high school and would go on to enjoy one of the most decorated careers in the history of the sport, claiming NBA Finals MVP honours twice and earning the adoration of fans for his larger-than-life persona. Bryant, the fourth-highest scorer in league history with 33,643 points, grew up idolising the five-time league MVP Jordan and the two superstars’ careers overlapped by a handful of years. “Kobe would thank all of the people who helped him get here, including the people that doubted him and the people who worked against him and told him he couldn’t attain his goals ... after all, he proved you wrong,” said Vanessa, prompting a grin from Jordan. Duncan also honoured Other inductees in the 2020 class included five-time NBA champion and three-time NBA Finals MVP Tim Duncan, 10-time Women’s National Basketball Association (WNBA) All-Star and four-time Olympic gold medalist Tamika Catchings, and 15-time NBA All-Star Kevin Garnett. The ceremony at the Mohegan Sun Resort & Casino was postponed from August due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kobe-bryant-inducted-into-hall-of-fame/article34575206.ece
17 May 2021||West Bromwich,||Goalkeeper Alisson keeps Liverpool in with a chance||Liverpool goalkeeper Alisson Becker scored a 95th minute winner as the Reds beat West Brom 2-1 on Sunday to keep a place in next season’s Champions League in their own hands. Jurgen Klopp’s men would have needed favours from Leicester and Chelsea in their final two games of the campaign had they failed to beat the already relegated Baggies. But the Brazilian was sent forward for a corner deep into stoppage time and headed home Trent Alexander-Arnold’s delivery. Liverpool moved one point behind fourth-placed Chelsea and three behind Leicester. West Ham’s faint hope of scraping Champions League qualification was left hanging by a thread after it needed a late strike from Said Benrahma to draw at Brighton 1-1. Substitute Benrahma rifled home his first goal for the club with just three minutes to go, leaving the Hammers five points adrift of fourth-placed Chelsea with only two fixtures remaining. Juventus kept alive its Champions League qualification hopes by winning at Serie A champion Inter Milan 3-2. Juan Cuadrado scored twice for Juventus, converting a clinching penalty kick in the 88th minute. Juventus rose to fourth ahead of its final game at Bologna next weekend. Antonio Conte’s Inter squad had already ended Juventus’ record run of nine straight Serie A titles, and it could have ended his former team’s chances of reaching the Champions League. Referee Gianpaolo Calvarese had a busy game, awarding three penalties and relying on VAR for assistance.   The results: Premier League: Crystal Palace 3 (Benteke 32, Zaha 76, Mitchell 84) bt Aston Villa 2 (McGinn 17, El Ghazi 34); Tottenham 2 (Kane 45, Hojberg 62) bt Wolves 0; West Brom 1 (Robson-Kanu 15) lost to Liverpool 2 (Salah 33, Alisson 90+5).   Serie A: Fiorentina 0 lost to Napoli 2 (Insigne 56, Venuti 67-og); Benevento 1 (Lapadula 13) drew with Crotone 1 (Simy 90+3); Udinese 0 lost to Sampdoria 1 (Quagliarella 88-pen).   Saturday: Premier League: Southampton 3 (Adams 27, Tella 60, Walcott 82) bt Fulham 1 (Carvalho 75); Brighton 1 (Welbeck 84) drew with West Ham 1 (Benrahma 87).   Serie A: Juventus 3 (Ronaldo 24, Cuadrado 45+3, 88-pen) bt Inter 2 (Lukaku 35-pen, Chiellini 83-og); Roma 2 (Mkhitaryan 42, Pedro 78) bt Lazio 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goalkeeper-alisson-keeps-liverpool-in-with-a-chance/article34575214.ece
17 May 2021||London,||Leicester claims maiden FA Cup||Youri Tielemans was preparing for the FA Cup final when he received a text message with a clear instruction: Aim for the top corner. When the ball landed at the Leicester midfielder’s feet, 63 minutes into the 140th final, a powerful shot from 30 metres was aimed just where he had been advised. It was a sensational way to win the FA Cup for the first time in Leicester’s 137-year history, 1-0 against Champions League finalist Chelsea. Return of fans Even sweeter than the strike was Leicester being able to celebrate in front of its own fans as Wembley Stadium hosted England’s biggest crowd — more than 20,000 who tested negative for the coronavirus — in 14 months. “Wow, what a finish,” Leicester goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel said. “I didn’t dare to celebrate because there’s always VAR.” Not that time. Instead, the video assistant review came to Leicester’s rescue in the 89th minute to prevent Wes Morgan from a moment of heartache. Marginal offside The 37-year-old club captain had been on the pitch for only seven minutes when he accidentally deflected in former teammate Ben Chilwell’s cross. But one of those marginal offsides that so irritate players and fans was detected and the roars of Leicester fans were even louder than the moment Tielemans scored. After losing four finals — the first in 1949 at the old Wembley — Leicester’s name is finally etched onto the cup of world football’s oldest competition. The team from central England is a champion again, five years after Morgan collected the Premier League trophy. Players — such as Chilwell and N’Golo Kante to Chelsea — have left since that improbable 5,000-1 title triumph but Morgan and matchday captain Schmeichel are still there to celebrate again, this time in a moment tinged with sadness. Inside the jerseys at Wembley were photos of Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha, the club’s Thai owner until he died in 2018 when his helicopter crashed in flames next to King Power Stadium. “He is always with us, Khun Vichai,” said Schmeichel before handing the FA Cup on the field to Vichai’s son, Aiyawatt Srivaddhanaprabha, who now runs the club. Slack pass In a game of few chances, Thiago Silva’s slack pass allowed Leicester to score. Ayoze Perez intercepted the clearance and Luke Thomas passed across to the unmarked Tielemans to drive forward before striking past goalkeeper Kepa Arrizabalaga. For once, Leicester wasn’t relying on goals from Jamie Vardy, whose work across the pitch was still influential. Saves from Schmeichel as much as VAR helped to preserve the lead; he used one hand to push Chilwell’s shot onto the post in the 78th and blocked Mason Mount’s volley in the 87th.  The result: Chelsea 0 lost to Leicester City 1 (Tielemans 63).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leicester-claims-maiden-fa-cup/article34575255.ece
17 May 2021||Melbourne,||Will always remember Kohli as the best: Paine||Virat Kohli seems to have left an indelible mark on Australian Test captain Tim Paine, who says he will “always remember” the Indian skipper for being the world’s best batsman, capable of also getting under the opposition’s skin with his competitiveness. Kohli and Paine have had a fiery rivalry which goes back to India’s 2018-19 tour of Australia. Their on-field spats were an interesting sub-plot during the historic showdown in which India became the first Asian country to win a Test series Down Under. “For Virat Kohli, I’ve said many times, he seems like the type of player you would love to have on your team. He is competitive. He is the best batsman in the world,” Paine said. “He (Kohli) is challenging to play against and he can get under your skin because he is so good. “But yeah, for me from where I came from, sharing a feud with him four years ago, he is certainly someone I will always remember,” he added. Last year Paine had said Kohli is “just another player” in the Indian team who “doesn’t really bother me”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-always-remember-kohli-as-the-best-paine/article34575208.ece
17 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Balachandran Nair passes away||Former India badminton coach S. Balachandran Nair (69) passed away here on Sunday due to COVID-19. He is survived by his wife and daughters Priya and Prija, who are former badminton players. Balachandran, who was under treatment for Multiple Myeloma for some time, tested positive two weeks ago and died at the Government Medical College. In a coaching career spanning more than three decades, Balachandran trained prominent players like U. Vimal Kumar, Sanave Thomas, V. Diju, Thomas Kurien, Fatima Nazreen, and Ayyappan Krishnan. He was also the coach of the Indian team for more than a decade and had accompanied squads to various tournaments around the world. Known to be a tough disciplinarian, Balachandran was a pioneer in introducing innovative fitness drills.  Balachandran started his coaching career with G.V. Raja Sports School in Thiruvananthapuram and later worked at SAI, Bengaluru. He was instrumental in establishing SAI-STC in Thrissur where he trained a lot of youngsters. Towards the end of his career, Balachandran was attached to the State coaching centre at the Jimmy George Indoor Stadium. The Kerala Badminton Association (KBA) has condoled Balachandran’s demise. “He was soft-spoken but was a tough disciplinarian. He had a successful coaching career and had groomed many players. KBA is saddened by his death and we offer our sympathies to his family,” said KBA secretary Rakesh Shekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balachandran-nair-passes-away/article34575249.ece
17 May 2021||Glasgow,||Rangers complete Scottish Premiership undefeated||Rangers completed an unbeaten Scottish Premiership campaign after the champion defeated Aberdeen 4-0 at an empty Ibrox. The players and manager Steven Gerrard also finally got their hands on the Premiership trophy to mark their 55th title, and first in a decade that they clinched in March. Gerrard, who became manager in 2018, said, “In the three years it’s been enjoyable. But we’ve had to suffer at times and had some setbacks. But we never lost belief that we’d one day get to this moment. “The important thing now is to use it as a launchpad. At this club you can’t stand still, one is not enough.” In going 38 games undefeated, Rangers reached 102 points, breaking a century for the first time. Rangers ended up 25 points clear of second-placed Celtic, winner of the previous nine Premierships. The new champion won all 18 games at home, conceding only four goals. Rangers allowed only 13 goals all season, a new British record that eclipsed the 15 by Jose Mourinho’s Chelsea in 2004-05. The Aberdeen result was also Rangers’ 26th clean sheet, a Scottish record.  In the three years it’s been enjoyable. But we’ve had to suffer at times and had some setbacks. But we never lost belief that we’d one day get to this moment. Steven Gerrard Manager||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rangers-complete-scottish-premiership-undefeated/article34575257.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘I wake up each day stronger than before’||India and Sunrisers Hyderabad’s (SRH) latest pace sensation T. Natarajan is on the road to recovery, following knee surgery that had ruled him out of IPL 2021. Natarajan was ruled out from the 14th edition of the IPL due to a knee injury before the tournament was suspended. The pacer underwent knee surgery in April and is now recovering. The left-arm seamer on Sunday shared a video from his routine in which he can be seen undergoing rehabilitation at home. “I wake up each day stronger than before!! #Rehab #Progress,” Natarajan captioned the post on Instagram. Last month, Natarajan had said he was looking forward to coming back stronger and fitter. The SRH pacer knows his return to the cricket field will take some time. The BCCI had said Team India wants to see him back as soon as possible. SRH had also wished him a speedy recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-wake-up-each-day-stronger-than-before/article34575210.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Battled anxiety for many years, says Tendulkar||Cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar on Sunday said he battled anxiety for a major part of his 24-year-old career before realising that his pre-game quirks were an important part of his preparation. Talking about mental health, Tendulkar said acceptability is the key. “Over period of time I realised that besides preparing physically for a game, you have to prepare yourself mentally also. In my mind the match started long before I entered the ground. The anxiety levels were very high,” Tendulkar said in an interaction organised by Unacademy. “I felt the anxiety for 10-12 years, had many sleepless nights before a game. Later on I started accepting that it was part of my preparation. I made peace with times I was not able to sleep at night. I would start doing something to keep my mind comfortable.” That “something” included shadow batting, watching TV and playing video games into the wee hours of the day. Even making his morning cup of tea helped him prepare for the game. “Making tea, ironing my clothes also helped me prepare for the game. I would pack my bag the day before the game, my brother taught me all of it and it became a habit,” said the 48-year-old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/battled-anxiety-for-many-years-says-tendulkar/article34575212.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||India likely to tour Australia in September||The Indian women’s cricket team is set to travel to Australia in September. India, which has played only one series amid the COVID-19 pandemic, tours England next month to play its first Test in seven years besides three ODIs and as many T20s. Australia pacer Megan Schutt dropped a hint during a podacst that India will be visiting in September though Cricket Australia is yet to announce the schedule. The tour is expected to comprise ODIs and T20 Internationals. “We have got a tour against India in mid-September,” Schutt said on No Balls: The Cricket Podcast, hosted by Kate Cross and Alex Hartley. The BCCI had also approved the tour of Australia ahead of the World Cup in New Zealand next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-likely-to-tour-australia-in-september/article34575204.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Coach creating match situations for me: Sindhu||The lack of competitions before the Olympics is a major concern for Indian shuttlers but not so much for P.V. Sindhu, who trusts her Korean coach Park Tae Sang to create match situations for her in training itself. Owing to the raging COVID-19 pandemic, the Badminton World Federation (BWF) has been forced to cancel the remaining three Olympic qualifiers in India, Malaysia and Singapore. Asked if the cancellations will affect her preparations, Sindhu said: “Well, we were thinking that Singapore will be the last event before Olympics but now we don’t have another option, so I am playing matches against different players and my coach Park is trying to create match situations for me in training.” “Different players have different styles like Tai Tzu (Ying) or Ratchanok (Intanon) have different styles of play but Park is there to guide me, to prepare me for it,” Sindhu said. “Obviously, we will be playing each other after a few months and there will be something new in our games, so I will have to prepare for that,” she added.  The 25-year-old endorsed BWF’s decision to cancel the events, saying life is more important than sports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coach-creating-match-situations-for-me-sindhu/article34575253.ece
17 May 2021||Seoul,||North Korea withdraws from World Cup qualification||The Asian Football Confederation has announced North Korea has pulled out of qualification for the 2022 World Cup. Though no official reason has been given for pulling out of next month’s qualifiers in Goyang, south of Seoul, South Korean media has reported that it is because of concerns over COVID-19.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/north-korea-withdraws-from-world-cup-qualification/article34575258.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Essence of acharya bhakti||It is held that during his last days, Ramanuja had advised his disciples that even if he was not with them, they should engage in debates and discussions on his works. This kind of preoccupation with Vedanta sastra that makes us ponder over the eternal relationship of the jivatma with the Lord alone can give relief from the sorrows of samsara, pointed out Sri Asuri Madhavachariar in a discourse. Vedanta Desika points out that it is the prime duty of each one to often contemplate on the life and teachings of the azhwars and acharyas who constitute the illustrious guru parampara of the Vaishnava tradition. They are held to be the representatives of the Lord as they have grasped the inner essence of the sastras and are gifted to explain the same in simpler terms. For instance, Madhurakavi Azhwar seeks Nammazhwar as his acharya in preference to Krishna. He feels that the esoteric truths in the scriptures are very clear in the pasurams of Nammazhwar. Azhwar’s poetry flows with ease and grace even as the deep eternal truths are unfolded in simple Tamil language. The Vedas that are difficult to understand are now accessible to a wide range of people from all walks of life. It is held that Ramanuja’s in-depth involvement with Nammazhwar’s pasurams gave him the clarity of thought and conviction to interpret many cryptic Upanishad statements that were difficult to decipher when he was engaged in writing his brilliant Sri Bashya and other works. In the Gita, Krishna speaks highly of acharya bhakti when He states that it is not easy to imbibe teachings of Upanishads as an inner experience. One needs to seek a preceptor who is knowledgeable and who can explain these lucidly leaving no room for any doubt. Faith in teachings of acharya along with spirit of humility is essence of acharya bhakti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/essence-of-acharya-bhakti/article34575165.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 07:51 IST,||Sudoku — May 17, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-17-2021/article34575846.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a hidden curriculum||We are on a disruptive reset, educationally. The pandemic has exposed the value of the hidden curriculum represented by the unwritten, unofficial, and unintended lessons, gathered from family, classrooms, and the broader culture of beliefs and norms. This is subtle and far removed from the formal syllabus. How does it enact in different dimensions and how do we address it? Out of syllabus The first dimension is the lost certainty. Our traditional educational practice encourages a mental model of certainty. But the pandemic contradicts the false certainty assumed in a written syllabus. Many subjects are still taught as if we have unlimited certainty of natural resources. We limit ourselves by discussing opening of institutions and conducting exams and continue to encourage a false sense of required status quo. The second dimension draws attention to variability. Internet connectivity does not always equal effective learning, not every online course is well designed, neither are all teachers well prepared and not everyone is capable of learning from home. The third dimension is unintended consequences. Individuals worried about phone addiction now expectedly find themselves immersed in unending video calls. The shift to online education, increased enrolment in digital courses, and higher capital infusion to ed-tech companies suggest that the leap in digital activity has long-term impacts. Misplaced priorities and choices are the fourth aspect. The pandemic has demonstrated the fragility of our existing procedures and priorities. What can be done Here is how institutional leadership can make sense of the hidden curriculum:  Solutionist approach: Many universities have reported dozens of pandemic-related inventions and solutions. Tavian Jean-Pierre, a young futurist, suggests a simple pedagogical template. First, highlight a knowledge gap. Second, point out that we do not have the resources to solve it, if we continue to think and operate at the current level. Third, show the work that is going on to try to solve it and invite students to be a part of that.  New spaces and actors: Localised learning approaches such as small group outdoor works, safe pods by neighbourhoods, and miniature community centres are possible experiments. Educators may also include parents, volunteers, older children, and experts outside of academia. A live curriculum requires learning design collaborations from practitioners outside of the traditional academia.  Short-term measures: The urgent short-term measures, which are already in progress, include continuing safety as a priority, vaccination drives, engaging families, and weaving into the virtual campus. In hard-to-reach places, use television, radio, and content transfer through drives as emergency ways to make students feel connected.  Long-term pre-distribution measures: This involves equal access to material through sustained investments. India’s true potential can be explored only if long-term pre-distribution measures are met.  New certainty: Assuming that this period of uncertainty is fleeting will be an educational error. Reconcile to the fact that some educational structures are obsolete and figure out solutions, some of which may be unorthodox. The conclusion of the pandemic’s educational relevance is yet to be written. Disclaimer: Views expressed are personal. The writer is Education Officer, University Grants Commission.  Reconcile to the fact that some educational structures are obsolete and figure out solutions, some of which may be unorthodox||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/lessons-from-a-hidden-curriculum/article34575098.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a hidden curriculum||We are on a disruptive reset, educationally. The pandemic has exposed the value of the hidden curriculum represented by the unwritten, unofficial, and unintended lessons, gathered from family, classrooms, and the broader culture of beliefs and norms. This is subtle and far removed from the formal syllabus. How does it enact in different dimensions and how do we address it? Out of syllabus The first dimension is the lost certainty. Our traditional educational practice encourages a mental model of certainty. But the pandemic contradicts the false certainty assumed in a written syllabus. Many subjects are still taught as if we have unlimited certainty of natural resources. We limit ourselves by discussing opening of institutions and conducting exams and continue to encourage a false sense of required status quo. The second dimension draws attention to variability. Internet connectivity does not always equal effective learning, not every online course is well designed, neither are all teachers well prepared and not everyone is capable of learning from home. The third dimension is unintended consequences. Individuals worried about phone addiction now expectedly find themselves immersed in unending video calls. The shift to online education, increased enrolment in digital courses, and higher capital infusion to ed-tech companies suggest that the leap in digital activity has long-term impacts. Misplaced priorities and choices are the fourth aspect. The pandemic has demonstrated the fragility of our existing procedures and priorities. What can be done Here is how institutional leadership can make sense of the hidden curriculum:  Solutionist approach: Tavian Jean-Pierre, a young futurist, suggests a simple pedagogical template. First, highlight a knowledge gap. Second, point out that we do not have the resources to solve it, if we continue to think and operate at the current level. Third, show the work that is going on to try to solve it and invite students to be a part of that.  New spaces and actors: Localised learning approaches such as small group outdoor works, safe pods by neighbourhoods, and miniature community centres are possible experiments. Educators may also include parents, volunteers, older children, and experts outside of academia. A live curriculum requires learning design collaborations from practitioners outside of the traditional academia.  Short-term measures: The urgent short-term measures, which are already in progress, include continuing safety as a priority, vaccination drives, engaging families, and weaving into the virtual campus. In hard-to-reach places, use television, radio, and content transfer through drives as emergency ways to make students feel connected.  Long-term pre-distribution measures: This involves equal access to material through sustained investments.  New certainty: Assuming that this period of uncertainty is fleeting will be an educational error. Reconcile to the fact that some educational structures are obsolete and figure out solutions, some of which may be unorthodox. The conclusion of the pandemic’s educational relevance is yet to be written. Disclaimer: Views expressed are personal. The writer is Education Officer, University Grants Commission.  Reconcile to the fact that some educational structures are obsolete and figure out solutions, some of which may be unorthodox||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/lessons-from-a-hidden-curriculum/article34575097.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a hidden curriculum||We are on a disruptive reset, educationally. The pandemic has exposed the value of the hidden curriculum represented by the unwritten, unofficial, and unintended lessons, gathered from family, classrooms, and the broader culture of beliefs and norms. This is subtle and far removed from the formal syllabus. How does it enact in different dimensions and how do we address it? Out of syllabus The first dimension is the lost certainty. Our traditional educational practice encourages a mental model of certainty. But the pandemic contradicts the false certainty assumed in a written syllabus. A medical practitioner recently wrote how the pandemic has seen professionals adapting to changes and physicians from different specialities practising in areas entirely outside their discipline. Similarly, subjects are still taught as if we have unlimited certainty of natural resources. We limit ourselves by discussing opening of institutions and conducting exams and continue to encourage a false sense of required status quo. The second dimension draws attention to variability. Beyond the simplistic notion of replacing classrooms with the Internet, subtle variables need to be studied. Internet connectivity does not always equal effective learning, not every online course is well designed, neither are all teachers well prepared and not everyone is capable of learning from home. The third dimension is unintended consequences. Do we have a plan to navigate the unintended by-products of online learning and digitisation? Individuals worried about phone addiction now expectedly find themselves immersed in unending video calls. The shift to online education, increased enrolment in digital courses, and higher capital infusion to ed-tech companies suggest that the leap in digital activity has long-term impacts. This also means pressure on institutions using outdated pedagogy. Misplaced priorities and choices are the fourth aspect. The pandemic has demonstrated the fragility of our existing procedures and priorities. What can be done Here is how institutional leadership can make sense of the hidden curriculum:  Solutionist approach: Many universities have reported dozens of pandemic-related inventions and solutions. Tavian Jean-Pierre, a young futurist, suggests a simple pedagogical template. First, highlight a knowledge gap. Second, point out that we do not have the resources to solve it, if we continue to think and operate at the current level. Third, show the work that is going on to try to solve it and invite students to be a part of that.  New spaces and actors: Localised learning approaches such as small group outdoor works, safe pods by neighbourhoods, and miniature community centres are possible experiments. Educators may also include parents, volunteers, older children, and experts outside of academia. A live curriculum requires learning design collaborations from practitioners outside of the traditional academia.  Short-term measures: The urgent short-term measures, which are already in progress, include continuing safety as a priority, immunity building, vaccination drives, engaging families, and weaving into the virtual campus. In hard-to-reach places, use television, radio, and content transfer through drives as practical emergency ways to make students feel connected.  Long-term pre-distribution measures: This involves equal access to material through sustained investments. India’s true potential can be explored only if long-term pre-distribution measures are met.  New certainty: Assuming that this period of uncertainty is fleeting will be an educational error. Instead, deconstructing it and taking this as a humbling moment for educational change may result in seamless learning. Reconcile to the fact that some educational structures are obsolete and figure out solutions, some of which may be unorthodox. The conclusion of the pandemic’s educational relevance is yet to be written. Disclaimer: Views expressed are personal. The writer is Education Officer, University Grants Commission.  Reconcile to the fact that some educational structures are obsolete and figure out solutions, some of which may be unorthodox||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/lessons-from-a-hidden-curriculum/article34575095.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Choose your path||I am currently in the second semester of MBA. But I am more interested in designing and editing. I would like to get certified in graphic design and animation. Should I opt for a job or continue studying after MBA? — Sneha Girish Dear Sneha, Stay alert and mindful of opportunities that come your way during campus placements as it gives you a realistic assessment of your market value. Once employed, dabble with photography, designing, and editing in your free time. See if the ‘fad wears off’ in a while. If it doesn’t, then you know for real. Then, you can always take a sabbatical to enhance your skillset with a full-time course. I am in my final semester of BA English Literature and want to become a teacher. Is it necessary for me to complete my B.Ed first, or should I opt for a Master’s? — Shsakshi Dear Shsakshi, Both courses are for two years and have a prerequisite of a minimum of 55% score in your Bachelor’s to qualify for admission. There will also be a written test. An M.A is a post-graduation course in a stream of your choice, while a B.Ed is a professional course in education. After completing B.Ed, you can take the Teacher’s Eligibility Test (TET) to be hired as a school teacher. But, if you dream of being an Assistant Professor or Professor, you must opt for a Master’s degree. I have completed B.A. in Political Science from BHU, after which I enrolled in M.A. Hospital Administration from TISS. Am I eligible for NTA, NET, JRF subject code 55, human resources management and labour welfare? What opportunities do I have? — Atul Kumar Dear Atul, HRM involves management functions, procurement, development, maintenance and management of human resources — the employees of an organisation. It is the heart of any company, NGO, school, organisation, MNC. Labour welfare includes statutory and non-statutory welfare amenities including various facilities, services and amenities provided to employees to improve their health, efficiency, economic betterment and social status, in addition to their wages and services.  You can apply to be a labour welfare office, programme, policy or training officer or also the labour welfare commissioner.   Disclaimer: This column is not a substitute for long-term therapy. It is merely a guiding voice. Some issues may need medical intervention.    The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. She has worked extensively with students and young adults across a range of issues. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/choose-your-path/article34575093.ece
17 May 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active COVID-19 case tally dips below 4.70 lakh||Maharashtra continued its steady dip in COVID-19 cases, reporting 34,389 new infections on Sunday as opposed to 59,318 recoveries as the State’s active case tally declined further to 4,68,109. Despite the rising recovery rate, the State recorded a very high fatality spike of 974 deaths with 415 of these occurring over the last 48 hours and pushing the death toll to 81,486. As per the State Health Department, 253 of these deaths occurred in the last week and the remaining 306 were from an earlier period. Maharashtra’s total cases have reached 53,78,452 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 48,26,371 with the recovery rate going up to 89.74%. “Of a total 3,11,03,991 laboratory samples tested thus far, 53,78,452 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 17.29%) have returned positive with over 2.58 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stood at 1.52%. Pune added more than 5,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 9,73,685. As per the State Health Department figures, 62 deaths were reported as the fatality toll rose to 10,262. According to district authorities, the active case tally has dipped to 82,000 while the death toll has crossed 15,300 with more than 130 deaths being reported on Sunday. Mumbai reported 1,535 new cases to take its total tally to 6,87,830 while the active case count has declined to 33,574. Sixty fatalities took the city’s death toll to 14,224. Nagpur district in Vidarbha registered more than 1,000 cases as its total cases climbed to 4,78,734 of whom 32,223 are active. A staggering 104 deaths pushed the toll to 6,154. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra logged an alarming surge of 98 deaths and nearly 1,100 cases as its death toll rose to 2,161 and its total cases touched 90,164 of whom 18,422 are active. Solapur recorded 85 deaths and more than 3,000 cases as its fatality count went up to 3,348 and the total case tally reached 1,41,128 of whom 20,978 are active. Beed in Marathwada reported 37 deaths and 1,102 new cases, taking its total tally to 75,529 of whom 12,374 are active while its fatality toll has climbed to 1,408. Nashik in north Maharashtra added more than 2,000 new cases, taking its total cases to 3,67,156 of whom 21,940 are active while 44 deaths pushed its toll to 4,055.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtras-active-covid-19-case-tally-dips-below-470-lakh/article34575417.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown extended till May 24, announces CM||The Delhi government on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown that was in place till May 17 by another week till 5 a.m. on May 24. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the lockdown that was first imposed on April 19 has brought about a reduction in the number of cases and a dip in the positivity rate as well. Positivity rate “The number of COVID cases is decreasing in Delhi and recovery has increased but we do not want to lose this gain, therefore, lockdown is extended. In the past 24 hours, Delhi has reported around 6,500 cases and the positivity rate has come down to 10% from 11%.” Mr. Kejriwal said. Hoping that in the next week, there will be greater recovery, he said: “As far as I can understand, Delhi is slowly coming back on track. The lockdown is to continue as it is, no concessions will be given. Last week, the government had announced the closure of the Delhi Metro as a part of a more stringent lockdown.” The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), in its order, told officials to ensure strict compliance with the lockdown rules and take action against those found to be violating the rules. “The situation of COVID-19 in NCT of Delhi has again been reviewed and observed that positive cases, as well as positivity rate, is still high and the bed occupancy [oxygen supported/ICU beds] in the dedicated COVID-19 government and private hospitals/nursing homes is also on the higher side… curfew needs to be extended for another week in the territory on NCT of Delhi except for essential activities/services) for overall well-being and safety of the people of NCT Delhi,” the DDMA order read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdown-extended-till-may-24-announces-cm/article34575430.ece
17 May 2021||Srinagar,||Vaccine drive grinds to a halt in Kashmir due to acute shortage||The COVID-19 vaccination drive has come almost to a naught in the Kashmir valley, with all the 10 districts failing to administer doses to the eligible population on Sunday. However, the Jammu region saw 9,144 doses administered to the eligible population. Jammu & Kashmir’s capital, Srinagar, failed to administer any doses for the fourth consecutive day to any citizens in the age bracket of 18-44, official data suggests. Srinagar recorded a negligible 31 doses on Sunday to those above 45-years-old and has so far been able to administer only 1,97,571 doses of the vaccine. Ironically, the pace of vaccination in Srinagar at 35.52% (above 45-year-old) is far behind than most of the other districts in the Union Territory. J&K’s winter capital Jammu, which was lagging in vaccination a month ago, has been able to inoculate 99.34% its above 45-year-old eligible population. “At least 3,157 doses of vaccine were administered on Sunday in Jammu, which included 3,093 citizens above 45 years old,” officials said. Jammu has already administered 5,63,880 doses compared to Srinagar’s 1,97,57. According to official figures, the Jammu division, with 10 districts, has been able to administer doses to 85.66% of its population compared to the Kashmir division, with 10 districts, at 61.15%. No doses were administered in north, south and central Kashmir on Sunday due to continuous shortage of vaccines, both Covishield as well as Covaxin. Hundreds of locals queued up outside the Kashmir valley’s main hospitals, including the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital, the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, the Jawahar Lal Nehru hospital etc. but failed to get their due second doses of Covishield. “I am 78-year-old from Srinagar’s Nowshera area and have many of my family members and neighbours afflicted by the pandemic. I am waiting for my second dose for the past two weeks but have failed to receive the shot. It has only made me vulnerable,” Shabir Ganai, a retired employee, said. Danish Bhat, an elected corporator of the Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC), said the Public Health Centre, Lalbazar, Srinagar, has halted vaccination for the past six days due to unavailability. National Conference provincial president Nasir Aslam Wani has asked the Lieutenant-Governor’s administration “to remove bottlenecks”. ‘Door-to-door service’ Mr. Wani said at most far-off places in Kashmir the vaccination centres are miles away and make it difficult for people to visit them. “Kashmir needs door-to-door vaccination,” he added. The shortage comes as Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha had set a timeline of 10-days for achieving the target of 100% vaccination of the above 45 years age group with the first dose of vaccine on Saturday (May 15).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccine-drive-grinds-to-a-halt-in-kashmir-due-to-acute-shortage/article34575649.ece
17 May 2021||Noida,||As uncertainty looms over lockdowns, migrants scramble to leave GB Nagar||Their groups may have gotten smaller, but their collective sense of helplessness continues to be as compelling a reason to make the long journey back home now as it was last year. Seeking shelter from the noonday sun on a grassy patch below the Yamuna Expressway or waiting for the soaring mercury to gradually subside at abandoned roadside tea stalls along the highway, migrant workers are exiting Gautam Buddh Nagar daily as one district-wide lockdown gives way to the next. “You can call it curfew or lockdown, but it means the same thing for people like me who have to dig a well every day to drink water. Each day without work is a struggle, leave aside one entire week,” said Gopaldas, one of over a dozen migrant workers from Bihar’s Saharsa district awaiting a ride home near the ‘Zero Point’ in Greater Noida on Saturday. “I should have listened to my younger brother who left with some of his friends at the dry-cleaning shop where we all work, the day after the first weeklong curfew was announced; he told me he had a feeling it would get extended again but I told him there was no point spending money on a trip home in a hurry; I was wrong,” he added. Rendered jobless due to the continually extending lockdown to contain the second wave of COVID — a night curfew through most of April followed by a lockdown week after consecutive week so far this month — construction and factory workers, roadside vendors, barbers, mechanics, eatery operators, printing press, dry cleaners’ and even restaurant employees constitute the daily trickle back to their rural roots. “There aren’t lines [of migrant workers] on the roads like [during the March 2020] lockdown last year so it may look like everything is fine but that is not so,” said Surender Kant from Darbhanga. “Many of those who went to their villages last year, like my younger brother who is now working on agricultural fields there, didn’t come back because they had doubts about things being normal despite government announcements; if they, had it would have been as bad now as it was then,” he added. Willing to utilise any means available — from hitchhiking on personal vehicles to cramming themselves inside trucks’ and goods carriers’ metallic storage compartments irrespective of the heat or fear of COVID infection — and to pay any price to reach destinations located as far as some districts of Bihar, the migrant crisis, they said, may not “look as bad” like last year but has forced many to reconsider their decision to return to the city yet again. “I came back to Greater Noida a month a half ago after spending almost a year at home. Things were getting better daily; there was work almost every day of the week but then the lockdown happened again. Now I think I shouldn’t have come back in the first place,” said Sarvesh Singh, a construction worker, also from Saharsa. Operations scaled down Ranjit Yadav, a 55-year-old contractual factory worker from Gorakhpur, complained that employment opportunities for daily wagers like him had been few and far in between throughout May. “Factories are functioning but not at their full strength because of the lockdown. Operations have been scaled down; given the lesser working hours they are mostly making do with employees on their payroll or with a less number of younger labourers instead of old hands like me,” he said. “At this point, you can’t even blame the thekedaar [contractor]. How will he get me to work given the circumstances? I would rather go back home and work on the fields for around the same wage; at least I’ll get to see my family more often,” he added. Gyanesh Kumar from Firozabad in Uttar Pradesh said while the plying of state-run, as well as private buses this year, was a significant relief for those seeking to go home, journeys had gotten more expensive.  “I used to be able to reach home in around Rs. 250 to Rs. 300 earlier. Now they charge around Rs. 50 to Rs. 100 more — both public and private buses; the government should have at least thought about maintaining reasonable fares for people like us,” he said. “Here we are struggling to fill our stomachs more than once a day and now this additional expenditure only to be able to go home seems more than unfair,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/as-uncertainty-looms-over-lockdowns-migrants-scramble-to-leave-gb-nagar/article34575435.ece
17 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Bride loses battle with virus||A young bride lost the battle against COVID-19 after a frantic day-long search for a hospital bed allegedly ended in disappointment in Bhubaneswar. Ambulance-borne Swarnalata Pal (25) was taken from one hospital to another for nearly 10 hours, but she could not secure admission to an ICU (intensive care unit). She breathed her last in the ambulance. She had only been married for three weeks when she met the tragic end. Her marriage to Bishnu Charan Bhola, a resident of Indoloakusiari village on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar, took place on April 28. “Before her death, Swarnalata had mild fever. On Saturday, her husband came running to me to inform that she was experiencing shortness of breath and was required to be shifted to a hospital. We took her to a government hospital at Athantara by an ambulance. Since the hospital did not have an ICU facility, we were asked to rush the patient to the Capital Hospital,” said Niranjan Bhol, a relative of the victim.  ‘Delay by family’ “The family delayed spotting COVID-19 symptoms in Swarnalata. Her oxygen level started dipping. COVID-19 test was conducted on her upon reaching Capital Hospital. She tested positive. Since there was no ICU bed available, we took her to AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences)-Bhubaneswar and a few private hospitals. We could not find any ICU. She was still in the ambulance when she breathed her last,” said Mr. Bhol. Her body was cremated at the Satya Nagar crematorium here on Sunday. Meanwhile, the Ganjam district administration has urged all attendees, including the bride and bridegroom, to undergo COVID-19 tests prior to weddings. The appeal came in the wake of wedding functions becoming a source of infections. “We request all that anyone seeking permission to marry should come with a COVID-19 negative report. Since not more than 50 people can attend a marriage, it will not be difficult to undergo a COVID-19 test. Then we can be assured that the wedding does not become a source of infections,” said Ganjam District Collector Vijay Amruta Kulange.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bride-loses-battle-with-virus/article34575652.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||City sees less than 10,000 cases for the third consecutive day||The Capital recorded 6,456 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday along with 262 deaths and 9,706 recoveries, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The bulletin added that 62,059 tests were conducted in 24-hours with a positivity rate of 10.40%. The total cases now stand at 13,93,867 with 21,506 deaths. There are 62,783 active cases in the city with 39,211 people under home isolation. This is the third consecutive day when Delhi has recorded less than 10,000 cases. On Saturday, Delhi had reported 6,430 cases, the lowest since April 7. It reported 8,506 cases on Friday, 10,489 on Thursday, 13,287 on Wednesday, 12,481 on Tuesday, 12,651 on Monday and 13,336 on last Sunday. At 10.40%, Sunday’s positivity rate is the lowest since April 11 when it stood at 9.4%. Releasing the vaccination bulletin, AAP MLA Atishi said Delhi has only one day of Covaxin stock left for those aged above 45, healthcare and frontline workers, while Covishield doses for this category can last up to five days. She appealed to the Central government to make more vaccines available for this category immediately. “A total of 1.18 lakh beneficiaries received the jabs on May 15. Around 10.50 lakh people have got both doses since the inoculation drive began on January 16. Delhi has so far received 44.94 lakh vaccine doses for this age group, of which 41.68 lakh have been administered,” Ms. Atishi said. In the 18-44 age group so far, the Capital has received 8.17 lakh doses of which 5.25 lakh have been used till Sunday morning, she added. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal visited GTB hospital to review the work and video calling facility for the COVID patients with their family members. We have understood that if the patient gets mental strength, then their recovery is faster, so we had started a video calling facility for patients to talk to their relatives, Mr. Kejriwal said. He said this also helps reduce the stress of the relatives. “There were some services that we had started, and some obstructions were faced. I had received some complaints regarding that and now that has been resolved. I talked to some of the patients and whatever problems were being faced, have now been solved. All doctors and nurses are working on this, ” Mr. Kejriwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-sees-less-than-10000-cases-for-the-third-consecutive-day/article34575433.ece
17 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Recoveries higher than fresh COVID cases in Gurugram||In a reversal of trends over the past 10 days, the number of recovered COVID patients recorded daily in Gurugram is constantly more than the fresh cases, bringing down the active cases by around 15,000. Consequently, oxygen and Intensive Care Units are now available in some of the hospitals registered with the State government for treatment of COVID patients. Though the number of new cases is constantly on a decline in Gurugram for more than a fortnight now, the recovered patients outnumbered the fresh cases for the first time in the city during the current wave on May 7. As many as 4,253 patients were declared recovered on May 7 compared to 3,588 fresh cases, bringing down the number of active cases to 39,000. The trend continues unabated and the number of active cases in the district stands at 24,926. Also, the number of daily new cases fell below the 2,000-mark on May 15 for the first time during the current wave with 1,691 fresh cases. As per the latest daily report on May 16, the district witnessed 1,864 new cases against 4,912 recoveries. Daily deaths However, the number of daily deaths continue to in double digits. With 12 deaths on May 16, the district has recorded 683 deaths so far, including 466 deaths in cases with co-morbidities. Around 10,000-12,000 COVID tests are conducted daily in the district. The decline in the number of active cases also reflected itself in the availability of oxygen and ICU beds in hospitals in the district. More than 20 hospitals registered with the state government showed availability of oxygen beds, including Civil Hospital, SGT Medical College and Research Institute, ESI Hospital, Medeor Hospital, and Artemis Hospital, on May 16. SGT Medical College and Research Institute also showed 39 vacant ICU beds. Similarly, Sunrise Hospital had six vacant ICU beds followed by Mamta Hospital (4), Sethi Hospital (2) and Sheetla Hospital (1), among others. Anajali Kaul, Medical Superintendent, Artemis Hospitals, Gurugram, said: “We see a smaller number of mild to moderate COVID positive patients coming to hospitals. However, there is an increase in the demand for ICU beds. Lots of patients with post-COVID complications are seeking medical attention. Looks like, the tide is turning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/recoveries-higher-than-fresh-covid-cases-in-gurugram/article34575425.ece
17 May 2021||Pune,||‘Private doctors’ role vital in fight against virus’||Appealing to family physicians to join in the fight against COVID-19, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the role of private doctors was crucial in early detection which could in turn help facilitate timely treatment for the patient. Mr. Thackeray, along with doctors of the State COVID-19 task force, held a ‘medical conference’ via videoconferencing in which over 700 doctors from the State participated. “Every household has its own family doctor, who are intimately acquainted with the history of illnesses of the members of that family. Given that 70%-75% COVID-19 patients do not show any symptoms of the novel coronavirus, they remain in home isolation. However, some begin developing symptoms later and by the time they are admitted to the hospital, it is too late. So, the responsibility and role of all doctors and physicians, and not just specialists, is becoming very important in this pandemic,” he said. The Chief Minister said that if family physicians kept a regular tab on their patients and updated ward officers regularly, then municipal authorities could make arrangements for further treatment in a proper manner. “Family doctors play a vital role in reining in the contagion by helping identify symptoms, if any, at the early stage of patients who are in home isolation. They can check whether a patient is asymptomatic or needs hospitalisation,” he said. Mr. Thackeray urged private doctors to come forward as part of the ‘My Doctor’ drive and register themselves with COVID-19 care centres and jumbo hospitals in their localities and visit the facilities for consultation. Mr. Thackeray further said that in anticipation of a ‘third wave’ of the virus that, according to experts, could hit children hard, a paediatric task force was being set up by the State government. During the meeting, the State government’s task force of medical experts headed by Dr. Sanjay Oak, Dr. Shashank Joshi, Dr. Rahul Pandit, Dr. Tatyarao Lahane and Dr. Ashish Bhumkar, informed private medical practitioners about COVID-19 treatment protocols. They told the doctors about use of steroids, importance of six-minute walk test, how to identify the need for giving oxygen, identifying reduction in oxygen level, treatment of mucormycosis — a fungal infection detected in COVID-19 survivors, use of key anti-viral drug Remdesivir, and taking care of patients on ventilators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/private-doctors-role-vital-in-fight-against-virus/article34575415.ece
17 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab govt. extends curbs till end of May||Amid high positivity and fatality rates, the Punjab government on Sunday extended all existing COVID-19 restrictions till May 31. The State government has imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like weekend lockdown and night curfew to check the spread of the infection. The announcement regarding the extension of curbs was made by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who gave directions for strict enforcement of all restrictions, asking the Deputy Commissioners to continue determine opening of shops in a staggered manner. “They can also make suitable amendments based on local conditions as long as these do not dilute the State’s overall restrictions,” said Capt. Amarinder in an official statement here. Reviewing the State’s COVID-19 situation at a meeting,he said while the restrictions so far has shown results, with some decline in daily infection numbers, there is a need to extend the curbs due to high positivity rate of 13.1% as of May 15 and case fatality rate (CFR) standing at 2.4%.  Strict implementation The Chief Minister said the district authorities will continue to ensure strict implementation of all directives of the Union Home Ministry or the State government on COVID appropriate behaviour, including social distancing norms, regulating crowds in market places and public transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-govt-extends-curbs-till-end-of-may/article34575654.ece
17 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Lockdown in Haryana extended till May 24||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown in the State for another week till May 24. This is the second extension after it was first imposed for a week on May 3.  ‘Stringent measures’ Making the announcement, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij, in a tweet, said: “Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana extended from 17 May to 24 May. Stringent measures will be taken to implement the Alert.” “Now, after duly considering the fact that the number of COVID positive cases are still high in the State, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 22(2)(h) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the undersigned in my capacity as Chairperson, State Executive Committee hereby extends the Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana... for another one week, i.e., from 17.05.2021 (05.00 a.m. onwards) to 24.05.2021 (till 5.00 a.m.) in the State of Haryana along with the guidelines to be implemented (during this period) issued earlier,” read the order by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan. Revised guidelines The Haryana government had last week revised the guidelines for the lockdown to cap the number of people at weddings and funerals to 11. Wedding processions were also banned in the State. Weddings can now be conducted only inside homes or at courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdown-in-haryana-extended-till-may-24/article34575651.ece
17 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Staying positive: NMMC starts library at jumbo COVID-19 centre||In a first, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has started a library for the COVID-19 patients at its jumbo facility at the CIDCO exhibition centre. “The idea is to keep the minds of the patients engaged while recovering with positive thoughts. Their stay at the jumbo COVID-19 care centre should be stress-free and give them more energy for a positive life. Thus we took the initiative,” NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said. The project, ‘Library in Covid Centre’, has been jointly started by the corporation and Let’s Read Foundation. “COVID-19 positive patients have a long time after being admitted to the jumbo facility. It is possible to lose the morale by thinking about the disease when a patient is alone and away from family. In that case, books will help them take their minds off those thoughts, to some extent,” a doctor from the CIDCO exhibition centre said. Books in Marathi, Hindi and English are available at the library. “There are light and interesting books as well as biographies of inspiring people. The books were selected carefully to make sure only positive and entertaining books are made available. Besides, there are patients who have brought their own books to the centre,” Mr. Bangar said. Currently, one shelf with 500 books has been placed in each ward of the jumbo facility. Mr. Bangar on Sunday interacted with patients and got a positive response to the initiative. The corporation has now planned to have a similar library at the other COVID-19 facilities as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/staying-positive-nmmc-starts-library-at-jumbo-covid-19-centre/article34575414.ece
17 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Positive mothers should continue kangaroo care’||A COVID-19 positive mother should continue with kangaroo care with proper hygienic practices and preferably let vaccinated persons take care of the infant six feet away when not breastfeeding or in contact with her, the only doctor of medicine for neonatology in the Northeast has said. Kangaroo mother care (KMC), initially developed in Colombia, is a method of care practised on babies, usually on a pre-term infant, where the infant is held skin-to-skin with his mother, father, or substitute caregiver. “There are no special precautions for the babies born of COVID-19 positive mothers. If there is no provision for separate delivery room for such a mother, her bed should be separated from the rest of the delivery beds. All life-saving birth practices like skin-to-skin care, delayed cord clamping, early breastfeeding, and KMC should be continued with proper hygienic practices,” Reeta Bora said in an interaction facilitated by the Assam centre of the UNICEF. Professor of paediatrics and neonatology at Lakhimpur Medical College, Dr. Bora is a member of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics’ National Neonatology Forum. Hygienic practices She said COVID-19-affected mothers could directly breastfeed their new-borns and infants, provided they maintained the hygienic practices such as periodic handwashing, wearing of masks while feeding, keeping the infant at a distance of six feet distance while someone who was unaffected took care of the baby, preferably vaccinated and without any high-risk factor for infection. Dr. Bora allayed fears about the effect of vaccination in pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers, pointing out there was no global scientific evidence to presume it was harmful. “The vaccines currently in use have proved to be safe for pregnant and lactating mothers. The Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India has recently advocated vaccination in pregnant women and lactating mothers,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/positive-mothers-should-continue-kangaroo-care/article34575653.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Max Hospital refused to release body until bill of over Rs. 22L cleared, allege kin||Family members of a patient who died at Max Hospital, Saket has alleged that the hospital refused to release the body on Saturday until the bill of over Rs. 22 lakh was cleared. Despite stating that the patient — Sohan Singh (53) — was the sole-earning member, family members had to sign an undertaking that the bill would be cleared at a later date. Max hospital, said: “The COVID patient was admitted to Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital, Saket on April 23 and was shifted to the ICU on April 24 after his condition deteriorated. His parameters were unstable and despite best efforts by a multidisciplinary team of experts, the patient succumbed to his condition past midnight on May 15. The family was informed about his demise. Meanwhile, the hospital initiated the protocol for handing over the body of a COVID patient.” “His nephew arrived at the hospitalon Saturday morningand the body was released at the same afternoon post due formalities and undertaking for settling outstanding bill/dues. We firmly deny allegations that there was any delay in releasing the body. The hospital has so far not received any complaint from the family of the bereaved person,” the statement read .  The patient’s nephew, Dildar Singh, said: “He had been admitted on April 24 and late last night [Friday], we got a call from the hospital stating that he had died. The hospital then refused to release the body till the bill of over Rs. 22 lakh was cleared. After insurance and the little that we had been able to pay, around Rs. 13 lakh was still pending.” “We told the hospital that we have given all that we could, and it is impossible for us to pay more. He was the sole earner in his family and how will we manage this huge sum? While the doctors are doing their best, the hospitals are looting from patients. At a point when a family member has expired and we are already vulnerable, how can we be in the mindset to be haggling over the bill? We had to sign an undertaking before the body was released but we will take a call later on whether we want to appeal or not,” said Mr. Singh. AAP MLA Somanth Bharti, who also intervened in the matter before the body was released, said: “At a time when family members are already hassled, the hospitals are extracting money. By law, no hospital can say that the body will not be released till the money is paid. There is no lien on the dbody. What I would also urge the government to put an upper cap on the treatment bill that hospitals can charge.” Taking to social media, Mr. Bharti wrote that Sohan had been a volunteer with him who had helped serve several COVID-affected families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/max-hospital-refused-to-release-body-until-bill-of-over-rs-22l-cleared-allege-kin/article34575437.ece
17 May 2021||Kota,||2 killed in Rajasthan clash||Two people were killed and one injured in a clash between two groups over alleged illegal mining of soil near an agricultural field along the Piplaj dam in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar district, police said on Sunday. Fifteen people have been booked and 10 of them detained in connection with the violence that took place near Gangpura village under Bhawani Mandi police station area on Saturday afternoon, they said. The deceased have been identified as Giriraj Gurjar (35) and Basantilal Gurjar (25), both residents of Gangpura village, the police said. No arrests have been made so far. The bodies of Giriraj and Basantilal were handed over to their family members after post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-killed-in-rajasthan-clash/article34575650.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Cyclone impact||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cyclone-impact/article34575722.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. deploys staff to answer distress calls||The Delhi government has deployed staff from its Department of Social Welfare to attend to distress calls and other queries from senior citizens impacted by the pandemic. A team of four officials has been sent to the office of the divisional commissioner to support helpline number 1077 that is run under the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the department said in an official order. Section officer G.C. Meena, senior assistant Kumar Gandharva, welfare officers Kuldeep Saini and Vijay have been deployed for the task, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-deploys-staff-to-answer-distress-calls/article34575427.ece
17 May 2021||May 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Playtime||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/playtime/article34575667.ece
17 May 2021||Puri (Odisha),||Jagannath temple closed till June 15||Keeping in view the surge in COVID-19 cases in Odisha and also in Puri, the authorities of the temple of Lord Jagannath in the pilgrim town on Sunday announced that the 12th century shrine would remain out of bounds for the public till June 15. The famous temple is closed for the devotees since May 5 as a State-wide lockdown was imposed by the Odisha government. The Shree Jagannatha Temple Administration made the decision to keep the temple closed for people till June 15 at a review meeting chaired by SJTA Chief Administrator Dr. Krishan Kumar and attended by Puri Collector Samarth Verma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jagannath-temple-closed-till-june-15/article34575424.ece
17 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Police harassing volunteers for putting posters questioning PM’||Aam Aadmi Party leader Durgesh Pathak on Sunday alleged that Delhi Police is harassing their volunteers for putting posters questioning the Prime Minister regarding the unavailability of vaccines. He added that AAP will not bow down to such intimidation from the police. “Today [Sunday] two workers from Karawal Nagar, two from Ghonda, workers from Rithala, Ambedkar Nagar, Mangodi, Kalkaji, and Mangolpuri were imprisoned. Around 500-550 of them were called in the morning and interrogated by police till night,” Mr. Pathank said. “I would like to tell the police and the BJP that you cannot arrest somebody for asking such questions because we live in a democracy. But despite this if you want to arrest, then we would like to tell you that these posters were put up by AAP, these posters were put up by me,” Mr. Pathak said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-harassing-volunteers-for-putting-posters-questioning-pm/article34575428.ece
17 May 2021||New Delhi,||Plea in HC for vaccine supply to Delhi on priority basis||A plea in the Delhi High Court has sought directions to the Centre to ensure that COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech supply the jabs to the national capital on a priority basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-in-hc-for-vaccine-supply-to-delhi-on-priority-basis/article34575426.ece
