19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||13 dead as Tauktae batters Gujarat; 90 missing from barge||The severe cyclonic storm Tauktae that entered Saurashtra early on Tuesday, whipping up winds close to 180 kmph, has reduced in intensity and lay about 35 km west of Ahmedabad late in the evening, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Rain is expected to continue in Gujarat and Rajasthan for the next 24 hours as the storm further weakens into a “depression” near Jodhpur by Wednesday. At least 13 people were killed in Gujarat as the storm wreaked damage on roads, power lines, trees and buildings. The Navy and the Coast Guard have so far rescued 320 people on board two barges in the Arabian Sea, near Mumbai. Over 16,000 houses were damaged, and more than 40,000 trees and over 1,000 poles uprooted due to the cyclonic storm in Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said. Many areas of Ahmedabad were inundated after the city received 75.69 mm of rain between 6 a.m. and 4 p.m. Ninety persons were still missing from Barge P-305 which sank 35 nautical miles from Mumbai amid rough seas. Till Tuesday evening, 183 survivors from the barge as well as all 137 persons on board another barge, the Gal Constructor, were rescued. Naval ships INS Beas , Betwa and Teg joined INS Kochi and Kolkata in search and rescue operations (SAR) for Barge P-305, which went adrift off Heera oil fields in the Bombay High area on Monday with 273 onboard, a Navy spokesperson said. “SAR has also been augmented with a P-8I aircraft and naval helicopters,” he stated.  Gal Constructor went adrift due to engine trouble and ran aground about 48 nautical miles north of Colaba Point. “The crew have been airlifted and safely transferred to the nearby Wadrai beach,” the Coast Guard said. The Navy spokesperson said SAR efforts were in progress off the coast of Gujarat for three other ONGC vessels — Support Station (SS)-3, Great Ship Aditi and drill ship Sagar Bhushan , which are 15-20 nautical miles southeast of Pipavav Port. The Army has activated six rescue and relief teams for operations in Diu. Working overnight, the road between Gir and Diu, which was blocked at many places due to fallen trees, debris and damaged electrical wires, along with poles, was cleared by Army teams. This restored movement of essential supplies, medical support and civil traffic to aid cyclone relief in the Union Territory, the Army said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13-dead-as-tauktae-batters-gujarat-90-missing-from-barge/article34591239.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Vaccination lag in rural India points to a looming crisis||Even as the second COVID-19 wave shows signs of easing, the spread of cases in rural areas and the relatively lower vaccination numbers there points to a burgeoning crisis. During the first wave (which peaked in September 2020), the COVID-19 cases started piling up in urban areas initially and spread to rural areas (including semi-rural ones) constituting 65% of all cases. The second wave also followed a similar pattern. The split was 52%-48% in urban/semi-urban vs rural/semi-rural areas in March 2021 and by mid-May, the estimated case load split was 65% in rural/semi-rural areas vs 35% in urban/semi-urban areas. These percentages are also skewed due to the lack of adequate testing facilities in many parts of rural India.   Adding more cause for concern is the fact that the rise in registered cases has not seen a concomitant increase in vaccination in rural areas. While more than 60% of cases were from the rural and semi-rural districts, only an estimated 12%-15% of inhabitants have received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by May 14. In contrast, an estimated 30% of residents in urban and 19% in semi-urban areas have received at least one shot. In terms of being fully vaccinated (both doses), only an estimated 2.6% of rural residents received them by May 14, even as an estimated 7.7% of urban dwellers had received both doses.   Vaccination helps Data from some States show that the daily confirmed cases have decreased among the vaccinated higher age groups, while the infections among the non-vaccinated continue to rise during the second wave. Experts have also said that vaccines effectively prevent severe disease even if a vaccinated individual gets infected. The lower vaccination numbers in semi-rural and rural areas suggest that the impact of the pandemic will be more severe there, as is being reported anecdotally from ground reports in several parts of north India, in particular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-lag-in-rural-india-points-to-a-looming-crisis/article34591245.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka reports a record 58,395 recoveries in a day||Karnataka on Tuesday reported a record 58,395 recoveries, the highest on a single day so far. With this, the total number of recoveries touched 16,74,487. This is the second time that recoveries have outnumbered new cases after the second wave set in. On May 16 when the State reported 31,531 new cases, 36,475 recoveries were recorded. Active cases, which have been on the rise and had breached the six lakh mark in the last two days, for the first time reduced to 5,75,028 on Tuesday. The recovery rate on Tuesday was 73.6%. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who tweeted about the record recoveries, said this was the highest on a single day so far in the State. Following an exponential rise in the number of new cases, the State’s recovery rate had reduced considerably in the last one month. From 98.1% on February 28, it had plummeted to 70% on May 8. It has again touched 73.6% on Tuesday. Meanwhile, with 30,309 new cases of COVID-19, the total number rose to 22,72,374. Of these, 8,676 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. The State reported 525 deaths on Tuesday. With this, the toll rose to 22,838. The number of tests has reduced considerably in the last two days, dropping to less than a lakh from the average 1.25 lakh conducted daily. As many 93,247 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Vaccines arrive The State, which had slowed down its vaccination drive due to shortage of vaccines, on Tuesday received two lakh doses of Covishield. Health Minister K. Sudhakar, who tweeted about this, said this consignment was part of the State’s direct procurement order. The State had placed orders for two lakh doses of Covishield and one lakh doses of Covaxin directly from the manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-reports-a-record-58395-recoveries-in-a-day/article34591261.ece
19 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Shailaja, other veterans dropped from Kerala Cabinet||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) State committee in Kerala on Tuesday dropped high-profile Ministers K.K. Shailaja, Kadakampally Surendran and A.C. Moideen from the new Pinarayi Vijayan Cabinet. The CPI(M) has nominated Ms. Shailaja as the party’s whip in the next Assembly. Ms. Shailaja’s non-inclusion in the Cabinet has raised several eyebrows. The Health Minister in the out-going Ministry was seen as the face of Kerala’s fight against the Nipah virus and later the COVID-19 pandemic. Her handling of the crisis saw Ms. Shailaja post a historic win of 60,000 votes over her rival from Mattannur in Kannur. Ms. Shailaja, however, denied allegations that the CPI(M) had singled her out for exclusion from the Cabinet, saying the party had collectively decided to rotate responsibility. Ms. Shailaja said the fight against Nipah and later COVID-19 was a combined effort that spanned departments. No individual could claim credit for it. She said the people had endorsed the previous government’s efforts to help them in a crisis, and this was reflected in the 2021 poll. Ms. Shailaja said the person to hold the Health portfolio would do a better job and build on what the previous LDF government had achieved in the sector. The party was paramount. And she had merely answered its call to duty. The former Minister said she would focus on her constituency and continue to perform the tasks entrusted to her by the CPI(M). The CPI(M) nominated Mr. Pinarayi Vijayan as the legislature party leader and consequently Chief Minister-designate. The party also tasked him with assigning the portfolios.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shailaja-other-veterans-dropped-from-kerala-cabinet/article34591242.ece
19 May 2021||Special Correspondent Pune,||Drop in active cases continues in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s decline in COVID-19 cases continued at a healthy rate on Tuesday with 52,898 patients being discharged as compared to 28,438 new cases. The State’s active case tally has now dipped to 4,19,727. With 1,290 deaths being reported, the toll increased to 83,777. As per the State Health Department, 679 of these were from last week of which 422 occurred over the last 48 hours. As many as 612 deaths from an earlier period have been added as per the reconciliation process, said authorities. Maharashtra’s total cases have reached 54,33,506 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 49,27,480 with the recovery rate rising to 90.69%. “Of a total 3,15,88,717 laboratory samples tested thus far, 54,33,506 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 17.2%) have returned positive with over 2.50 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. The case fatality rate has risen to 1.54%, he added. While Mumbai city, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik districts continued to report drop in number of cases and fatalities, districts in western Maharashtra like Kolhapur reported alarming spikes. Mumbai reported its lowest surge in 45 days, recording just 961 cases to take its tally to 6,90,023 while the active count has declined further to 31,790. As many as 44 fatalities took the toll to 14,316. Pune added more than 3,500 cases to take its tally to 9,80,386. As per State Health Department figures, 24 deaths were reported taking the toll to 10,483. District authorities said the active case tally has dipped to 72,000. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 1,100 cases as its tally reached 4,80,842 of whom 26,794 are active. With 28 deaths, the toll stands at 6,212. Kolhapur reported its highest fatality spike ever with 130 deaths and more than 1,500 cases. The death toll rose to 2,806 and its total cases reached 93,000 of which 16,199 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 35 deaths and more than 1,800 cases to take its toll to 2,452, while the number of cases reached 1,09,019 of which 16,161 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drop-in-active-cases-continues-in-maharashtra/article34591863.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Nearly 100 deaths, 21,320 new cases in State||The State reported 21,320 new infections and 99 deaths due to COVID in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally crossed the 14.75 lakh mark and reached 14,75,372  with a recovery rate of 85.02%. The toll increased to 9,580 and the death rate remains at 0.65%. After a long time, the number of recoveries was almost equal to the number of new infections in a day. As many as 21,274 patients have recovered leaving 2,11,501 active cases in the state. The total recoveries stand at 12,54,291.   Samples tested  The daily positivity rate of the 91,253 samples was 23.36%. For the tenth consecutive day, the daily positivity day was more than 20%. The overall positivity rate of the 1.81 crore samples tested was 8.13%. Chittoor, Krishna and Vizianagaram reported 10 new deaths each while East Godavari and Prakasam reported nine new deaths each. Anantapur, Guntur, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported eight new deaths each. Kurnool and Srikakulam reported six new deaths while Nellore reported five and Kadapa reported two. East Godavari has again reported the highest single-day tally of 2,923 new infections among the districts. It was followed by Anantapur (2,804), Chittoor (2,630), Visakhapatnam (2,368), West Godavari (1,762), Srikakulam (1,466), Guntur (1,291), Nellore (1,251), Krishna (1,048), Kadapa (1,036), Kurnool (991), Vizianagaram (965) and Prakasam (784). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,89,137), Chittoor (1,61,188), Guntur (1,36,193), West Godavari (1,23,193), Anantapur (1,19,115), Visakhapatnam (1,16,801), Nellore (1,06,124), Kurnool (1,02,193), Srikakulam (96,417), Prakasam (93,516), Kadapa (84,829), Krishna (77,713) and Vizianagaram (66,058).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-100-deaths-21320-new-cases-in-state/article34591230.ece
19 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||More risks for pregnant women in COVID second wave||The second wave of COVID-19 has been impacting pregnant women in the State quite adversely. A sudden increase in maternal deaths and a handful of near-miss mortality events among pregnant women in Kerala in the past three months following COVID-19 have sent alarm bells ringing, with obstetricians calling for close monitoring of all pregnant women contracting COVID-19. “In the initial days of COVID-19, we were apprehensive about its impact on pregnant women but it did not pose a serious risk. But in its second wave, COVID-19 has been very aggressive and its presentation so different that we have been losing many mothers unexpectedly. We are extremely worried,” V.P. Paily, a senior obstetrician and the State coordinator of Confidential Review of Maternal Deaths, a maternal death auditing process undertaken by Kerala Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (KFOG), said. In the last one year from March, seven pregnant women in the State died of COVID-19. While some deaths were largely due to issues in advanced pregnancy, in some, COVID-19 aggravated underlying issues. However, this year, in the past three months alone, 14 pregnant women have lost their lives following COVID-related complications. Near-miss events There have also been some 24 near-miss mortality events and many of those women are still in ICUs and ventilators, fighting for their lives. Near-miss events are under-reported and hence the actual number could be much more. (A near-miss event is one wherein a woman nearly dies but survives the complications during pregnancy/child birth/post-natal period). The Health Department is yet to bring the data to the public domain. Fourteen of all COVID-19 deaths of pregnant women had occurred in the third trimester, while the others had happened in the second trimester and in the post-natal period. COVID pneumonia was the cause of death in 17 cases, while COVID-associated cytokine storm and pulmonary embolism led to the death of others. Diabetes, most common Diabetes was the most common comorbidity, while some others had hypertension, hypothyroidism or asthma. The new onset morbidities following COVID included renal failure, myocarditis, pneumothorax and placental abruption. “Some of the mothers were only in the second trimester. Their clinical history was not prolonged and their disease seemed to deteriorate rapidly. During H1N1, we had a good antiviral drug, Tamiflu, which worked. In the absence of a sure-shot drug, all pregnant women with COVID-19 need to be monitored closely and those with co-morbidities like gestational diabetes will need special attention. A multidisciplinary team should manage these women, because many of them go on to develop thromboembolic and renal issues,” Dr. Paily said. Poor glycaemic control has been a primary cause contributing to complications and mortality following COVID-19 . It is thus important that pregnant women are educated on this and are helped to achieve adequate blood sugar control. The KFOG had written to the Centre earlier that pregnant women should be offered COVID-19 vaccination to protect them from serious complications. Now that the NITI Aayog has left it to the choice of pregnant women, whether they should vaccinate or not, the KFOG will encourage all pregnant women to get vaccinated as the benefits outweighs risks.  There have also been 24 near-miss mortality events and many of those women are still in ICUs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-risks-for-pregnant-women-in-covid-second-wave/article34591452.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Hospitals to face random checks over COVID-19 treatment tariff||The Tamil Nadu government will soon constitute a team to conduct random checks at private hospitals to ensure adherence to the tariff fixed for the treatment of COVID-19 patients and will initiate action against violators, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian told The Hindu in an interview on Tuesday. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is planning to hold a meeting with the managements of private hospitals to impress upon them the need to follow the guidelines issued by the government on the tariff. On the allegations of under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths, the Minister said the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Central government were being followed to classify COVID-19 deaths. Firm instructions had been given to all hospitals that deaths caused directly by COVID-19 or due to the exacerbation of pre-existing conditions as a result of COVID-19 should be declared as COVID-19 deaths. Mr. Subramanian said the Chief Minister would launch the vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 age group on Thursday, and priority will be given to labourers, autorickshaw drivers and the differently-abled. “We will be vaccinating differently-abled people at their doorstep,” he added. On the World Health Organization advising against the use of Remdesivir, he said many private hospitals were prescribing the drug, which made the people believe that it would help in recovery. “Since there is a huge public demand, we are making it available in hospitals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospitals-to-face-random-checks-over-covid-19-treatment-tariff/article34591312.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana extends lockdown till May 30||The State government has decided to extend the lockdown in the State till May 30. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao took a decision to this effect after interacting with his Council of Ministers over telephone for taking their views on extending the lockdown. Lockdown in the State with relaxation of four hours – from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. – had been imposed since May 12 as part of measures to check the spread of COVID-19 which has shown a steep surge in the second wave. The State Cabinet in its meeting on May 11 had decided to impose lockdown for 10 days till May 22 and it was decided that a Cabinet meeting would be held on May 20 to take stock of the situation and finalise further course of action. The Chief Minister, however, interacted with the Cabinet Ministers on Tuesday and decided to extend the restrictions after eliciting their views. The proposed meeting of the State Cabinet has been cancelled as the Ministers were busy monitoring the COVID containment measures and extension of relief to victims and their families. The Chief Minister has directed Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to issue orders extending the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-extends-lockdown-till-may-30/article34591803.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,||CMPRF has received Rs. 69 crore in donations||Following Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s appeal to corporates and the public to donate generously to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) to help the State government fight the COVID-19 pandemic, donations totalling Rs. 69 crore were received till Tuesday morning. Allocations made Of the total amount, the Chief Minister ordered that Rs. 25 crore should be used for sourcing Remdesivir and other life-saving drugs for the State, and another Rs. 25 crore for obtaining liquid oxygen for hospitals in Tamil Nadu from other States, an official release said. Of the Rs. 69 crore, Rs. 29.44 crore was received through electronic transactions, while an amount of Rs. 39.56 crore was received directly from donors, the release added. Production units Meanwhile, in an effort to achieve self-sufficiency with regard to medical needs, the Chief Minister ordered the establishment of units within Tamil Nadu to manufacture life-saving drugs and produce the much-needed oxygen and COVID-19 vaccines. The Chief Minister also ordered coordination with industry players to set up units to manufacture high-tech medical equipment, oxygen concentrators and vaccines, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cmprf-has-received-rs-69-crore-in-donations/article34591310.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Electoral bonds worth Rs. 695 crore sold in April||The State Bank of India (SBI) sold electoral bonds worth Rs. 695.34 crore from April 1 to 10, when the Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, West Bengal, Assam and Kerala polls were in full swing, says an RTI reply by the bank. The amount sold was the highest-ever for any Assembly elections since the scheme started in 2018, according to the numbers provided in the reply. All but Rs. 2,000 of the bonds sold in the 16th phase of the scheme were encashed. Predictably, the sale shot up during the elections in comparison to the previous tranche in January when bonds worth Rs. 42.1 crore were sold, it said. The highest amounts were sold at the Kolkata branch (Rs. 176.1 crore), followed by New Delhi (Rs. 167.5 crore) and Chennai (Rs. 141.5 crore). The Hyderabad and Mumbai branches sold Rs. 91.5 crore worth bonds each, while Rs. 15 crore worth bonds were sold at the Gandhinagar branch, Rs. 5 crore in Jaipur, Rs. 4.15 crore in Guwahati and Rs. 3 crore in Panaji. In the 16th phase of the scheme, 972 out of the 974 electoral bonds were encashed, with over half the amount — Rs. 351 crore — being encashed at the New Delhi branch. The rest were encashed at Bhubaneswar (Rs. 116 crore), Chennai (Rs. 106 crore), Hyderabad (Rs. 63.5 crore), Kolkata (Rs. 55 crore) and Mumbai (Rs. 3.8 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/electoral-bonds-worth-rs-695-crore-sold-in-april/article34591246.ece
19 May 2021||Mangaluru,||COVID-19 claims pregnant Police Sub-Inspector’s life||Probationary police sub-inspector Shamili, 24, who was seven months pregnant, succumbed to COVID-19 in Kolar on Tuesday. She was attached to Dakshina Kannada district, said Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane. In his condolence message posted on Twitter, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood said Ms. Shamili was the youngest member of the police family in the State to succumb to COVID-19. “May her soul rest in peace. But it may be any of us. Please cooperate with police, stay home and stay safe,” he said. Ms. Shamili, a native of Kolar, had joined the Dakshina Kannada police unit on January 11. She had recently taken leave and gone to her native place. Following COVID-19 infection, Ms. Shamili was admitted to R.M. Jalappa Hospital on May 2 and died early on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-claims-life-of-pregnant-psi/article34591262.ece
19 May 2021||Belagavi,||Industries in essential goods sector can work||The Belagavi district administration has allowed industries in the essential goods sector to function at half their manpower capacity, Belagavi District Small Scale Industries Association (BDSSIA) said in Belagavi on Tuesday. “We requested MLA Abhay Patil to use his good offices to convince the administration of the need to let us work at reduced labour force. He spoke to Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath who has now issued conditional permission to industries to work at half their manpower capacity,’’ said BDSSIA president Rohan Juvali in a release. Industries that have pending orders can run their operations. They should adhere to the strict COVID-19 guidelines. Industries can apply for permission through email along with a letter received from customers to: jd.dicbelagavi@gmail.com or by sending a letter on the company’s letter head to the Department of Industries in Udyambag here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/industries-in-essential-goods-sector-can-work/article34591372.ece
19 May 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra govt. doctors seek pay hike||The Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) has demanded a pay hike for senior resident doctors across government hospitals. Senior resident doctors said they have neither received a pay hike nor the hazard fund despite working hard through the COVID-19 crisis. Urging the State government to consider their demand, they have threatened to go on a strike next month if their demand is not met. In a petition to the Dean of B.J. Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, Dr. Prashant Munde, advisor to MARD, said, “While junior resident doctors and lecturers got a raise, the seniors havebeen getting minimal stipend.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-govt-doctors-seek-pay-hike/article34591866.ece
19 May 2021||GUNTUR,||‘No relaxation in partial curfew’||The State government has clarified that there is no change in the decision to extend partial curfew till the end of May and the daily relaxation period would continue to be during 6 a.m. to 12 noon. The clarification issued on Tuesday evening comes after a malicious message was uploaded on the false Twitter handle of fastcheck.ap.gov.in which read that the curfew was being relaxed from May 20. The message claimed that the State stood second in the number of COVID-19 deaths. According to the official data on mygov.in/corona-date/co, A.P. stood 26th in the country with a death rate of 0.7% and a recovery rate of 85 per cent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-relaxation-in-partial-curfew/article34591231.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Life in ruins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/life-in-ruins/article34591237.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE extends deadline for Class X results||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday extended the deadline for schools to submit Class X exam results to June 30, citing COVID-19. On May 1, the CBSE notified a policy for tabulation of Class X results based on internal assessment by schools, with the deadline for submission of marks as June 5 and for internal assessment marks out of 20 on June 11. The CBSE said that it would declare the results by June 20. On Tuesday, however, the Board extended the deadline to submit the marks and internal assessment marks to June 30. It said the other dates in the schedule would be decided by the Result Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbse-extends-deadline-for-class-x-results/article34591240.ece
19 May 2021||Kolkata,||HC to hear plea on Narada arrests today||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday admitted a review petition on its order staying the bail granted by a lower court to four leaders arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Narada case on Monday. The CBI arrested four leaders, including two Ministers of the West Bengal Cabinet — Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee — TMC MLA Madan Mitra, and former Trinamool Minister Sovan Chatterjee. Counsel for the four mentioned the matter before a division bench, presided over by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Tuesday. The stay on the interim bail and the review petition will be heard by the court on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-to-hear-plea-on-narada-arrests-today/article34591243.ece
19 May 2021||Guwahati,||2 Kaziranga inmates in global Big 5, rhino not in||Two of Kaziranga National Park’s animals have made it to the planet’s ‘New Big 5’ list for shooting with the camera. Missing from the list is the greater one-horned or Indian rhinoceros for which the park was born in 1905.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-kaziranga-inmates-in-global-big-5-rhino-not-in/article34591414.ece
19 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||NSCN(IM) action against RTI activists resented||Extremists belonging to at least two factions of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland are facing criticism from people in their own backyards. Members of the Naga community in Manipur have resented punitive action by members of Isak-Muivah faction against RTI activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nscnim-action-against-rti-activists-resented/article34591415.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC notice in plea on killing of 2 BJP workers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the West Bengal government on a petition seeking a CBI or SIT probe into the murder of two BJP activists in the violence after Trinamool’s win in the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-notice-in-plea-on-killing-of-2-bjp-workers/article34591416.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID deaths: Kejriwal pledges Rs. 50K ex gratia||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said his government will provide Rs. 50,000 ex gratia to every family that has lost a member due to COVID-19 and an additional Rs. 2,500 per month if the deceased was the sole breadwinner. He also promised free education and financial assistance to child-ren who lost both parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-deaths-kejriwal-pledges-rs-50k-ex-gratia/article34591772.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three held for killing foreigner near IGI Airport||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly killing a Kenyan national near Indira Gandhi International Airport, the police said on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Virender Singh (33), Gopal Singh (34) and Dilbagh alias Billu (35), all residents of Rangpuri Village. The victim, Jama Said Farah, was planning to return home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-held-for-killing-foreigner-near-igi-airport/article34591773.ece
19 May 2021||Mumbai,||First nearby||Mumbai received 230 mm rainfall due to the cyclonic storm Tauktae, with a weather expert claiming it to be the highest 24-hour downpour in May in the recorded history. Santacruz observatory recorded 230.3 mm rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-nearby/article34591865.ece
19 May 2021||Mumbai,||Row over faulty ventilators escalates||The row over allegedly faulty ventilators provided to Maharashtra under the PM-CARES fund escalated further on Tuesday with Aurangabad Government Medical College saying that 58 of the 150 Dhaman III ventilators received from Jyoti CNC were faulty and could not be used. The Congress, has demanded action against the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-over-faulty-ventilators-escalates/article34591867.ece
19 May 2021||Mumbai,||BMC extends deadline for global vaccine tenders||The BMC has extended the deadline for its global tenders for COVID-19 vaccines till May 25, after it failed to get any response. The original deadline was May 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmc-extends-deadline-for-global-vaccine-tenders/article34591868.ece
19 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Waqf Board seeks probe into Barabanki mosque demolition||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board on Tuesday condemned the demolition of a mosque in a tehsil compound in Barabanki district by the administration, terming it a “patently illegal and high-handed action” and demanded its restoration. The Barabanki administration, without making a reference to any mosque, said an “illegal residential complex” was found situated opposite the Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s (SDM) residence in the Ramsanehi ghat tehsil compound, and legal orders issued by the SDM court were executed on the ground on May 17. The administration allegedly carried out the demolition of the mosque in the name of removing encroachment, the board said. The Sunni Waqf Board said it would approach the Allahabad High Court for the restoration of the mosque and a high-level judicial inquiry, and seek action against the “guilty officers”. Sunni Waqf Board chairperson Zufar Faruqi said the mosque, the Waqf Masjid Gareeb Nawaz Al Maroof Tehsil Wali, situated near the tehsil compound in Ramsanehi ghat, was 100 years old. “This act is against law, a misuse of power and in utter violation of the clear orders dated April 24 passed by the High Court,” Mr. Faruqi added. He was referring to a general order issued by a Division Bench of the court on April 24, barring demolitions and other action in the State till end of May. Any orders of eviction, dispossession or demolition, already passed by the High Court, district court or civil court, if not executed till the date of passing of this order shall remain in abeyance for the period till May 31, the Bench of Acting Chief Justice Sanjay Yadav and Justice Prakash Padia had said in view of the upsurge in the COVID-19 pandemic. Adarsh Singh, District Magistrate (DM), Barabanki, said on March 15 a notice was issued to the opposite parties over the ownership of the said structure and they were provided opportunity for a hearing. Following the notice, those living in the compound fled from there and the “structure in question” was seized by the tehsil administration from the security point of view, said the DM. The managing committee of the mosque challenged the validity of the notice issued by the tehsildar of Ramsanehi ghat through a writ petition in the HC and submitted that they were faced with “imminent danger of a demolition of mosque”. The HC on March 18, while disposing of the writ, said, “…considering the fact that the notice has been given to the petitioners only for the purpose of seeking documentary evidence, and not for demolition, nothing needs to be proceeded any further in this writ petition, which is disposed of finally with a direction that the petitioners shall be permitted to file reply to the said notice dated 15th March, 2021 within 15 days from today, in addition to the reply already filed by them.” The DM Mr. Singh said that in sequence to the HC order in the writ and disposal of the counter statement of the opposite parties on April 2, it was “proven” that the “said residential construction” was “illegal”.  This act is against law, a misuse of power and in utter violation of the clear orders dated April 24 passed by the High Court Zufar Faruqi Sunni Waqf Board chairperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/waqf-board-seeks-probe-into-barabanki-mosque-demolition/article34591148.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM Modi speaks to DMs of 46 districts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to the District Magistrates (DMs) of 46 high-COVID-19-burden districts in the first of two interactions, telling them that local innovations to larger strategy were welcome and that the Centre was to provide a fortnightly schedule of vaccine supply to streamline vaccination and prevent wastage. The interactions via videoconference with 46 DMs from eight States in the presence of their Chief Ministers, including Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Delhi, went on for over two hours. Union Home Minister Amit Shah conducted the meetings, where the DMs shared their experience on combating COVID-19. Mr. Modi said there were three main weapons to check the contagion: delineating local containment zones, aggressive testing and giving correct and accurate information to the local populace, especially in terms of availability of medical resources, such as hospital beds. There was also a need to crack down on black marketing of medicines and equipment. ‘Learn from others’ “If you feel there is a need to tweak or innovate upon strategies set up at the State or Central levels, please go ahead, and if they work, do not hesitate to share [them] with me or my office. Learn from places where the infection curve is showing a downward trend,” Mr. Modi said. He noted that the spread of the disease was towards rural areas. From last year’s experience, it was plain that villages had their systems to implement control measures, and carry on agricultural work as well. “This should be helped along,” he said. He asked for empathy from local administrations in implementing local lockdowns, and to pay attention to ease of living issues. “Even if one person from the local administration gets in touch with a patient or his family, the mental strength of that family to fight the disease goes up,” the Prime Minister pointed out. Oxygen plants “Through PM-CARES, we have decided to set up an oxygen plant in every district and my request to all DMs is to prepare in advance for the rapid setting up of such plants, as demonstrated in Chandigarh and other places,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister also stressed the need to remove vaccine hesitancy. The Central government was making every effort that a fortnightly supply schedule for vaccines to various States be provided to streamline supply and prevent wastage, he said. “The DMs are our field commanders in fighting the coronavirus pandemic; it is you who implement the strategies on the ground,” he noted. The next round of interactions will be with the DMs of 54 districts from 10 States on May 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-modi-speaks-to-dms-of-46-districts/article34591168.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||98% of India still at risk, warns Health Ministry||Over 98% of India’s population continues to be vulnerable or susceptible to COVID-19, said Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, on Tuesday, adding that so far only 1.8% of the total population of the country had been affected. “Despite the high number of COVID cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to under 2% of the population. But with the majority still vulnerable, we cannot let our guard down and hence continued focus on containment is critical. The virus hasn’t got tired so we don’t have the option to relax just yet,” he said. Releasing data, Mr. Agarwal said that from the 17.13% of the total COVID-19 case load reported on May 3, India’s current status stands at a reduced 13.3% “Currently, eight States have more than 1 lakh active COVID-19 cases and 22 States have more than 15% case positivity. Maharashtra, U.P., Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in COVID-19 cases and a decline in positivity. There are 199 districts showing a continued decline in COVID-19 cases and positivity in the last two weeks,” he said. NITI Aayog, Member (Health) V.K. Paul, who also addressed the conference, said that the COVID-19 curve was stabilising in India. “We are already looking at the possible vaccine use for children as is being done internationally also, and are carefully tracking any changes in the virus. The basic rules to prevent the spread of the virus don’t change, and together we have to contain and defeat the virus,” he said. Trials for children Dr. Paul noted that Covaxin had received approval for Phase II/III clinical trials in the two-to-18 age group. “And I have been told that trials will begin in the next 10-12 days,” he said. He added that the COVID-19 National Task Force would examine the drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (‘2-DG’) developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for adding it to the COVID-19 treatment protocol. The drug has received emergency use authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Replying to a question about a COVID-19 virus variant found in Singapore, which could be more harmful to children, Dr. Paul said that it was being looked into. “We are examining the report about this particular variant. Regarding COVID-19 among children, so far, the knowledge that we have is that most of them are asymptomatic, and it is reassuring that they don’t get serious infections. Meanwhile, we are keeping an eye on variants found in Singapore,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/98-of-india-still-at-risk-warns-health-ministry/article34591182.ece
19 May 2021||Mumbai,||Row over faulty ventilators escalates||The row over allegedly faulty ventilators provided to Maharashtra under the PM-CARES fund escalated further on Tuesday with the Aurangabad Government Medical College stating that 58 of the 150 Dhaman III ventilators received from Jyoti CNC were faulty and could not be used. The Congress, a coalition partner in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the State, has demanded action from the State government against the company for risking the lives of patients by providing faulty medical equipment and also an audit of all ventilators provided under the PM-CARES fund. According to the college, 58 ventilators supplied by Jyoti CNC were sub-standard, adding that the company had not installed another 37 ventilators. “Around 100 ventilators came on April 12 and was installed on the same day. A report to the District Collector was given on April 12 itself that these ventilators are not suitable for use for extremely critical COVID patients. On April 18, Jyoti company’s technicians installed another 25 Dhaman-III ventilators, which were returned by the ICU [intensive care unit] on April 20 due to serious errors found in them,” said the college’s report. On April 23, the technicians were called again, but they could repair only two which, however, failed again. On the same day, 55 more ventilators were distributed in other districts such as Hingoli, Beed, Osmanabad and Parbhani. The technical committee of the college submitted an inspection report on May 6. After an uproar over the malfunctioning, two more technicians visited the college on May 13 and 14. However, the report said, “Two ventilators they had repaired broke down again and then these technicians went away without giving service report.” Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant alleged that the ventilators given to private hospitals for temporary usage on condition that patients would not be charged for them had also been rejected by them. “This proves that our demand for a joint audit by the Centre and the State government, and an inquiry by the State government is completely justified,” Mr. Sawant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-faulty-ventilators-escalates/article34591142.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Highest single-day toll recorded||India recorded 2,62,829 new cases and 3,841 new deaths as at 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The country has so far reported 2,54,90,929 cases and 2,82,592 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 33,059 infections, followed by Kerala (31,337) and Karnataka (30,309). Maharashtra recorded 679 new casualties on the day, followed by Karnataka (525) and Tamil Nadu (364). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Jharkhand, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Lakshadweep. The data is sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. On Monday, India recorded 4,334 COVID-19 deaths, the highest single-day spike of fatalities since the beginning of the pandemic. With this, India surpassed Brazil’s tally of highest COVID-19-related deaths in a single day (4,249). Only the U.S. (4,475) has recorded more deaths in one day than India. Around 18.69 lakh samples were tested on Monday (the results for which were made available on Tuesday), which is around 2.96 lakh more tests than those conducted on Sunday. The average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 22.7% on May 9 and came down to 17.6% as on May 17. Around 15.1 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Tuesday, which is 8.19 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 9.3 lakh doses less than what was recorded in the same period, one week ago. As on May 17, the average daily vaccination rate was 16.77 lakh which is significantly lesser than the average daily doses given as on April 17 which was 30.03 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/highest-single-day-toll-recorded/article34591189.ece
19 May 2021||Guwahati,||2 Kaziranga animals in photographers’ global Big 5, rhino not in list||Two of Kaziranga National Park’s ‘Big Five’ animals have made it to the planet’s ‘New Big 5’ for shooting with the camera. Missing from the global list of “favourite animals to photograph” is the greater one-horned or Indian rhinoceros for which Kaziranga was born in 1905. The African cousin of Assam’s iconic and apparently armour-plated animal was in the original ‘Big 5’, a term that trophy hunters used for the five most prized and dangerous animals to shoot and kill. The others on the hunters’ list were the elephant, leopard, Cape buffalo and lion. The New Big 5 project, an international initiative of more than 250 of the world’s wildlife photographers, conservationists and wildlife charities, has named the five animals for framing instead of firing at. These are the elephant, polar bear, gorilla, tiger and lion. Kaziranga, home to more than 55% of the one-horned rhinos on earth, has a sizeable elephant population and the highest density of the tiger in India. The rhino, elephant and tiger form Kaziranga’s Big Five along with the Asiatic water buffalo and swamp deer. Created by British photographer Graeme Green, the New Big 5 project’s aim is to raise awareness about the crisis facing the world’s wildlife from threats including habitat loss, human-wildlife conflict, poaching, illegal wildlife trade and climate change. Since its launch in April 2020, the project to list the animals received more than 50,000 votes from wildlife lovers. “The 5 animals that wildlife lovers around the world voted to include in the New Big 5 of wildlife photography are not just some of the most beautiful, incredible animals on the planet. All five also face serious threats to their existence,” Mr. Green said. “The New Big 5 are the tip of the iceberg. They stand for all the creatures on the planet, so many of which are in danger. From bees to blue whales, all wildlife is essential to the balance of nature, to healthy ecosystems and to the future of our planet,” he said. Flagship species “I’m so happy that tigers have been given the importance they deserve. They are a flagship species for the conservation of their habitats and all other life that exists there,” said Vivek Menon of Wildlife Trust of India, one of the collaborators of the project. “Poaching for tigers’ body parts has taken a heavy toll for an animal already threatened by forest loss, by the fall in its prey numbers due to hunting, and from human-animal conflict. In India, they are threatened by habitat loss and poaching,” he said. Listed as endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, tigers are the closest of the big cats to extinction. There are about 3,900 tigers left in the wild globally but an estimated 20,000 are in captivity. In India, tiger numbers are stable. But the striped cat has been largely wiped out in Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos and China. The Malayan (150-200 left) and Sumatran (300-370 left) sub-species are listed as critically endangered. The conservationists in the project said one million species currently face the threat of extinction. All the New Big 5 animals are keystone species, essential to the balance of nature in their habitats, biodiverse ecosystems and the survival of other species, including humans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-kaziranga-animals-in-photographers-global-big-5-rhino-not-in-list/article34591431.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘State panel’s decision to drop Shailaja’||The central leadership of the CPI(M) on Tuesday chose not to criticise the decision to drop K.K. Shailaja from the Cabinet in the second term of the Pinarayi Vijayan government, putting the onus instead on the State committee. As the Health Minister, Ms. Shailaja had gained international acclaim for her handling of first the Nipah outbreak and later the COVID-19 pandemic. She will now take charge as the party whip in the Assembly. Party general secretary Sitaram Yechury told The Hindu , “The decision concerning elected CPI(M) MLAs and formation of the Cabinet are matters decided by the party’s State committee. The State committee discussed the issue and came to a unanimous decision.” Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat also took a similar line. “In our party, the decision to choose the Ministers is the prerogative of the State committee. And it is for them to give an explanation and answer the questions which are being raised by their decision,” she said. Leadership not happy Party insiders indicate that the central leadership is also not thrilled at the selection of Mr. Vijayan’s son-in-law, Mohammed Riyas, and acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan’s wife, R. Bindu. Interestingly, the party mouthpiece, People’s Democracy, edited by former general secretary Prakash Karat, berated the media for trying to reduce the party’s historic victory solely to the personality and role of Mr. Vijayan. The victory, the editorial said, “is the result of both individual and collective efforts”. Outside the party, there are only a few even within the larger Left family who find merit in the decision to drop Ms. Shailaja. CPI(ML) Polit Bureau member Kavita Krishnan said the decision was baffling and other than subjective interests that were at play, nothing else explained it. She asked, “Why would you change an able Health Minister in the middle of a pandemic?” CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya tweeted, “Old CM, New Cabinet! Internationally acclaimed health minister #KKShailaja is missing in #Kerala cabinet. What’s really happening? We read in People’s Democracy about the ‘collective’ element in LDF’s rare successive Kerala win, did we miss something?” Annie Raja, general secretary of the National Federation of Indian Women associated with the CPI, called the decision deeply disappointing. “There are two aspects. One, their logic that Shailaja teacher has to be replaced because none of the old faces have been retained is flawed. Affirmative action has to be taken for gender justice. Second, the CPI(M) has not increased its tally of women Ministers. Last time around also, they had two, and this time, too, they have the same number,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-panels-decision-to-drop-shailaja/article34591170.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. files case against BJP leaders||The Congress on Tuesday filed a police complaint against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J.P. Nadda and others after the party’s spokesperson, Sambit Patra, held a press conference accusing the Congress of preparing a “toolkit” to destroy the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The complaint, filed by All India Congress Committee (AICC) research department head, Rajeev Gowda, and social media head Rohan Gupta, also named Union Minister Smriti Irani and BJP’s organising secretary, B. L. Santosh. The complaint mentioned that the leaders had “forged, fabricated and manufactured the said documents on the letterhead of AICC Research Department and printed such material on the same, which has the potential of creating communal disharmony, civil unrest in the country”. Congress spokesperson and lawyer Aman Pawar said if the Delhi Police did not register an FIR based on the complaint, they would approach a court under Section 156 of the Indian Penal Code. The party also talked about approaching social media companies to debar these BJP functionaries for allegedly spreading “fake news”.  Earlier, Mr. Patra had said that the Congress had instructed its social media volunteers to use the term “Modi strain” or “Indian strain” for the mutant variant, refer to the Kumbh Mela as a super spreader event, and to respond only to help appeals that tagged the Youth Congress.  Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said in a press conference that the “toolkit” is the most predictable diversionary tactic adopted by the BJP to change the media narrative. “The one thing that concerns the Prime Minister is protecting his false image and he can work 24 hours in a day to protect it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-files-case-against-bjp-leaders/article34591173.ece
19 May 2021||Dadri,||Silence shrouds Dadri villages near Delhi as families grapple with loss||The fear of infection keeps residents inside their homes. Conversations about the mounting death toll among young people adds to the fear in this clutch of villages in the semi-urban belt of Dadri tehsil, a short distance from Delhi, in Gautam Budh Nagar district. Outsiders are asked to sanitise their hands before a conversation can begin. Villager after villager told this reporter that “two to four” deaths were happening in their villages on a daily basis. Some villages, they claimed, had recorded upwards of 20 deaths over the past 10 days. Their allegation — no arrangements for testing, primary healthcare, emergency hospitalisation or vaccination have been made by the Uttar Pradesh government despite repeated requests. Anees Khan, a resident of Shahberi village, told this reporter that he had lost two family members and hoped he wouldn’t lose another. “My father and my uncle, both COVID positive, succumbed to the disease in a 10-day period. Now their mother, my daadi , is struggling with the disease,” he said. “There is just one private hospital here, which is taking the entire load of COVID patients from multiple villages located in the area. Leave alone arrangements for testing or emergency health care, the government did not even carry out a sanitisation drive in our village,” Mr. Khan claimed. At least one or two deaths were taking place every day in Baidpura village, according to local social worker Mahavir Nagar, who lost a 50-year-old sister-in-law and a nephew in his 20s to COVID-19. ‘No testing’ “No one from the government has come and there is no testing; if there is, no one has told us about it. Look around you, except us residents, the only other thing that walks these streets is not the administration, but death,” he said. “My wife, Savitri, got fever and had to be taken to a private hospital in Greater Noida. I had to make calls and finally arrange for her oxygen on my own but for what? She had been in hospital from May 8 to 15 when she passed away,” Mr. Nagar’s nephew, Virender Singh, said. At Sadullapur village, the local doctor ran away due to increasing number of infections and daily deaths, according to resident Bhupender Singh Nagar. “The situation is so bad that one house has witnessed three cremations in four days. Other houses have seen the deaths of boys aged 17 and 18. The village is as deserted as it is now almost all day long. People are afraid to step out,” he said. “Ten days ago, there was at least one death every day but no one from the government came to check on us — even the Chief Minister (Yogi Adityanath) didn’t pay us a visit when he came for a tour of the district on Sunday,” his father Jagat Singh alleged. Most villages, residents said, were left with no alternative but to take the health and safety of their fellow citizens into their own hands. They have ensured strict adherence to wearing masks on the street, restricted the movements of their children, encouraged the use of hand sanitisers both at home and outside, and also pooled resources for crowd-funded sanitisation drives. “There have been four deaths in our village so far but no testing camps have been set up. Even sanitisation drives are being done through private service providers or, sometimes, by teams of residents who use buckets,” said Ratipal Nagar from Milak Lachchi village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/silence-shrouds-dadri-villages-near-delhi-as-families-grapple-with-loss/article34591180.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||New naming system for virus variants||The World Health Organization (WHO) would unveil a system of naming of coronavirus variants drawn from the way tropical storms are named, WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan says. “The new naming system should go live soon — yes, it will be names like hurricanes. This is so as not to stigmatise and deincentivise countries from making their sequencing results public. It will also be easier for the lay public to remember rather than these complicated lineage numbers,” she said in an email to The Hindu . The WHO and health and science agencies across the world, for instance the Indian Council of Medical Research, the United States’ Centres for Disease Control and the Public Health England refer to viruses and their variants by formal lineage names, which are a combination of letters and names that point to the relationships between different variants. To the trained eye, variants such as B.1.1.7 and B.1.617 suggest that they have certain mutations in common and as well clues to their evolutionary history. Geographical tag However, because virus names and their associated diseases have frequently been named after geographical places where outbreaks were first reported or samples first isolated — such as the West Nile virus or Ebola. B.1.1.7 started to be known as the ‘U.K. variant’ and B.1.351 as the ‘South African’ variant. India’s Health Ministry, in the aftermath of B.1.617 that was popularly called the ‘Indian variant’, issued a press release decrying the media’s use of the name. The dilemma of having names that don’t stigmatise places but also are amenable to popular use has to an extent been solved by the system of naming hurricanes, or tropical cyclones. The World Meteorological Organisation leaves it to countries that surround a particular ocean basin to come up with names.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-naming-system-for-virus-variants/article34591186.ece
19 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. extends lockdown till June 1||The Odisha government on Tuesday extended the lockdown by another two weeks with stricter restrictions till June 1. It had announced a lockdown from May 5 to 19. “The timely lockdown has helped the State government put a brake on the rate of growth of COVID-19 cases. In the past 15 days, cases have remained static, though the daily spike in cases is above 10,000,” said Suresh Chandra Mohapatra, Chief Secretary, announcing the lockdown extension. Cases have started to come down in many western districts, especially bordering Chhattisgarh, following the lockdown, he stated. “Keeping the development in mind, the government decided to extend the present lockdown by two weeks. The lockdown will remain in force till 5 a.m. till June 1. The existing weekend shutdown would continue.” There would be complete shutdown on weekends, starting from 6 p.m. of Fridays till 5 a.m. of Mondays. Stricter one “We have made the second lockdown stricter. The six-hour window between 6 a.m. and 12 for buying essential goods from Monday to Friday has been reduced to four hours from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m.,” he said. “Our objective is to ensure that people don’t come out unless there is extremely emergency situation. Those found roaming outside without any valid reasons will be taken to task,” the Chief Secretary warned. Participation in marriages had been brought down from 50 to 25. Community feasts had been completely prohibited. No one could organise feasts in other social functions such as cremation and thread related ceremonies. The host could give food in packets in the takeaway manner. Agriculture, construction, finance and construction sector activities have been allowed to carry on with reduced manpower. “Offices in private and corporate and civil society sectors shall work with reduced manpower preferably at 33% of their staff strength. Such offices shall encourage work from home for their staff,” says the guideline issued by the government. During the lockdown, vaccination and testing activities would be allowed to go on. The law enforcement agencies have been asked to enforce the lockdown strictly and impose fine on those would be found flouting the protocols. Since COVID-19 cases were found spreading in rural areas, panchayat raj institutions have been directed to keep tab on people coming from outside. Odisha on Tuesday reported 10,321 fresh cases, taking its total tally to 6,33,302. After the recovery of 5,26,353, the total active cases stood at 1,04,539. Similarly, 22 persons lost the battle against COVID-19, taking the total death toll to 2357.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-govt-extends-lockdown-till-june-1/article34591467.ece
19 May 2021||LONDON,||London court upholds Indian banks’ application in Mallya case||A consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) moved a step closer on Tuesday in their attempt to recover loans paid out to Vijay Mallya’s now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines, after the High Court in London upheld an application to amend their bankruptcy petition in favour of waiving their security over the embattled businessman’s assets in India. Chief Insolvencies and Companies Court (ICC) Judge Michael Briggs handed down his judgment in favour of the banks to declare there was no public policy that prevented a waiver of security rights, as argued by Mr. Mallya’s lawyers. At a virtual hearing, July 26 was set as the date for final arguments for and against granting a bankruptcy order against the 65-year-old Mr. Mallya, after the banks accused him of trying to “kick matters into the long grass” and called on the “bankruptcy petition to be brought to its inevitable end”. “I order that permission be given to amend the petition to read as follows: ‘The Petitioners [banks] having the right to enforce any security held are willing, in the event of a bankruptcy order being made, to give up any such security for the benefit of all the bankrupt’s creditors’,” Justice Briggs’ judgment said. “There is nothing in the statutory provisions that prevent the Petitioners from giving up security,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/london-court-upholds-indian-banks-application-in-mallya-case/article34591153.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||9,000 Indians’ details checked for U.S. entry scheme||On the request of the U.S. authorities, Indian security agencies in the past two years checked the antecedents of more than 9,000 Indians who wanted to enrol for the paid Global Entry Program that allows members to use expedited lanes at the U.S. airports and few other international airports. From January to March last year, around the time when international air travel was suspended to stop the spread of COVID-19 in India, a background check was run on 2,720 Indians to see if they were eligible to avail the programme. From April to December last year, when India went into lockdowns that eased gradually, as many as 2,394 applications were vetted by the Indian authorities, in all 5,114 in 2020. In the first quarter of 2021, as many as 428 applications were verified. In 2019, more than 4,000 applications were verified. It was not clear how many applications were denied. Use of CCTNS The Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS), a secure application that links over 97% police stations in the country, is being used for antecedent verification for Global Entry. CCTNS has been developed by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) under the Union Home Ministry. Earlier, in response to a Right to Information Act (RTI) request filed by The Hindu on the number of applicants successfully verified by the NCRB for the programme, the agency denied information under Section 8 (exemption from disclosure of information) of the Act. It said, “Background verification of Indian citizens who have applied for U.S CBP’s Global Entry has been undertaken by Government of India on behalf of U.S government’s CBP Global Entry Program. This is not a public service open to all the Indian citizens. Hence, there is no obligation on the part of Government of India to furnish any information pertaining to the processing of this service to the GEP applicants or the general public.” The Global Entry is a facility run by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), an agency that works under the Department of Homeland Security that fast tracks movement of pre-approved, low-risk travellers upon arrival after a rigorous background check through designated kiosks. Applicants are charged $100 and a personal interview before they are enrolled. Their biometrics are also collected. Though the pilot project started in 2008, India became a member of Global Entry in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/9000-indians-details-checked-for-us-entry-scheme/article34591158.ece
19 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Manipur scribe, activist booked under NSA||The police in Manipur’s capital, Imphal, booked journalist Kishorchandra Wangkhem and political activist Erendro Leichombam under the National Security Act (NSA) of 1980 over their Facebook posts allegedly deriding the death of State BJP president S. Tikendra Singh. The duo was arrested on May 13 after the BJP leader died of COVID-19. Referring to his death, both had commented that cow urine and dung were not cures for the infection. Their arrest was based on a complaint filed by Manipur BJP general secretary P. Premananda Meetei and vice-president Usham Deban Singh. An order issued by Imphal West District Magistrate, Th. Kirankumar, on Monday said Mr. Wangkhem “be detained under Section 3(2) of National Security Act, 1980, until further orders as and when he is released on bail”. The journalist and Mr. Leichombam were later booked under NSA, said Imphal West’s Superintendent of Police, L. Meghachandra Singh. On Monday, the district’s Chief Judicial Magistrate granted bail to the duo on the execution of a personal recognisance bond of Rs. 50,000 each with “a surety bond of a like amount” on condition that they will not repeat a “similar offence in the future” and be available for interrogation by the investigating officer as and when required. Both Mr. Wangkhem, 41, and Mr. Leichombam, 40, were arrested twice earlier on charges of sedition and for criticising the government. The latter is the founder of the People’s Resurgence and Justice Alliance, a political party whose candidate in the 2017 Manipur election included rights activist Irom Sharmila. Mr. Wangkhem was released in April 2019 after being detained for over four months under the NSA for allegedly derogatory comments against the BJP-led government in the State and using expletives while referring to Chief Minister N. Biren Singh. A sedition case was filed against Mr. Leichombam in July 2020 over a Facebook post in which he was allegedly critical of the State’s titular king Sanajaoba Leishemba after his election to the Rajya Sabha as a BJP member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-scribe-activist-booked-under-nsa/article34591172.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Electoral bonds worth Rs. 695 cr. sold during the recent elections||The State Bank of India (SBI) sold electoral bonds worth Rs. 695.34 crore from April 1 to 10, when the Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, West Bengal, Assam and Kerala polls were in full swing, says an RTI reply by the bank. The amount sold was the highest-ever for any Assembly elections since the scheme started in 2018, according to the numbers provided in the reply. All but Rs. 2,000 of the bonds sold in the 16th phase of the scheme were encashed. Predictably, the sale shot up during the elections in comparison to the previous tranche in January when bonds worth Rs. 42.1 crore were sold, it said. The highest amounts were sold at the Kolkata branch (Rs. 176.1 crore), followed by New Delhi (Rs. 167.5 crore) and Chennai (Rs. 141.5 crore). The Hyderabad and Mumbai branches sold Rs. 91.5 crore worth bonds each, while Rs. 15 crore worth bonds were sold at the Gandhinagar branch, Rs. 5 crore in Jaipur, Rs. 4.15 crore in Guwahati and Rs. 3 crore in Panaji. 972 bonds encashed In the 16th phase of the scheme, 972 out of the 974 electoral bonds were encashed, with over half the amount — Rs. 351 crore — being encashed at the New Delhi branch. The rest were encashed at Bhubaneshwar (Rs. 116 crore), Chennai (Rs. 106 crore), Hyderabad (Rs. 63.5 crore), Kolkata (Rs. 55 crore) and Mumbai (Rs. 3.8 crore). In its May 14 reply to a query filed by Bihar-based RTI activist Kanhaiya Kumar on April 16, the SBI declined to name the political parties that encashed the bonds, saying it was “third party personal information” that was exempted under the RTI Act. The bank also declined to share the details of how much commission it had earned from the sale of bonds since the scheme started in 2018, saying the information was of “commercial confidence in nature” and its disclosure would “harm the competitive position of the bank”. Mr. Kumar, however, pointed out that the SBI was the only bank authorised to sell electoral bonds by the government. The scheme allows any Indian citizen or company to purchase the bonds sold by the SBI in denominations of Rs. 1,000, Rs. 10,000, Rs. 1 lakh, Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 1 crore and give them to political parties anonymously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/electoral-bonds-worth-rs-695-cr-sold-during-the-recent-elections/article34591465.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||13 dead as Tauktae batters Gujarat||Six additional Army teams which have been staged forward to Junagarh have now moved to Amreli. As many as 35 Gujarat talukas received more than one inch of rainfall, with Bagasara taluka receiving 9 inches of rainfall, Gir Gadhada 8 inches, Una 8 inches, Savarkundla 7 inches and Amreli 5 inches. Rajula, Khamba, and Babra talukas each received 5 inches of rainfall, Chief Minister Rupani said. An official of the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) confirmed three fatalities due to the cyclone, one each from Rajkot, Valsad and Bhavnagar.  M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences tweeted that the forecast for Tauktae, of the cyclone's trajectory and speed, matched what was observed. He, however, warned of another storm brewing in the Bay of Bengal around May 23. Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune tweeted that Tauktae was the first 'Extremely Severe Cyclone' (characterised as with winds over 220 kmph) to reach close to Mumbai in 130 years and to impact all the five States on India's west coast.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-dead-as-tauktae-batters-gujarat/article34591143.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Shailaja, other veterans dropped from Cabinet||The party has included two women legislators in the next Cabinet. They are former Thrissur Mayor R. Bindu and Veena George. Ms. Bindu is the wife of CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan. The party has proposed M.B. Rajesh for the Speaker’s post. Democratic Youth Federation of India president and Mr. Vijayan’s son-in-law P.A. Muhammad Riyas gets a Cabinet berth. The other Ministers-designate are M.V. Govindan, K. Radhakrishnan, K.N. Balagopal, P. Rajeeve, V.N. Vasavan, Saji Cherian and V. Sivankutty. Former Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan is the secretary of the CPI(M) legislature party. The CPI(M) had signalled a generational shift by withdrawing many high-profile Ministers, including Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan and Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran, from the electoral arena. Mr. Vijayan also indicated that it would be his final term as Chief Minister. The CPI State executive nominated J. Chinchu Rani, P. Prasad, K. Rajan and G.R. Anil as Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shailaja-other-veterans-dropped-from-cabinet/article34591144.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dhaka sends second consignment to India||Bangladesh sent a large consignment of medicines and protective gears to India on Tuesday. This is the second consignment of assistance from Dhaka since India opened up for foreign assistance to deal with the second wave of COVID-19. The delivery took place as Foreign Minister of Bangladesh A.K. Abdul Momen called External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and urged him to push the United States to supply vaccines to Dhaka. Bangladesh Deputy High Commissioner in Kolkata Towfique Hasan handed over 2,672 boxes of medicines and personal protective items to a representative of the Indian Red Cross Society in Petrapole at the Indo-Bangladesh border. The consignment consists of antibiotics, paracetamol, injection vials and hand sanitisers among other things and came in four large vans. The consignment, which was handled by the Foreign Ministry of Bangladesh, was produced mainly by the public sector-run Essential Drugs Co. Ltd. Remdesivir injections The first consignment from Bangladesh was sent on May 6 and consisted of 10,000 vials of the antiviral injection, Remdesivir, produced by Beximco, one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in Bangladesh. Bangladesh has also sent Remdesivir injections, Hydroxychloroquine and protective gears to Nepal, as the Himalayan country faces a tough challenge from increasing COVID-19 cases. In a press statement issued on Tuesday evening, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh announced that Dr. Momen had urged Dr. Jaishankar to push the United States to deliver AstraZeneca vaccine doses to Bangladesh. The official statement said the Indian Minister has assured the country of his cooperation. The discussion took place hours after President Joe Biden announced that the United States would send vaccines abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dhaka-sends-second-consignment-to-india/article34591146.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Conclave offers webinar on careers in robotics||A webinar on “A career in robotics: current trends & prospects” will be held as a part of the SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021 webinar series at 11 a.m. on May 22. The 15-part webinar series, organised by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu Group, spotlights science, engineering and technology courses and their relevance to the workplace in the 2020s. Sneha Priya, Co-Founder and CEO, SP Robotic Works; Sanjay Goel, Director, Institute of Engineering and Technology, JK Lakshmipat University, Jaipur; and Dr. R. Senthilnathan, Associate Professor, Department of Mechatronics Engineering, SRM Institute of Science & Technology will speak. The discussion will be moderated by Mini Tejaswi, Deputy Editor, The Hindu . The webinar will begin at 11 a.m. To register for the free webinar, visit http:// bit.ly/ SRMTHE7 or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conclave-offers-webinar-on-careers-in-robotics/article34591151.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul demands virus protocol for children||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday urged the Union government to prepare a COVID-19 protocol for children. “In the time to come, children will need protection from Corona. Paediatric services and vaccine-treatment protocol should already be in place. India’s future needs for the present Modi ‘system’ to be shaken out of sleep,” he said on Twitter. Though the overall COVID-19 cases have stabilised, with the number coming down in the past few days, experts have been warning of a third wave of the pandemic that could affect children. Mr. Gandhi had warned of a “COVID-19 tsunami” as early as February last year. He has also been warning of a third wave because of the pace of vaccination. “GOI’s disastrous vaccine strategy will ensure a devastating third wave” he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-demands-virus-protocol-for-children/article34591154.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||HC to hear plea on Narada arrests today||The stay on the interim bail and the review petition will both be heard by the Calcutta High Court on Wednesday. The four leaders were taken to the Presidency Correctional Home in the city in the early hours of Tuesday. Later in the day, Mr. Mukherjee, Mr. Mitra and Mr. Chatterjee were admitted to the Woodburn Ward of State-run SSKM Hospital. In its order staying the interim bail, the Calcutta High Court had pointed out that “This court has been called upon to deal with an extraordinary situation where the Chief Minister of the State can sit on a dharna outside the office of the Central Bureau of Investigation along with her supporters, which had investigated the case and was to present a chargesheet in court against the accused who are senior party leaders of the party in power in the State, some of them being Ministers.” However, sections of the TMC leadership, including family members of those arrested said there was no dharna at the CBI office by the Chief Minister. Priyadarshini Hakim, the daughter of Minister Firhad Hakim while referring to the court order, said there was no dharna outside the CBI office on Monday. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had arrived at Nizam Palace on Monday, but she went to the CBI office at 15th floor and was there for about six hours. The Chief Minister neither said anything to the media persons nor on social media about the Narada arrests, she pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-to-hear-plea-on-narada-arrests-today/article34591155.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccination lag in rural India points to crisis||Even the reported cases from rural India are an under-estimate because of the lack of adequate testing facilities. The latest available district-wise data from all States reveals a high rural-urban disparity in testing levels. In urban districts of Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai, cumulatively, more than 500 tests have been conducted for every 1,000 inhabitants. This is a conservative estimate as the figures are based on the 2011 population. Also, this figure would have increased further in the second wave. Whereas in the rural districts of Gadchiroli (Maharashtra), Tirupathur (Tamil Nadu) and Chamarajanagara (Karnataka), less than 50 tests have been conducted cumulatively for every 1,000 inhabitants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-lag-in-rural-india-points-to-crisis/article34591156.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Electoral bonds worth Rs. 695 crore sold in April||In its May 14 reply to a query filed by Bihar-based RTI activist Kanhaiya Kumar on April 16, the SBI declined to name the political parties that encashed the bonds, saying it was “third party personal information” that was exempted under the RTI Act. The bank also declined to share the details of how much commission it had earned from the sale of bonds since the scheme started in 2018, saying the information was of “commercial confidence in nature” and its disclosure would “harm the competitive position of the bank”. Mr. Kumar, however, pointed out that the SBI was the only bank authorised to sell electoral bonds by the government. The scheme allows any Indian citizen or company to purchase the bonds sold by the SBI in denominations of Rs. 1,000, Rs. 10,000, Rs. 1 lakh, Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 1 crore and give them to political parties anonymously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/electoral-bonds-worth-rs-695-crore-sold-in-april/article34591159.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC notice to Bengal in plea on 2 BJP workers’ killing||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the West Bengal government on a petition seeking a CBI or SIT (special investigation team) probe into the murder of two BJP activists in the violence after the victory of Mamata Banerjee-led All India Trinamool Congress in the Assembly election. A Vacation Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B.R. Gavai issued the notice to the government on the joint petition filed by Biswajit Sarkar and Swarnalata Adhikari. Biswajit is the brother of Abhijit Sarkar, one of the two victims. Swarnalata is the widow of Haran Adhikari. They were represented by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani. The Bench scheduled the next hearing on the issue of a court-monitored investigation by an independent agency on May 25.  Mr. Jethmalani argued “total inaction” and even “subversion” of the investigation on the part of the State administration and the police. “The murders happened on the same day the Assembly election results were declared. The police stood idly ... The investigation into the crimes needs to be transferred to the CBI or a SIT and requires court monitoring,” he submitted. He said Sarkar was dragged outside his house and “murdered” on May 2. There were eyewitnesses, the petitioners claimed. He said the State administration was encouraging to “suppress” the probe. The petition alleged that there was “indiscriminate” killing of innocent people in the State after the poll results by the “vengeful” ruling party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-notice-to-bengal-in-plea-on-2-bjp-workers-killing/article34591161.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Justice Gavai will not hear Param Bir Singh’s plea||Supreme Court judge Justice B.R. Gavai, one of the two judges on the Vacation Bench scheduled to hear a plea by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh challenging the internal enquiries instituted against him, recused himself from hearing the case on Tuesday. Mr. Singh had moved the Supreme Court alleging that the departmental enquiries against him were part of a conspiracy to frame him for levelling allegations of corruption against Anil Deshmukh, who resigned as Maharashtra Home Minister. He urged the top court to shift the enquiries to another State. “My brother [pointing to Justice Gavai] cannot hear the case,” Justice Vineet Saran, the lead judge on the Bench, informed senior advocate Puneet Bali, who appeared for Mr. Singh. Justice Gavai also made it clear that he would withdraw from hearing the petition. “In that case, we are recording in our order to list the case before another Bench,” Justice Saran said. ‘Witch-hunt’ Mr. Singh claimed there was a “witch-hunt” on against him. He said he was facing threats of multiple enquiries and probes unless he withdrew his complaint against Mr. Deshmukh. Mr. Singh asked the court to direct an investigation into the alleged conspiracy against him. In March, the court refused to intervene in a petition filed by Mr. Singh for a CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) probe against Mr. Deshmukh. The top court had instead asked Mr. Singh to approach the Bombay High Court with his plea for an investigation by an independent agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/justice-gavai-will-not-hear-param-bir-singhs-plea/article34591166.ece
19 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Congress spreading false narrative against SAD leaders’||Former Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday accused the ruling Congress party of spreading false narrative against senior SAD leadership in the police firing cases of 2015 post sacrilege protests in Faridkot district. “Contrary to the Congress party’s falsehoods, inquiry reports of both Justice Ranjit Singh Commission and the Special Investigation Team filed by officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap never blamed the then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal or Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal in the cases,” he said at a press conference. “In fact, both reports categorically refused to indict them for either the firing or the sacrilege incidents in question. Nowhere in the reports’ recommendations is either Parkash Singh Badal or Sukhbir Badal found guilty of any wrongdoing on the allegations levelled against them by their political opponents.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-spreading-false-narrative-against-sad-leaders/article34591775.ece
19 May 2021||Hyderabad,||Telangana extends lockdown till May 30||Telangana, which recorded a relatively low test positivity rate (TPR) of 5.56% on Tuesday, decided to extend the State lockdown till May 30. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao interacted with his Cabinet over phone before taking the decision. The lockdown with a four-hour open window – 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. – was imposed on May 12. Telangana’s TPR of 5.56% came from 3,982 new cases. There were 27 deaths and recovery of 5,186 infected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-extends-lockdown-till-may-30/article34591774.ece
19 May 2021||Mumbai,||Pawar writes to govt. on fertilizer price||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and former Union Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar wrote to the Centre on Tuesday against the decision to increase fertilizer prices, a move that he said would harm famers. “The pandemic has had a heavy impact on our people, devastating their every means of livelihood. The farming community is reeling under one of the worst ever crisis,” he wrote in a letter to D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawar-writes-to-govt-on-fertilizer-price/article34591140.ece
19 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||NSCN(IM) action against activists flayed||Extremists belonging to at least two factions of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) have been facing criticism from people in their own backyard. Members of the Naga community in Manipur resented punitive action by members of the NSCN’s Isak-Muivah faction against Right to Information activists, who sought details of expenditure by the autonomous district councils in the State. In an open letter, civil society members in Senapati sought justice for the “victims of unlawful abduction, harassment and threat” by the NSCN (IM).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nscnim-action-against-activists-flayed/article34591147.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||More time for Centre in toolkit case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted more time to the Centre to submit its response on climate activist Disha Ravi’s plea to restrain the police from leaking case documents relating to the FIR lodged against her in the “toolkit” case. The court gave the extension after the Centre’s counsel sought more time in view of the ongoing COVID-19 crisis. The court posted the case for August. Ms. Ravi, in her plea, had stated that she was “severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the Respondent No. 1 (Special Cell, Delhi Police) and several media houses ... on the basis of leaked investigative matter”. On February 19, the court had ordered Delhi Police to ensure that there is no leakage of any documents. The court then said, “Recent coverage by the media definitely shows that there is sensationalism and prejudicial journalism, which has been undertaken by the media houses.” In previous hearings, Delhi police unequivocally stated that they were not responsible for leaking the messages or the investigative material to the media houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-time-for-centre-in-toolkit-case/article34591160.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi HC stays trial in INX Media case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday stayed the trial court proceedings in the CBI’s INX Media corruption case involving Congress leader P. Chidambaram and his son Karti Chidambaram. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait sought response from Mr. Chidambaram and other accused in the case on the agency’s plea challenging a March 5 order of the trial court directing the supply of certain documents to the accused. The CBI challenged the special judge’s order to the extent that it directed the agency to allow inspection of the documents kept in ‘Malkhana’ by the accused and their counsel. The agency said the order reflected an intrusion into its investigative process. If accused persons were allowed to inspect documents available at the ‘Malkhana’, the same would subvert the probe and there was every likelihood that they may tamper with the evidence available, it stated. The case relates to an FIR registered by the CBI in 2017 against alleged irregularities in the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to INX Media for receiving overseas funds to the tune of Rs. 305 crore in 2007 when Mr. Chidambaram was the Union Finance Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-stays-trial-in-inx-media-case/article34591174.ece
19 May 2021||Patna,||People told to say ‘all is well’ to Bihar CM||A day after Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar took a virtual tour of community kitchens for the poor during the COVID-19 pandemic, a video that showed officials tutoring people on what to say went viral on social media. District officials at the Hajipur community kitchen in Vaishali district were seen telling a middle-aged beneficiary to say “ Sab badhiya hai (All is well)” to Mr. Kumar, during any interaction. In another video, officials at the Bagha community kitchen in Begusarai district set up restaurant-like facilities, with covered chairs, table-cloths, and food served by people wearing plastic gloves. However, a day later, the tables and chairs looked bare, and children were seen serving food to the poor beneficiaries at the centre. An employee at the centre is heard saying in the video, “Yesterday, some arrangements were made because of the Chief Minister’s video conference and DM (District Magistrate) saheb ’s programme.” On his virtual tour, Mr. Kumar spoke to some of the beneficiaries and district officials about the facilities and quality of food served at the centres. He even asked officials to show the quality of food to him on video. The beneficiaries told the CM that the food was tasty and the arrangements were very good. “Tastier than our home,” said Hazra Khatoon, a beneficiary at the Jehanabad bus stand community kitchen. The CM later asked officials to increase the number of community kitchens in their jurisdiction, and also make arrangements at them for providing milk for children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-told-to-say-all-is-well-to-bihar-cm/article34591178.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Ex-IMA head K.K. Aggarwal passes away||K.K. Aggarwal, 62, former national president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Padma Shri award winner, passed away from complications related to COVID-19 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Monday night. “Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses... through numerous educational programmes,” a statement shared on his Twitter account said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-ima-head-kk-aggarwal-passes-away/article34591184.ece
19 May 2021||Mumbai,||HC seeks govt. response on mucormycosis||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court has said it was not aware of any protocol devised by the Central and/or the State government to combat mucormycosis, commonly known as the ‘Black Fungus’ disease, and wanted the State to apprise the court on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-mucormycosis/article34591187.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Committed to supporting vaccination drive in India: SII||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/committed-to-supporting-vaccination-drive-in-india-sii/article34591164.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City police intensify lockdown measures||To curb the spread of the novel coronavirus in the city, the Chennai police have intensified the lockdown by blocking vehicles en masse to check e-registration passes and allowing only essential workers. On Monday, the city police said e-registration would be required to move from one police station limits to another, even in the permitted time from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. To tighten restrictions further, they established vehicle check points on the borders in 13 places of 12 police districts in the city. Barricades were put up on the borders of each police station limits as well to prevent people moving from one place to another. Over 135 police stations have been divided sector-wise. As many as 348 sectors were cordoned off with barricades on the roads to prevent the movement of the public. On Tuesday morning, law and order and traffic personnel suddenly stopped all vehicles plying on Anna Salai by placing iron barricades. Traffic went out of gear and motorists were agitated. Police allowed the vehicles only after ascertaining the purpose of movement. Similar scenes were witnessed in several parts of the city. The motorists were a disgruntled lot. S. Ramachandran, of K.K. Nagar, said, “Most of the motorists on arterial roads like Anna Salai are either travelling for emergency or essential purposes. The police should have implemented it after giving some time. I was supposed to reach the Government Hospital at Omandurar Government Estate to deliver food to my relative. But I was stranded for more than half an hour.” The road was opened for traffic after many motorists gathered and honked in agitation. Documents checked Police randomly verified whether the motorists had e-registration or other documents supporting emergency or essential purpose. Again the police closed the road for traffic, which resulted in a chaotic situation. Heated arguments ensued between motorists and police personnel who were on duty in other places as well. A senior journalist, who lives in Royapettah, was stopped near the Royapettah signal by the police personnel. He said, “Despite explaining, they did not listen. I had to leave my vehicle and reach my office in Thousand Lights by foot.” “It is high-handedness of the police in impounding my vehicle when I went to buy from a store located 200 m away from my house. I had to wait two-and-a-half hours at the police station to get my vehicle released,” said Ramesh Daga, a retired corporate executive. A senior police officer said, “Around 50% of motorists have e-registration while the remaining do not have it. We stop all and verify the records. If they do not have e-registration or have no valid reason, we immediately impound the vehicles, besides booking cases against them.” Additional Commissioner of Police N. Kannan said, “All restrictions were announced duly before the implementation. In fact, we were conducting campaigns continuously, asking the public not to venture out of their homes without any reason and insisting that they should move only for emergency purposes on roads.” Police found that many motorists were moving with fake ‘press’, ‘hospital’ and ‘advocate’ stickers on their vehicles. At Spencer’s signal, a political party functionary was found using a sticker of a leading hospital and a milk vendor was using an ‘advocate’ sticker. Police seized 4,107 vehicles from motorists without e-registration. Intensive vehicle checking was also done in border areas of the city, such as Poonamallee, Mangadu, Kundrathur, Ambattur, Avadi, Tambaram, Vandalur and Tiruporur. Over 150 vehicle checking points were established, connecting all important junctions and covering all police limits of the city. Personnel were deployed on 205 two-wheelers and 309 four-wheelers and beat patrolling vehicles of police stations were stationed at important points in each police station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-intensify-lockdown-measures/article34591320.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work starts on pleas that were received by Stalin||Acting on petitions received during his Assembly poll outreach programme ‘ Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin ’ (Stalin in your constituency), Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday handed over the necessary orders for assistance to 10 petitioners. The Chief Minister had promised to take action on all petitions within 100 days of assuming office. An elderly woman, Rani, of Adambakkam, received an order for disbursement of old age pension from Mr. Stalin in the presence of Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and special officer for the scheme Shilpa Prabhakar Satish at the Secretariat. An official release said Nandhini, of Thousand Lights, received orders for a cochlear implant; U. Sathyanarayanan, of T. Nagar, received support under the scheme for the welfare of the differently abled; Sumathi, of Tondiarpet, received a sewing machine; and Udhayakumar, of Villivakkam, received a legal heir certificate. Jayanthi and Muthuraman, of Ranipet district, received a free house patta and assistance for constructing a house respectively. Subhash, of Ranipet, received assistance to install drip water irrigation in his farm. N. Nithya, of St. Thomas Mount, and Thayaramma, of Choolaimedu, in Chennai, too, received assistance from him. Mr. Stalin issued orders for constructing a building to house an anganwadi at Azhinjivakkam, in Tiruvallur, at an investment of Rs. 10.1 lakh. He issued orders for constructing a check-dam across Chitheri Canal in Tiruvallur at Rs. 4.6 lakh and for laying a cement road in Asanellikuppam village in Ranipet at Rs. 1.89 lakh. He also issued orders for laying drinking water pipelines in Erukkamthotti village in Ranipet at a cost of Rs. 1.1 lakh. Over 4 lakh petitions received during the poll outreach programme were handed over to Ms. Shilpa on May 9. The official release said over 70,000 petitions had been updated online by the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency for their efficient scrutiny and disposal. “Action has been completed in 549 pleas received from Chennai, Tiruvallur, Ranipet, Vellore, Tiruvarur and Theni,” an official release said. Petitions seeking basic amenities were also considered and the Chief Minister has issued orders on some of them. On being uploaded online, every applicant is allotted a unique ID and an SMS is sent to them. After scrutinising each plea, officials ensure that the issues flagged by the applicants are resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-starts-on-pleas-that-were-received-by-stalin/article34591340.ece
19 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘State well-prepared to handle virus peak’||Denying any under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths in Tamil Nadu, Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian has said  a weekly death audit is being carried out to streamline proper reflection of the statistics. Edited excerpts from an interview:  How does it feel to take charge as the Medical Minister when the State is reeling from the second wave of COVID-19? The State has given me a tremendous responsibility and the opportunity to serve the people. I would like to thank our Chief Minister for entrusting me with such an important task at a crucial stage, and I owe my complete dedication and hope to fulfil the trust he has reposed in me. From an oxygen-surplus State, Tamil Nadu has now become a deficit State. How did this happen? Was the health infrastructure unprepared? There are three important variables in managing oxygen supplies in a State — available oxygen production, liquid oxygen storage capacity and oxygen usage patterns. Tamil Nadu has increased the oxygen storage capacity of hospitals to around 1,200 metric tonnes, which is more than adequate. Our oxygen manufacturing capacity, including Puducherry, is around 470 MT, which is more or less adequate. Our strategy has been to use this quantity through our storage and logistics system, but we have faced some problems since the Union government diverted some of this capacity to other States under the National Oxygen Plan. Now, we have been given alternatives from the eastern States, and production at the Sterlite plant is also likely to be up and running shortly. In addition, our per-patient oxygen consumption was found to be high, and measures have been initiated to ensure rational and optimal use of oxygen. As a result of all these initiatives, the situation will normalise this week. There seems to be an acute shortage of oxygen beds and ventilators in government and private hospitals... The government has come up with a protocol for the triaging of patients and their admission. Bed capacity has been increased in COVID Care Centres. About 11,550 additional beds with oxygen support are currently being set up at Primary Health Centres so that oxygen beds and ventilators at secondary and tertiary hospitals are used rationally for those who are severely ill. The government has installed 7,800 additional oxygen beds in tertiary care institutions and is planning to have 12,500 beds ready by May 20. Since most health staff and medical infrastructure are now focused on pandemic management, have adequate facilities been created to attend to non-COVID-19 patients requiring urgent or mandatory procedures? All emergency procedures are being carried out, and adequate disinfection and COVID-19 protocol/SOPs are being followed in hospitals. Tamil Nadu has been actively participating in theesanjeevaniopd.inportal, an online OPD facility to provide telemedicine services to the public. We are also providing door-to-door services for people who need medicines through village health nurses, mobile medical units and medical camps. We are planning to tie up with NGOs to provide services to the vulnerable. There are serious allegations that the number of COVID-19 cases, and deaths in particular, is being under-reported. There seems to be a huge difference between the deaths recorded in hospitals, the bodies disposed of at crematoriums and those reported officially in media bulletins... Currently, the State is classifying the deaths of all patients who tested positive during RT-PCR tests as COVID-19 deaths, based on the guidelines issued by ICMR and the Government of India. Strict instructions have been given to hospitals that all deaths caused directly by COVID-19 or due to the exacerbation of pre-existing conditions as a result of COVID-19 should be classified as COVID-19 deaths. Many COVID-19-positive patients with severe symptoms, who got admitted to hospitals, died of pneumonia or cardiac arrest. But since they tested negative on RT-PCR before death, the hospitals are recording their deaths as non-COVID-19 deaths and handing over their bodies to their family members. Is this correct and safe? COVID-19 is an evolving disease, and now we are getting patients with positive CT reports without an RT-PCR test report, which was not the case during the first wave. The deaths due to COVID-19 are being revised to match with the ICMR and Government of India protocols. We will keep updating the protocols in consultation with ICMR as the disease and treatment procedures evolve, and ensure that deaths among clinical COVID-19 cases also get reflected even if the person tested negative on RT-PCR. The Chief Minister has given a clear direction to ensure data accuracy as per the protocol. To streamline the proper reflection of statistics, a weekly death audit is being done. Frontline workers managing the pandemic say the State will see a peak in cases in a week or a fortnight from now. How well is the State prepared? Why is contact tracing, which proved effective in the first wave, not being done now? Yes, the persons infected before the lockdown will start showing symptoms now and get admitted during the next week. The State has prepared for this by increasing beds and issuing guidelines for oxygen utilisation and standard treatment protocol. Contact tracing is useful when isolated cases occur. It is less effective during a period of high community transmission, and that is why syndromic management is adopted, unless proven otherwise. Despite warnings, many private hospitals are charging in excess of the prescribed rates for COVID-19 treatment. Has the government taken action or sought an explanation from such hospitals? The Chief Minister has proposed a meeting with the private hospitals to impress upon them the need to adhere to the government’s guidelines. The State government has also fixed rates for private ambulances. A team will be constituted to conduct random checks at hospitals.(For the full interview, visit https://bit.ly/3eXyUqX)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-well-prepared-to-handle-virus-peak/article34591346.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 364 deaths, State’s toll increases||Tamil Nadu continued to report a little over 33,000 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. However, the number of deaths due to COVID-19 continued to rise with another 364 persons succumbing to the infection in the State. A total of 33,059 people tested positive in the State, taking the overall tally to 16,64,350. The State’s daily count remained around 33,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day. In Chennai, where fresh coronavirus infections have been gradually declining in the last few days, 6,016 people tested positive. The new cases took the city’s overall tally to 4,50,267. There were 3,071 cases in Coimbatore and 2,299 cases in Chengalpattu. Six other districts recorded 1,000-plus cases — Erode (1,568), Madurai (1,011), Tiruvallur (1,890), Thoothukudi (1,352), Tiruppur (1,561) and Tiruchi (1,271). The State’s COVID-19 toll rose to 18,369. Of the 364 deaths — 172 in private and 192 in government — Chennai reported 85 deaths. There were 37 deaths in Chengalpattu; 28 in Tiruvallur; 20 in Kanyakumari, 19 each in Coimbatore and Kancheepuram; 16 in Salem and Tiruchi; 15 in Madurai; and 14 in Vellore. Seven persons in their 20s succumbed to the infection. This included a 22-year-old man from Ranipet, who had diabetes, and was admitted to a private medical college hospital in Vellore on May 9. He died on May 12 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 23 persons in their 30s also succumbed to COVID-19. The fresh cases pushed the State’s active caseload to 2,42,929. This included 48,455 people in Chennai, 25,951 in Coimbatore, 15,171 in Chengalpattu, 11,017 in Tiruvallur and 10,117 in Madurai. A total of 21,362 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of persons discharged till date to 14,03,052. In the last 24 hours, 1,60,463 samples were tested. Till date, 2,54,33,956 samples have been tested in the State. Over 70 lakh vaccinated Tamil Nadu’s overall vaccination coverage crossed 70,13,735, with another 50,091 people getting inoculated on Tuesday. This included 27,364 people aged 45 to 59 years and 11,806 senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-364-deaths-states-toll-increases/article34591337.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murugappa Group donates Rs. 6 crore to fight COVID-19||The Murugappa Group donated Rs. 6 crore towards the State Disaster Response Fund on Tuesday. The group’s managing director Arun Murugappan met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat to hand over the cheque. A number of philanthropists visited Mr. Stalin and gave donations of Rs. 1 crore each. Among them were J. Sekar of JSR IDPL and A. Padmasingh Isaac, chairman, Aachi Group. Urbaser Sumeet, CREDAI, Pallavaa Group, Erode and L.S. Mills Limited also made contributions. The office-bearers of the Federation of Tamil Nadu Private Omni Bus Operators’ Association met the Chief Minister and gave a sum of Rs. 1 crore. KVB donation The Karur Vysya Bank donated a sum of Rs. 1 crore. Its CEO and managing director B. Ramesh Babu handed over the cheque to Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji in Karur. In a press release, the bank said it had donated nearly Rs. 3.3 crore in the form of ambulances, oxygen concentrators and other medical equipment, under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), initiative to the government. The GreenKo group met Mr. Stalin at the Secretariat to give a letter stating that it would donate 100 oxygen concentrators. The relief fund also received Rs. 60 lakh from Johnson Lifts Private Limited, and Rs. 50 lakh each from Life Spices India, Mohan Breweries and Distilleries, and Repco Home Finance. Donations of Rs. 25 lakh each were received from the Rajasthan Association, Kumudam Publications and Jeevan Technologies India Private Limited. KM Engineering Enterprises donated Rs. 20 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murugappa-group-donates-rs-6-crore-to-fight-covid-19/article34591325.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The grand old man of Tamil literature||Ki. Rajanarayanan, the grand old man of modern Tamil literature and winner of the Sahitya Akademi award, died in Puducherry on Monday night. He was 98 and is survived by two sons. Born in Idaiseval near Kovilpatti, Rajanarayanan, popularly known as Ki. Ra., moved to Puducherry in 1989 after his appointment as the professor of folklore of the Tamil Department of Pondicherry University. “A pioneer in writing stories in dialects, Ki. Ra. also authored a dictionary of dialect — Karisal Kaatu Sollagarathi — which paved the way for similar dictionaries from other regions of the State,” said advocate K.S. Radhakrishnan, a close associate of Ki. Ra. He was a friend of Tamil writer Ku. Alagirisamy, nagaswaram player Karukurichi Arunachalam, musician Vilathikulam Swamigal and littérateur T.K. Chidambaranatha Mudaliar. “In his earlier days, he worked closely with the Communists and was imprisoned. His name was also included in the Nellai conspiracy case but was subsequently dropped,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. He suffered from poor health and was afflicted by tuberculosis. Ki. Ra. also learnt music, but had to give it up because of his health condition. He dropped out of school after the seventh standard and began his literary career only after the age of 30. His first short story Mayamaan was published in 1959 in the magazine Saraswathi . The story heralded the arrival of a new writer. His works captured the lives of the people of Karisal Bhoomi — hot and dry land — of southern Tamil Nadu in their authentic language. He won the Sahitya Akademi award in 1991 for his novel Gopallapurathu Makkal depicting the Telugu people who had migrated to the southern parts of Tamil Nadu. It was followed by another novel Andaman Naicker . In an interview to The Hindu in 2019 on the occasion of his 97th birthday, he reiterated his conviction that the spoken language was the “correct” form of language. “Language had no letters when man started speaking it. Do we interact with our children in written form? We also do not use the written form of the language in our day-to-day conversation. Then why should we follow a written form of a language in writing?” asked Ki. Ra. Ki. Ra.’s first novel Gopallagramam remains one of the greatest novels even though in the beginning it was not acknowledged by literary critics. His novella Kidai was converted into a film and was screened at the International Film festival of India in 2003. Karisal Kaatu Kaduthasi is another novel that caught the attention of readers as well as critics for its use of dialect. During his tenure in Pondicherry University, he recorded and collected 200 folk stories and they were published as Nattuppura Kadhai Kalanjiyam . “Recording the narration is important since writing them down will change the tone and original words used by the narrator. The beauty of the folk stories lies in their narration,” he explained in the interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-grand-old-man-of-tamil-literature/article34591343.ece
19 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Private hospital in Tindivanam loses COVID-19 treatment licence||The Health Department has cancelled the COVID-19 treatment license of a private hospital in Tindivanam under the Clinical Establishments Act in connection with the death of a doctor, who was administered fake Remdesivir injection. A fine of Rs. 1 lakh was imposed on the hospital for failing to adhere to the COVID-19 standard operating procedures under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. Drug samples being lifted from the hospital would be tested and action as per the Drugs and Cosmetics Act would be taken. As for the the fake Remdesivir injection administered at the hospital, a police complaint was lodged and action was being taken under sections of the IPC and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, according to a press release issued by the Department. The action comes after Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare, received a complaint related to the death of Dr. Raman on Tuesday. A team conducted an inquiry. The doctor had tested positive and received Remdesivir through a doctor, Suresh, who was working at the private hospital. Dr. Raman’s health deteriorated following this, and he was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai. He died on May 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospital-in-tindivanam-loses-covid-19-treatment-licence/article34591329.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Planning ahead for oxygen contingencies is crucial’||Almost a year after installing an oxygen generator plant on its new campus at Kannigapuram in Ranipet district, the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, is looking to set up two more plants on its main campus. While the plant enabled the hospital to generate its own oxygen supply on site, the high demand for oxygen and uncertainty in supplies has made it important to plan ahead for oxygen contingencies during pandemics, according to J.V. Peter, director of CMC. “We started to plan to create a backup a year ago. Pre-COVID, our daily requirement was 2,500 to 3,000 cubic metres of oxygen. We reached a maximum consumption of 5,000 cubic metres per day in the first wave. Now, in the second wave, despite using alternative sources of oxygen, since the patients are more sick and most of them require high dose oxygen therapy, the consumption of liquid medical oxygen is approaching 7,000 cubic metres per day,” he said. The oxygen generator plant at Kannigapuram has a capacity to generate 1,000 to 1,200 cubic metres of oxygen per day, which would benefit 100 to 120 patients in level 1 and 2 wards. In addition, an oxygen plant with a capacity of 600 cubic metres was installed on the main town campus. “This was to ensure that we do not have over-dependency on liquid oxygen. We have ordered two more oxygen generator plants, each of 500 to 600 cubic metres capacity for the main campus. It is awaited due to a huge demand in the country at this time,” Dr. Peter added. The hospital has four sources of oxygen supply to the wards. “At the highest level, we have liquid oxygen for critically ill patients on ventilators. We have an oxygen manifold system for wards as a backup if liquid oxygen supply fails. This will last only around two hours. Third, we have the oxygen generation plants, and most recently, we acquired 100 bedside portable oxygen concentrators,” he said. These bedside concentrators could each provide five to 10 litres of oxygen per minute. “All these measures have enabled CMC to manage over 1,000 patients with COVID-19, including 250 critically ill patients and the remaining majority needing oxygen with less than 75% of the projected requirements for liquid oxygen,” he pointed out. Despite several measures that were undertaken to mitigate risk, the uncertainty of an assured and steady supply of liquid oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic was making the situation vulnerable, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/planning-ahead-for-oxygen-contingencies-is-crucial/article34591331.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kuruvai season may see coverage of 3 lakh acres this year too||Despite reports of rural areas of the State registering a number of COVID-19 cases, the government is hopeful of getting the normal extent of three lakh acres covered for paddy in the Cauvery delta during the Kuruvai cultivation season. Conscious of the shortage of labour for farm work, M.R.K. Panneerselvam, Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, told The Hindu that achieving the coverage would not be an issue in view of increasing mechanisation. “These days, machines are used for transplanting seedlings which was once a labour intensive activity,” the Minister pointed out, adding that those, having borewells, had started using the farm work. Matter of livelihood Observing that “it is a matter of livelihood” for farmers of the delta to raise paddy during the season, the Minister said the farm work had begun, adhering to the government’s norms on personal distancing. “We are fine-tuning the guidelines too,” Mr Panneerselvam added. As of now, transplantation has been done for an extent of 55,000 acres. As nursery has been completed for 1,800 acres, this will take care of 18,000 acres for transplantation. On Sunday, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, after chairing a consultative meeting with farmers in Thanjavur, said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would take a call on opening the Mettur dam for irrigation on the scheduled date of June 12. On Monday, the water level of the dam stood at 97.82 ft (full level: 120 ft) with the storage being 62.052 thousand million cubic feet (capacity: 93.47 tmc ft). Between June 1 last year and May 12 this year, the State’s realisation of Cauvery water was around 208 tmc ft, an excess of 32.5 tmc ft. A perusal of the data of the paddy coverage in the delta and the opening of the Mettur dam in the last 10 years reveals that the coverage was achieved in 8 out of 10 years, using groundwater essentially, as the dam was opened in June only twice – 2011 and 2020. In the remaining eight years, the release of water commenced once in July; on four occasions in August; twice in September and once in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kuruvai-season-may-see-coverage-of-3-lakh-acres-this-year-too/article34591328.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||11 T.N. doctors lost lives to COVID-19 in second wave, states IMA data||According to data in the Indian Medical Association (IMA) COVID-19 Registry, a total of 11 doctors — both in the government and private sectors — have died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu during the second wave of the pandemic. This has reiterated the need to reduce exposure levels, improve testing and treatment for healthcare providers (HCP). According to the data, a total of 269 doctors had died across the country during the second wave. Of this, 11 died in Tamil Nadu. As per IMA data released in February, 89 doctors from Tamil Nadu had succumbed to the infection till then. J.A. Jayalal, national president, Indian Medical Association (Headquarters), said many HCPs were getting infected on a daily basis across the country. “Majority of patients coming to hospitals are infected. This results in increased exposure and high viral load that poses a risk for HCPs. They should be protected. Testing and treatment for HCPs should be a priority,” he said. There is an urgent need to augment manpower, he said, adding, “The Centre has postponed the conduct of NEET-PG. The only option for increasing the manpower is to conduct NEET-PG as quickly as possible so that nearly 45,000 doctors can join various institutions. The Tamil Nadu government should take this up with the Centre,” he said. G.R. Ravindranath, general secretary of the Doctors’ Association for Social Equality, said each government hospital should earmark a separate facility to treat its doctors and staff nurses, who test positive for COVID-19. Compensation for families of doctors who have succumbed to COVID-19 should be increased to Rs. 50 lakh. “One of the family members should be given a government job,” he said. He said those who had tested negative in RT-PCR in COVID-19-suspected and -related deaths should also be compensated. “RT-PCR test positivity alone should not be taken as the condition for COVID-19 deaths as in many cases the reports have returned negative,” he said. Dr. Ravindranath called for an audit of deaths of doctors and nurses in the State. A government doctor said financial assistance was yet to reach families of many who died in the first wave. “We have been repeatedly seeking compensation for Dr. Jayamohan, a doctor attached to a primary health centre in the Nilgiris, who died while on COVID-19 duty. There are no signs of any help till now,” he said.  The only option for increasing the manpower is to conduct NEET-PG as quickly as possible so that nearly 45,000 doctors can join various institutions J.A. Jayalal National president, Indian Medical Association (Headquarters)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-tn-doctors-lost-lives-to-covid-19-in-second-wave-states-ima-data/article34591338.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ki. Ra. to be accorded State honours||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday condoled the death of writer Ki. Rajanarayanan and announced that State honours would be accorded during his funeral. “The death of Ki. Rajanarayanan, known as Ki. Ra. among those in the literary world, is an end to stories from the karisal (arid) land. We have lost the best storyteller in Tamil,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. In his tribute, Mr. Stalin said the writer had not died but continued to live in the form of his works. He also announced that State honours would be accorded during the writer’s funeral, and added that the legendary writer’s statue would be installed in Kovilpatti in his honour. He also announced that the school at Idaiseval, where the writer spent his childhood, would be renovated and a hall would be constructed there to display his works and old photographs. The carriage bearing the mortal remains of Ki. Ra. was accorded full State honours on Tuesday in Puducherry before it is taken to the author’s home village of Idaiseval, near Kovilpatti, in Thoothukudi. The 98-year-old doyen of Tamil literature and Sahitya Akademi awardee breathed his last at his home in Lawspet late on Monday. He began living there in 1989 after he was appointed the professor of folklore at Pondicherry University. Lt. Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundarajan, who visited his residence to pay respects, said the demand from Tamil writers to convert the littérateur’s home into a memorial library would be duly considered. Condolences and tributes poured in from people in the realm of politics, literature, culture and academia. Puducharry Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said the world of literature had lost an eminent thinker, writer and essayist. Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, who visited the writer’s home, said the literary world had lost one of its great sons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ki-ra-to-be-accorded-state-honours/article34591344.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||74 children with disabilities test positive||At least 74 of 189 children at a home for persons with disabilities in the city have tested positive after the Chennai Corporation tested the inmates, following a COVID-19 case on May 14. The Greater Chennai Corporation has isolated all the children, said Deputy Commissioner (Health) Alby John Varghese. Corporation officials visited the premises to isolate those who had tested positive for the infection. The children will be isolated on the same premises, treated, provided with nutritious food and monitored by a team of doctors and nurses from the Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/74-children-with-disabilities-test-positive/article34591317.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 2,000 fine for jumping home quarantine||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will collect a fine of Rs. 2,000 from residents who violate home isolation prescribed as part of COVID-19 protocol. Residents have been requested to call 044-25384520 to report instances of quarantined persons coming out of their homes in their neighbourhoods. GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi advised residents to get the services of FOCUS volunteers to get essential commodities during the home quarantine period. At least 2,000 FOCUS volunteers have been deployed in all neighbourhoods to help COVID-19 patients and family members get essential commodities. Such volunteers will buy essential commodities for the families of patients under home quarantine. The GCC is receiving complaints from residents about neighbours coming out of homes after their family members have tested positive for COVID-19. Such violations have led to a rise in number of COVID-19 cases in some neighbourhoods. The civic body has warned that such violators would be shifted to COVID Care Centres. Zonal enforcement teams will also monitor such violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-2000-fine-for-jumping-home-quarantine/article34591318.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man charred to death||A 35-year-old man was charred to death while trying to reverse his car that had hit an electric transformer in Pallikaranai. Police said while the victim, Kaja Nizamuddin, was proceeding in his car in Meenakshipuram, he lost control and rammed an electric transformer. Nizamuddin initially alighted from the car and was talking to passersby who came to his rescue. A few minutes later, he got into his car and started the engine to reverse the vehicle when a fire engulfed it, charring him to death. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Medavakkam arrived at the spot and put out the fire. The Pallikaranai police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-charred-to-death/article34591321.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Caution must while using steroids: expert||Though steroids can be life saving drugs for COVID-19 patients, they must be used only in certain cases and with abundant caution, said Rama Narasimhan, a senior general physician at Apollo Hospitals, here on Tuesday. In an online discussion on COVID-19 and mucormycosis, she said people with diabetes and compromised immunity were the most vulnerable to mucormycosis, a serious fungal infection.  Rise in cases Steroids could increase blood sugar levels while bringing down immunity and hence indiscriminate use could lead to mucormycosis. “While the disease has always been around, it is true that more cases are being reported now,” she said. She, however, said established treatment procedures were available for mucormycosis although early diagnosis before an aggressive spread of the infection was crucial. She said the fear of mucormycosis spreading from one person to the other was unfounded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caution-must-while-using-steroids-expert/article34591322.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Attenders will not be allowed in special ward’||In the wake of complaints about attenders of COVID-19 patients staying in the Kancheepuram Government Hospital, raising fears of spread of the pandemic, Kancheepuram Collector Maheswari Ravikumar made a surprise inspection on Tuesday. The Collector, donning Personal Protective Equipment kit, visited the COVID-19 special ward and spoke to a number of patients and got feedback from them. Ms. Ravikumar also gave strict orders to the hospital authorities to disallow any attenders of COVID-19 patients into the special ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attenders-will-not-be-allowed-in-special-ward/article34591326.ece
19 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CS warns of strict action against officers||The State government will initiate criminal proceedings against those involved in illegal actions such as collecting higher fees in hospitals [for COVID-19 treatment], selling medicines at high prices, and demanding bribes for distributing government aid to people, among others. In a statement, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu cited reports of a few such incidents which have come to the notice of the Chief Minister. “The Chief Minister has instructed for taking severe action against such persons,” he said. Departmental action, including dismissal from service, would be taken against officers found guilty, he said. Instructions had been issued to the Secretaries of all Departments and officers in the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption to initiate strict action against such officials irrespective of their designation/ organisation. The Directors have been issued to increase surveillance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cs-warns-of-strict-action-against-officers/article34591341.ece
19 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||ESI Hospital in Coimbatore to increase its oxygen beds||Amid the flurry of admissions for COVID-19 treatment, the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital has been converting 131 non-oxygen beds into oxygen beds to accommodate more patients in need of oxygen. Sources in the hospital said on Tuesday that out of the 830 beds earmarked for COVID-19 patients, 300 oxygen beds were available. The hospital has initiated the conversion of 131 non-oxygen beds into oxygen beds and the beds would likely be ready in a few days, the sources added. To decrease the dependency on liquid medical oxygen, an electrical oxygen generator was also being installed on the ESI Hospital premises. The hospital has an 11 kL liquid oxygen tank and additional oxygen concentrators were received recently, according to the sources. Efforts to convert more beds into oxygen beds as per the requirement are also under way, the sources noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/esi-hospital-in-coimbatore-to-increase-its-oxygen-beds/article34591361.ece
19 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bid to break into bank: man held||The Variety Hall Road police on Tuesday arrested a man on charges of attempting to break into the State Bank of India branch on K.G. Street on May 11. According to the police, Amis Biswas (28), a native of Nadia district in West Bengal, damaged one of the windows at the bank to enter the bank. However, no item was stolen from the bank. The accused was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-break-into-bank-man-held/article34591371.ece
19 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||More beds for Coimbatore||Apart from the existing facilities, 1,110 additional beds are coming up in the district to treat COVID-19 patients. According to a press release from the district administration, COVID-19 patients are treated at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and the government hospitals at Mettupalayam, Pollachi and Madukkarai. They are also admitted to eight COVID Care Centres, including those at Pollachi and Karamadai, 62 private hospitals and 10 hotels that have tie-ups with hospitals. In addition to these, 1,110 beds are coming up at different centres. About 260 of these are set up by CREDAI and ASCEN. Ministers K. Ramachandran and R. Sakkarapani inspected these on Tuesday, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-beds-for-coimbatore/article34591349.ece
19 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Isha announces relief measures||Isha Yoga Centre offered herbal concoction, simple yoga techniques, create awareness on vaccination and offered transport facilities to treatment centres to two lakh residents of 17 village panchayats.    Salem Division of Southern Railway on Monday announced temporary cancellation of train services between Coimbatore and Nagercoil due to poor occupancy. Train No. 02668 Coimbatore – Nagercoil daily special train will remain cancelled from May 19 to May 31 and Train No. 02667 Nagercoil – Coimbatore daily special train will remain cancelled from May 20 to June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-announces-relief-measures/article34591359.ece
19 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Efforts sought to reduce COVID-19 cases||Eight trade and industry associations in Coimbatore have appealed to the Chief Minister for stringent measures to control the spread of COVID-19 here. In a memorandum to the Chief Minister, the associations said that for the last few days the number of daily positive cases in Coimbatore remained above 3,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-sought-to-reduce-covid-19-cases/article34591363.ece
19 May 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Body removed from isolation ward of Dindigul hospital after five hours||After news of a COVID-19 patient’s death in the isolation ward of the Government Hospital here spread like forest fire on Tuesday, patients raised alarm as there was an undue delay in removing the body. Even as other patients were not able to come out of the shock of watching the man breath his last, the staff came after almost five hours to remove the body, which was painful and scary, they said. The deceased – Alagarsamy of Karunanidhi Nagar here – was a journalist working for a Tamil daily, doctors said. When reporters enquired with duty doctors about the delay in removing the body, they blamed it on staff shortage. With rising number of patients coming in every day, which crossed more than 300 and sometimes even more, the administration had not enhanced the staff strength. In the present situation, many employees worked overtime as there was a delay in arrival of their colleagues due to lockdown conditions. Moreover, many employees, who were working continuously without any weekly off for the last six months or so, suffered fatigue or had complaints of illness, the duty doctors claimed. When the government announced lockdown to ensure that people remained indoors, the situation at the Government Hospital was shocking. There was crowding everywhere – at the canteen, in isolation wards and at the drug counter. People came in large numbers and waited on the other side of the road to have a glimpse of the body of their family members. The doctors said it was a common scene at RM Colony, where cremation was going on for over 10 hours every day. Pollution levels near the crematorium had caused concern in the neighbourhood. With over 21,000 patients having tested positive for COVID-19 in the district till May 17, according to the medical bulletin, and a little over 2,400 patients being identified as ‘active cases’, the new government should immediately take steps to recruit temporary staff at all levels and also post nurses and doctors, the duty doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-removed-from-isolation-ward-of-dindigul-hospital-after-five-hours/article34591846.ece
19 May 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Viral video: official suspended||After a video went viral on social media, Dindigul Collector M. Vijayalakshmi on Tuesday suspended an official in District Supply Office at Gujiliamparai taluk in the district. The video showed a youth posing questions to officials at the District Supply Office, who allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs. 500 from applicants of new family ration cards. An official was heard saying the money was for “office expenses”. The Collector ordered an internal probe and the findings suggested that the staff at the DSO in Gujiliamparai had talked to the youth. Based on the report, the official identified as C. Saravanan was suspended. Further inquiry was on. Meanwhile, there were allegations that in some ration shops in the district, cardholders were given only Rs. 1,500 as COVID-19 relief against Rs. 2,000 each. However, officials said there were no complaints and action would be taken if there were any specific charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/viral-video-official-suspended/article34591847.ece
19 May 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Free legal aid||Dindigul District Legal Services Authority has launched helpline facility. The helpline was launched on instructions from Principal District Judge M.K. Jamuna. Legal experts will offer assistance on domestic problems, cases of sexual harassment faced by women and children and cases of harassment faced by elderly people. The complaints can be sent through WhatsApp or email to DLSA with the name, age, address, contact number and email address todlsadindigul@gmail.comor 94866-27592 between 9 a.m and 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-legal-aid/article34591848.ece
19 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||MLA for utilisation of buildings at Sipcot as Covid Care Centre||S. Jayakumar, Perundurai MLA, has urged the district administration to utilise the 200 buildings belonging to the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department on Sipcot premises in Perundurai as a Covid Care Centre (CCC) so that over 2,000 COVID-19 patients can be accommodated. On Tuesday, the AIADMK MLA inspected the buildings that were constructed during the DMK regime in 1996 to enable youths from the Adi Dravidar community to start their own units. Buildings were spread across 100 acres and have toilet facilities, but without power supply. The MLA in a letter to Collector C. Kathiravan said that additional beds were being established at the Government Erode Medical College Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai to cater to the needs of the COVID-19 patients while educational institutions were also converted as COVID Care Centres. “These 200 buildings were not utilised so far and were in a deplorable state,” he said and wanted maintenance works to be done on war-footing so that it could serve as a permanent COVID Care Centre. Mr. Jayakumar also wanted the Government Polytechnic College with hostel facilities to be utilised as CCC. He also wanted a control room be established on the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-for-utilisation-of-buildings-at-sipcot-as-covid-care-centre/article34591354.ece
19 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Over 970 vehicles impounded in Erode||The district police have registered 13,198 cases against motorists for plying on roads during the total lockdown and impounded 976 vehicles here. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai said that to prevent people moving out unnecessarily on roads, barricades were installed and vehicle checks intensified across the district. During vehicle checks, motorists were found giving false information that they were moving on emergencies and 1,367 cases were registered and a fine of Rs. 6,83,500 was levied on them. From May 10 to 17, police registered 2,916 cases against motorists for not wearing face masks and a fine of Rs. 5,83,200 were imposed on them. A total of 266 cases were registered against the public for not adhering to personal distancing norms and they were levied fine of Rs. 1.33 lakh. The police have registered 13,198 cases against two-wheelers and motorists for violating lockdown norms and 976 vehicles were impounded. Mr. Thangadurai asked people not to venture out of their house without any valid reasons and asked them to cooperate in the fight against the virus. Meanwhile, motorists were checked at the inter-district check posts to confirm the e-registration after which they were allowed to proceed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-970-vehicles-impounded-in-erode/article34591355.ece
19 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Additional 400 beds to come up at Govt. Erode Medical College Hospital||To cater to the needs of COVID-19 patients, a permanent structure with 400 beds is to come up at the Government Erode Medical College Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai at Rs. 7.5 crore for which work commenced here on Tuesday. Currently, there are 550 beds at the hospital providing treatment only to COVID-19 patients. On May 16, Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy laid the foundation for establishing a facility on the hospital premises that would have 500 beds. While 300 beds will be ready within 10 days, another 200 beds will be ready in 25 days. Collector C. Kathiravan, members of rotary, Dean R. Mani and others were present. Many rotary organisations, volunteers, industries and non-resident Indians have come forward to establish a permanent structure with 400 beds and work commenced on Tuesday. All the beds will have an oxygen facility and the new building will be named as Rotary Special Block. A Tiruppur-based construction company, using pre-cast technology, will execute the work round-the-clock and will complete the building in a month’s time. Once all works are completed, the bed strength in the hospital would increase from 550 to 1,450 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-400-beds-to-come-up-at-govt-erode-medical-college-hospital/article34591353.ece
19 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||War room receives 793 calls in 24 hrs||The district-level Unified Command Centre that is serving as COVID-19 war room has received 793 calls in the 24 hours after it became functional on Monday. The war room is manned by 10 staff, a doctor and two psychologists a shift, which is eight hours. Started functioning at 10 a.m. the centre received 456 calls on Monday and 337 calls till 10 a.m. on Tuesday. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that most of the calls were queries on throat pain and fever. The doctor on duty cleared the doubts of the people. Other calls were related to availability of oxygen beds, vaccine, and about the vaccination centres and places to give swab tests. Also, many sought details about the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme. The public can contact 80569-31110, 82206-71110, 82207-91110, 87542-31110, 87543-81110, 87547-31110, 88703-61110, 88705-41110, 88705-81110 and 88706-91110.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/war-room-receives-793-calls-in-24-hrs/article34591366.ece
19 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of female elephant found||The carcass of a 20-year-old female elephant was found at Anthiyur Forest Range in Erode Division here on Monday evening. During patrol, forest personnel found the carcass at Thanukumaduvu in Athani east beat and alerted the officials. On Tuesday, an autopsy was performed. Samples of vital organs were lifted and sent to laboratory analysis. After the autopsy, the carcass was left to nature. Officials said that the elephant had died from illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carcass-of-female-elephant-found/article34591365.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||Andhra MP undergoes medical examination||Rebel YSRCP MP from Narasapuram Kanumuri Raghuram Krishnam Raju, who was arrested by AP CID and later shifted to Military Hospital, Secunderabad underwent medical examination under the supervision of a three-member medical team of Army doctors and a judicial officer appointed by the High Court of Telangana on Tuesday. A defence press release said: “In pursuance of Supreme Court order Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju was brought to Military Hospital Secunderabad on night of 17 May 2021 and was admitted after procedural formalities. The medical examination was conducted by medical board of three doctors of Military Hospital Secunderabad in presence of Judicial Officer nominated by Chief Justice of Telangana High Court during night of 17 May 2021 under videography.” Presently, Mr Raju is under medical care at Military Hospital Secunderabad in judicial custody till further orders by Supreme Court. All activities are being undertaken under strict COVID medical protocols. The High Court of Telangana had deputed Mr. Nagarjuna as the judicial officer to oversee the medical examination. Earlier, in the day, tight security blanket was kept around the road leading to the Military Hospital. Personnel drafted from the Corps of Military Police and regular Army regulated movement of vehicles into the MH. A team of television journalists stationed outside the hospital continued to beam live proceedings. It may be mentioned here Military Hospital Secunderabad was made ready to comply with orders of Supreme Court. The Supreme Court in its order while dealing with a Petition for Special leave to Appeal by bench of Justice Vineet Saran and Justice B R Gavai directed that medical examination of Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju would be conducted at Military Hospital Secunderabad. It had said the medical examination would be conducted by medical board of three doctors of the hospital to be constituted by Commandant, Military Hospital Secunderabad. The proceedings of medical examination will be conducted in the presence of Judicial Officer nominated by Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, which would be videographed and submitted to High court of Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/andhra-mp-undergoes-medical-examination/article34591191.ece
19 May 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Textile manufacturers to halt production from today||The Karur Textile Manufacturers Exporters Association has decided to stop production from Wednesday so as to contain the spread of COVID-19. The decision was taken after Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji, Collector Prashanth M. Wadnere and Superintendent of Police Shashank Sai prevailed upon the association representatives to suspend the production in view of the surging cases of COVID-19 in the district and other parts of the State. M. Nachimuthu, president of the association, said that the textile units continued their operations so as to meet the commitment to the buyers and exporters. The textile units had vigorously followed all standard operating procedures of the State and Central governments in preventing the spread of the virus. But, the situation had turned out to be grim and the COVID-19 cases surged day by day, thereby causing concern to the officials. Hence, a decision was taken to stop all kinds of production of units owned and operated by the members of the association. No production would take place between May 19 and May 23. There would not be any loading and unloading activities as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-manufacturers-to-halt-production-from-today/article34591894.ece
19 May 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||KVB donates Rs. 1 crore for COVID care||The Karur Vysya Bank has donated Rs. 1 crore to the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority for handling COVID crisis. Its Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer B. Ramesh Babu handed over a demand draft to V. Senthil Balaji, Minister of Electricity, Prohibition and Excise. The bank has donated 10 ambulances – two for use in the plains and eight for hilly regions – to the government at a cost of Rs. 1.77 crore. It has donated Rs. 3.29 crore so far during the second wave of COVID-19 under Corporate Social Responsibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kvb-donates-rs-1-crore-for-covid-care/article34591893.ece
19 May 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||9 check-posts established||Superintendent of Police Shashank Sai on Tuesday said that nine check posts had been established at various entry points to check those violating lockdown restrictions. He said that only those vehicles with e-pass registration were allowed into the district. The patients and their attendees should have proper documents. Action would be taken against others. So far, 16 four-wheelers and 130 two-wheelers had been seized for violating lockdown restrictions. About 6,000 liquor bottles in illegal possession were seized, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9-check-posts-established/article34591888.ece
19 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Location of farmers’ market in Krishnagiri raises concern||The location of the farmers’ market, right across the Government headquarters hospital in Krishnagiri, is raising concern amid the surge in COVID-19 infections and admissions to the hospital here. The hospital area has become a shared public zone for the users of the farmers’ market along with the hospital attendants, triggering fears of potential transmission. With the hospital’s COVID-19 care facilities expanded, the number of admissions has risen exponentially. Consequently, the attendants of patients are forced to move around outside the hospital, while anxiously waiting for their family members to recover. Vehicle space And, the ambulances and the vehicles of attendants are parked right outside the farmers’ market, forcing people visiting the market to jostle for vehicle space with the hospital goers. “You won’t know who is going to the hospital, or who is coming to the farmers’ market,” said a person who came to buy vegetables from the market. During the earlier wave, the farmers’ market was bifurcated to operate from two locations. But, it has been brought back to this location, much to the inconvenience of those coming to the market, those bound for the hospital and the ambulance drivers rushing in patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/location-of-farmers-market-in-krishnagiri-raises-concern/article34591368.ece
19 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||List of hospitals in Krishnagiri to be covered under Chief Minister’s insurance scheme released||With the State government announcing coverage of COVID-19 treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, the district administration released the list of hospitals under the Chief Minister’s insurance scheme in Krishnagiri. The 25 private hospitals are as follows: Sri Chandrashekara Hospital, Hosur; Kaveri Hospital, Hosur; Vijay Sai Hospital, Hosur; Gunam Hospital, Hosur; St.Louis Hospital, Krishnagiri; Nathan Speciality Hospital, Krishnagiri; S.PS.Hospital, Krishnagiri; G.P.Hospital, Kaveripattinam; Sri Arunachala Hospital; Janaraksha Hospital, Hosur; St.Peters Medical College Hospital; Lakshmi Hospital, Hosur; Shanthi Hospital, Hosur; M.G.M.Hospital, Krishnagiri; TCR Hospital, Krishnagiri; Umarani Hospital, Krishnagiri; Janani Hospital, Hosur; A.R.K. Hospital, Krishnagiri; Ashoka Hospital, Denkanikottai; Jeevan Hospital, Denkanikottai; Krishna Hospital; V.J.S.Hospital, Krishnagiri; Star A Hospital; Surya Hospital and Saraswati Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/list-of-hospitals-in-krishnagiri-to-be-covered-under-chief-ministers-insurance-scheme-released/article34591348.ece
19 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. hospitals to collect tariff fixed for COVID-19 treatment||The district administration has released the tariff to be collected by private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment to be covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. Designated fee Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy stated that in view of complaints of private hospitals overcharging patients, the State government designated fee for the corresponding treatment. The hospitals were forbidden from collecting fee over and above the designated charges. For RTPCR test, the labs may charge Rs. 3,000 of which Rs. 2,500 shall be covered under the Chief Minister’s insurance scheme. For home collection, an additional Rs. 500 shall be collected. The tariff for the corresponding treatments as follows: Regular treatment irrespective of standard of private hospitals Rs. 5,000; treatment at the intensive care unit without artificial respiration Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 9,000 respectively as per the room charges; ICU treatment with artificial respiration Rs. 14,000 and Rs. 12,600 with varying room charges; ICU treatment with infection, but without artificial respiration Rs. 11,000 and Rs. 9,900 respectively; ICU treatment with infection and artificial respiratory support Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 13,500 respectively and treatment with multiple organ failute would be Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 13,500 respectively as per the room charges. All the aforementioned charges are calculated per day. The Collector directed the private hospitals offering treatment for COVID-19 to collect these charges fixed by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pvt-hospitals-to-collect-tariff-fixed-for-covid-19-treatment/article34591362.ece
19 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||193 containment zones across Madurai||Kochadai, S. S. Colony, Bethaniapuram, Tiruppalai, Kannanendal and Ponmeni are among the wards with the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases in Madurai Corporation limits. According to data released by the Department of Health, there are 193 containment zones as on May 17. Zone 1 and Zone 2 have a comparatively higher number of containment zones. Assistant City Health Officer B. Dinesh said any street that has three or more COVID-19 positive cases are identified as containment zones and are barricaded. The three positive cases can be from a single residence or from various houses. The containment zones will remain barricaded till 10 days are passed after the last positive case was reported. Mr. Dinesh said that a technical assistant has been deployed for each containment zone to monitor the movement of residents. In every containment zone, ‘kabasura kudineer’ is distributed to the residents for three days and the streets are completely disinfected. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said that an analysis of ward-level containment zones indicated that this year more positive cases are reported in areas that were not severely infected last year. During the first wave, more positive cases were reported in densely-populated areas such as Sellur, Aruldosspuram and Anuppanadi. “But, this year more cases are reported in areas which have middle-class and affluent families,” he said. Also, a very lower number of re-infection cases are reported this year, he added. Mr. Dinesh said that the Corporation identifies top 20 wards with the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases. “In these wards, we take higher swab samples for RT-PCR tests. It has also been instructed that in these wards, second tests can be conducted after five to seven days, as the coronavirus can take some days to display symptoms among the contacts of positive patients,” he added. Dr. Kumaraguruparan urged contacts of positive patients to follow safety rules and stay at home.  Unlike last time, more cases are reported in areas with middle-class and affluent families  P. Kumaraguruparan City Health Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/193-containment-zones-across-madurai/article34591486.ece
19 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Movement to be restricted on two bridges from today||In order to prevent overcrowding in ma rkets and wholesale shops, Madurai City Police will restrict movement of vehicles going from Anna Nagar and Tallakulam areas to places south of Vaigai river from Wednesday. PTR Bridge and Albert Victor Bridge will be open only for essential service vehicles and for people going to hospitals and other essential work. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said the main purpose of lockdown is to keep people indoors. They are allowed to come out only for buying essential goods in their neighbourhood to prevent overcrowding. However, a lot of people go to East Masi Street and East Marret Street to buy vegetables and groceries during the lockdown. “We have placed barricades at important places to ensure that only people involved in essential services come out of their area for work. Otherwise, people should buy all essential goods in their area itself,” Mr. Sinha said. After blocking major routes to East Marret Street and East Masi Street, crowding was avoided as only retail shopkeepers were allowed to buy groceries from the wholesale shops. Separate entries were made for the shopkeepers,” he added. After cautioning the people against moving out unnecessarily in the last few days, the city police have started seizing two-wheelers from those who violated the lockdown norms. Each sub-division in the city is monitored by a Deputy Commissioner of Police. The city police on Tuesday booked 358 persons under Motor Vehicles Act and imposed a fine of Rs. 500 each. As many as 71 vehicles were also seized.  Getting tough 358 persons fined Rs. 500 each and 71 vehicles seized  Each sub-division in city is monitored by a DCP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/movement-to-be-restricted-on-two-bridges-from-today/article34591475.ece
19 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to pay special attention to Government Rajaji Hospital||The State government should give special attention to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai as 124 patients had died between May 8 and 17, said former Revenue Minister and AIADMK MLA R. B. Udayakumar here on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the GRH was a referral centre for all southern districts. Apart from the common man, even officials, including Collectors and Superintendents of Police, got treated at GRH during this COVID-19 pandemic. Oxygen plant The oxygen plant, established during the AIADMK rule, had a capacity of 10,800 litres This was sufficient then as the number of patients who required Oxygen was relatively less. However, now, there was tremendous demand for oxygen. Many patients needed it right from admission. So the official machinery must plan ahead and keep the infrastructure in place. ‘Be transparent’ The GRH administration should disclose the exact number of COVID-19 deaths. In the first wave, from an 18% positivity rate, the then government brought it down to less than 5% in about 120 days. More Covid care centres must also be opened, he said. Mr Udayakumar, who was Minister for Disaster Management in the earlier government, said the two casualties, a man and a two-year-old girl, in Kanniyakumari district, reported two days ago could have been averted. As the Indian Meteorological Department had predicted very heavy rainfall, people living in low-lying areas should have been evacuated and accommodated in shelters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-pay-special-attention-to-government-rajaji-hospital/article34591482.ece
19 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three shops sealed for violation||Corporation officials sealed three shops in the city on Tuesday for violating lockdown norms. A Corporation press release said shops are allowed to function only from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. Also, all customers and shopkeepers must wear face masks and maintain adequate distance from each other. Shops in East Masi Street, Amman Sannadhi and East Marret Street that failed to ensure adequate space between customers slapped a total fine of Rs. 21,200. Also, three shops that permitted crowding of customers and functioned beyond the permitted time were sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-shops-sealed-for-violation/article34591478.ece
19 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench refuses to set aside show cause notice issued to Inspector||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court dismissed a petition filed by an Inspector of Police attached to the District Crime Branch, Pudukkottai, seeking setting aside of the show cause notice issued to her by the Superintendent of Police on April 8 for her alleged involvement in ‘katta panchayat’. Justice V.M. Velumani dismissed the petition filed by D. Anitha Arockia Mary, stating that it was well settled that the power of the court to interfere with the show cause notice was very limited. The notice was issued to the Inspector based on an earlier order of the court. It was said that she had tried to settle an issue involving money between two persons and asked them to sign a compromise deed. However, the petitioner said it was the parties who informed her that they had settled the problem between themselves. Hence, she obtained statements from them and closed the inquiry, she said. Taking note of the submissions, the judge observed that the court had earlier held that the petitioner, instead of advising the parties to approach the civil court to resolve the dispute, conducted ‘katta panchayat’. It had directed the Director General of Police to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the petitioner. Based on the direction, the show cause notice had been issued and it could not be set aside, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-set-aside-show-cause-notice-to-inspector/article34591849.ece
19 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Official inspects convention centre work||Harmander Singh, Additional Chief Secretary-Municipal Administration and Water Supply inspected the progress of construction of a convention centre at Tamukkam grounds on Tuesday. It is being constructed on an outlay of Rs. 45.55 crore under the Smart Cities Mission. Out of the total area of 9.68 acres of Tamukkam ground, the convention centre is being constructed on 2.47 acres. The convention centre can seat 200 to 3,500 guests in the multi-purpose halls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-inspects-convention-centre-work/article34591859.ece
19 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI leader dies||Communist Party of India national council secretary P. Sethuraman passed away due to COVID-19 in Madurai on Tuesday. He had been under treatment in a private hospital for some days. On Tuesday, he was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital, where he breathed his last, according to party district secretary P. Saravanan. The CPI functionary was 62. He is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-leader-dies/article34591474.ece
19 May 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 130.20 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,038 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 63.71 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,081 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,101 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday was (in mm): Kodaikanal 20.6, Periyar dam 3.6 and Thekkadi 0.6. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 107.65 feet (143 ft.), with an inflow of 562.38 cusecs and a discharge of 254.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 86.20 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 282 cusecs and a discharge of 250 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34591484.ece
19 May 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Active cases in Madurai shoot past 10,000-mark||Madurai district recorded 1,011 new COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday. A total of 712 persons got discharged and the active cases are 10,117. Fifteen deaths were recorded, increasing the district’s toll to 705. Virudhunagar The highest number of single-day COVID-related deaths in Virudhunagar district so far this year was reported on Tuesday when seven persons succumbing to the viral infection. With this, the toll rose to 293. The day also marked the highest number of discharge of 672 people. A total number of 476 fresh cases were recorded on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-in-madurai-shoot-past-10000-mark/article34591472.ece
19 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Toll goes past 1,200 as 33 deaths mark new 24-hour high in U.T.||Touching a new single-day high in COVID-19 fatalities, the Union Territory recorded 33 deaths in the last 24 hours even as 1,797 new cases were confirmed from 9,559 tests on Tuesday. Puducherry recorded 29 deaths, Mahe two and Karaikal and Yanam one each to raise the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,212. The patients, including 15 women, were in the 28 to 87 age range, and 15 of them had no co-morbid conditions. With this, the region-wise cumulative toll was Puducherry (990), Karaikal (126), Yanam (71) and Mahe (25). With 1,670 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, active cases in the Union Territory stood at 17,477. Of this, 2,147 patients were in hospitals and 15,330 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 18.79%, case fatality rate 1.38% and recovery rate 78.70% . 520 new cases in Vellore The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 36,049 with 520 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 32,046 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 3,471. The district's death toll is 532. In Ranipet district, 539 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 27,877. In Tirupathur district, 806 new cases were reported on Tuesday, and the total number of positive cases stood at 16,238.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-goes-past-1200-as-33-deaths-mark-new-24-hour-high-in-ut/article34591333.ece
19 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK member urges Rangasamy to set up coordination panel||AIADMK secretary (east) A. Anbalagan has urged Puducherry Chief Minister N. Rangasamy to immediately constitute a high-level committee to coordinate COVID-19 containment works in the Union Territory. In a statement, the party leader said the rising number of novel coronavirus cases in the Union Territory had become a matter of concern. The death rate too was higher than in many States, he added. A committee comprising senior officials of various departments should be constituted to coordinate the works, he said. The Chief Minister should immediately step in to divert funds from other departments to take up various measures to prevent COVID-19. Lack of beds Lack of beds in government hospitals had forced the Health Department to put patients under home isolation, leading to further spread of the virus, he said. The government should take over higher education institutions and facilities owned by the port to provide medical treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-member-urges-rangasamy-to-set-up-coordination-panel/article34591324.ece
19 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to ensure physical distancing at vegetable market||With the retail vegetable market in Pudukottai having been shifted temporarily to the new bus stand, a team of police personnel has been deployed to ensure that the public maintain personal distancing while buying vegetables. Dedicated parking slots have been marked inside the bus stand for the customers arriving in vehicles. A team of more than 10 police personnel headed by a Deputy Superintendent of Police was deployed at the bus stand where the market became functional from Monday. In addition, a few wholesale outlets were functioning inside the bus stand during the permitted time from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. Some shops functioning at the Uzhavar Sandhai have been shifted to the new bus stand. Municipal authorities said markings had been made in front of every retail shop for the public to stand in a queue by maintaining personal distancing while buying vegetables. Ropes have been placed in between the vegetable traders and the buyers to maintain safe distance. A police officer said law-enforcers were conveying through the public address system to the public coming to the market on the need to maintain personal distancing. Cases against 12 vegetable shops which were found violating the social distancing norms were booked on Monday. The market was shifted on the instruction of the Collector to the new bus stand in an effort to maintain personal distancing, said the municipal authorities. A senior official said there were three containment zones in Pudukottai where spraying of disinfectants was being done regularly. Disinfectants were being sprayed through the municipal authorities at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital and at the Old General Hospital where COVID-19 patients were undergoing treatment. Kabasurakudineer was being distributed at 10 places in Pudukottai for the public. The official said the municipality had inked a memorandum of understanding with a private firm at Sengipatti in Thanjavur district for periodic safe disposal of bio-medical waste collected from the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-ensure-physical-distancing-at-vegetable-market/article34591896.ece
19 May 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Pamban fishermen to stay off sea||Following the rise in number of COVID-19 patients in coastal pockets of the district, the country boat fishermen association here have decided to stay off the sea at least for the next five to seven days. After bringing the catch to the shores, the fishermen sold them in makeshift markets to surging crowds. Officials were unable to control them. Hence, they appealed to fishermen not to venture into the sea as the crowded market gave abundant scope for the virus to spread. So, country boat fishermen decided to stay off the sea for a week.  With over 200 positive cases reported in Rameswaram, Pamban, Thangachimadam and Dhanushkodi hamlets and 10 recent deaths, the fishermen decided to remain indoors for now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pamban-fishermen-to-stay-off-sea/article34591850.ece
19 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police tighten lockdown measures in Salem||The police have tightened the lockdown measures here to contain the spread of COVID-19. Among the measures is strict checking for e-registration by those who are found travelling. The Salem City Police have set up additional check posts, apart from the existing ones on the city’s borders, to permit only those with e-registration. City Police Commissioner Santosh Kumar said, “There are six border check posts and strict checking is being carried out at these places. Additional check posts have been set up on the highways to Attur and Coimbatore, and all vehicles passing through these points are asked for e-registration passes. Persons without passes are discouraged from travelling further and they are asked to return. Persons who belong to essential services are allowed to travel after checking their identity cards”. People were asked for the reason for travel and the vehicles of those found moving without valid reasons were being seized. According to police, over 250 vehicles were seized by the city police in past three days. They have registered 431 cases for not wearing masks and 2,347 cases for violation of traffic regulations. The Salem District Police have tightened checks at district and inter-State borders here. There are 23 check points and strict checks are carried out to check for e-registration. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said people were asked to produce proof of e-registration and reasons for travel. On Tuesday, over 100 vehicles were seized for violating lockdown norms. The official said there was close monitoring of containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-tighten-lockdown-measures-in-salem/article34591357.ece
19 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 treatment facility suspended at pvt. hospital||The health department on Tuesday temporarily suspended a COVID-19 treatment facility at a private hospital here until further orders on charges of mismanagement of medical oxygen supplied to the hospital. According to an order issued by Joint Director of Health Services, the district administration along with joint director's office recently conducted an audit at the hospital near Fairlands. The audit authorities found that medical oxygen was being used irrationally for COVID-19 treatment. The authorities have advised the hospital not to discharge any existing COVID-19 patients prematurely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-treatment-facility-suspended-at-pvt-hospital/article34591370.ece
19 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Fire at Mettur thermal plant||A fire broke out at the thermal power plant in Mettur during the early hours of Tuesday, but was doused in two hours by fire-fighters. According to Fire and Rescue officials, a fire occurred in the conveyor belt near the bunker area of the Mettur thermal power plant around 4 a.m. on Tuesday. Fire-fighters from the thermal plant immediately rushed to the spot and started controlling measures. A 30-member team led by District Fire Officer Velu and six fire engines including three foam fire-fighting vehicles were deployed for the task. Fire officials said that the fire doused in about two hours. Production continues Official sources said that there was no damage to any other unit in the thermal power plant. Power production was continuing at the plant, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-mettur-thermal-plant/article34591364.ece
19 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam increased||The discharge from Mettur dam into Cauvery river was increased to 2,000 cusecs from 800 cusecs on Tuesday evening. According to officials in Public Works Department, water level at the dam was 97.8 ft against a total scale of 120ft. The storage was 62,127 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 1,994 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-mettur-dam-increased/article34591369.ece
19 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH receives 20 oxygen concentrators||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on Monday received 20 oxygen concentrator machines from the State government. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian during his recent visit to the Hospital assured that the hospital would be provided with 100 oxygen concentrators to increase the oxygen bed capacity. The hospital, which had 650 beds for COVID-19 treatment, increased the strength to 900 beds and the Hospital is now working to increase the bed strength to about 1081 beds. Medical Superintendent of the Hospital P.V. Dhanapal said that 20 concentrators of 10-litre capacity have been provided for the hospital. The Hospital has a 35 kl oxygen plant designated for COVID-19 treatment and about 12kl of medical oxygen is filled on a regular basis at the plant here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-receives-20-oxygen-concentrators/article34591358.ece
19 May 2021||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||Health Inspector going to UPHC fined Rs. 600||Even as police have been instructed not to harass people during implementation of the lockdown, a Sub-Inspector of Police in Sivakasi has been accused of booking a Health Inspector on duty for violation of lockdown rules. The Health Inspector, L. Vignesh, who was going to an urban primary health centre (UPHC) in the town from the Government Hospital on a motorcycle, was fined Rs. 600. Mr. Vignesh said he was intercepted near the vegetable market around 11 a.m. on Monday by the SI. He claimed that he told the SI that he was a Health Inspector and was on official duty. “The SI asked me to stand on the roadside. After waiting for 20 minutes, he issued me a challan for Rs. 600,” he said. Stating that many other road users were intercepted by the police team, he said he did not want to create a scene in the public and left the place. The offences for which he was booked, as per the challan, are “disobedience or order of the authority, obstruction of the discharge of duty by the authority and refusal of information and driving a motor cycle without a protective headgear (helmet)”. ‘Under pressure’ Virudhunagar district vice-president of Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Association C.E. Kannan said police personnel were under pressure to book more cases and, hence, they were booking even those who were on essential duty like healthcare. In order to prevent such incidents, the district administration should issue vehicle passes, like during 2020 lockdown, for government employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-inspector-going-to-uphc-fined-rs-600/article34591860.ece
19 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Two out of 10 patients test positive for COVID-19||Two out of 10 persons who had undergone the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test in Thanjavur district have tested positive for the COVID-19 virus infection. The prevailing rate of infection could be avoided if the people adhered scrupulously to the standard operating procedures for safety, Collector M.Govinda Rao said. Emphasising that people must comply with the government directive that they should desist from moving out of houses unless they face unavoidable circumstances, the Collector said that though necessary facilities for treatment had been put in place by the government to carry on the fight against the novel coronavirus, self-discipline among the public was the need of the hour. Meanwhile, recurring deaths have been reported in a family in Kumbakonam town, in the second wave of the pandemic. According to official sources, a 44-year-old person was the first to die in a five-member family residing at a posh locality in the Kumbakonam Municipality, on May 14. On the next day, the victim's father, a septuagenarian, succumbed to the infection. And on the subsequent day, the aged mother also passed away. The two remaining members in the family — the wife of the victim and their teenage son — are undergoing treatment at the COVID-19 treatment centre on the outskirts of the Kumbakonam town, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-out-of-10-patients-test-positive-for-covid-19/article34591885.ece
19 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Two teenagers arrested||The Nachiyarkovil police have arrested two teenagers for `preparing country bombs.’ The boys, both aged 17 years, who were residents of a locality on the eastern outskirts of Kumbakonam town, had made the country bomb using the explosive materials they had collected from the unused crackers at their houses. They had recorded the process in a mobile phone and posted the video on social media recently. As the video went viral, Nachiyarkovil police traced the two and arrested them on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-teenagers-arrested/article34591892.ece
19 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni police deploy drones||Using drone cameras, Theni police have stepped up surveillance during lockdown and impose hefty fines on violators. Following the government’s directive to intensify the vigil, police have deployed more personnel at check-posts. Mobile barricades have been put up in 42 locations across the district, said Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi on Tuesday. With the help of drone cameras, images were captured by the personnel at the specially set up control rooms, where monitoring was being done meticulously round the clock. Persons who were exempt alone were permitted to travel, while people from other districts/States should possess e-pass as mandated by the government. Only on Monday, some of the travelling public were allowed as it was the first day of reintroduction of the e-pass system. Police registered 559 cases under the Disaster Management Act and other laws and seized 285 vehicles, the SP said. He appealed to the public to step out of their dwellings only if they deemed it essential. By remaining indoors, officials could effectively discharge their duties as police personnel, like frontline workers, risked their lives and performed their duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-police-deploy-drones/article34591851.ece
19 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Tahsildar dies in Thoothukudi||Tahsildar of Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable Television Corporation Rajkumar Thangaseelan, 52, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in a private hospital here, succumbed to the viral infection on Tuesday. He is survived by his wife and two children. Sources in the Collectorate said Mr. Rajkumar Thangaseelan of Korampallam, who had served as Tahsildar in various places of the district, was admitted to a private hospital two weeks ago after he tested positive for COVID-19. Even as he was under treatment, his condition worsened and he died on Tuesday. His body was laid to rest immediately as per COVID-19 protocol. Collector K. Senthil Raj, Sub-Collector, Thoothukudi, Simranjeet Singh, District Revenue Officer Kannapiraan and Tahsildars of various taluks offered floral tribute to the portrait of Mr. Rajkumar Thangaseelan at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tahsildar-dies-in-thoothukudi/article34591852.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minister holds meeting of top district officials at party office||The presence of top district officials at a meeting held by School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi with voluntary agencies at the DMK party office in Tiruchi on Monday has triggered a controversy. Collector S. Divyadharshini (since transferred); Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi City, Arun; and Corporation Commissioner S. Subramanian were present at the meeting held at the DMK (Tiruchi south) office at V.N. Nagar near Chathiram Bus Stand. Besides them, representatives of Rotary and Lions clubs and other voluntary organisations took part in the hour-long meeting. Mr. Poyyamozhi was said to have encouraged the voluntary organisations to join hands with the State government in combating COVID-19. Ms. Divyadharshini was eventually transferred and posted as Collector of Dharmapuri district later on Monday. Taking strong exception to Mr. Poyyamozhi holding a meeting with the top officials at the DMK office, the AIADMK (Tiruchi south) has sent a petition to the Governor, urging him to sack the Minister for “breaching” constitutional decorum. P. Kumar, district secretary, AIADMK, Tiruchi south, in his representation said it was unbecoming of a Minister to hold the meeting of officials at the party office. Denying the charge, the Minister said that it was not a planned meeting, and was rather a coincidence. According to him, the Collector, Commissioner of Police and Corporation Commissioner had visited the party office to greet him for having become a Minister while he was holding a discussion with the members of voluntary organisations on involving them in the COVID-19 relief and awareness activities. Since it was a subject concerning all, the officials too shared their opinion in the meeting. As a public servant, he was aware that it was not proper to hold an official meeting at the party office, Mr. Poyyamozhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-holds-meeting-of-top-district-officials-at-party-office/article34591887.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Railway Hospital to engage doctors on contract basis for COVID-19 treatment||The Divisional Railway Hospital in Tiruchi, which is providing treatment for serving railway employees and their dependents, besides retired railwaymen affected by COVID-19, would soon be engaging some medical practitioners on contract basis for COVID-19 treatment and management at the hospital, over and above the sanctioned strength. The plan was to engage seven contract medical practitioners for the post of General Duty Medical Officers at the railway hospital as per the direction of the Railway Board, New Delhi. Having received applications from the candidates by e-mail earlier, the interview through online was conducted on Tuesday here by the Medical Department of the Tiruchi Railway Division to select the candidates. As many as 118 candidates attended the interview, which was held throughout the day, a senior railway official said. The interview was conducted by a three-member committee consisting of the Chief Medical Superintendent, Divisional Railway Hospital, Senior Divisional Finance Manager and Divisional Personnel Officer. The seven candidates, who had been selected, will be issued appointment orders shortly. The candidates who were interviewed were from across the south India, the official said. As per the notification for the post of General Duty Medical Officer, the candidate should possess a qualified MBBS degree and should have registered with the Indian Medical Council. The seven General Duty Medical Officers were expected to be deployed on duty next week at the hospital which has a team of 19 railway doctors at present. Each one would be paid a monthly remuneration of Rs. 75,000. The engagement was for a temporary period up to March 2022 or till the COVID-19 pandemic continues whichever was earlier. The selected practitioners would assist the regular doctors of the railway hospital exclusively for COVID-19 treatment. The Divisional Railway Hospital situated in Ponmalai area has a separate COVID-19 ward with 55 patients undergoing treatment. A COVID Care Centre has been opened at the Multi Disciplinary Zonal Training Institute of the Southern Railway situated near the Tiruchi railway junction for those railway employees and their dependents who had tested positive for the viral infection. About 50 persons were housed at the COVID Care Centre where doctors and a team of para-medical staff had been posted to monitor them. Food for the COVID-19 affected persons was being arranged through the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited with the cost being borne by the respective individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-hospital-to-engage-doctors-on-contract-basis-for-covid-19-treatment/article34591897.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Construction workers seek test, vaccination||The Tamil Nadu AITUC Construction Workers Association has urged the Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to accord special attention and issue directions to conduct COVID-19 testing for workers in the sector and vaccinate them. In a petition to the Chief Minister, its State secretary K. Ravi said there were reports of several labourers contracting the viral infection and deaths of association members due to COVID-19. The permission granted by the State government for construction activities even during lockdown ensured that the workers would not lose their income. Although the activities were not in full swing in the State, nearly 20% of the workers were involved in daily labour notwithstanding the suspension of public transport. Since construction workers were dependent solely on physical labour for their livelihood there was a need to carry out COVID-19 test for all of them and make special arrangements to vaccinate them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-workers-seek-test-vaccination/article34591890.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||4,169 fresh cases, 47 deaths in central region||The central districts on Tuesday recorded 4,169 fresh cases of COVID 19 and 47 deaths. TiruchIidistrict registered a maximum number of new cases and deaths. A total of 1,271 persons were found to have tested positive for the virus and 16 patients succumbed to the virus. A 37-year-old male from TiruchI was among those died. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department, all districts recorded new cases in three digits. A total of 805 patients tested positive for the virus in Tiruvarur district. The daily count was 652 in Nagapattinam. Nine patients succumbed to the deadly virus in Nagapattinam district. Thanjavur district recorded 475 new cases and nine deaths, Karur district recorded 313 fresh cases and nine deaths. The number new cases in Perambalur was 243, and the case count was 234 in Pudukottai. There were two casualties each in Pudukottai and Perambalur districts. Ariyalur registered 176 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4169-fresh-cases-47-deaths-in-central-region/article34591889.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.90 feet on Tuesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,992 cusecs and the discharge 800 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34591899.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Gaping hole on highway bridge poses serious threat to vehicle users||As a huge hole developed in the bridge across the Tamirabharani on Palayamkottai-Thoothukudi highway is yet to be closed, road users crossing the danger zone, particularly during the night, are risking their lives A toll is being collected for use of the national highway. When the 47.25 km-long Thoothukudi – Palayamkottai 4-lane national highway was laid in 2013 at the cost of Rs. 349.50 crore to connect the Kanniyakumari – Kashmir National Highway, a 4-lane bridge was also built across the Tamirabharani near Vallanaadu, which is being used everyday by a few thousand vehicles including the trucks carrying 40-feet-long imported logs. As a huge hole developed in the bridge’s Thoothukudi – Palayamkottai stretch in 2017 due to poor quality of this concrete strucutre, it took more than 6 months for the National Highways Authority of India (NHIA) to plug the hole for a few crores of rupees was reportedly spent ‘for making the bridge safe’. Shockingly, another hole developed in the same stretch of the bridge within 12 months after the first hole was closed. This time, it took nearly 2 years for the officials to close the hole with the help of the ‘experts’ drawn from various parts of the country and the vehicles were diverted along the adjacent stretch i.e. Tirunelveli – Thoothukudi stretch. Armed with modern gadgets, the experts examined the entire bridge and its quality of construction. The third hole that developed on the Tirunelveli – Thoothukudi stretch of the bridge a month ago is still there to pose serious threat to the motorists, especially in the night. After the locals informed, Thoothukudi District Collector K. Senthil Raj inspected the spot and instructed the NHAI officials to initiate immediate steps to plug the hole. “Even as the narrow decades-old bridge is still strong even after witnessing and withstanding several floods, the new bridge reportedly constructed with modern technology and at the cost of several crores of rupees is unable to withstand the vehicular traffic owing to poor quality of construction. The NHAI, which is not properly maintaining the Palayamkottai – Thoothukudi 4-lane national highway even though hefty toll is being collected, has miserably failed to maintain this important bridge in this region. We, the villagers of Vallanaadu have planned to file a case in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court seeking waiver of toll until this highly unsafe bridge is made safe and the entire Thoothukudi – Palayamkottai highway is re-laid,” said Shanmugavel, an entrepreneur from Vallanaadu who has to use this bridge twice a day. He also said the service road branching out from the eastern side of this bridge to the cremation ground on the bank of the Tamirabharani should be laid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaping-hole-on-highway-bridge-poses-serious-threat-to-vehicle-users/article34591854.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||12 cryogenic tanks to be imported, says Minister||The State government was all set to import 12 cryogenic tanks, each with a capacity of 20 tonnes, for storing liquefied oxygen to treat COVID-19 patients, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu said on Tuesday. During an informal chat with reporters at Mukkoodal in the district after inaugurating a COVID Care Centre in the hospital for beedi workers, Mr. Thennarasu said 175 beds, including 120 oxygen-supported beds, had been kept ready at the hospital to treat COVID-19 patients. Apart from medical equipment and medicines, the hospital had been provided with adequate number of doctors and nurses. Even as the State Government was ensuring adequate availability of medical-grade oxygen availability in hospitals by generating the life-saving gas at all possible points, 12 cryogenic tanks, each with a capacity of 20 tonnes, would be imported before May 22 to strengthen oxygen storage in government and government medical college hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. The oxygen could be stored at minus 150 degree Celsius or lower in the tanks. Apart from Sivananda Hospital in Pattamadai, SCAD Polytechnic in Tharuvai, and Government College of Engineering, Palayamkottai, COVID Care Centres had been inaugurated at Koodankulam, Munanjipatti, Thisaiyanvilai and Panagudi. The Mukkoodal hospital, built by Union Ministry of Labour for the benefit of beedi workers, was underutilised for long and, hence, Collector V. Vishnu converted the unused portion of the hospital into a COVID Care Centre, which was expected to lessen the burden of other centers in the district and also Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Under the direct supervision of the Collector, the hitherto defunct portions of the hospital were cleaned on a war-footing and kept ready with 175 beds and other medical equipment to treat COVID-19 patients. Besides medical treatment, patients admitted here would be given yoga sessions and breathing exercises by trained yoga masters. After inspecting the COVID Care Centre at Mukkoodal, Mr. Thangam Thennarasu and Mr. Vishnu visited the fever camp at Kallur near here.“The health department should organise fever camps across the district to identify persons suffering from fever, cold and cough, important symptoms of COVID-19,” the Minister said. Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi, Pratik Tayal, Palayamkottai MLA Abdul Wahab were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-cryogenic-tanks-to-be-imported-says-minister/article34591856.ece
19 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 250 vehicles seized in Tiruppur||Tiruppur City Police said on Tuesday that they seized 205 two-wheelers and 49 four-wheelers in two weeks for violation of COVID-19 lockdown norms. The police said in a statement that the vehicles were seized between May 3 and May 17, and 668 cases were registered against those who violated the lockdown. In the same period, the police registered 6,987 cases for not wearing mask and 221 cases for violation of physical distancing norms. Amid the lockdown, those venturing out must have completed the e-registration process and others who venture out unnecessarily will be sent back, the police warned in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-250-vehicles-seized-in-tiruppur/article34591350.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Shift farmers’ market at Mannargudi’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist), Mannargudi Town unit, has called upon the revenue and civic body authorities to temporarily shift the ‘Uzhavar Sandhi’ to the mofussil bus stand premises to prevent spread of novel coronavirus.  More space needed In a statement issued on Tuesday, its secretary G.Reghupathi said that the farmers’ market attracts a large number of customers, both public and vegetable vendors, during the restricted business hours of 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. Stating that the public and vendors were unable to maintain the social distancing norms during the reduced purchase hours, he said that the possibility of the withdrawal of regulations laid down by the government to curb the spreading of the virus infection was very remote in view of the peaking of COVID-19 cases in the second wave. Hence, in order to enable the public and the vendors to purchase the vegetables and comply with the standard operating procedures, the authorities should shift the Uzhavar Sandhai to the more spacious mofussil bus stand premises. The Farmers’ Market had functioned at the mofussil bus stand premises during the first wave of novel coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shift-farmers-market-at-mannargudi/article34591891.ece
19 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat president dies of COVID-19||A 32-year-old panchayat president, Radha Devi, died of COVID-19 here on Tuesday. She was president of Pavali Panchayat near Virudhunagar. Ms. Devi was admitted to Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital on May 1 and died around 6.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Meanwhile, a painter who was working in Virudhunagar Government Medical College building under construction died after falling down on Tuesday afternoon. Police said S. Prabhakaran, 28, from Kullur Sandhai fell on the ground while he was painting the outer wall of hospital and died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-president-dies-of-covid-19/article34591857.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,071 new cases, 19 deaths in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district reported 3,071 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 1,21,884 cases. The Health Department said 19 deaths were reported in the district, which raised the toll so far to 905. As on Tuesday, the district had 25,951 active cases. With 1,305 patients getting discharged, the total number of persons who recovered from the infection in the district so far was 95,028. The district had 568 vacant beds at government and private hospitals and 293 beds at COVID-19 care centres. Tiruppur district reported its highest-ever daily caseload with 1,561 new cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 39,037 cases. Three new deaths took the district’s toll to 283. While 7,092 patients were active cases, 741 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 243 people tested positive on Tuesday, raising the total number of cases in the district so far to 13,427. The number of deaths in the district increased to 64 in the Nilgiris on Tuesday, and 2,282 people are undergoing treatment. Erode reported 1,568 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 35,760. While 669 persons were discharged, 7,652 persons continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, raising the toll so far to 201. As many as 650 persons tested positive and 16 persons died of the infection in Salem. Namakkal reported 384 positive cases and one death. Krishnagiri recorded 610 fresh cases and two deaths, while 249 patients were discharged after treatment. The total number of positive cases so far in the district is 24,267. The number of active cases is 6352. Dharmapuri had 295 fresh cases on Tuesday that raised the district’s tally to 14,025. While 453 patients were discharged, the number of active cases was 2287.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3071-new-cases-19-deaths-in-coimbatore-district/article34591352.ece
19 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi registers record 2,118 cases||With 2,118 COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, Belagavi recorded the second highest number of cases in a day in the State, after Bengaluru Urban. It raced ahead of Mysuru, Ballari, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru and Bengaluru Rural which have reported large number of cases. While Bengaluru Urban recorded 8,676 cases, Mysuru had 1,916, Ballari 1,799, Tumakuru 1,562 and Bengaluru Rural recorded 1,339 cases. Officials said that there were five COVID-19 related deaths in Belagavi and zero non-COVID-19 deaths. Doctors discharged 713 persons from government and private hospitals in Belagavi on Tuesday. The total number of active cases in Belagavi stood at 15,164. “The rise is disturbing, but there is hope,’’ said Madhav Prabhu, physician in KLE Prabhakar Kore Hospital, who has been treating COVID-19 patients since last year. He expects the cases to continue to be high for the next two weeks. “This observation is based on the experiences in Mumbai and New Delhi. However, after two weeks, we will have a higher number of discharged patients, in the range of 1,500-2,000 per day. That will signal a decline in the number of cases. That is encouraging,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-registers-record-2118-cases/article34591382.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Customs duty, GST posing problems||Shilpa Govardhan, a doctor of Indian origin in the United States helped raise $2,500, which was used to purchase 150 pulse oximeters and 150 thermometers to be donated to organisations in Bengaluru. The shipment via courier arrived in the city on May 7, but it has been stuck with Customs since. In Bengaluru, volunteer Ravindra Vijay, who is coordinating with officials here to receive the care package, said the consignment would be released only if Customs duty amounting to Rs. 1.2 lakh was paid. “The pulse oximeters and thermometers are not for any commercial purpose; it is for COVID-19 management and meant for patients belonging to lower socio-economic groups,” he stated. On April 24, 2021, the Ministry of Revenue, Government of India, exempted Customs duty on medical equipment related to oxygen generation, such as oxygen concentrator (including flow meter, regulators, connectors, tubings), oxygen generators, etc. This exemption will be in force till July 31, 2021. However, it does not include supplies like thermometers that Dr. Govardhan had sent. etc. According to sources in the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs here, last year, the government had announced a much broader exemption on import of items for medical aid and COVID-19 management. However, this exemption expired last September/October. It is not just organisations receiving aid that are complaining of delayed deliveries of much-needed supplies required to manage COVID-19. People and NGOs purchasing supplies from abroad are also mired in red tape. GST hurdles And while the Centre may have waived Customs duty, Goods and Services Tax (GST) is proving to be another hurdle. Ali Mohammed Sharieff, who runs Lifeline Foundation and is part of Mercy Mission, received Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds for the procurement of oxygen concentrators. The foundation found a supplier in Singapore and transferred the money through an agent. While the foundation did not have to pay Customs duty for the consignment, the GST could not be waived. The consignment was released only after the foundation paid the requisite GST, he said. Rajendra Prasad, an oxygen supplier in Bengaluru and Mandya, said the Centre should waive GST for essential medical equipment used in COVID-19 management. “We have to pay 12% GST, which only increases the price for the end user. If GST is waived, then the price of oxygen generators, concentrators and other medical equipment that is in great demand during the pandemic will reduce for the end user,” he pointed out. Influx of aid Customs officials acknowledged the volume of aid coming into Bengaluru. According to data between April 25 and May 16, over 11,000 oxygen concentrators, 1,500 ventilators, 2,200 humidifiers, 1.5 lakh pulse oximeters, 90 lakh gloves, 70 lakh masks and over 500 oxygen cylinders had been cleared by Customs officials in the city. To speed up the process, the State government on May 3 appointed nodal officers who can issue authorisation certificates for the free of cost import of COVID-19 relief items. Uma Mahadevan, principal secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj — one of the nodal officers — said that from the second week of May, applications for authorisation certificates were being scrutinised and cleared. “The process is completely online, where the importer will have to submit an application with the requisite documents. We are working even during weekends to clear as many applications as possible,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/customs-duty-gst-posing-problems/article34591275.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic effect: Rehoming of pets on the rise||The impact of COVID-19 appears to have spared no one, not even pooches and fur babies. While some pet parents are forced to make alternative arrangements for their pets after getting infected with the virus, bereaved families are also exploring adoption of their pets, while some are just plainly abandoning them. Several citizens active in animal welfare claim that over the past one year, several dogs had been rehomed after their owners decided to give them up. Ramya Gowda from Furry Fairy, a grooming spa, boarding, fostering and day care facility for pets, said that she had helped rehome nearly 40 dogs over the past one year alone. “After the lockdown last year, many people decided to adopt/ buy dogs. However, when they realised the amount of effort needed to take care of pets, they either put it up for adoption or abandon it,” she said. The number of messages on pets up for adoption had seen an increase over the past few months. Priya Chetty Rajagopal from The C.J. Memorial Trust is critical of such messages being forwarded on these platforms. “When someone wants to give up their dog, don’t just share the post; ask why. You can help or even connect them with those offering fostering services. We are not discounting cases where the reasons are genuine. But many times, people do strange things when they feel helpless,” she said. Over the past few months, breed dogs and puppies have been abandoned on the premises of the Veterinary Hospital in Cantonment, Shivajinagar, said Parvez Ahmed Piran, Chief Executive Officer, Vet Society for Animal Welfare and Rural Development. He has attributed this to families that have been affected by the pandemic. However, there are pet parents who go the extra mile to ensure their fur babies are well cared for while they recoup their health. Several boarding facilities and families that foster pets have helped such citizens. Susheel Savarkar of Petholics in Sugamanagar, Nyannapanahalli in Begur, has boarded over 12 pets from families that have tested positive for COVID-19. He also has been boarding pets whose owners have gone back to their hometowns. Many boarding facilities are also offering pick and drop facility, apart from putting in place various precautionary measures. Kishan Vasudevan from Wag-Ville in Jakkur told The Hindu that his staff wear PPE kits, masks and gloves while picking up the pooches. “We request the families to leave the dog out or tied to the door handle. We use our sanitised leashes and once brought to our facility, we give them a warm bath and blow dry. We then do a temperament check. We have developed our own Standard Operating Procedures,” he said and added that there were currently 34 pets being boarded in his three-acre facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-effect-rehoming-of-pets-on-the-rise/article34591273.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTC employees still waiting for salary||Road transport corporations which are in financial distress are waiting for the State government to release funds so that they can pay 1.11 lakh employees their salaries. Together, the four corporations of the State have requested around Rs. 975 crores to pay salaries for the months of April and May, and also June. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has sought Rs. 305.28 crore, while Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) needs Rs. 295.86 crore. The North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) and North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) have sought Rs. 199.26 crore and Rs. 174.60 crore, respectively. Because of the lockdown, the corporations are running a skeletal service and revenue generation has come down to almost nil. KSRTC managing director Shivyogi C. Kalasad said the non-operation of buses had resulted in the four RTCs incurring a revenue loss of Rs. 20 crore daily. “Families depend on monthly salaries to buy essentials and pay the bills. We are in mid-May and salaries have not yet been credited for the previous month. We are hoping that the State government will not delay further in releasing funds,” an employee said. Mr. Kalasad told The Hindu that the RTCs have managed to pay their staff their salaries till March. “In April, because of the employees’ strike,the corporation incurred a huge revenue loss for 15 days, and thereafter buses remained off the road because of the lockdown. We have written to the government seeking funds. It is with the Finance Department for consideration, after which it will be forwarded to the Chief Minister,” he said. The RTCs have been depending on the State government to pay the salaries of the staff since last year, with the outbreak of COVID-19. From April to November 2020, the State had released Rs. 1,953.4 crore towards payment of salaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rtc-employees-still-waiting-for-salary/article34591290.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Preparedness for third wave was focus of meeting with PM, says Bommai||The focus of the videoconference interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday was on controlling the spread of COVID-19 in rural and semi-urban areas and on remaining prepared for a third wave of the pandemic, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. He said that Mr. Modi expressed concern over the infection spreading in rural areas. District administrations have been asked to concentrate on micro-containment zones to keep it under check.  “The focus was on understanding novel ways of fighting the pandemic and sharing them as successful models across the States to be replicated,” the Home Minister said after the interaction involving Mr. Modi and the Deputy Commissioners of 17 districts of Karnataka. The interaction also involved Deputy Commissioners from nine other States, apart from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and a host of district in-charge Ministers. The instructions given by the Prime Minister included setting up task forces in gram panchayats, which will not only have officials but representatives of NGOs, Stree Shakthi Sanghas, and Yuva Sanghas, among others. Given the anticipated third wave, which is likely to affect children, the Prime Minister has asked the local governments to prepare cartoons and stories in local languages to raise awareness among children. Mr. Modi was briefed on the measures being initiated in Bengaluru, which has been severely affected by the second wave of COVID-19. Bengaluru’s needs Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, who presented the work done to contain the virus in Bengaluru, told reporters later that they have asked for more oxygen and vaccines for the city. “We have already submitted to the State government the quantum of vaccine we need, and the same has been forwarded to the Centre. We were assured that the availability of vaccines would improve,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/preparedness-for-third-wave-was-focus-of-meeting-with-pm-says-bommai/article34591281.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC upholds order on river sand extraction||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the order of the Department of Mines and Geology prohibiting sand extraction from rivers during rainy season. It observed that the ban was incorporated into the law for protecting the environment. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order while rejecting a petition filed Fakkirappa M. Murgod, who had a lease for sand extraction in Chamarajanagar district for a period of five years from August 10, 2017. The petitioner had questioned the decision of the Deputy Director, Department of Mines and Geology, Chamarajanagar, prohibiting sand extraction from June 5 to October 15 every year. The petitioner contended that his mining lease did not contain a condition of sand extraction being prohibited during monsoon. However, the Bench agreed with the contention of thegovernment that the Karnataka Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1994, and the Sustainable Sand Mining Management Guidelines, 2016, clearly prohibit river sand mining during rainy season. The court also pointed out that the legislature was conscious of the fact that the period of actual quarrying operations could be affected by rains or floods, and had therefore provided the sand quarrying permission for up to five years, inclusive of the non-quarrying periods such as rainy season, floods, and natural calamities. In Karnataka, the period between June 5 and October 15 is considered rainy season, the Bench noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-upholds-order-on-river-sand-extraction/article34591285.ece
19 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vet institute offers to provide vaccine manufacturing facility||Amid shortage of COVID-19 vaccine as the country faces the second wave of infections, Bengaluru-based Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals (IAH&VB) has offered to provide its state-of-the-art vaccine production facility to produce it. The premier institute’s vaccine production facility, located on its Hebbal campus in Bengaluru, is considered to be one of the best in the country. Presently it is the only facility in the country for producing vaccine for Kyasanur Forest Disease, commonly known as monkey fever. It also produces four veterinary vaccines. Institute director S.M. Byre Gowda told The Hindu that it would take nearly a year to set up an entirely new vaccine production facility right from scratch. In such a scenario, using the institute’s facility would save time and help in meeting the demand for vaccine. Two vaccines He said the government could either convince the vaccine manufacturing companies to directly use the facility or get their permission to allow authorised franchises to manufacture them. Given the parameters and other requirements, the facility can be used to produce only Covishield and Sputnik V vaccines. Presently, 10 to 15 crore doses of vaccines are being produced a year for veterinary diseases and KFD in the IAH&VB facility that has five vaccine production units. Dr. Gowda is confident that it is possible to increase the production to 20 to 25 crore doses a year for the COVID-19 vaccine if the firms work in multiple shifts and get additional manpower. The COVID-19 vaccine production is unlikely to affect the veterinary vaccination production as the institute has already completed the production of most of the vaccines required for this year by the veterinary sector. The institute, established in 1926, set up the hi-tech vaccination production unit about five years ago. Meanwhile, Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University’s Extension Division member C.V. Lokesh Gowda has petitioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa about the availability of such a facility. Mr. Lokesh Gowda, who is also chairman of the Karnataka Sheep and Goat Farming Co-operative Society, has appealed to the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol to take up the issue with appropriate authorities.  It takes nearly a year to set up an entirely new vaccine production facility right from scratch. In such a scenario, using the institute’s facility will save time and help in meeting the demand for vaccine. S.M. Byre Gowda, director, Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vet-institute-offers-to-provide-vaccine-manufacturing-facility/article34591276.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NGOs stressed as funds diverted to COVID-19||Many non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are facing severe financial difficulties as most of the funds and donations are being diverted towards management of the COVID-19 pandemic and relief efforts, revealed a survey. With funds diverted to COVID-19 healthcare and immediate relief, many NGOs are facing the threat of closure and job cuts. A large amount of CSR, retail and philanthropic funds were expected to go to COVID-19 healthcare and relief, both in the near- and medium-term, and the overall funds available to NGOs would be impacted, with an even larger impact on non-COVID-19 issues, according to a survey conducted by a Bengaluru-based The/Nudge Foundation, an NGO. “The reduced funding is likely to lead to closures and job cuts, potentially even more than the past year as many NGOs have eaten into their reserves. This may have far-reaching consequences both because of the work NGOs do, and because the sector had seven million jobs,”  said the  survey titled ‘Some potential implications of the second wave of COVID-19 for NGOs’ conducted by Ayesha Marfatia and Ashish Karamchandani. On the impact on NGOs in the medium term, the survey said NGOs were increasingly seeing burnout and mental health issues in their teams. In addition to the stress of the past year, a significant amount of people working in the sector have now been affected directly. “Job security is also a looming worry,” said the survey. The survey, which covered many NGOs, 23 experts, economists, and statisticians, revealed that “compliance requirements are becoming more onerous and for many NGOs, with Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, there are issues with sub-granting and operating the SBI accounts mandated for use by the government, and as a result, difficulty accessing foreign funds. This is impacting the effective use of the foreign aid coming into the country,” the survey said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ngos-stressed-as-funds-diverted-to-covid-19/article34591265.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labourers facing multiple crises: Study||A study of living conditions of the working class in Bengaluru’s unorganised sector has revealed that labourers are reeling under a triple crisis: lack of access to healthcare during the COVID-19 pandemic, lack of food security, and depleted earnings. They live in densely populated slums and colonies with inadequate hygiene, even as most workplaces have failed to provide masks, sanitisers and other aid for COVID-19 prevention. The study was conducted by All Indian Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) in collaboration with other trade unions. It recommended that the government carry out regular fumigation of these areas and organise free testing and vaccination camps at these localities. The authors underscored the importance of taking such measures as they found there was hesitation to get tested and vaccinated. The report made a case for augmentation of public health infrastructure and universal free treatment for COVID-19, while recommending a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh for families living below the poverty line who have lost a member to COVID-19. Most labourers have suffered a loss of income, but those working on delivery platforms like Ola, Uber and street vendors have been affected more than monthly wage workers, the study found. “Several contract workers have not received their wages for pre-lockdown periods, and there is uncertainty over wages during the lockdown period,” stated the authors. Appeals by labourers to the government for extension of deadlines to pay EMIs and utility bills have not been approved. The study recommends that the government announce a COVID-19 compensation package for all labourers and vulnerable groups, including those with a salary of less than Rs. 15,000, apart from a risk allowance of Rs. 10,000 for all health and frontline workers. The government must ensure there is no termination of employment, and set up helplines for workers with payment issues, it noted. It also found that ration distributed through the Public Distribution System (PDS) was often inadequate, making families in distress unable to completely rely on the State for their food and nutrition needs. Increase in prices of vegetables and fruits have also hit the working class. The study, while welcoming free food being distributed by Indira Canteens in the city, argued that it was not enough, and recommends setting up of community kitchens and a hunger helpline like in the previous year. It also recommended that the State government immediately start distributing ration kits and implement Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to all persons in PDS shops without insisting on ration cards, and ensure provision of 10 kg of rice.  Several contract workers have not received their wages for pre-lockdown periods, and there is uncertainty over wages during the lockdown period Authors of study||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labourers-facing-multiple-crises-study/article34591269.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 policemen suspended for torture of doctor||An inspector attached to Sanjay Nagar police station and two head constables were suspended for allegedly detaining a doctor for two days as part of a probe into the illegal sale of Remdesivir and inflicting third degree torture on him. The doctor claimed he was released only after he paid them Rs. 5.5 lakh in cash. The doctor recorded a video of the injuries he sustained and uploaded it on social media. Taking cognisance, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North division) Dharmendra Kumar Meena, on Monday, ordered an inquiry into the actions of Inspector Kathyayini Alva. He removed the inspector and the head constables from their posts at Sanjay Nagar station and posted them at the DCP office until further notice. Based on the findings of an inquiry conducted by the Assistant Commissioner of Police, J.C. Nagar sub-division, City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant suspended the inspector and two head constables till further orders. The complainant, Dr. Nagaraj from Sri Sai Hospital, was detained by Sanjay Nagar police on May 15 after they arrested a housekeeping employee and Dr. Sagar, from another private hospital, for selling Remdesivir for Rs. 40,000. Based on Dr. Sagar’s claims, the police summoned Dr. Nagaraj, but did not arrest him. “I was tortured and beaten up so badly that I can’t even sit or sleep,” he alleged in the video. “The inspector not only took money to release me, but threatened to kill me if I spoke about this to anyone,” he alleged.  I was tortured and beaten up so badly that I can’t even sit or sleep. The inspector not only took money to release me, but threatened to kill me if I spoke about this to anyone Dr. Nagaraj, Sri Sai Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-policemen-suspended-for-torture-of-doctor/article34591270.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister calls for COVID care at defence facilities||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi on Tuesday requested Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to consider having exclusive COVID Care Centres set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru and Belagavi. In a letter to Mr. Singh, he said theDRDO’s initiative in setting up exclusive COVID hospitals and medical centres in Delhi, Lucknow, Varanasi, and Ahmedabad could be replicated in Karnataka. He said that because of the surge in COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, hospitals were facing tremendous pressure. He pointed out that the Defence Ministry had large land banks in Bengaluru and Belagavi, which would be suitable for establishing COVID Care Centres. “Setting up these centres will not only help patients but will ease the pressure on existing hospitals and medical professionals,” he said Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan met the Indian Army authorities and placed a proposal to start a 500-bed COVID Care Centre on the ASC campus in Bengaluru. He assured the army authorities that the government would set up all basic infrastructure and requested the Army to deploy its medical and paramedical personnel to run the centre. Dr. Ashwath Narayan said the centre has to be established keeping in the potential third wave of COVID-19 in mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-calls-for-covid-care-at-defence-facilities/article34591283.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Pay dues to cane growers’||In light of the COVID-19 pandemic resulting in severe hardship for farmers, sugar factories have been directed to clear the pending dues towards sugarcane growers. Farmers are yet to get dues to the tune of Rs. 1,324 crore for the cane crushed this season. A note from the office of Sugar and Municipal Administration Minister N. Nagaraj (MTB) on Tuesday stated that the Minister had directed the factories to pay the dues or face action for recovery of dues under the Sugar (Regulation) Act. He said 64 sugar factories have crushed 440.8 lakh tonnes of cane during 2020-21 to produce 42.94 lakh tonnes of sugar. He said that while factories had to pay Rs. 13,348 crore in total to the farmers, they had paid a little over Rs. 12,000 crore so far. Mr. Nagaraj said that notice has been issued to factories that are yet to make payment and directions issued to the Deputy Commissioners to take necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pay-dues-to-cane-growers/article34591288.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PM wishes Deve Gowda||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among those who wished former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, who turned 88 on Tuesday. The octogenarian leader, who had earlier requested his party workers, followers, and fans not to celebrate his birthday in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, spent time at home, sources said. While Mr. Modi wished him over phone, Mr. Gowda took to Twitter to announce that the Prime Minister had called him to wish him. He also said that he prayed to God to provide Mr. Modi with the strength to save the country from COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-wishes-deve-gowda/article34591282.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru/Hassan/Kalaburagi/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||With case surge in rural areas, districts tighten restrictions||In the midst of the debate over continuing the Statewide lockdown beyond May 24, some district administrations have announced stricter measures to contain the surge of COVID-19. With the State government providing the districts greater autonomy to take decisions based on the ground reality, measures stricter than the State guidelines were clamped in Hassan, Ballari, and Kalaburagi on Tuesday. While Shivamogga had already seen a four-day total lockdown last week, restrictions in Raichur district started two days ago. Over the past fortnight, cases in rural areas saw a steep increase, causing anxiety in the district administrations, even as the numbers in Bengaluru, which had the highest caseload, declined. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday also spoke for localised decision-making to better address micro-local issues. Under the new restrictions in Kalaburagi and Ballari, which will be in place for the next three days, grocery stores, vegetable and fruit stores, hotels, and wine stores will be shut. Exceptions have been given to the health sector, the supply of LPG cylinders, supply of food from hotels to the doorstep, in situ construction activities, and ATM and petroleum outlets. In Hassan, only those selling essential items, including vegetables and groceries, are allowed to remain open between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. People will be allowed to make purchases only on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Unlike in the northern districts, wine stores have been allowed to function. Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the Chief Minister has been receiving inputs on the situation from the Technical Advisory Committee, the task force, and various departments. “He will decide on the lockdown depending on the inputs,” the Minister said. He clarified that no discussion on lockdown figured in the videoconference meeting with the Prime Minister. Meanwhile, Revenue Minister R. Ashok favoured the extension of lockdown beyond May 24. Speaking to reporters in Mangaluru, he said the virus surge in Maharashtra and Kerala has been contained because of lockdown measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-case-surge-in-rural-areas-districts-tighten-restrictions/article34591287.ece
19 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Stop pandemic from reaching rural areas’||Minister for Fisheries S. Angara has instructed officers to take necessary steps to contain the spread of the infection in rural areas. Mr. Angara, who is also in-charge of Chikkamagaluru district, held a meeting with officers in Chikkamagaluru on Monday.  Chikkamagaluru MLA C.T. Ravi said that ASHAs and gram panchayat officials have to work hard to bring down the number of cases. Eligible people should be encouraged to get vaccinated after registering their names online. BMTC MD C. Shikha, who is secretary in-charge of the district, Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh, MLC M.K. Pranesh and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stop-pandemic-from-reaching-rural-areas/article34591379.ece
19 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bommai sets up care centre at his house||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who has converted the courtyard of his residence in Shiggaon of Haveri district into a COVID Care Centre, has appealed to patients getting treated there to shun fear of going to hospital and consider the care centre as their home. Speaking to patients during the visit of Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi to the care centre on Monday, Mr. Bommai said that all arrangements have been made for treatment and there is oxygen support too apart from arrangements for timely food. As of now, 15 patients are recuperating at the care centre. Medicine is being given free by the Gangamma Bommai Trust. “Private doctors are treating patients and health staff have been deployed to take care of their hygiene and treatment. I have requested government doctors also to visit the centre and treat patients. And, nurses will be serving round the clock,” he said. The Home Minister also said that requisite arrangements are being made to face the third phase of the pandemic, if any. Oxygen plants have been permitted to be set up in Shiggaon, Haveri and Hanagal taluks and he has requested for similar plants in Hirekerur and Byadgi. Oxygen supply to the district, which was 6.5 tonnes at present, will be increased further and he has made a request to the Chief Minister, he said and added that through the care centre, he was doing his bit to the electorate of his constituency. Lauding the initiative taken by Mr. Bommai, Mr. Pralhad Joshi said that Mr. Bommai’s service should be a model to other legislators. Deputy Commissioner of Haveri Sanjay Shettennavar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-sets-up-care-centre-at-his-house/article34591388.ece
19 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Food kits for warriors||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday symbolically launched distribution of food kits for COVID warriors and workers from various sectors. Indian Food Banking Network in association with Gram Vikas Society and SocioTransform Foundation of Dharwad has launched the initiative. It plans to reach out to over three lakh people in Dharwad district as part of the COVID relief food distribution drive. Lauding the initiative, Mr. Joshi said that the food kits would be of great help to those affected by the COVID-19-induced lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-kits-for-warriors/article34591389.ece
19 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||After Raichur, Ballari and Kalaburagi too adopt strict steps||Emulating Raichur district which has already imposed more restrictions than specified in the State government guidelines to prevent crowding, Ballari and Kalaburagi districts, which have been witnessing an increased number of COVID-19 positive cases as well as deaths, also imposed similar restrictions that will become effective on Wednesday. Speaking to presspersons here on Tuesday, Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna made it clear that a complete lockdown will be imposed for three days in a week — Thursday, Friday and Saturday — as a measure to contain the spread of the virus. “People will be barred from even purchasing vegetable and groceries. Liquor shops will completely be closed. Only parcel services will be allowed in hotels. Only those services that are absolutely essential such as hospitals, ambulances and pharmacies will be allowed to function as usual. These stricter measures are inevitable to curb the spread of the deadly virus. We will decide on continuing the restrictions in the future after gauging the impact of these steps,” Ms. Jyothsna said. Announcing similar measures for Ballari and Vijayanagar districts, Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf Minister Anand Singh, who is also in-charge of undivided Ballari district, said that the people’s movement has been completely banned on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, except for medical services. “The stricter step is taken as per the recommendations of experts. We are working hard to control the fast-spreading pandemic. We have realised that we have to go a long way in bringing the deadly disease under control. These new and stricter measures are essential to contain the spread of the pandemic,” he told media persons after attending a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the district administrative complex in Ballari on Tuesday. Substantiating the new steps, Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati made it clear that even essential services such as sale of groceries and milk between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. every day will be banned for the next three days. He appealed to people to cooperate with the administration in its fight against the pandemic. “The distribution of foodgrains and other groceries through the Public Distribution System for May has almost been completed. Families that have not received the groceries from the fair price shops will be provided with their quota of foodgrains on their doorsteps,” Mr. Malapati said. Just after the announcement of stricter restrictions by the Minister and the Deputy Commissioner, Ballari Superintendent of Police Saidulu Adavath warned that cases will be filed against violators. He appealed to people to cooperate with the administration in its efforts to control the pandemic. “We are seizing around 600 vehicles a day on an average for violating lockdown guidelines. We have filed cases against 320 people in the last 10 days. We will oopt for more stringent steps against violators,” Mr. Adavath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-raichur-ballari-and-kalaburagi-too-adopt-strict-steps/article34591386.ece
19 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Fighting the virus in the rural areas||Considering the rising number of COVID-19 cases and deaths across Kalaburagi district, a group of members and its team has formed a COVID-19 awareness task force committee to check the spread of the virus. The team led by Ramesh Londankar from the Department of Biotechnology of Gulbarga University along with non-teaching staff from various departments and Nagaratna Deshmane from the Kalaburagi City Corporation has launched the awareness drive in the slum localities in Kalaburagi and parts of Aland taluk and Afzalpur taluk. Dr. Londankar said that awareness programmes are being held to educate and assist villagers in safeguarding themselves from the virus. “We also highlight the importance of wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and using sanitiser to fight COVID-19. During the awareness drive, we play a folk song on coronavirus and the precautionary steps are explained in a more effective manner,” he said. The team comprising eight to 10 members moves from one place to another and interacts with people urging them to participate in making every village free from COVID-19. Committee members also clear doubts about vaccination to villagers and strongly encourage them to get vaccinated against COVID-19. “In the last 15 days, we have visited 65 to 70 villages. Our committee will soon cover all the taluks in the district. We feel it is our responsibility to do our bit by educating the rural people about the precautionary steps,” Dr. Londankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fighting-the-virus-in-the-rural-areas/article34591378.ece
19 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Free autorickshaw ambulance service||Kalaburagi City Corporation has launched a free autorickshaw ambulance service to shift COVID-19 patients to hospitals. Corporation commissioner Snehal Lokhande has said that five autorickshaw ambulances will be available and they will help in shifting patients to hospitals. The service will be available 24 x 7. Three autorickshaws will operate from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. and two autorickshaws will work from 10 p.m. to 8 a.m. People can call Ph: 9483855538, 9060637888, 9900562301, 9035853125, 9538369631 and 7676704268.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-autorickshaw-ambulance-service/article34591384.ece
19 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Total damage to property in Udupi put at Rs. 68.19 crore||The total damage caused to property by Cyclone Tauktae in Udupi district has been preliminarily estimated at Rs. 68.19 crore, according to Revenue Minister R. Ashok. Speaking to presspersons in Udupi on Tuesday after visiting the areas that suffered damage as the cyclone passed by the district, the Minister said that sea erosion has damaged 5,271 m of coastal land. The loss has been estimated at Rs. 59.41 crore. In addition, damage to 33 fishing boats has been estimated at Rs. 65 lakh. The Minister said that horticultural crops on 32.55 hectares have been damaged. The loss has been estimated at Rs. 6.21 lakh. More than 100 houses have been damaged and over 100 coconut trees have fallen. Damage to other property included 3.55 km long State Highways/Major District Roads (loss estimated at Rs. 3.10 crore), 51.4 km of urban roads (Rs. 1.55 crore), two kilometre long fisheries road (Rs. 2.20 crore) and nine bridges (Rs. 45 lakh). In addition, MESCOM has suffered a loss of Rs. 26.21 lakh to its property covering electricity poles, transformers and power lines. A person died in Kaup taluk on May 15 due to electrocution, he said. The Minister said that a 25-member team of SDRF and a 10-member team of Fire and Emergency Services are in the district to take up relief works. People who have been evacuated have been sheltered in 14 educational institutions, Mr. Ashok said. The district recorded 75.04 mm rain on May 15 and May 16, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/total-damage-to-property-in-udupi-put-at-rs-6819-crore/article34591393.ece
19 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Temple converts hall into COVID Care Centre||A temple in Dakshina Kannada has converted a hall into a COVID Care Centre which will be put to use in a day or two. The Mahalingeshwara Temple in Puttur managed by the Muzrai Department has made arrangements to take care of 40 persons at a time on the first floor of the hall, located close to the temple. Executive Officer of the temple management committee H. Naveen Bhandary told The Hindu that the Health Department has observed that COVID-19 is spreading in Puttur and Kadaba taluks, mainly through those who travelled from outside cities and towns to their native places. Hence, he said, such persons will be accommodated in the care centre of the temple first before they go to their houses. They will be kept under observation in the centre for a week and those who do not show any symptoms will be sent to their houses after a swab test. Those who develop symptoms will be treated and if required, admitted to hospitals. Mr. Bhandary said that the Health Department will send doctors and nurses daily to the care centre to monitor the health of those accommodated. The temple has built cubicles with cots and beds, tables and other required facilities for 40 persons. In all, eight toilets and an equal number of bathrooms have been constructed. The floor has been covered with mat, Mr. Bhandary who is also the Executive Officer of Puttur and Kadaba Taluk Panchayats, said. “Temple volunteers have joined hands in building the facilities without expecting anything in return,” he said and added that the temple committee will serve food for those housed in the care centre. If required, the Executive Officer said, more beds will be put up on the ground floor of the building. “The intention of the care centre is to cut the transmission to family members at the primary level,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-converts-hall-into-covid-care-centre/article34591381.ece
19 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ashok suggests extending lockdown||Hinting that lockdown in the State might continue, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said on Tuesday that he personally felt that it (lockdown) should be extended beyond May 24 to curtail the further spread of COVID-19. Speaking to presspersons in Udupi, the Minister said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will, however, take a final decision in the matter. In addition to Karnataka, COVID-19 cases have come down in States such as Maharashtra and Kerala after they imposed lockdown, the Minister said and added that infection spreading to the villages is a cause of concern now. Mr. Ashok said that the government may allow doctors, medical interns and final year nursing students to visit villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashok-suggests-extending-lockdown/article34591390.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Remdesivir racket: Accused denied bail||Observing that all steps should be taken to eradicate black marketing of essential drugs and sale of spurious/fake drugs, the High Court of Karnataka denied bail to a person arrested on the allegation of selling Remdesivir injection, used in treatment of COVID-19 patients, in the black market. Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on a petition filed by Sohail Pasha, 32, a resident of Madeena Nagar in Mangamanapalya in Bengaluru. “It is required to be ascertained during the course of the investigation as to from where the petitioner has obtained such injections and how the same was sold without prescription when the drug required to be sold only on prescription being issued,” the High Court observed. He was arrested by the police when he had supplied five vials of the injection at Rs. 7,000 per vial, and had collected Rs. 35,000 from the buyer. The police have claimed that the petitioner, being a pharmacist, should not have involved himself in black-marketing of the drug. “It cannot be understood as to how such an offence could be committed in these uncertain times by playing with the lives of persons suffering from COVID-19,” the court observed. The court also said that “such an inhuman conduct is highly deplorable when society at large has come together to tide over these difficulties and turbulent time, which has arisen on account of COVID-19 pandemic. It is shocking that persons have indulged themselves in black-marketing of such drugs.” The court, however, permitted him to file a fresh plea for bail once the police complete their investigation and submit the final report to the jurisdictional court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remdesivir-racket-accused-denied-bail/article34591264.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cool impact||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cool-impact/article34591267.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Illegal sale of drug: 4 held||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Tuesday arrested four employees of the railway hospital for illegally selling Remdesvir. An RPF team approached one of the accused near Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna station and caught him in the act of handing over three vials of the antiviral drug. “The accused, an attender, offered to sell three vials for Rs. 1.5 lakh,” a senior officer said. The team also arrested three of his colleagues – a staff nurse, an ambulance driver and a housekeeping employee. “The accused procured vials meant for patients and started selling them to customers a fortnight ago. A patient requires six doses, but the nurse would ensure that they were given only three. The remaining were sold in black,” said the police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-sale-of-drug-4-held/article34591268.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP meet||The chairperson of the Karnataka State Safai Karmachari Commission M. Shivanna chaired a meeting with senior officials of the BBMP to discuss the impact of COVID-19 on pourakarmikas. As many as 14 pourakarmikas have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-meet/article34591271.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cyclone damage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cyclone-damage/article34591278.ece
19 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha gets two berths||Alappuzha district will get two berths in the second Pinarayi Vijayan ministry in the State. Saji Cherian of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] representing the Chengannur Assembly constituency and P. Prasad of the Communist Party of India (CPI) representing Cherthala will swear-in as Ministers in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Cabinet on May 20. The district has three representations in the outgoing LDF government. Besides, the late Thomas Chandy, who represented Kuttanad, was a Minister in the government for a brief period in 2017. Born in Kozhuvalloor in 1965, Mr. Cherian, a two-time MLA, entered politics at a young age through the Students Federation of India. He became a member of the CPI(M) in 1980. A former district secretary of the CPI(M) in Alappuzha, he was first elected to the State Assembly from Chengannur in the 2018 bypoll. In the 2021 Assembly election, Mr. Cherian retained the seat by defeating his nearest rival M. Murali of the Congress by a margin of 31,984 votes. First-time MLA A first-time legislator, Mr. Prasad was elected to the State Assembly from Cherthala by defeating S. Sarath of the Congress by a margin of 6,148 votes. Born in Nooranad, M. Prasad, 51, entered politics through the All India Students Federation. Known for leading a simple life, he was at the forefront of several environmental struggles, including the protest against the Aranmula airport project and the Plachimada agitation. He played an important role in rallying people against mineral sand-mining in Arattupuzha and Thrikkunnapuzha. Mr. Prasad took part in the Narmada Bachao Andolan along with Medha Patkar. Mr. Prasad, CPI State executive member, said that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s top priority would be to fast-track implementation of all promises made in its election manifesto. “The outgoing LDF government has done a tremendous amount of work by focusing on the manifesto. The LDF’s manifesto for the 2021 Assembly polls clearly outlines the plans for the next five years. It has addressed all the issues affecting the people of the State and measures to ensure the welfare of the common man. My responsibility will be to implement the promises while being part of the team,” Mr. Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-gets-two-berths/article34591872.ece
19 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||2,353 new cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 2,353 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. It also recorded one COVID-19-related death. Of the fresh cases, 2,331 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 18 others remains unknown. Three persons who came from other States and one from abroad were also diagnosed with the disease. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 24.18%. The new cases include 373 logged from Alappuzha, 110 from Kayamkulam, 88 from Chengannur, 72 from Aryad, 71 each from Thekkekara and Chennam Pallippuram, 63 each from Kodamthuruth and Muthukulam, 57 from Mararikulam South and 50 each from Cherthala and Cherthala South. Meanwhile, 1,020 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload is 21,593. In Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to soar in Kottayam with 1,855 people testing positive for the disease here on Tuesday The Test positivity Rate, meanwhile, fall sharply to 19.27%. Of the fresh cases, all but four persons contracted the virus through local transmission. With 188 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Athirampuzha with 78 cases. As many as 3,753 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total number of active cases to 12,686. As many as 61,811 others are under observation. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 1,149 people tested positive for the virus infection. Of this, 1,130 were cases of local transmission. With 94 cases, Pathanamthitta reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 91 cases. As many as eight persons were reported dead due to COVID-19 related illness. As many as 1,043 people recovered from the disease, bringing down the total number of active cases to 15,755 while 29,230 people are under surveillance. The total TPR for the district stood at 10.06%.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2353-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article34591460.ece
19 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Summer rain: Idukki water level up||Following the copious summer showers, water level in the Idukki reservoir has increased, which the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) officials consider a rare occurrence during this time of the year. An official at the Dam Monitoring and Research Station, Vazhathoppe, said the water level on Tuesday increased by 0.46 ft from the previous day — from 2,336.16 ft to 2,336.62 ft — and the increase was after a drastic fall in level. The water level on May 15 was 2,334.94 ft. However, the water level on the same day last year was 2,343 ft. The catchment area of the reservoir received good summer rainfall. The rainfall on on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday was 8.6 mm, 32.2 mm and 49.8 mm respectively. Power generation Power generation at the Moolamattom power house remained at a low of nearly 6 million units following a decline in demand after the summer rain. The cumulative rainfall in the catchment area from May 1 to May 18 was 300 mm. The cumulative rainfall during the same period last year was 102 mm. In 2018, the cumulative rainfall till May 18 was 250 mm. However, it had not resulted in an increase in the reservoir level then, which is mainly decided by the inflow and power generation. The water year starts on June 1 and normally water level in Idukki, one of the largest dams in Asia, shows an upward trend only after two to three days of continuous rainfall during the southwest (SW) monsoon season. In April this year also the catchment area received a rainfall of 114 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summer-rain-idukki-water-level-up/article34591874.ece
19 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Call centre for livestock farmers launched||The Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) has launched KALF (KVASU Advisory for Livestock Farmers) programme for livestock farmers. An advisory call centre, at Mannuthy in Thrissur, will provide on-call services to farmers and pet owners in the initial stage with the support of the Directorate of Clinics. The call centre can be reached at 9447030801 from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on all days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-centre-for-livestock-farmers-launched/article34591551.ece
19 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam sees 3,517 fresh COVID cases||Ernakulam saw 3,517 new COVID cases on Tuesday, and 15 health workers were among the infected. The district’s test positivity rate is 24.29%. The active caseload has fallen to 52,916. The number of ICU admissions has, however, risen to a total of 534 patients. A total of 6,336 were considered to have recovered on the day. For testing, 14,478 samples were collected. Of these, 5,062 were RT-PCR tests. Among the new cases, the source of infection could not be traced in 116 cases. Thripunithura recorded 144 new cases, Thrikkakara 116, Palluruthy 101, Cheranalloor 96, Choornikkara 87, Rayamangalam 86, and Chittattukara 85. As many as 1,08,017 people remain in quarantine. While 447 fresh admissions were made to hospitals and other treatment centres, 472 people were discharged. While 44,519 people are recovering at home, over 600 are at government hospitals, 2,512 patients are at private hospitals, 63 are under treatment at INHS Sanjivani and 1,647 are at first-line treatment centres, second-line treatment centres and domiciliary care centres. Of the 2,375 beds vacant for COVID treatment at government facilities, 1,310 are at domiciliary care centres, 434 are at first-line treatment centres, 183 are at second-line treatment centres, and 413 are at government hospitals. Cumulatively, the district has recorded 2,72,054 cases of the infection, and 604 people have succumbed to it, according to figures from the State Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-sees-3517-fresh-covid-cases/article34591526.ece
19 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||After the deluge, a struggle to rebuild lives in Chellanam||Around 85% of the more than 10,300 houses in the coastal village of Chellanam were flooded and damaged in the four days of heavy rain and sea incursion till Monday, leaving villagers with the difficult task of cleaning up and repairing their homes. Their struggles begin now. Most of the families have not been even able to cook their food because they are dealing with the debris and dirt left over by the floodwaters. Most homes have ankle-deep sand deposited in rooms. The shortage of clean water and electricity is hampering the cleaning works, said T.A. Dalfin, a resident and activist working with the Pachima Kochi Theera Samrakshan Samithy. V.D. Majeendran, a fishers’ union leader, said he visited Maruvakkad on Tuesday. “The scene is heart-rending,” he said pointing out that people are unable to do anything with the massive heaps of debris washed ashore in the rain and high waves. George Kaliparambil, a resident, said that his house has suffered extensive damage. Furniture, beds, utensils and other household items have been rendered useless. “There is no help at hand to clean up the place. There is an eight-inch thick slush in all the rooms brought in by the seawater,” he added.  Relief camps According to government sources, two rescue camps were operational for people from Chellanam — The SDPY camp and Chinmaya Vidyalaya in Palluruthy. The SDPY camp had 15 people from six families and the Chinmaya Vidyalaya camp had 64 people from 19 families.  The Fort Kochi-Alappuzha coastal road has seen heavy sand deposits in the Manassery area following the flood in Chellanam village. Fishing gear have been damaged even as there is severe shortage of drinking water. Many homes are still without electricity, Mr. Dalfin added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-the-deluge-a-struggle-to-rebuild-lives-in-chellanam/article34591523.ece
19 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||When buying jaggery raises eyebrows||Dropping in at a neighbourhood grocery store for buying jaggery during this lockdown could prove to be a tricky affair. And if the quantity sought is perceived as ‘unusual’ by the store owner, the buyer may even have to part with his personal details, including contact number, which may eventually end up with the excise authorities. Anticipating a spike in illegal brewing owing to the extended shutdown of bars and liquor outlets, the excise authorities have asked grocery and provision store owners to keep an eye over the excessive purchase of jaggery, an essential ingredient of illegal brewing. “Our local units are in regular touch with store owners who are best placed to identify such suspicious purchases. Illegal brewing seems to have shifted character from centralised large-scale to more decentralised small-scale units, making detection tougher. The phenomenon seems to be on the rise and we are planning a special drive to contain it,” said T.A. Ashokkumar, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam. The assessment seems to be not completely out of place as only recently a grocery store owner near Kakkand turned away a youngster who had come to purchase 5 kg of jaggery raising the suspicions of the owner. He chose to leave when the owner asked for his mobile number as directed by the excise authorities. Even store owners who are not yet approached by the Excise Department have turned suspicious about some irregular customers. “It is not just jaggery that raises doubt but the other items bought with it. For instance, jaggery bought with yeast and bark alone is definitely suspicious. But since everything is bought in normal proportions we cannot deny them. There is also the possibility that they may be making similar purchases from numerous stores to avoid suspicion,” said Vinod Kumar who has been running a grocery store near Palarivattom for decades. The seizure of wash used in illegal brewing in smaller quantities like 30 and 40 litres unlike in the past when it was seized in thousands has further reaffirmed the Excise Department’s assessment that small-scale decentralised brewing is the norm now. “We are keeping a close watch especially in areas like Angamaly, Kothamangalam, and Kalady where illegal brewing seems to be rampant. Vacant bushy plots seem to have become brewing centres,” said G. Suresh Kumar, Assistant Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-buying-jaggery-raises-eyebrows/article34591520.ece
19 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Women faces of new Cabinet||When three women made it to the Pinarayi Vijayan 2.0 Cabinet, it marked the highest women representation in a State Cabinet in recent times. While R. Bindu, who won from Irinjalakkuda, and J. Chinchu Rani, elected from the Chadayamangalam, are first-timers to the State legislature, it is second straight win for Veena George from Aranmula. A former Mayor Prof. Bindu, who had earlier served as the Thrissur Mayor, is married to A. Vijayaraghavan, the acting State secretary of the CPI(M) and is also its Central Committee member. Before entering politics, Prof. Bindu taught English language and literature at Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur. A debut Though its her debut in the State Assembly, Ms. Rani, a CPI leader from Kollam, was earlier elected to civic bodies. The party had to overcome resistance from some of its local local leaders and units to field her as as candidate in the constituency for the legislative polls. She is also the only woman the party has picked as its representative in the State Cabinet. Former journalist Ms. George left behind a journalism career of over one-and-a-half decades in television to join politics. She marked her political entry in a grand manner defeating K. Sivadasan Nair of the Congress from Aranmula in 2016. In her second innings to the State legislature, Ms. George scored an impressive win by increasing her victory margin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-faces-of-new-cabinet/article34591544.ece
19 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Decommissioned naval ship to be part of Alappuzha museum||The decommissioned Fast Attack Craft (IN FAC) T-81 of the Indian Navy, which was the second of the Super Dvora MK II Class fast attack craft built by Goa Shipyard Limited, was handed over to the State government by Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C) of the Southern Naval Command, at a simple ceremony at the Naval Base here on Monday. The chief guest for the event that was held as per COVID-19 protocol was Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. The ship will be taken to Alappuzha and will be part of the Port Museum under the Alappuzha Heritage Project. This exemplifies the importance the Indian Navy attaches to the people of Kerala and the maritime town of Alappuzha, which was once called the ‘Venice of the East’, a Navy release said. Commissioned in 1999 The vessel was commissioned into the Navy in 1999 by the then Governor of Goa, Lt. Gen. (Retd) J.F.R. Jacob. It has a displacement of 60 tonnes and could attain a maximum speed of 45 knots (85 kmph) and could cover a range of 600 nautical miles. The hydrodynamic design and state-of-the-art machinery gave the vessel optimum utilisation of power and suitability for shallow water operations. The ship was attached to the Western Naval Command and had participated in many coastal security and port defence missions along the Maharashtra and Gujarat coast. It was decommissioned in January in Mumbai and towed to Kochi. Three MLAs from Alappuzha and Krishna Teja, Director of Kerala Tourism, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decommissioned-naval-ship-to-be-part-of-alappuzha-museum/article34591883.ece
19 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Nearly 400 cases registered||The Kochi City and Ernakulam Rural police are continuing the strict enforcement of the triple lockdown in Ernakulam even as the district borders remain sealed. Nearly 400 cases were registered under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance across the district with the city police registering 95 cases and rural police 280 cases. Rural police also arrested 90 persons. Both police forces collectively fined 907 people for not wearing masks and 1,047 for not maintaining physical distance while 276 vehicles were seized. The city police led by C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City), have divided the entire city limits into different zones for the effective implementation of restrictions. Special tracks have been arranged for facilitating the movement of ambulances, vehicles transporting oxygen, doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, and other emergency vehicles. Roadside vendors found operating in violation of the restrictions in Palluruthy and Harbour police station limits were booked. Drones were deployed for surveillance in Palluruthy. Janamaithri police personnel and volunteers were engaged to deliver essential items on doorsteps to avoid crowding in shops. Door delivery is being encouraged and shop owners have been asked to display WhatsApp number for the same in front of their shops. Police personnel have been deployed to ensure physical distancing at vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nearly-400-cases-registered/article34591524.ece
19 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||P. Rajeev stresses on collective responsibility||“The party has entrusted me with a new responsibility, which I will carry out to the best of my abilities within my limitations,” P. Rajeev, who will be part of the new Cabinet of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala, has said. Mr. Rajeev said that it would be a collective responsibility to implement the promises made by the LDF ahead of the Assembly elections and pointed out that the new responsibilities were being taken up in keeping with the spirit of the party manifesto. He added that the success of the previous LDF government was that it implemented the promises it had made in the party manifesto. He said that Ministers’ portfolios would be allotted later and that he did not want to make a comment on what responsibility he would be entrusted with by the party.  Mr. Rajeev, CPI(M) State secretariat member and former member of the Rajya Sabha, defeated IUML candidate V.A. Abdul Gafoor by a margin of over 11,000 votes in the Assembly elections in a contest that was keenly watched and described as a crucial one for the party unit in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/p-rajeev-stresses-on-collective-responsibility/article34591521.ece
19 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KMRL cancels appointment||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has cancelled the appointment of Pradeep Panicker, General Manager (HR administration and training), in the wake of an internal review held as per a direction issued by the Kerala High Court, informed sources said. This followed a petition filed by C. Arockiaswamy, who was a candidate for the post. He contended that Mr. Panicker, who was ranked first, did not have the required qualifications and experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-cancels-appointment/article34591518.ece
19 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Cabinet entry sans Minister from Kottayam for KC(M)||Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] chairman Jose K. Mani on Tuesday formally nominated Idukki legislator Roshy Augustine to the lone ministerial post allotted to the party by the Left Democratic Front (LDF). In a letter, handed over to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan, Mr. Mani also nominated Kanjirappally legislator N. Jayaraj as Chief Whip. The other day, the KC(M) had appointed Mr. Augustine and Mr. Jayaraj respectively as the leader and deputy leader of its five-member parliamentary party. Leadership equations The nomination of Mr. Augustine, a five-time legislator, is expected to have an impact on the leadership equations within the KC(M), which always ensured a ministerial post to Kottayam while being part of the State government. Though Mr. Mani, who had lost from Pala, had tried till the last minute to ensure a ministerial berth to Mr. Jayaraj as well, his plans came a cropper as the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], the lead partner in the LDF, stuck to its offer of one ministerial seat along with the post of the Chief Whip. Earlier Ministers While party founder the late K.M. Mani, along with other legislators from Kottayam such as K. Narayana Kurup and C.F. Thomas had been ministers in various United Democratic Front (UDF) governments, K.M. Mani also became a minister under E.K. Nayanar when the regional party sided with the LDF for a brief period in 1980. After the 1982 elections, K.M. Mani and R. Balakrishna Pillai represented the KC(M) in the UDF Cabinet, while in 1991, it was T.M. Jacob who got a nomination to the State Cabinet along with K.M. Mani. In 2001, C.F. Thomas became a minister along with the party founder, while in 2011, the party shared its ministerial posts between P.J. Joseph and the latter. Power centre While Mr. Augustine, a native of Ramapuram in Kottayam, is representing a seat in Idukki district, speculation is now rife about his emergence as another power centre within the party. “In the Kerala Congress, which witnessed many a split and merger since its formation in 1964, the emergence of another leader from outside Pala as a power centre always led to fragmentation,” pointed out a veteran KC leader.  While Mr. Mani tried till the last minute to ensure a ministerial berth to Mr. Jayaraj as well, the CPI(M) did not yield to his demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cabinet-entry-sans-minister-from-kottayam-for-kcm/article34591876.ece
19 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||A Minister each for Kottayam, Pathanamthitta||The five-year long wait for Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts for a representation in the Left Democratic Front cabinet is finally over with the nomination of V.N.Vasavan and Veena George. V.N.Vasavan, who represents the Ettumanur Assembly segment, regards his elevation to the ministerial post as just another task entrusted by his party, the CPI(M). “I am neither overjoyed nor viewing it with disregard. I have worked for the party in various capacities over the past four-and-half decades and now that the party has entrusted me another task, I will try my level best to live up to the expectations,” he said. Mr. Vasavan, who had served as the CPI(M) district secretary for six years, won by a margin of 14,303 votes. Various positions He had earlier represented the Kottayam Assembly segment from 2006 to 11 Born in 1954, he became a member of the CPI(M) in 1974 and also served in various capacities, including the Chairman of Rubco, Director of the State Cooperative Bank and a member of the Sanskrit university Syndicate. From journalism Veena George, who is representing the Aranmula assembly segment for the second consecutive term, had earlier worked as a television journalist and also served as the executive editor of a Malayalam news channel. She took a plunge into mainstream politics in 2016 by defeating senior Congress leader K.Sivadasan Nair by a margin of 7,646 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-minister-each-for-kottayam-pathanamthitta/article34591879.ece
19 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode gets three Cabinet berths||For the first time in recent times, Kozhikode district will get three ministers in the State Cabinet. For P.A. Mohammed Riyas of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and Ahammad Devarkovil of the Indian National League (INL), it will be their maiden innings while for Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader A.K. Saseendran, it will be his second term. The name of Mr. Riyas, the national president of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), was doing the rounds ever since the CPI(M) State secretariat meeting a fortnight ago decided on including new faces in the Cabinet. Mr. Riyas recorded an impressive victory from the Beypore Assembly segment, polling 28,747 votes more than Congress candidate P.M. Niyas. However, the dark horse in the Cabinet induction was Mr. Devarkovil, who won from Kozhikode South, defeating Noorbina Rasheed of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) by 12,459 votes. He will share the five-year term with Congress (S) legislator Kadanappally Ramachandran under the Cabinet berth-sharing pact worked out by the Left Democratic Front. Mr. Saseendran, who returns to the Cabinet, will share the term with his party colleague, Thomas K. Thomas, who won the Kuttanad seat. Mr. Saseendran won from Elathur with a huge mandate for the third time in a row. Though the district gets three ministers, all of them are from the urban sector in Kozhikode. In the previous Cabinet, senior CPI(M) leader T.P. Ramakrishnan, who represented the district, was from the rural belt of Perambra. This time he was dropped from the Cabinet and made parliamentary party secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-gets-three-cabinet-berths/article34591506.ece
19 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Shailaja’s exclusion raises eyebrows||The exclusion of the outgoing Health Minister K.K. Shailaja from the Pinarayi Vijayan 2.0 Cabinet has raised eyebrows in political circles and outside for what many see as an unexpected political twist as her name figured prominently as the only Minister in the outgoing Cabinet likely to get a second term in the second Left Democratic Front Ministry. The social media is abuzz with views and comments suggesting that the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s decision not to offer a second term to Ms. Shailaja amounts to sidelining her. Some even dared to draw parallels between her exclusion from the second Pinarayi Vijayan Ministry and the experience of the late K.R. Gouri in 1987 when she had been projected as the next Chief Minister during the election campaign then but subsequently denied the top post. Ms. Shailaja was in the global limelight for her handling of the pandemic situation and the earlier outbreak of Nipah in the State. Many admirers Thanks to her popularity as Health Minister, she was envisioned future Chief Minister of the State by her admirers. Her electoral victory from Mattannur in Kannur with a record margin of over 60,000 votes was also seen as an endorsement of her popularity. Retired schoolteacher, Ms. Shailaja, popularly known as Shailaja Teacher, is a CPI(M) Central Committee member. The CPI(M)’s position that she was excluded as part of the party’s policy to have a new team with only the Chief Minister given an exemption may not dispel sceptics within the party and outside. There will be no dearth of opinions strengthening the perception that her exclusion is more than a demonstration the paramountcy of the party over and above the stature of individuals its leadership is made up of. Even some senior party leaders, including Polit Bureau members, are reportedly unhappy that Ms. Shailaja was not given a second stint. There is also displeasure among party cadres in her constituency in her home district. Senior party leader and Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby sought to put a lid on the brewing discontent on the social media when he told a TV channel that it was the party who had made her Health Minister and the next Health Minister decided by the CPI(M) would be no less efficient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shailajas-exclusion-triggers-debate/article34591556.ece
19 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||#ShailajaTeacher trending||On Tuesday afternoon, as soon as the news emerged that K.K. Shailaja’s name was missing from the State’s new Cabinet, the social media went abuzz with support for the popular outgoing Health Minister. A few hours later, #ShailajaTeacher began to trend on Twitter. No regional political leader has perhaps in recent time in India been tweeted about as much, or posted about on Facebook, after being excluded from a the Council of Ministers. But, then, few regional leaders or State Ministers have gained as much national and international attention as Ms.Shailaja has. Her handling of the Nipah outbreak had put her in the limelight three years ago. During the last one year, the limelight shone brighter, following the COVID-19 pandemic. She was featured in reputed publications overseas, even as she was being regularly interviewed by national news channels; she was called a rockstar and a virus-slayer. Ms. Shailaja’s resounding victory at the Assembly elections from Mattannur by a whopping margin of nearly 61,000 votes underlined the fact that she was one of the State’s most popular political leaders. Little wonder, the social media was shocked and outraged. Actors react On Facebook, actress Rima Kallingal asked a question that Ms. Shailaja herself had raised at the Assembly – Penninentha kuzhappam? Or, Do women have a problem (when it comes to governance)? Many women agreed with the State Award winner, including her colleagues from cinema. Among them were Parvathy Thiruvoth, Rajisha Vijayan and Kani Kusruti, incidentally all winners of the State Award for the Best Actress, like Rima, in recent years. Rima’s post, which sought to #bringbackshailajateacher, won some 11,000 likes in a couple of hours. On Instagram, Parvathy’s view was liked by more than 90,000 in roughly about the same time. Beyond gender Not surprisingly, many viewed the issue mainly from a feminist angle. Large number of women – well-known and not-so-well-known – from outside Kerala too reacted sharply on Twitter. It was, however, not just women who sounded disappointed on Twitter. There were about as many men as well. Not that everyone on social media was criticising the CPI(M)’s policy to include fresh faces in Pinarayi Vijayan’s new Cabinet. Some pointed out that Ms. Shailaja wasn’t the only performing Minister to be dropped and that somebody else also should get a chance, like she did five years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shailajateacher-trending/article34591540.ece
19 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘In-house’ contacts a new cause for concern||‘In-house contacts’, or asymptomatic infected persons in home isolation spreading COVID-19 to their family members, have become a source of concern in Kozhikode. Health Department officials said it had resulted in many local bodies registering a high daily test positivity rate (TPR). According to them, Olavanna grama panchayat in the district registered a TPR of 45%, Thooneri 44%, Kottur 38% and Chelannur 37% on Monday. Ramanattukara municipality recorded a TPR of 37% on the same day. Care centres The officials claimed that many people were reluctant to shift to domiciliary care centres. A total of 23 local bodies in the district have their daily TPR hovering above 30%. District Collector Seeram Samasiva Rao has said that restrictions on public life will be intensified in these places. They will be relaxed only after the TPR dips. Grama panchayats such as Ayanchery, Changaroth, Kayanna, Thurayur, and Arikkulam are registering a TPR between 17% and 21%. Meanwhile, the officials said that the overall scenario was changing for the better in Kozhikode, going by the drop in weekly TPR. If a TPR of 28.7% was recorded in the week ending May 9, it came down to 25.5% the next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-house-contacts-a-new-cause-for-concern/article34591513.ece
19 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Differently abled, seriously ill unable to get COVID vaccine||Differently abled people and those with serious illnesses in the 18-44 age group in the State are finding it difficult to get COVID-19 vaccine as a priority group because of the condition that they should upload a recent medical certificate. Kareem Karassery, general convener, Kerala Blood Patients Protection Council, has urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to waive off this condition. Of the 40,786 applications submitted till May 16, only 1,681 had been approved. Mr. Karassery claimed that only eight of the 1,300 applications from Wayanad were considered for vaccination. “Most of these people are not in a position to approach doctors and get a medical certificate in the lockdown period. Doctors are busy with COVID-related work as well,” he said. Most of the applications for vaccination are getting rejected now for lack of a co-morbidity certificate. When senior officials of the National Health Mission were contacted, they pointed out that the guidelines were uniform across the country and that they had been formulated by the Centre. The officials suggested that the differently abled could try for a medical certificate countersigned from the healthcare institution where they were getting vaccinated. The approving medical practitioner need not be the treating doctor, they said. Existing records Mr. Karassery has urged the Chief Minister to allow differently abled people and those with serious illnesses to get vaccinated if they produce their existing medical records.  Most of these people are not in a position to approach doctors and get a medical certificate in the lockdown period Kareem Karassery General convener, Kerala Blood Patients Protection Council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/differently-abled-seriously-ill-unable-to-get-covid-vaccine/article34591510.ece
19 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Varsity goes ahead with posting of asst. professors||Calicut University will put on hold recruitment to the posts of Professor and Associate Professor in its teaching departments until the legal challenges against the current system of pooling posts in all departments as a single unit are cleared. The appointment of three assistant professors each to the Dpartments of Zoology and Commerce, however, was approved by a meeting of its Syndicate held online on Monday. According to sources, United Democratic Front-aligned Syndicate member P. Rasheed Ahammed expressed his dissent at the meeting against the decision to continue with the pooling of posts, pointing out that the Kerala High Court, in a recent verdict, had cancelled similar appointments in the University of Kerala. Both the universities had followed the same legislation while notifying these posts. Court decision Vice-Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj informed Mr. Ahammed that the recruitment to the posts of Professor and Associate Professor would not be held until the court settled the matter. Appointment to the post of Assistant Professor in the Department of Life Sciences could not be held because there were no applicants eligible for the reservation posts there. The university would also publish the roster of reservation for the appointment to the post of Assistant Professor. A petition demanding this is pending before the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-goes-ahead-with-posting-of-asst-professors/article34591504.ece
19 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Collection suspended in Malabar||The Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) has suspended the evening collection of milk from societies in the Malabar region from Tuesday and restricted the daily collection to 60% of what it is now. The decision comes after reports that more than three lakhs litres of milk is excess in the Malabar region alone every day as a result of the lockdown. With fewer restaurants and commercial ventures functioning and the public unable to go out and purchase milk as usual, Milma is facing a crisis as never before. While the sale is minimal, there is considerable increase in the supply of milk, with more people venturing into dairy farming during the first lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collection-suspended-in-malabar/article34591528.ece
19 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Increased responsibility, says Saseendran||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader A.K.Saseendran says that his induction into the Cabinet in the second Pinarayi Vijayan government was a foregone conclusion. In the outgoing Cabinet, he handled the Transport portfolio. “This time, there will be a reshuffle of portfolios,” he said. He said he would take the initiative to complete several ongoing projects in the Elathur Assembly segment. “Also, I recognise the increased responsibilities during the second term,” Mr. Saseendran said. The 76-year-old leader won by a margin of 38,502 votes from Elathur, a semi-urban region with portions attached to the Kozhikode city. A native of Kannur district, Mr. Saseendran as Congress (S) candidate began his electoral innings by emerging victorious from Peringalam Assembly constituency in 1980. Previously, he had won from the Edakkad segment in 1982. But he lost from Kannur segment in 1987 and 1991. To put an end to intra-party feud, he was shifted to the Balussery segment from where he won in 2006. From 2011, he has been successfully contesting from Elathur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/increased-responsibility-says-saseendran/article34591507.ece
19 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||New cases, daily TPR go up marginally in Kozhikode||Fresh COVID-19 cases as well as daily test positivity rate (TPR) went up marginally again in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. As many as 2,474 newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and the daily TPR was 20.04%. According to the District Medical Officer, 12,867 samples were tested. The DMO said there were 2,417 cases of local transmission of the infection, of which 824 were in Kozhikode Corporation alone. The source of infection of 50 others is not known. Vadakara and Omassery reported 66 cases each, Feroke 62, Peruvayal 60, Chengottukavu 58, Kunnamangalam 57, and Ramanattukara 54. As many as 4,169 people recovered from the infection. The active caseload in the district is 36,646.  631 cases in Wayanad As many as 631 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Tuesday. There were 1,309 recoveries on the day. A total of 7,475 persons are undergoing treatment and 27,966 persons are under observation. The daily test positivity rate was 21.05%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-cases-daily-tpr-go-up-marginally-in-kozhikode/article34591509.ece
19 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Citizens’ forum appeals for free telecom, internet service||A citizens’ forum based in Kozhikode has requested the Prime Minister to take steps to ensure free telecom and internet services across the country for a fixed period of time until the pandemic situation subsides. Pouravakasha Samrakshana Samithi, in a letter to the Prime Minister’s official mail, said that the COVID-induced financial crisis had resulted in most people putting off recharging their phones and internet. As a result, they found it difficult to access the critical information passed on by the government on time and were unable to keep in touch with the authorities. This included those under COVID treatment, other critically ill patients, those in quarantine or observation, and those living in containment zones. Satheesh Parannur, chairman of the samithi, said in the letter that the Prime Minister could direct BSNL and the private telecom operators to provide free service for a certain period of time under the Essential Commodities Act. At a time when humankind was in such a crisis, it was the basic right of the citizens to be informed and for the authorities to reach out to them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/citizens-forum-appeals-for-free-telecom-internet-service/article34591511.ece
19 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Achievement for INL: Daverkovil||For Ahamed Daverkovil, general secretary of the Indian National League (INL), fortunes turned dramatically in 2021. He started the year as a first-time candidate to the Assembly, then he became an MLA, and now a Minister, the first from the INL. Hailing from Daverkovil, a village near Kuttiady in Kozhikode, he was into party politics from his school days. He was imprisoned for one of his articles during the Emergency, when he was still in school. Later, he shifted base to Thalassery in Kannur for studies. His part-time travel agency business during his college days flourished and Mr. Daverkovil shifted to Mumbai soon after his studies. Active in the political and social circles in Mumbai for a while, he was secretary of the Bombay Kerala Muslim Jamaath and the Maharashtra State Muslim League. He joined the INL when the party was formed in 1994. “This is a great achievement not just for me but for the party too. A result of our perseverance for the past 27 years being part of the Left Democratic Front,” Mr. Daverkovil told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/achievement-for-inl-daverkovil/article34591539.ece
19 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Bank-fraud accused in 14-day judicial custody||Vijeesh Varghese, the key accused in the Pathanamthitta bank-fraud case, was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Pathanamthitta, on Tuesday. The special investigation team probing the case has now moved a petition seeking his custody for 10 days. Earlier on the day, the investigators took him to the bank where he had defrauded customers, for collecting evidence. Online rummy Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused had invested the money in online rummy and in share markets. The accused, who was working in the Canara Bank, was arrested on Sunday night from a rented apartment in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-fraud-accused-in-14-day-judicial-custody/article34591869.ece
19 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Flood mitigation top priority: Raju||Thiruvananthapuram MLA-elect Antony Raju, who is set to join the Pinarayi Vijayan-led Cabinet, has set his sights on finding a lasting solution for the perennial problem of waterlogging in Thampanoor, East Fort and other parts of the city. The development of Thampanoor, a hub of connectivity in the State, also figured among his top priorities. Interacting with media persons at a meet-the-press organised by the Kesari Memorial Journalists’ Trust here on Tuesday, Mr. Raju dubbed the Operation Anantha flood mitigation drive a failure. “Despite incurring several crores of rupees, the project failed to realise its prime goal of preventing waterlogging in the capital city. Large sections across the State related Thiruvananthapuram city with images of flooding in Thampanoor during monsoon. The problem remained a blot on its image and will have to be addressed at the earliest,” he said. The Janadhipathya Kerala Congress leader also lamented the slow progress of projects being undertaken under the Smart City project. He intended to evaluate the progress of planned projects with the city Corporation and evolve a plan to ensure the completion of those pending. The Minister-designate also flagged the hardships caused due to sea erosion along the State’s coastal belt. Claiming science has done little to alleviate the woes of the local populace, he hoped to find a permanent solution for the problem. He said that the installation of geosythentic tubes along a 700-metre stretch in Poonthura will be undertaken without delay and replicated in other parts if found to be successful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-mitigation-top-priority-raju/article34591881.ece
19 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3,355 people test positive in capital||The district’s COVID-19 caseload rose by 3,355 on Tuesday when the active cases count stood at 26,739. The recovery rate remained high as 7,919 people tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 during the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate, which has shown signs of lessening during the last few days, stood at 24.3%. The death toll rose by 25 to touch 1,302. The deaths, which occurred between Mat 12 and 16, were of people who were aged between 85 and 47. The district has a case fatality ratio of 0.62. The district administration placed 4,472 people in quarantine, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 94,343. As many as 5,112 people were permitted to conclude quarantine on the day. A total of 531 cases were registered in the district for COVID-19 violations. These included 365 registered in Thiruvananthapuram city. As many as 107 people were arrested and 320 vehicles seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3355-people-test-positive-in-capital/article34591457.ece
19 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||31,337 new cases in State||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph registered a real dip in new COVID cases on Tuesday, registering 31,337 cases, when 1,34,553 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate also went below 25% for the first time in weeks to touch 23.29% The case graph has been showing a tendency to dip and stabilise, ever since it registered the highest single day spike on May 12, when 43,529 new cases were reported. Going by the case numbers and feedback from the field, it does look as though the case graph is stabilising and beginning to plateau in the State. However, the impact of COVID -19 pandemic on the State would not ease, unless hospitalisations and ICU occupancy goes down and the pressure on the health system eases. Even when the new case numbers went down and the active case pool dipped significantly, the number of COVID patients getting admitted to hospitals daily in the State has been increasing. On Tuesday, the new COVID-19 admissions in hospitals touched an all-time high of 5,225. If the number of COVID patients being treated in various hospitals in the State was 37,715 on Monday, it went up to 37,974 on Tuesday. ICU admissions also went up slightly and on Tuesday, the number of critically ill patients being treated in COVID ICUs was 3,862, with 1,474 requiring ventilator support. Fall in caseload The State’s active caseload, which dropped from from 4.4 lakh cases to 3,62,315 on Monday due to a record number of recoveries, went down further to 3,47,626, with 45,926 people declared to have recovered from the disease. The total number of recoveries till date is 18,46,105. At present, a total of 9,73,021 people have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Tuesday, the State added 97 new deaths to the official list of COVID deaths, taking the cumulative COVID fatalities in the State ever since the pandemic began to 6,612. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 22,00,706 cases. The active case pool has dipped drastically in many districts which used to have over 40-60,000 cases . The active case pool in Ernakulam which had 68,352 patients on Sunday, has dropped to 52,899 patients . Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 4,320, Ernakulam 3,517, Thiruvananthapuram 3,355, Kollam 3,323 Palakkad 3,105, Kozhikode 2,474, Alappuzha 2,353, Thrissur 2,312, Kottayam 1,855, Kannur 1,374, Pathanamthitta 1,149, Idukki 830, Kasaragod 739 and Wayanad 631.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/31337-new-cases-in-state/article34591554.ece
19 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Collector visits Inchivila check-post||Strict restrictions have been imposed on travel across the inter-State border in the wake of the COVID-19 situation, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Ms. Khosa on Tuesday visited the Inchivila check-post to review the restrictions in areas near the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. She said only people who got travel pass after registering on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal would be allowed to cross the border. Personnel from the police, Health, and Revenue Departments had been deployed here for conducting checks. The Collector visited South Kollangode, Poyapallivilakom, Paruthiyoor, and Pozhikkara beach areas which had seen destruction in the rain and sea fury. People whose houses were destroyed have been shifted to relief camps. The Collector interacted with the local people during the visit. The Collector visited the Regional Institute of Opthalmology near General Hospital and Chest Diseases Hospital at Pulayanarkotta to ensure more oxygen beds for COVID-19 treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-visits-inchivila-check-post/article34591455.ece
19 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala, Satheesan contenders to CLP leader post||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) met here on Tuesday to deliberate over who would assume the mantle of the next parliamentary party leader. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and V.D. Satheesan are the leading contenders for the post. Some quarters had dropped the name of Congress veteran Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan for the post. A party insider said the high command could always impose a dark horse from outside. A panel led by Mallikarjun Kharge, the Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, and AICC general secretary M. A. Vaidyalingam, met the legislators individually and recorded opinion on the matter. Mr. Kharge did not reveal the outcome of the CLP meeting. He said he would convey the opinions of the MLAs to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The “I” group headed by Mr. Chennithala dominated the CLP. It purportedly commanded the allegiance of an estimated 12 out of the 21 Congress legislators. The “A” group, which was arguably in the minority in the CLP, has not projected a solid contender for the post. Neither has Mr. Chennithala said he would step down. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy heads the group. It was unclear who his faction would back. Ahead of the CLP meeting, speculation was rife that Mr. Chennithala would make way for Mr. Satheeshan. Some pointed out that Mr. Chennithala also faced the pressure of precedence. Mr. Chandy had quit as CLP leader after the UDF lost the 2016 Assembly elections. However, the Congress high command had prodded him back into State politics in 2021 to lead the UDF’s Assembly campaign. The AICC had talked about a generational shift in the Congress in Kerala and about the need to imbue the party with fresh blood. A second term for Mr. Chennithala could signal the continuation of Mullappally Ramachandran as the KPCC president for now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-satheesan-contenders-to-clp-leader-post/article34591530.ece
19 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kasaragod, Wayanad go unrepresented in Cabinet||Kasaragod and Wayanad will go unrepresented in the new Left Democratic Front Ministry headed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan while Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, and Kozhikode will have three Ministers each. Kannur, which had four Ministers, including the Chief Minister, in the outgoing Ministry, will only have Mr. Vijayan (Dharmadom)and M.V. Govindan (Taliparamba), both of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), in the Ministry. Alappuzha which had four Ministers at a time in the outgoing Ministry will have only two Ministers - CPI(M)’s Saji Cherian, elected from Chengannur, and Communist Party of India’s P. Prasad, elected from Cherthala. Wayanad, Ernakulam, and Kottayam did not have representation in the outgoing Ministry. CPI(M)’s P. Rajeeve, elected from Kalamaserry, and V.N. Vasavan, from Ettumanur, will represent Ernakulam and Kottayam this time. Palakkad, which had two Ministers in the outgoing Ministry, had to be satisfied with one Minister — K. Krishnan Kutty elected on JD(S) ticket from Chittur. But, the solace is that the CPI(M)’s M.B. Rajesh, elected from Trithala, has been chosen for the post of Speaker. Minister-designates CPI(M)’s V. Sivankutty (Nemom), Antony Raju (JKC, Thiruvananthapuram) and CPI’s G.R. Anil (Nedumangad) are from the capital district. CPI(M)’s K. Radhakrishnan (Chelakara), R. Bindu (Irinjalakuda), and CPI’s K. Rajan (Ollur) are from Thrissur while the NCP’s A.K. Saseendran (Elathur), Ahamed Daverkovil (INL, Kozhikode South) and CPI(M)’s P.A. Muhammed Riyas (Beypore) are from Kozhikode. Malappuram, Idukki, and Pathanamthitta will have one Minister each and Kollam two in the new Ministry. CPI’s Deputy Speaker nominee Chittayam Gopakumar is from Adoor and Kerala Congress (M)’s N. Jayaraj, who is to be the Chief Whip with Cabinet rank, represents Kanjirapally in Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kasaragod-wayanad-go-unrepresented-in-cabinet/article34591547.ece
19 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,423 people in 21 relief camps||A total of 1,423 people belonging to 372 families are living in 21 relief camps opened in the district following heavy rain and sea fury in the district recently. One camp, at Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Neyyattinkara, was closed on Tuesday. Six more camps remain open in Neyyattinkara taluk in which 548 people from 149 families have been accommodated. Thirteen relief camps are open in Thiruvananthapuram taluk. As many as 805 people from 196 families have been put up in these camps. Two camps opened in Chirayinkeezhu taluk house 70 people from 27 families. The ban on fishing continues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1423-people-in-21-relief-camps/article34591454.ece
19 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation mulls steps to address flooding||City Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran on Tuesday chaired a meeting of various departments to discuss the steps to address flooding in the city. Officials of the Public Works Department, Irrigation Department, Kerala Water Authority, Kerala Road Fund Board, and the Smart City Mission, were present. The Corporation has listed the drains from which waste has to be removed. Instructions have been issued to departments. More discussions will be held on May 22. The drains under the PWD to be cleaned include ones along Kareems-Chala-Killipalam Road, Ramachandran Road-Vasudeva Vilasam Road, Karamana-Thaliyal Road, Palli Road, Maruthumkuzhi-Kanjirampara-Manjadimoodu Road, Ilippodu-Vettamukk Road, DPI-Jagathy junction, Jagathy junction-Jagathy School, Krishnavilasam-Kottiyoorkonam, Jagathy-Mudippura Road, in front of Vijayalekshmi Shopping Mall in Attakulagara, and YMR-Charachira-Plamoodu Road. The Kerala Road Fund Board will clean the drain from West Fort to West Nada. The Irrigation Department will clean the drain opposite the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology. The drains under the Minor Irrigation department include those along RC Colony-Police quarters, behind Govt. Mental Hospital Peroorkada, near Peroor Sreekrishnaswami Temple, Ananthapuri Hospital-Eenchakkal, Sreevaraham-Kothalam-Parvathy Puthanar, Pazhavangadi Ganapathi Temple -Uppidamoodu Bridge, behind Sree Padmanabha theatre, and Karimadam Pond-Govt. Central High School Attakulangara. The Major Irrigation department will clean the Amayizhanjan canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-mulls-steps-to-address-flooding/article34591459.ece
19 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Senior IAS officer dies of COVID||Kerala cadre senior IAS officer who was on deputation as Union Additional Secretary in the Department of Food and Public Distribution, E. K. Majhi died due to COVID in New Delhi on Tuesday. The end came while he was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Gaziabad. A 1989 batch officer, Mr. Majhi had another two-and a half-year of service. A native of Assam, Mr. Majhi started his official career as Alappuzha Sub-Collector. He had served as District Collector, Thiruvananthapuram. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan have condoled his untimely demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-ias-officer-dies-of-covid/article34591529.ece
19 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI too nominates four new faces||The Communist Party of India (CPI) State executive has nominated J. Chinchu Rani, P. Prasad, K. Rajan and G.R. Anil as the party’s nominees in the next LDF government. Chittayam Gopakumar will the Deputy Speaker. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran presided over the close-door discussions. The CPI has towed the CPI(M) line by proposing a new set of leaders for Cabinet posts. Mr. Rajendran later reported the executive’s decision to the party's state council. NCP nominee National general secretary of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Praful Patel, nominated the outgoing Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran as the party’s ministerial candidate. An NCP leader said Mr. Saseendran would serve the full term. The party would seek accommodation for its Kuttanad legislator, Thomas. K. Thomas, in a board or corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-too-nominates-four-new-faces/article34591538.ece
19 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU to hold polls||Kerala University has decided to hold elections for student representatives from the Senate to the Syndicate and KAU general council on May 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-to-hold-polls/article34591453.ece
19 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. sanitises KSRTC bus stand||The city Corporation’s health wing carried out disinfection activities at the KSRTC bus stand at Thampanoor on Tuesday. Mayor Arya Rajendran said that the civic body would carry out disinfection in public spaces across the city. The Corporation opened one more community kitchen on Tuesday. The geo-tagging of COVID-19 positive patients within the city is progressing. Those interested in taking up the position need to be present in the Corporation main office with all the required documents at 11 a.m on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-sanitises-ksrtc-bus-stand/article34591458.ece
19 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PC Thomas complains against CM and LDF leaders||Kerala Congress leader P.C. Thomas has submitted a complaint to the Cantonment Police against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and 21 other senior leaders of Left Democratic Front (LDF) for congregating in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. In his complaint, the former MP said the gathering at the AKG Centre on May 17 to celebrate the LDF’s victory at the Assembly polls was held in contravention of the triple lockdown norms imposed in Thiruvananthapuram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pc-thomas-complains-against-cm-and-ldf-leaders/article34591550.ece
19 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||2,312 more test positive in Thrissur||There were 2,312 fresh cases in Thrissur district on Tuesday while 4,898 patients recovered from the pandemic. The test positivity rate was 23.88%. Only one grama panchayat in the district had the TPR higher than 50% on Tuesday. Chovvannur panchayat recorded a TPR of 51.05%. Active cases in the district are 38,614 and 81 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far 2,09,284 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 1,70,510 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 2,294 people, including 10 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Tuesday. Of them, 386 were above the age of 60 and 171 children were below 10. In all, 31,229 people were under homecare. As many as 9.681 samples were taken for the test on Tuesday. Meanwhile, safety audit teams were formed in the district to review the safety arrangements in private/government hospitals as part of COVID preventive measures. Thrissur Collector S. Shanavas said that oxygen availability would be ensured for the bed-ridden patients in houses and old age homes in the district. ASHA workers, community health nurses and palliative staff nurses have been asked to collect details about people, who use oxygen cylinders or other breathing support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2312-more-test-positive-in-thrissur/article34591515.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Thrissur gets three Ministers for second consecutive term||For the second consecutive term, Thrissur district has got three Ministers. Former Speaker and CPI(M) Central Committee member K. Radhakrishnan; Thrissur Corporation’s former Mayor and Mahila Association leader R. Bindu; and CPI State executive member and incumbent Chief Whip K. Rajan are the three ministers from the district in the second Pinarayi Vijayan government. In the 2016 government, the district had the chief whip position in addition to three ministers – Prof. C. Raveendranth (Education), V.S. Sunil Kumar (Agriculture) and A.C. Moideen (Local Self Government). Mr. Moideen also handled Co-operation and Industry for some time. Simplicity and experience are the key qualities of K. Radhakrishnan, who was also Speaker from 2006 to 2011. Ollur, which never elected a MLA twice consecutively, rewrote history by standing firm with K. Rajan for the second time. R. Bindu, who was the first woman Mayor of the Thrissur Corporation, is the first woman minister from the district. She was the Principal of the Sree Kerala Varma College. This time, six of alumni from the Kerala Varma College were in the election fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-gets-three-ministers-for-second-consecutive-term/article34591517.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Grounded by the weather||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/grounded-by-the-weather/article34591843.ece
19 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-driven demand pushes up sweet lime prices||With the word spreading that vitamin C, zinc and proteins are required to build and maintain the immunity, people are scrambling to the markets to buy citrus fruits, which in turn, is driving up the prices. Sweet lime(Mosambi), for one, has seen a ten-fold rise in its price leaving the growers in Anantapur a happier lot. While during the lockdown last year, a tonne fetched just Rs. 4,000 forcing many farmers to stop growing the crop, this year the same quantity is commanding Rs. 70,000 to Rs. 1.10 lakh depending on the size and quality. D. Ramudu, a farmer from Mukundapuram in Garladinne mandal who got five tonnes in each of three acres in the first crop(from February-end to June), has got his produce sent to Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh where the demand is high. The demand is rising in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and other northern and western States where the virus spread is more rampant. A trader has hired a lorry, paying Rs. 1 lakh freight charges, and loaded it with fruits partially from Ramudu’s farm and the rest from the Agriculture Marketyard in Anantapur. Ramudu remembers how he was disappointed to find no takers for the produce last year. He could not sell more than 10 out of 21 tonnes at an average of Rs. 6,000 per tonne. Anantapur Assistant Director of Horticulture Gatti Satish Kumar told The Hindu that sweet lime was grown in 53,000 hectares in the district. The sandy red and black soils found here were conducive for the crop to grow as it needs soil where water stagnation is not there. The demand in Anantapur is high also because the crop failed in Nalgonda, Mahboobnagar, Kadapa and Prakasam districts due to heavy rains in the late monsoon affecting the flowering of the current season, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-driven-demand-pushes-up-sweet-lime-prices/article34591902.ece
19 May 2021||AVANIGADDA (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID Care Centre sought in five islands in Diviseema||Former Deputy Speaker Mandali Buddha Prasad has appealed to the State government to provide healthcare services round-the-clock to the five islands in the Krishna River and Bay of Bengal in Diviseema region. At least 25 coronavirus cases and one death have been reported so far from the five islands—Nachugunta, Eelachetladibba, Edurumondi, Brahamayyagarimoola, and Yesupuram. By Tuesday, the East Godavari authorities were yet to complete the fever survey to ascertain the exact number of COVID-19 cases . “Nearly 4,500 to 5,000 people, mostly fishermen, are living in these islands. The government should consider the geographical challenges and transportation woes there during health emergency. The PHC at Edurumondi should be converted into the round-the-clock COVID Care Centre r̥,” Mr. Buddha Prasad said. The residents cannot go for home isolation, given the design and size of their houses, he pointed out. The former Deputy Speaker said he had alerted the government on the need of considering the islands as a separate block to implement the COVID action plan in early May. “The situation is alarming now and it warrants for round-the-clock healthcare services. People here use punts to cross the Krishna and it is difficult to do that during health emergency ,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-care-centre-sought-in-five-islands-in-diviseema/article34591253.ece
19 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elephant herd moves close to mango orchards||Panic gripped a dozen villages in Bangarupalem and Tavanampalle mandals on Tuesday, after a 14-member herd from the Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary moved close to the mango orchards at Thodathara hamlet, 30 km from here. According to information, the herd is camping atop of a hillock surrounded by mango orchards. Though the forest officials from Palamaner and Chittoor West ranges have been making efforts to drive the herd back into the wildlife sanctuary, it was of no avail since Tuesday morning. It is suspected that the herd is lured by the standing crop of mangoes in the region. After deploying the forest watchers to track the movement of the herd and prevent it from raiding the orchards, the officials urged the farmers to abandon night vigils. According to preliminary information, the elephant herd is on the move towards the hills of Somala. During the last one year, the terrain between Bangarupalem and Somala is being frequented by the jumbos, after they strayed from the Koundinya sanctuary. After a gap of six months, the herd is said to have returned to the corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elephant-herd-moves-close-to-mango-orchards/article34591249.ece
19 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 50 lakh worth liquor seized, six arrested||The Chittoor police on Tuesday arrested six persons and seized liquor bottles worth Rs. 50 lakh, a mini-lorry, an SUV and two motorcycles, at Gajulapalle village of Tavanampalle mandal, 30 km from here. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar told the media that acting on a tip-off that a gang was on its way to Tirupati carrying liquor bottles from Karnataka, a special team was formed with Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy to intercept the vehicles and arrest the accused. In order to evade police checks, the gang reportedly chose the rural road through Tavanampalle mandal. Around 6 a.m., the police spotted four youth on two motorcycles acting as a pilot for a mini-lorry and an SUV, which were carrying the liquor bottles. On seeing the police personnel, six accused, including those working as pilots, abandoned the vehicles and tried to flee, but were overpowered. The seized goods were shifted to the District Police Office at Chittoor. A case has been registered, and the accused were sent for remand. Of the accused, all in the age group of of 25 to 40 years, two were from Vellore district of Tamil Nadu, and four from Chittoor district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-50-lakh-worth-liquor-seized-six-arrested/article34591905.ece
19 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness drive launched on COVID protocols||The COVID-19 Task Force officials on Tuesday launched an awareness campaign in forest-fringe villages in Bangarupalem mandal to stress the importance of COVID protocols to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Rural Organization for Poverty Eradication Services (ROPES), with the support of a Canadian NGO Children Believe, would oversee the campaign in the mandal, which reported over one thousand COVID cases and 25 casualties during the second wave of the pandemic. A large number of families from the villages work as migrant workers in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Due to the clamping of lockdown there, several families had to return home. But instead of getting tested for COVID-19 after the onset of symptoms, several of them have reportedly been dodging the protocols that has led to an alarming spread in cases and casualties in the last one month. Pamphlets to be distributed The Bangarupalem police said two vehicles, fitted with the public address system, would distribute pamphlets to create awareness among the people in the villages. “Several people in the rural side continue to ignore the guidelines, and are getting exposed to the infection. The campaign will urge symptomatic persons to immediately contact the task force field staff for tests,” said a police officer. The focus would also be on dispelling apprehensions among residents on vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-drive-launched-on-covid-protocols/article34591904.ece
19 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Timely help to fishermen during fishing ban: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the ‘YSR Matsyakara Bharosa’ scheme is aimed at providing succour to the families of fishermen during the annual fishing ban. On Tuesday, the Chief Minister credited Rs. 119.88 crore directly into the bank accounts of 1.19 lakh fishermen (at the rate of Rs. 10,000 each). “The amount will be of help to the families of fishermen dependent on the sea. On the one hand, COVID-19 has made life miserable and, on the other, the ban is making survival difficult for them. I am happy as the coverage is now extended to more fishermen. So far, we have credited Rs. 332 crore into the accounts of the beneficiaries,” he said. Stating that every welfare scheme was designed to bring smiles on the faces of women, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said schemes such as ‘Amma Vodi’, ‘Goru Mudda’, ‘Rythu Bharosa’, ‘Cheyutha’, and pensions were rolled out to empower women. Subsidy on fuel The previous government was reluctant to give fishermen a mere Rs. 4,000 and extend a subsidy of Rs. 6 per litre on diesel, he said. “Now, the government is giving a subsidy of Rs. 9 per litre and the scheme covers 26,823 boats and 100 fuel stations. The government has provided smart cards to transfer the subsidy to the fuel station owners by spending another Rs. 48 crore,” he added. “The government is also paying ex gratia to the kin of those who die during fishing. An amount of Rs. 6.7 crore has been disbursed to 67 fishermen families,” the Chief Minister said. For aqua farmers The government was supplying power at a subsidised rate of Rs. 1.50 per unit for the benefit of 53,550 aqua farmers, he said, and added that it entailed an expenditure of Rs. 780 crore. “The government has also set up 35 integrated aqua labs at a cost of Rs. 50.30 crore with the aim of providing the aqua farmers all assistance, from seed to feed. We are integrating the labs with the Rythu Bharosa Kendras,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. To provide sustainable livelihood to the fishermen, he said the government had begun commissioning eight fishing harbours. In the first phase, fishing harbours would be set up at Nizampatnam (Guntur), Machilipatnam (Krishna), Uppada (Godavari), and Juvvaladinna (Nellore) at a cost of Rs. 1,509.8 crore. In the second phase, the harbours would come up at Budugatlapalem (Srikakulam), Pudimadaka (Visakhapatnam), Biyyaputippa (West Godavari), and Kothapatnam (Prakasam). “These fishing harbours will be game changers and ensure sustainable livelihood for the fishermen,” he said. The government was also keen on setting 100 aqua hubs with retail shops enabling fishermen to sell directly their produce, he said. A fisheries university would be set up in West Godavari district, he added. Further, an amount of Rs. 75 crore was paid to 14,927 families in Mummadivaram constituency in East Godavari district as they lost their livelihood due to digging by the ONGC. Minister for Fisheries S. Appala Raju spoke. MP M. Venkata Ramana Rao, Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah, and Adviser Ambati Krishna Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/timely-help-during-annual-fishing-ban-jagan/article34591193.ece
19 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP breached all barriers of decency, says Sajjala||YSRCP MP from Narsapuram K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju has been indulging an anti-party activities for the last 14 months, and his utterances are meant to create disaffection against the State government, alleges Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (Public Affairs). The party had already given a representation to the Speaker of the Lok Sabha to disqualify the MP, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy told the media here on Tuesday. Mr. Raju had breached all barriers of decency in public affairs and his conduct in recent months attracted public ire, he added. “It is unfortunate that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu is crying foul against the State for acting against Mr. Raju. The TDP chief had used IPC Section 124 brazenly when he was the Chief Minister. In fact, he had used the sedition charges to settle political scores against the Telangana Chief Minister and a group of advocates in Guntur,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Stating that law would take its own course, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the investigation was under the direction of the CID. The medical board was constituted by the High Court and its findings were conclusive proof that Mr. Raju was not subjected to any custodial torture, he said. Mr. Naidu was crying hoarse about the police action, fearing that the investigation would expose his role in the criminal conspiracy to destabilise the YSRCP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-breached-all-barriers-of-decency-says-sajjala/article34591916.ece
19 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur Mayor lashes out at Kanna||Guntur Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu lashed out at former BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana saying that the latter should not criticise the decision to create COVID isolation facilities at 16 major temples across the States as the decision was taken to save lives of the personnel of Endowments Department. Mr. Manohar Naidu said that Mr. Lakshminarayana had not raised his voice when the previous Telegu Desam Party government had decimated 40 temples on the banks of the Krishna River in 2016. Mr. Lakshminarayana also did not criticise then Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu as the BJP was a part of the then State government, Mr. Manohar Naidu said. “What is wrong in creating isolation facilities on the premises of temples during the pandemic?” questioned the Mayor at a press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-mayor-lashes-out-at-kanna/article34591250.ece
19 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana extends lockdown till May 30||Telangana, which recorded a relatively low test positivity rate (TPR) of 5.56% on Tuesday, decided to extend the State lockdown till May 30. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao interacted with his Cabinet over phone before taking the decision. The lockdown with a four-hour open window – 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. – was imposed on May 12. Telangana’s TPR of 5.56% came from 3,982 new cases. There were 27 deaths and recovery of 5,186 infected persons. With the steady decrease in fresh cases and increase in recoveries, the recovery rate had improved to 90.47% against 85.6% at national level. On Tuesday, 71,616 samples were tested. Karnataka on Tuesday reported 525 deaths and a record 58,395 recoveries. Meanwhile, there were 30,309 new cases, 8,676 cases in Bengaluru Urban. Testing reduced considerably over the last two days to less than a lakh from the average of 1.25 lakh daily. It was 93,247 tests done for Tuesday. Karnataka, which had slowed its vaccination drive due to a vaccine shortage, on Tuesday received two lakh doses of Covishield. Kerala’s cases registered a real dip on Tuesday at 31,337 cases, from 1,34,553 samples. The TPR was below 25% for the first time in weeks, at 23.29%. New case numbers went down and active cases dropped, but patients admitted to hospitals were increasing, touching an all-time high of 5,225. COVID patients being treated in hospitals rose from 37,715 on Monday to 37,974. The State’s active cases dropped from 3,62,315 on Monday to 3,47,626, with 45,926 recovering. There were 9,73,021 people on home or institutional isolation. On Tuesday, the State added 97 more deaths. Thiruvananthapuram reported 25 deaths, Thrissur 19, Ernakulam 16, Kozhikode 15, Pathanamthitta 11, Malappuram six and Kottayam two, while one death each was reported from Wayanad, Idukki and Alappuzha. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 22,00,706 cases. Active cases in Ernakulam dropped to 52,899, from 68,352 on Sunday. In Thiruvananthapuram they fell from 45,093 on Sunday to 26,739 on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu continued to report a little over 33,000 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. However, the number of deaths continued to rise with another 364 persons succumbing to the infection . A total of 33,059 persons tested positive in the State, taking the overall tally to 16,64,350. The State’s daily count remained around 33,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day. In Chennai, where fresh infections have been gradually declining in the last few days, 6,016 persons tested positive. The new cases took the city’s overall tally to 4,50,267. The State’s COVID-19 toll rose to 18,369. Of the 364 deaths — 172 in private and 192 in government — Chennai reported 85 deaths.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-extends-lockdown-till-may-30/article34591208.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raghu Ramakrishna Raju undergoes medical exam||YSRCP MP from Narsapuram K. Raghu Ramakishna Raju, who was arrested by the AP CID and later shifted to Military Hospital, Secunderabad, underwent medical examination under the supervision of a three-member team of Army doctors and a judicial officer appointed by the High Court of Telangana, on Tuesday. A defence press release said: “In pursuance of Supreme Court order Mr. Raju was brought to Military Hospital, Secunderabad, on night of May 17, 2021 and was admitted after procedural formalities. The medical examination was conducted by medical board of three doctors of Military Hospital, Secunderabad, in presence of Judicial Officer nominated by Chief Justice of Telangana High Court during night of May 17, 2021, under videography.” Presently, Mr. Raju is under medical care at the Military Hospital in judicial custody till further orders by Supreme Court. COVID protocol All activities were being undertaken under strict COVID medical protocols. The High Court of Telangana had deputed Mr. Nagarjuna as the judicial officer to oversee the medical examination. Earlier, in the day, tight security blanket was kept around the road leading to the hospital. Personnel drafted from the Corps of Military Police and regular Army regulated movement of vehicles into the hospital. A team of television journalists stationed outside the hospital continued to beam live proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raghu-ramakrishna-raju-undergoes-medical-exam/article34591918.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS receiving Black Fungus cases from other States||Hordes of COVID-19 patients from neighbouring States have been arriving in Telangana for treatment. Now, those suffering from Black Fungus are also travelling all the way from other States and knocking on the doors of the government hospitals here. Authorities in Hyderabad have come across at least two such cases so far. ‘Find options near home’ However, senior officials of the Health department have urged Mucormycosis (Black Fungus) patients and their families to explore the options of treatment at a medical college close to them rather than thronging a health facility in Hyderabad. “Severe Black Fungus cases need surgical interventions and medicines. The surgical services are offered by ENT units in any medical college. And there is shortage of anti-fungal drugs everywhere. We advise the patients and their families to approach the nearest medical college rather than coming to a single hospital, overcrowding and wait in queue for treatment,” a senior official said, adding that at least two patients from Karnataka districts which share a border with Telangana have arrived here. Nodal centre In Hyderabad, the 200-bed Government ENT Hospital at Koti was declared as the nodal centre for treatment of the fungal infection. Only those who are COVID-negative can be admitted. Mucomycosis patients who are COVID positive or in need of multidisciplinary treatment, such as pulmonary involvement, will be admitted at Gandhi Hospital in Musheerabad. The senior official added that the government medical colleges in Telangana have also been directed to attend Black Fungus cases and not to refer all the patients to government hospitals in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-receiving-black-fungus-cases-from-other-states/article34591807.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayushman Bharat: TS signs MoU with NHA||The State Health department has signed a memorandum of understanding with the National Health Authority (NHA) for the implementation of Ayushman Bharat (Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana) scheme in the State. The chief executive officer of the National Health Authority has accordingly directed his counterpart of the Arogyasri Trust to ensure treatment of patients in empanelled hospitals across the State as per the converged scheme of Ayushman Bharat – Arogyasri with immediate effect. The directions followed the guidelines prepared by the State government for implementation of the Central scheme in the State. The development comes as relief to the poor who are made to spend exorbitant amounts for availing of treatment for COVID-19 at corporate hospitals. The NHA announced last month that testing and treatment for COVID-19 was made available free of cost for Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries at private laboratories and empanelled hospitals. With convergence of Ayushman Bharat and Arogyasri, the State government could now ensure treatment of COVID-19 patients through the joint initiative. After initial reluctance over the scope of coverage under Ayushman Bharat scheme, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao decided to join the Central scheme subsequently. He directed the officials concerned to ensure extending medical services in line with the guidelines drafted for the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-signs-mou-with-nha-for-implementing-ayushman-bharat/article34591802.ece
19 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five arrested on charges of murdering woman||Five persons of a family were arrested on Tuesday in connection with the murder of a 45-year-old woman while she was travelling on a two-wheeler in Amalapuram of East Godavari district on May 14. The accused have been identified as Mangam Naveen, M. Balayoji, M. Vijay, Ch. Srinu and Mangam Manga of Samanasa village in Amalapuram Rural mandal. Amalapuram DSP Y. Madhava Reddy said a dispute over an approach lane to their houses was suspected to be the reason for the murder, in which the group of five accused hacked 45-year-old Kondru Durga, to death, when she was going on a two-wheeler with her son, Kondru Ramesh, 22, who escaped with injuries. The families of the victim have been allegedly fighting over the approach lane between their two houses for over two years. A case has been registered against the accused and they were produced before the court on Tuesday. The health condition of Kondru Ramesh is stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-arrested-on-charges-of-murdering-woman/article34591251.ece
19 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘86% police personnel vaccinated in E. Godavari’||East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said 86% of the police personnel in the district had been given two does of COVID vaccine. Of the 4,157 personnel, 85% received the second dose by Tuesday . Till date, 1,408 personnel including 313 in the second wave had been infected with COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/86-police-personnel-vaccinated-in-e-godavari/article34591255.ece
19 May 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court moved against physical swearing-in||A public interest petition was filed before the Kerala High Court on Tuesday against the physical swearing-in ceremony of the Left Democratic government led by Pinarayi Vijayan with the participation of 500 people at the Central Stadium in Thiruvananthapuram, in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. In its petition, Chikitsaneethi, an organisation based in Thrissur, claiming to work for protecting the health rights of citizens, sought to prohibit the physical swearing-in ceremony on May 20. The organisation said the ceremony involving a large number of people was going to be held in a district where triple lockdown had been declared by the disaster management authority. In fact, one of the reasons for the spread of COVID-19 was the uncontrolled gatherings during the Assembly elections. The swearing-in ceremony was only a constitutional process for taking charge of office. There was no legal obligation to conduct the ceremony with the participation of relatives and party men, the petitioner pointed out. Meanwhile, a High Court lawyer Anil Thomas has written a letter to the Kerala High Court Chief Justice seeking the court’s suo motu intervention in the decision to conduct the swearing-in-ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-moved-against-physical-swearing-in/article34591196.ece
19 May 2021||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kolar policewoman succumbs to COVID-19||Probationary sub-inspector Shamili, 24, who had joined the Dakshina Kannada police unit on January 11, succumbed to COVID-19 in Kolar on Tuesday, said Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police, Rishikesh Sonawane in a press release. Shamili, a native of Kolar, was seven months pregnant and couldn’t, therefore, take the COVID-19 vaccine. She had taken leave and was in her native place. After contracting the infection, Shamili was admitted to the R.M.Jalappa Hospital on May 2. She died at 4.30 a.m. Kolar Superintendent of Police Karthik Reddy took care of her treatment, Mr. Sonawane said. In his condolence message posted on twitter, Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood said Shamili was the youngest member of police family in the State to succumb to COVID-19. “May her soul rest in peace. But it may be any of us. Please cooperate with police, stay home and stay safe,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kolar-policewoman-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34591198.ece
19 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases cross 39,000-mark in South Coastal Andhra||At least 14 more patients succumbed to the viral infection in a span of 24 hours in South Coastal Andhra. However, there was some respite as fresh cases came down to 2,036 in the region on Tuesday. The toll rose to 1,443 in the region with nine patients in Prakasam district and five in SPSR Nellore district dying due to COVID-19. A person with black fungus infection from Prakasam district was among those deceased. He died while undergoing treatment in a private hospital near Vijayawada. The coronavirus case tally inched closer to the two lakh-mark as 1,251 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 785 in Prakasam tested positive for the disease, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Over 1,600 patients, including 1,145 in SPSR Nellore, posted recovery. Active cases continued to be high at 39,290 with SPSR Nellore district accounting for 18,745 cases and Prakasam district for 20,545.  Situation reviewed In Nellore, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, who is also in-charge of SPSR Nellore, reviewed the health situation along with Ministers M. Goutham Reddy and P. Anil Kumar Yadav. Giving details about the measures taken to address the oxygen shortage, Mr. Goutham Reddy said four oxygen plants with 400 tonnes production capacity would come into operation shortly. YSR Congress MLAs K. Sanjeeviah, V. Varaprasad Rao and Ramireddy Pratap Kumar Reddy highlighted the patients’ suffering due to inadequate oxygen beds and shortage of health professionals in the public health centres in their constituencies. “Patients in Sullurpeta are scrambling to find beds in Tirupati and Nellore and some of them die before they could get one,” lamented Mr. Sanjaiah, the ruling party MLA from Sullurpeta. The hospitals in Kavali lacked health professionals to monitor patients requiring oxygen therapy, complained the legislator, Mr. Pratap kumar Reddy. Two of the three urban PHCs in his Gudur Assembly constituency had inadequate health professionals, added the MLA from Gudur Varaprasada Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-cross-39000-mark-in-south-coastal-andhra/article34591908.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea against Kerala swearing-in event||An activist has filed a petition in the Supreme Court accusing the Kerala government of “flouting” COVID-19 norms by organising the swearing-in ceremony of the newly-elected LDF government under Pinarayi Vijayan on May 20 before a gathering of over 500 invitees in Thiruvananthapuram, which is already under “triple lockdown”. “The government of Kerala, which on one end is enforcing lockdowns and forcing common public to confine themselves to the four walls of their homes, give up their livelihood and other pleasures, is on the other hand spending huge amounts from the State Exchequer for organising a super-spreader public event to show its strength and celebrate its victory in the recently held election,” the petition filed by activist K.M. Shajahan, represented by advocate Usha Nandini V., said. ‘Clear abuse of power’ The swearing-in ceremony would be a case of the fence itself eating the crops. The “reckless act” was a “clear abuse of power”, the petition said. Politicians in power themselves scorned lockdown norms while appealing to the public to observe COVID-19 protocols. It was a case of creating two classes of citizens, it stated. Mr. Shajahan asked the apex court to issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) for COVID-19 that bans more than 50 persons from attending public gatherings of any hue. “The State of Kerala conducting an oath ceremony in the Central Stadium with more than 750 people when people are falling dead in every nook and corner due to the surge in the COVID-19 cases is unfair,” the petition claimed. It urged the court to direct the government to conduct the oath ceremony on a virtual platform or have the formalities completed at the Raj Bhavan before a limited audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-against-kerala-swearing-in-event/article34591205.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Channels move pleas in SC against A.P. govt.||Two Telugu channels on Tuesday accused the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy-led Andhra government of attempting to ‘silence’ the media and critics on the State’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis. TV5, represented by advocate Vipin Nair, and ABN Andhrajyothi said the State has accused them of sedition for reporting news about the pandemic in an “unbiased manner”. “Merely because the content of the news reported in an unbiased manner is critical of a government or not to its liking, it cannot be said the news outlet has committed an act of sedition or inciting hatred. To do so would be directly contrary to the freedom of Press,” ABN, represented by Guntur Pramod Kumar, said in its petition. ‘Vague’ FIR TV5 said the ‘vague’ FIR has a chilling effect on free speech in the media. “The attempt of the FIR is to create a chilling effect for news channels in the State, so that every news channel is wary of hosting any content which is critical of the government. By filing a vague FIR and abusing the process of law, the State intends to silence its critics and the media,” TV5 said. Both channels have urged the Supreme Court to initiate contempt proceedings against the senior officials of the Andhra government for violating an April 30 order of the Supreme Court to “immediately cease any direct and indirect threats of prosecution and arrest to citizens, who air their grievances”. Here the Andhra government has “gone one step ahead” to penalise the media, the channels said. The FIR, registered by the Andhra CID, alleges that a conspiracy is afoot against the State government. TV5 said it had aired critical remarks made by ruling YSRC party MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju about the State’s handling of the COVID crisis. This has irked the State government. Mr. Raju himself is in custody for sedition and has already approached the apex court for bail. “The State government is hell-bent to suppress the right to freedom of speech by obstructing the media coverage on the management of COVID-19. While the State is witnessing record number of cases, the focus of the government is to mask the reality and spread false propaganda,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/channels-move-pleas-in-sc-against-ap-govt/article34591203.ece
19 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Munna Bhai, 16 aides found guilty of dacoity and murder||Dreaded gangster Md. Abdul Samad alias Munna Bhai and 16 of his accomplices were pronounced guilty of dacoity and murder on the Chennai-Kolkata highway in three cases, by a Prakasam district court on Tuesday. They were also found guilty in the fourth case relating to possession of 9 mm carbine machine gun under the Indian Arms Act by VIII Additional District and Sessions Judge cum Family Court Judge G. Manohar Reddy. The Judge adjourned the cases to May 20 for announcing the quantum of sentence. The judge upheld the submission of Public Prosecutor S. Sivaramakrishna Prasad that the accused had murdered six truck drivers and cleaners Ramar Shekar and Perumal Subramanium from Tamil Nadu, G.Syambabu and G.Vinod Kumar from Andhra Pradesh and Bhushan yadav and Chandan Kumar Mehatho from Bihar and made away with iron rod loads on the Chennai-Kolkota highway in Prakasam disrict and disposed them of to scrap dealers in the year 2008. Munna Bhai and his accomplices Sk Riyas, Syed Hidayuthulla, Md.Jamaluddin, Batala Salamon, Y. Chinna Veeraswamy, G Bhanu Prakash, Rachamala Sampath, G. Sreedhar, Sk. Hafeez, A Gangadhar Rao, Sk.Kamal Saheb, Sk.Rahamuthulla, Sk. Dada Peer, Sk Irfan and Sk Rafi were charged under various IPC Sections and 25 (2)(1) of Indian Arms Act. Protracted investigation by police officer T. Shankar Reddy and including head constables Y.Srinivasa Rao alias Vasu and Srinivasa Rao led to breakthrough in the cases. Three other murder for gain cases are under different stages of trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/munna-bhai-16-aides-found-guilty-of-dacoity-and-murder/article34591906.ece
19 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Matsyakara Bharosa to benefit 16,630 fishermen||The YSR Matsyakara Bharosa scheme was launched in the district on Tuesday and it would benefit 16,630 fishermen as their families would get a financial assistance of Rs. 10, 000 each. As part of the scheme, the government has been extending the financial assistance to the fishermen for the annual ban on fishing by mechanised boats from April 15 to June 14. The annual fishing ban and the restriction imposed second wave of coronavirus pandemic have deteriorated the financial resources of fishermen. “The scheme is a blessing for the fishermen living in 11 coastal mandals. The previous TDP government used to give only Rs. 4, 000, but it was enhanced to Rs. 10, 000 by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” said Etcherla MLA Gorle Kirankumar. District Fishermen Association leader Chintapalli Suryanarayana hailed the government’s initiative at a time when fishermen were enduring financial crisis. “ With the non-linkage of Aadhaar cards with the bank accounts, some fishermen could not get the benefits. The officials should ensure that every eligible beneficiary gets the benefits without delay,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/matsyakara-bharosa-to-benefit-16630-fishermen/article34591257.ece
19 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Control rooms set up in COVID hospitals||The district administration has set up control rooms both in government and private COVID-19 designated hospitals to provide information about the patients to their family members and relatives. Joint Collector Sumith Kumar said family members would get information from the in-charges of the control rooms. He said the control rooms in the 20 hospitals would enable the families of the patients to get accurate information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/control-rooms-set-up-in-covid-hospitals/article34591256.ece
19 May 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lack of info on condition of COVID patients worries kin||Once a patient is admitted to a hospital in the intensive care unit (ICU) with COVID complications, the relatives can only pray for his or her recovery, as there is no information flowing out of the wards and the relatives outside spend tense moments. This has been the concern of many, who have admitted someone close to their to a hospital. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior citizen, who recently lost his wife, said, “With great difficulty and pulling a lot of strings, I could admit my wife into a corporate hospital. She was there for about four to five days, and I did not receive any communication on how she was doing. The only communication that I received was on the fifth day, when they told me that she had died. I did not even know, whether the food that I would send was fed to her or not.” Same is the case with an employee from the oil sector. “I had bought four Remdesivir injections for my father who was admitted to a private hospital, for Rs. 35,000 each vial, as the hospital said that it did not have the injections in stock, despite being a COVID notified hospital. It was not communicated to me whether the injections were administered or not and neither it was mentioned in the bills,” he said. Out for fear, many are afraid to take up the matter with the district authorities, but they say that the authorities concerned should ask every hospital to set up an information counter, so that the family members can know about the condition of the patient. “We cannot go into the ward, as it is restricted area and neither can the patients come out, which is not advisable, but at least there must be some flow of information,” said Srinivasa Rao, a software professional, who faced a similar issue. Many feel that some of the private hospitals, are fleecing the patients without even administering the injections such as Remdesivir or Tocilizumab or Bevacizumab, for which exorbitant rates are being charged. “The patient is unaware what medicine is being administered and we who are present outside can only believe the hospital version, as in most cases, the medication is not mentioned in the curtailed bills. The bill that are given to us are only as per the government norms, but what is charged from us is completely different,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. The government hospitals are transparent, but it is difficult to get a bed in the government hospitals, as there are a few only. “Some of the private hospitals are also doing business transparently, but not all of them and we have been receiving complaints and we are looking into it,” said an official from the Department of Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lack-of-info-on-condition-of-covid-patients-worries-kin/article34591934.ece
19 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Asiatic lion, tiger die in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram lost two of its big cats within a span of a few hours late Monday. The animals, a 12-year old Asiatic lion and 17-year-old tiger, died at the Neyyar Lion Safari Park and the Thiruvananthapuram Zoo respectively. The tiger, Kiran, was reported to have died around 10.30 p.m. on Monday, apparently due to old-age ailments. It had been exhibiting loss of appetite and its food intake had decreased considerably during the last week, according to Zoo superintendent T.V. Anil Kumar. Former Chief Forest Veterinary Officer E.K. Easwaran, who was part of the team that conducted the post-mortem examination, said the tiger showed signs of early stages of pneumonia. Its blood test also revealed bacterial infection. Though the animal exhibited no COVID-19 symptom, the team collected nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs.  Loss of appetite Nagaraj, the lion, was found dead close to his cage in the Lion Safari park in Neyyar around 8 a.m. on Tuesday. Like Kiran, the animal also displayed signs of waning appetite and had been consuming very little food lately. According to Sandeep Kumar, Assistant Wildlife Warden, Neyyar Wildlife Sanctuary, the lion had not returned to its cage for three days despite all attempts by animal keepers. Both Nagaraj and the park’s other resident, 19-year-old Bindu, were being regularly monitored by their veterinarian. Both were administered medicines a few days ago. Both used to be fed 5kg of chicken and buffalo meat six days a week.  Declining population Nagaraj had been brought to Thiruvananthapuram from the Sakkarbaug Zoological Garden in Gujarat two years ago. Radha, a six-year-old lioness, who accompanied Nagaraj, died soon after arriving at the Thiruvananthapuram Zoo. Both had been brought in exchange for two Malabar giant squirrels. Once home to 17 lions, the park’s population has come down to one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asiatic-lion-tiger-die-in-kerala/article34591201.ece
19 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sundarakanda deeksha concludes on grand note||The sixteen-day-long Shodasa Sundarakanda deeksha concluded on Tuesday here at Tirumala. Speaking on the occasion, TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said the deeksha was performed for the universal well-being. Mr. Reddy said that the ‘Nakshtra homam’, being carried out at the Dharmagiri Veda Vignana Peetam, will be soon followed by ‘Dhanvantari Maha yagam’ for which the preparations are already in progress. Meanwhile, the ‘Akanda Sundarakanda Parayanam’ also concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sundarakanda-deeksha-concludes-on-grand-note/article34591909.ece
19 May 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccine for foot rot disease in goats likely by monsoon next||The much-awaited vaccine for the foot rot disease found in goats pan-India may become a reality by the monsoon of 2022. Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University (SVVU) in Tirupati has made strides by developing India’s first-ever vaccine for the disease, and has transferred the technology to the Hyderabad-based Indian Immunologicals Limited (ILL), which is in the process of securing the mandatory licence from various agencies. After the signing of an agreement in December last by university Registrar T. Madhava Rao and IIL Managing Director Anand Kumar, in the presence of Vice-Chancellor V. Padmanabha Reddy, the foot rot bacterial strains ‘A, B, and I’ were handed over to the company for taking up culturing in order to facilitate commercial production. Three strains As it will be the first-ever vaccine in India, the strains are being tested for viability. The strains ‘A’ and ‘B’ are pathogenic even outside India, but ‘I’ is found mostly in India, especially the southern region. Foot rot is a contagious disease in goats and sheep, characterised by exudative inflammation followed by necrosis of the epidermal tissues, causing separation of the hoof from the underlying soft tissue. Symptoms The affected animals exhibit lameness, loss of body condition due to a fall in diet, causing reduced wool and meat production, apart from decreased fertility. Extensive research The disease is not just painful for the animals but also a nightmare for the cattle rearers, as it results in huge fall in returns on their investment. Finding vaccination as the only way out, the university had taken up extensive research on the disease caused by ‘ Dichelobacter nodosus ’ bacteria about six years ago, and had come up with the protocol for developing the vaccine at the laboratory level. “As the bacteria generally infests in muddy soil and spreads to the flock during the rainy season, the scientific community is keeping its fingers crossed over the vaccine’s commercial availability, expected by monsoon next,” university Director of Research V. Eswara Prasad told The Hindu . In India, the disease is predominantly reported from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, though its first confirmed outbreak was found in the Jammu & Kashmir. Morbidity rate The disease affects up to 2% of the sheep population during the monsoon season, but the morbidity in the affected flock ranges between 10 and 20% due to severe lesions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccine-for-foot-rot-disease-in-goats-likely-by-monsoon-next/article34591920.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Do not violate curfew rules, SP tells people||The police department has once again warned the public, especially the youth, against moving out on the roads during night times in violation of the curfew norms. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, who inspected the enforcement of the curfew in Srikalahasti on Tuesday, recalled that the town registered the district’s first COVID case last year. He said the people need not fear the officials, as long as they stuck to the curfew norms, adding that whip would be cracked on only those who violated the rules. Mr. Venkata Appala Naidu also told the police personnel to stay properly attired, covered with protective gadgets like masks and face shields, in view of the spike in cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-violate-curfew-rules-sp-tells-people/article34591911.ece
19 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ventilator donated to Ruia hospital||Ventilator equipment worth Rs. 5 lakh was donated by MPTC Association former State vice-president Gundluru Venkatramana and NRI Tallapaka Vishnuvardhan Reddy and G. Krishna Chaitanya, regional coordinator of APNRTS in New Zealand. The equipment was formally handed over to Ruia Hospital Superintendent K. Bharathi on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ventilator-donated-to-ruia-hospital/article34591910.ece
19 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New medical oxygen policy unveiled||To meet the rising demand for medical oxygen due to COVID in the State, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday unveiled the “AP Industrial Gases and Medical Oxygen Manufacturing Policy 2021-22”, aimed at increasing the current manufacturing capacity of 360 metric tonnes to 700 metric tonnes. The target is to set up at least 50 PSA oxygen generation plants. The policy facilitates the revival of sick oxygen generator plants, capacity enhancement of existing plants and establishment of new plants by entrepreneurs by offering up to 30% subsidy on capital expenditure and Rs. 2 per unit discount on power tariff. According to a press release, the State’s oxygen generation capacity was 364 MTs currently and the rest of the demand was being met from the allocation by the Centre. The State decided to rapidly augment the capacity of captive (within hospitals) and non-captive plants so that reliability and self-sufficiency were achieved. The release stated that the government had already received indent from companies such as Nova Air (Sri City), Air Liquid (Kadapa), Praxair (Chittoor), and Inox Air Products (Vijayawada/Guntur) which planned to enhance oxygen production capabilities in the State. Further, six sick pressure swing adsorption (PSA) units had been identified and refurbished for production. The release said there was a lot of interest from entrepreneurs to set up small/medium scale oxygen (PSA) plants which could be installed in three to six months. The State government was in talks with suppliers across the globe to import zeolite molecular sieve, a key crystalline porous material used in oxygen PSA plants. Subsidies Further, the policy aimed at distributing manufacturing across the State in three zones geographically and all technologies such as PSA, Liquid Oxygen (Lox), Helium Mixed Oxygen (Heliox) will be supported.  For the sick PSA units, the policy assures 20% subsidy on capital up to Rs. 20 lakh per MT and Rs. 2 discount on power tariff up to Rs. 7 lakh a year for three years. For the new captive PSA units, 30% capital subsidy up to Rs. 30 lakh and Rs. 2 discount on power tariff up to Rs. 7 lakh a year for two years would be provided. Similarly, for the new non-captive units using Lox and Heliox technology 20% capital subsidy (up to Rs. 20 lakh per MT) and 25% capital subsidy (up to Rs. 25 lakh per MT) would be provided respectively. For both Lox and Heliox plants power tariff subsidy of Rs. 2 (up to Rs. 7 lakh) for the first year will be given. For the second year, it will be Rs. 1.5 and for three to five years it will be Rs. 1 discount per unit. The policy was prepared by the Department of Industries in consultation with the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-pradesh-unveils-new-oxygen-policy/article34591820.ece
19 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam decides to boycott Budget session||The TDP has decided to boycott the Budget session of the State Assembly starting on May 20, in protest against the “unilateral, undemocratic and illogical decisions” of the State government. The Telugu Desam Legislature Party (TDLP) meeting, presided over by party nation president N. Chandrababu Naidu, took the decision on Tuesday. Later, addressing the media, TDP State president K. Atchannaidu, along with Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, said the government failed to heed the advice to conduct the session in March, when the severity of COVID-19 was much less. “The Chief Minister did not feel it fit to conduct the Budget session when the COVID-19 cases were just 900. He is keen on convening the session now when the number of infections has reached 2.16 lakh. The second wave of the pandemic is much severe than the first. We have decided to boycott the session,” he said. Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the government was conducting the one-day session only to meet its constitutional obligation, but not to consult and hold a meaningful discussion with the Opposition. “The ruling party will turn the Governor’s address into a hymn aimed at singing praise of the Chief Minister. Even if the TDP attends, the Chief Minister and his Ministers will not give any chance for its legislators to speak. As usual, the YSRCP will bulldoze and suppress the voice of the Opposition,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-decides-to-boycott-budget-session/article34591922.ece
19 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Babu, founder of Ramesh Hospitals, bereaved||Pothineni Subba Rao, father of P. Ramesh Babu, cardiologist and managing director of Ramesh Hospitals, Vijayawada, die due to age-related illness here on Tuesday. He was 89. Mr. Subba Rao is survived by four sons and a daughter. Telugu film producer Sravanthi Ravi Kishore is his first son, Dr. Ramesh Babu the second son, Murali Mohan, a chartered accountant, is the third son and Mahendra Babu is the fourth son. His only daughter Madhumathi, practises internal medicine in the U.S. Telugu film actor Pothineni Ram, who is the son of Mr. Murali Mohan, paid tributes to his grandfather through his Twitter handle. “From humble beginnings of a lorry driver in Vijayawada sleeping with lorry tires under your bed to providing & caring for your family, you’ve always had the heart of a King. You’ve shown us that richness comes not from what’s in your pocket but from what lies in your heart. Thank you for dreaming big for your children & making them what they are today. Rest In Peace, Tatagaru (sic),” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramesh-babu-founder-of-ramesh-hospitals-bereaved/article34591258.ece
19 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision on GST dues likely at meet tomorrow||The State government is pinning all hopes on the May 28 GST Council meeting, which is being conducted after a gap of almost six months, as it expects the Centre to release the accumulating compensation dues. The Central government has so far paid Rs. 5,750.16 crore as compensation to the State government. It has provided another Rs. 2,311.08 crore as a loan, which it will repay on behalf of the State. “The Centre government owes an amount of Rs. 1,806.78 crore up to January 2021. The GST compensation for the months of February and March 2021 are yet to be ascertained. The total compensation is likely to be much higher if the dues for these months are included,” says an official on condition of anonymity. As per the GST law, the Centre compensates the States to ensure that their revenue is protected (Protected Revenue in GST parlance) at the level of 14% of the tax collection in 2015-16, which is the base year. If the revenue is less than 14% of the base-year collection, the States are entitled to receive GST compensation. The officials have estimated that the protected revenue for the current fiscal, 2021-22, will be Rs. 30,672 crore (it will be Rs. 2,556 crore per month). If the revenue collection is below this, the Central government has to pay compensation. According to the Commercial Tax officials, Andhra Pradesh may have to seek GST compensation if the second wave of COVID-19 impacts its revenues. To avoid seeking compensation, the GST collection this year should be 37.78% more than the collection in 2020-21. The GST collection in the last fiscal stood at Rs. 22,259.88 crore. “The State, therefore, has to improve the GST collection by Rs. 8,412 crore this year,” say officials. Andhra Pradesh had received a compensation of Rs. 280 crore during the first year of the launch of GST. The State’s monthly average income was fixed at Rs. 1,120.80 crore in 2015-16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decision-on-gst-dues-likely-at-meet-tomorrow/article34591921.ece
19 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Merely paying funeral expenses will not do, says Sailajanath||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Tuesday said the YSRCP government was trying to shirk responsibility by merely paying funeral expenses of Rs. 15,000 to the kin of those who succumb to COVID-19. In a statement, Dr. Sailajanath said, while the case load at the national level was on the decline, the State had been witnessing an increase in the positivity rate. “As an opposition leader, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy went around the State telling people that he was there for them. Today, none of his 151 MLAs is seen standing by the people,” he said. Pointing to the spread of the virus in the rural areas, Mr. Sailajanath suggested setting up of isolation centres in buildings located close to the PHCs. He raised concern over Remdesivir injections finding their way to the black market, and called for measures to supply and sell it only through government outlets. The Congress leader said that doctors and other medical staff who were treating virus-affected persons should be given adequate protection, and their salaries should be doubled. He also demanded measures to speed up the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/merely-paying-funeral-expenses-will-not-do-says-sailajanath/article34591924.ece
19 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 AHTUs to be set up in State||The State government issued orders for the establishment of 10 Anti-Human Trafficking Units (AHTU) on Tuesday. One such unit each already exists in West Godavari, Guntur and Anantapur. The government also declared all the AHTUs as police stations. They would be housed in the Disha police stations in their respective districts. A G.O. issued by Principal Secretary (Home) Kumar Vishwajeet said the decision was taken, considering the proposal of Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, following the Central government’s instructions to strengthening law enforcement with dedicated AHTUs, in coordination with the Women and Child Welfare Department, the Labour Department and other stakeholders. The new AHTUs would be established in the remaining districts. The local police unit heads would be their nodal officers. An Additional DG rank officer from the CID was designated as the State Level Anti-Human Trafficking Nodal Officer. Each AHTU would have jurisdiction over the entire district. Each unit would comprise an inspector, two sub-inspectors, two head constables, and two constables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-ahtus-to-be-set-up-in-state/article34591926.ece
19 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to get 200 MTs of oxygen today||The State will receive 200 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen through Andhra Pradesh Oxygen Express trains at different locations on Tuesday. According to officials of the Health and Family Welfare Department, around 40 MTs of oxygen from Rourkela in Odisha will reach the Krishnapatnam port late on Tuesday. Another 80 MTs of oxygen from Rourkela will reach Krishnapatnam by Wednesday morning. Further, 80 MTs of oxygen from Jamnagar in Gujarat will reach Guntur by Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-get-200-mts-of-oxygen-today/article34591247.ece
19 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIE extends date for affiliation proposals||The Board of Intermediate Education has extended the last date of provisional affiliation or sanction of additional sections for the academic year 2021-2022. In a statement, the Board secretary V. Ramakrishna said the last date for submission of online applications without penalty is June 16 and with penalty, it is July 28. The managements can apply with a late fee of Rs. 1,000 up to June 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bie-extends-date-for-affiliation-proposals/article34591923.ece
19 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delink ration cards and vaccination from Aadhaar, says former bureaucrat||Appreciating the State government’s decision to deliver ration almost near the doorstep of the beneficiaries, former secretary to the Union government E.A.S. Sarma said that linking the PDS ration cards and even COVID vaccination to Aadhaar, may not give the desired result. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, he pointed out that thousands of tribals have not been able to go through the verification process associated with the issuance of the Aadhaar numbers, as they reside in remote and inaccessible areas. Mr. Sarma pointed out that Aadhaar linkage in the Paderu area of Visakhapatnam district had deprived more than 3,000 tribals of their opportunity to get vaccination, as a result of which they stand severely exposed to the virus. He said that an NGO, Lib Tech of India, has carried out a comprehensive study of the numbers of the tribals adversely affected by not being able to get Aadhaar numbers. Mr. Sarma suggested that the State government should take advantage of the provisions of the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act (PESA) which empowers the local tribal Gram Sabhas in the formulation and implementation of all schemes meant to benefit the tribals. The verification process in close consultation with the Gram Sabha would be simpler and more authentic and would make the scheme more meaningful and beneficial. The Gram Sabhas should be fully involved in identifying the beneficiaries in the case of all such schemes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delink-ration-cards-and-vaccination-from-aadhaar-says-former-bureaucrat/article34591931.ece
19 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIMS Director seeks appointment of more number of employees||Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (EPDCL) Chairman and Managing Director S. Nagalakshmi held discussions with VIMS Director K. Rambabu and senior doctors at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) here on Tuesday. Dr. Rambabu informed her that an additional 20 KL oxygen tank was being set up at the hospital on a war-footing in view of the decision to increase the number of beds. He sought the appointment of a biomedical engineer to monitor the supply of oxygen, increase in the number of security and sanitation workers and appointment of PG s, anaesthesia technicians and operation theatre technicians to provide round-the-clock services in critical care. Ms. Nagalakshmi appreciated the services being rendered through the helpldesk at VIMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vims-director-seeks-appointment-of-more-number-of-employees/article34591927.ece
19 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 2,388 new cases, eight deaths||The Visakhapatnam district in the last 24 hours recorded as many as 2,388 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total tally to 1,17,333. With the new cases, the active cases now stand at 20,817. The district also recorded eight deaths, taking the total death count to 788. On the brighter side, the district has been recording a good recovery rate over the last few days. On Tuesday morning, as many as 2,671 persons affected with COVID were discharged or have recovered, taking the total discharges to 95,708.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-2388-new-cases-eight-deaths/article34591932.ece
19 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t worry for beds, Minister tells people||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao inspected the government hospital at Bheemunipatnam on Tuesday. Speaking at the hospital, he appealed to the people not to worry for beds as a 60-bed hospital was opened at INS Kalinga in Bhimili, 10 beds at the government hospital and another 50 beds were provided in Padmanabham mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-worry-for-beds-minister-tells-people/article34591928.ece
19 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical equipment worth Rs. 8.5 lakh donated||Equipment worth Rs. 8.5 lakh was donated for the use of COVID-19 patients to deliver oxygen by Asian Paints, Atchutapuram, near here, on Tuesday. The General Works Manager of Asian Paints handed over the equipment to P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College. The equipment consisted of oxygen masks, circuits and blood glucose estimation and ABG estimation, reagents. Dr. Sudhakar has handed over the equipment to Dr. Tripti Yerramilli, Assistant Professor of Anaesthesia, AMC, to be utilised in the CSR Block. Dr. M.V. Vijaya Sekhar and Dr. Manoj Patruni were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-equipment-worth-rs-85-lakh-donated/article34591929.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mechanism set up to care for orphaned children||The Women and Child Development Department is setting up platforms to protect children who have lost one or both parents during the COVID-19 pandemic across the State. It has urged people to bring such cases to the notice of Makkala Sahayavani on 1098. Karnataka has decided to identify a close relative of the affected child as a “fit person” under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, to hand over the child for care on a temporary basis. This is being done to ensure a family atmosphere for the child, Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle told presspersons on Tuesday. “The government will be taking up the responsibility of caring for and rehabilitating children aged up to 18,” she said. For the long-term care of the child, the government will facilitate an adoption process among blood relatives or close relatives in the family, as per the norms under the Adoption Regulations, 2017. If no relative comes forward, the child/children would be given up for adoption through CARINGS and as per the regulations under the Juvenile Justice Act and the Adoption Regulations. For children aged up to six who have been affected by COVID-19, quarantine facilities and temporary care facilities are being set up at adoption centres across 30 districts, the Minister said. For children in the age group of 7-18, quarantine and temporary care will be offered at identified facilities in each district.    Special paediatric care In an effort to provide medical care to COVID-affected children, paediatric care centres will be set up in all districts and serious cases will be referred to the paediatric wards in the district and taluk general hospitals, said Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mechanism-set-up-to-care-for-orphaned-children/article34591192.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quiet reflection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quiet-reflection/article34591210.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction||In a news report that appeared on Page 8 of Tuesday’s edition with the headline “SC orders medical exam of YSR Congress MP” it was erroneously stated that “the government had no role in selecting the hospital (Ramesh Hospital, Guntur).” It should have read “the government had no role in selecting the Medical Board of GGH. The law enforcement machinery was merely following the High Court order. It was the High Court which chose the hospital and the panel”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/correction/article34591925.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPDO dies of COVID complications||Sakhinetipalli Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) Gollamandala Varaprasad died while undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection in Rajamahendravaram of East Godavari district on Tuesday. Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer N.V.V.Satyanarayana said that Varaprasad had contracted the infection recently. The district officials expressed condolence on the demise of the MPDO and consoled the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mpdo-dies-of-covid-complications/article34591254.ece
19 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||‘Abhishekam’ performed||Hailing the decision of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to set up a medical college along with a nursing college in the district headquarters town of Kothagudem, a host of ruling TRS leaders offered “palabhishekam” to the portrait of Mr. Rao in Bhadrachalam town on Tuesday. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar along with several other elected representatives of the TRS participated in the programme held as per the COVID-19 norms in the temple town. Speaking at a review meeting on COVID-19 control measures held at Bhadrachalam Sub-Collector’s office, the Minister said the Chief Minister’s decision to set up a medical college along with a nursing college in Kothagudem will help create more opportunities for medical and paramedical education. The move will also pave the way for establishment of a 1000-bed hospital.strengthening the healthcare services in the district. The district’s COVID-19 test positive rate was below 10 % which is much lower than in several other districts, he noted,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/abhishekam-performed/article34591836.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Only 4.90 lakh jabs procured for 1.90 crore target population||Telangana has nearly 1.90 crore persons in the 18-44 years age group, but the State government has managed to procure just 4.90 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses for this target population, raising questions on who among them should get priority. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that a decision on it will be taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and senior officials. He added that attempts to procure more doses are under way, stressing that allocation of the vaccine shots for people is decided by Central government. A few days ago, the State Health department initiated the second dose drive for people aged 45 years or above. Both Covishield and Covaxin were offered. However, it came to a halt from Saturday. Dr Srinivasa Rao on Sunday announced postponement of the drive due to inadequate doses of Covaxin. Fresh stock of the vaccine from Ministry of Health was awaited. At a press conference held in Hyderabad on Tuesday, he pointed out that while 3 lakh people are waiting for Covaxin shots, they have only 50,000 doses of it. The senior official said that they don’t want to resume the drive and postpone it again unless they get sufficient stocks.The Central government has indicated that some more doses will be sent in 15 days. Regarding Covishield, he said that no one is due for second dose of it after time interval between the first and second doses was increased from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks. 26 complaints The State Health department has cancelled COVID-19 treatment licence issued to a private hospital in Madhapur. Three more hospitals in Hyderabad were issued show cause notices for surplus billing and injudicious usage of oxygen. As was the case in the first wave of COVID-19, families raised complaints about exorbitant charges for the treatment at private and corporate hospitals. Some alleged that they were charged anywhere around Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1.5 lakh per day. A few hospitals demanded advance deposit of Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh before admitting a patient, people complained. Dr Srinivasa Rao said that a total of 26 complaints against private hospitals were lodged through WhatsApp number 9154170960. Stating that since it is known that some money is to be paid for treatment at private hospitals, he said getting admitted there and then lodging complaints was “not good”. He has requested people to opt for services at government hospitals where treatment, medicines and other services are offered free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/only-490-lakh-jabs-procured-for-190-crore-target-population/article34591811.ece
19 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM, Ministers, officials playing guest role on COVID: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka alleged that COVID treatment and tackling in the State was direction-less and totally non-serious with the Chief Minister, Ministers and officials playing a guest role in reviewing the situation without any accountability. At a press conference here, he said the Task Force on Covid that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao promised in the Assembly last year for monitoring the exorbitant billing by private hospitals had not even met once. “In fact, an official revealed that it doesn’t exist now,” he claimed, adding that this reflected how non-serious the government’s attitude was when people were forced to pay lakhs of rupees. Mr. Bhatti demanded that COVID Task Force Chairman and Minister K.T. Rama Rao reveal the deliberations with the pharma companies and the government should give confidence to people revealing details of how many vaccines and injections that the companies promised for Telangana. “Details of the discussion in the meeting should be shared with the public as this government has been misleading people with grand statements and doing little at the ground level,” he said adding that vaccination had been totally stopped after this committee started functioning. “Looks like the government is in a coma and they are only functioning whenever the court admonishes them for their laxity,” he alleged. The government had not learned any lessons due to its arrogance and neither it intends to learn when opposition parties and experts give suggestions, he said and asked them to follow the Tamil Nadu model where Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had included several members of opposition parties in the committee to monitor Covid treatment. That was how a government dealt with a pandemic to give confidence to people. CS attacked The CLP leader also took a dig at Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar alleging he had little knowledge of what’s happening in the State. Three days after he categorically said lockdown would not be imposed in Telangana, the Chief Minister announced a 10-day lockdown. Similarly, Mr. Somesh Kumar had repeatedly claimed that Dharani portal was the panacea of all the revenue problems but it created more complications to farmers and he was yet to clarify them. “He was least bothered perhaps he belongs to the AP cadre,” Mr. Bhatti charged. The CLP leader argued that rural areas would face severe problems due to catastrophic mismanagement of the medical system. Despite the spread of the virus less than 50 tests were being done in each Primary Health Care centre. He hoped that Governor Tamilisai Sounderarajan, who herself is a doctor, would take note of the developments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-ministers-officials-playing-guest-role-on-covid-bhatti/article34591831.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP faults govt. for halting COVID vaccination||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has questioned the TS government’s decision to halt the COVID vaccination for the last three days when it had 6.93 lakh doses available with it and another three lakh doses are scheduled to arrive in the next few days. Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Monday told a virtual press conference that he senses a “conspiracy” behind the halting of vaccination totally to defame the Central government and demanded that the State government make public details of the number of doses received and used till date. “The Centre had about issued 61.5 lakh doses so far of which little more than 54.48 lakh doses have been utilised. What happened to the rest? Will there will be a wastage of six lakh doses? We need the Chief Minister to respond to this and also explain why his government does not want to implement ‘Arogyasri’ or ‘Ayushman Bharat’ medical insurance for COVID after making a promise,” he said. Mr. Sanjay Kumar wanted to know the functioning of the COVID Task Force committee and about the decisions taken till now to ensure there was no shortages in beds, medical personnel, medicines, oxygen or ambulances. “Have they visited any hospital till date? What are the steps taken to control black marketing? Do they know the conditions prevailing in the rural areas where people are dying without proper medicare?,” he sought to know. The BJP leader charged that there was a shortage of manpower in all hospitals with the kith and kin of the patients themselves forced to tend to the COVID patients without any protective kits. “Has the government analysed why its recruitment is failing? The only way to attract talent is to give incentives and go for regular recruitment because the current healthcare personnel are overworked,” he said. He, however, sought to differentiate between “caring” private hospitals and those resorting to “exorbitant” billing and urged the government to provide necessary infrastructure support to the former. The Centre has provided essential medical equipment and it was up to the TS government to provide “correct” details about positive cases, shortages if any and mortalities so that more assistance would come by, rather than present a rosy picture by “fudging figures”,” claimed the BJP MP from Karimnagar. Brushing aside the Centre’s appreciation on COVID situation in Telangana, he claimed it was “horrible” with cases being “high as also mortalities as the available healthcare infrastructure was inadequate”. The High Court too has doubted the official figures, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-faults-govt-for-halting-covid-vaccination/article34591824.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Recruit more healthcare personnel’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Tuesday appealed to the TS government to recruit more doctors, paramedical, technical personnel and other healthcare workers providing special allowances on war footing to deal with the COVID cases in the second wave. “I urge the TS Government to focus on upgrading and improving the healthcare infrastructure in each of the government facilities. Gandhi Hospital too is likely to get 300 beds more in the coming days accommodated in the library premises with oxygen lines being laid. This will be in addition to the 1200 beds," he said. The Minister, talking to the media, after inspecting the COVID wards and the new oxygen supply plants of 1,000 litres each with aid of 'PM Cares' , appreciated the "dedicated and courageous" services being rendered by the doctors and staff here. Similar plants are going to be set up at TIMES, Gachibowli, King Koti Hospital, ESI Hospital and AIIMS-Bibnagar. Mr.Kishan Reddy appealed to the Government to hold talks with junior doctors who had issued a strike notice. "The junior doctors met me and explained their demands like provision of medical care at NIMS for them and their families, insurance package for frontline COVID healthcare workers be made applicable for them. I advised them not to go for strike at this moment and hold discussions with the officials concerned"," he said. The Centre had provided 4,000 ventilators but some of them were not being used or needed repairs so the Government should ensure qualified technicians are employed to make them functional. After having met 110 year old Swami Ramananda Teertha who was recovering from COVID in the ward, the Minister said he should be an inspiration to others not to panic but give confidence to the COVID positive patients to help them recover faster, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/recruit-more-healthcare-personnel/article34591826.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown hits RTC badly||While the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has been running buses during the lockdown, but as a natural consequence of the restricted timings, it is running less than a third of its fleet, its occupancy has declined, and it is operating approximately an eighth of kilometres it usually runs. According to sources, there have been around 800 buses in operation in the Greater Hyderabad Zone (GHZ) of the Telangana State Road Corporation since the lockdown came into effect. On any usual day, the number of buses pressed into service would be between 2,800 to 3,000 per day. With fewer buses plying roads, the number of kilometres the transport juggernaut has operated too has gone down drastically. Sample this: before the night curfew was announced, the Telangana State Road Corporationoperated around 8 lakh kilometres in GHZ. The number plummeted once the lockdown came into effect. The number of kilometres operated till a day before the lockdown was announced — on May 11 — was approximately 4 lakh kilomteres. But since the lockdown came into effect, the kilometres operated have been between 65,000 to 1.3 lakh. Earning per km On May 12, the Telangana State Road Corporation (TSRTC) operated around 1.3 lakh kilometres per day, a day later the number dropped to around 65,000 kilometres in the GHZ. O On the next day, the number then rose to a little over 75,000 kilometres. The earning per kilometre too has dropped from around Rs. 35 to Rs. 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-hits-rtc-badly/article34591837.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two held for selling Remdesivir in black||Two persons were apprehended on the charges of procuring, and selling Remdesivir injections, used in COVID-19 treatment, in the black market. According South Zone Task Force, the accused are Kiran Kumar (35), a resident of Bhongir who runs a medical supplies agency, and Mohd Khaled (23), a resident of Chandrayangutta working as a security guard at the Osmania General Hospital. Police said Kiran completed a bachelor’s degree in pharmacy and started a medical supplies agency two months ago in Medipally. After observing that several patients were in need of the injections, he hatched a plan to buy Remdesivir injections at low prices by means of familiar channels, and later sell them for as high as Rs. 30,000. He then allegedly informed Khaled that he had with him the injections, and sought his help in finding customers. Based on inputs, the SZTF and Afzalgunj police apprehended the duo on Monday. They seized five Remdesivir vials from their possession. Oxygen sale Two persons were apprehended for selling oxygen concentrators in the black market, police said on Tuesday. The Special Operations Team and Kushaiguda Police, who are investigating the case, identified the accused as Prudhvi Kalva (32) of Banjara Hills, and Geedula Raja Suresh Kumar (49) of Nallakunta. While Prudhvi was allegedly in possession of oxygen concentrators, Suresh Kumar is a supplier of medical equipment. According to police, the accused had bought the device for Rs. 50,000 for the use of their family members. However, the need did not arise. They then decided to sell them for Rs. 65,000. Police caught the duo even as they were moving during the lockdown hours. Police seized two oxygen concentrators, a mobile phone and a two-wheeler from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-selling-remdesivir-in-black/article34591819.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Panel to okay purchase of drug from stockists||A committee has been constituted in Telangana to examine requests for a specific anti-fungal medicine called Amphotericin B injection 50 mg used for Black Fungus treatment, and give permission to buy the drug from stockists based on severity of the infection. Besides, an expert panel has evolved a protocol for treatment of Mucormycosis (Black Fungus) to be used at government and private hospitals. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy, who made this announcement at a press conference here on Tuesday, said that some hospitals have indiscriminately prescribed the medicines. Multiple instances of distressed attendants chasing possible sources of the medicine were observed in the past few days. “An expert committee comprising ENT surgeons, opthalmologists and neurophysicians met on Tuesday. They have evolved a treatment protocol. Further treatment at government and private hospitals will be given on basis of that,” Dr Ramesh Reddy said. How to approach Details of how one can approach the committee will be released shortly, said sources. However, people continued to be in distress as some of their loved ones were in dire need of the medicine. There are around 50 cases of Mucormycosis (Black Fungus) at Government ENT Hospital, Koti, and Gandhi Hospital, Musheerabad. Senior Health officials have urged people not to panic and said that additional equipment used in the treatment are being procured. The DME also spoke about the precautions one needs to take to avoid Black Fungus, the high risk category patients who have to be watchful, and when to consult an ENT specialist. He urged people who have recovered from COVID-19 to wear a mask even as home as Black Fungus spores will be in the air and people with low immunity might get infected. “As the spores enters through nose, wear a mask,” he said at the press conference. Diabetics and immunocompromised patients have to regularly check their sugar levels. “There will be no problem to immunity if sugar levels are in control. Chances of fungal infections such as this will then come down,” Dr Ramesh Reddy said. He said that the fungal infection has to be suspected among post-COVID patients who were given steroids if they have pain in sinuses, severe fever and pain in jaws. “There might be other reasons too. But consult the nearest-available ENT surgeon. The tests are simple,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panel-to-okay-purchase-of-drug-from-stockists/article34591808.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Positivity rate drops, tests remain constant||The daily COVID-19 positivity rate, out of the tests conducted, has come down further to 5.56% in Telangana on Tuesday as 3,982 new cases, 27 deaths and recovery of 5,186 infected persons were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. in the State. With the recovery of a higher number of persons compared to fresh positive cases, the number of active cases too has come down to 48,110. The cumulative total of positive cases has gone up to 5,36,766 and recoveries and deaths to 4,85,644 and 3,012 respectively, according to a bulletin issued by the Public Health department on the status of COVID-19 in the State on Tuesday. With the steady decrease in the fresh cases and increase in the recovery of infected persons, the recovery rate in the State has improved to 90.47% against 85.6% at national level. Similarly, the case fatality rate has come down to 0.56% against 1.1% at national level. A total of 71,616 samples were tested on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/positivity-rate-drops-tests-remain-constant/article34591806.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Provide equipment for oxygen supply, firms told||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar directed the manufacturers of equipment relating to oxygen production and storage to provide equipment needed for supply of oxygen to patients in government hospitals at the earliest. The Minister along with the Chief Secretary held a review with senior officials on setting up of liquid oxygen storage units, PSA (pressure swing absorption) plants and cryogenic tankers to ensure proper supply of oxygen to patients in the State. The meeting comes a day after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision to set up oxygen generating plants with a capacity of 324 metric tonne in 48 hospitals in the government sector across the State to avoid scope for shortage of oxygen in future. The representatives of the manufacturing firms made a presentation on the production of medical equipment during the meeting. The meeting also reviewed the Coronavirus (COVID-19) situation in the State. Health officials were asked to initiate steps necessary to implement the instructions of the Chief Minister on Covid-19 control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/provide-equipment-for-oxygen-supply-firms-told/article34591830.ece
19 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Gangula threatening public representatives’||Rebel TRS MLA and former Minister Eatala Rajender has accused Civil Supplies Minister Gangula Kamalakar of threatening local body representatives of Huzurabad constituency for extending support to him. Mr Rajender, who spoke to the media at Huzurabad on Tuesday, said the Minister descended on the constituency ever since he had questioned the party and government functioning. “Where was he all these days? Did he ever visit the constituency and how can he threaten elected representatives,” he asked. He felt Mr. Kamalakar should follow some basic etiquette as a minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gangula-threatening-public-representatives/article34591832.ece
19 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy wants to felicitate CM||Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy has offered to felicitate the Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekhar Rao for sanctioning the medical college in Sangareddy for which he was fighting for the last several years. At a press conference here, he said medical college was his dream and raised the issue several times in the Assembly to bring pressure on the government. In fact, in the last Assembly sessions he went on foot to the Assembly holding placards along with his daughter on the same demand. “There is nothing political in if I want to felicitate the CM as a local MLA,” he said adding that he would continue to fight against the TRS on other issues. Mr. Reddy said the college should be established in the lands already identified for the college and the government should allocate Rs. ,1000 crore for it. He said he would not mind even if his name is not mentioned on the foundation stone as long as the college is established at the earliest. This was a satisfying moment for him as the IIT-Hyderabad too was established when he was the MLA. The IIT changed the face of Sangareddy and hoped medical college too will push up development. The medical college and the attached hospital will serve people of about 10 constituencies and people coming from Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagga-reddy-wants-to-felicitate-cm/article34591834.ece
19 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free psychological, medical help for kin of COVID victims||Association of Health Psychologists, UNICEF, Action Aid, Dr. Reddy’s Foundation-School Improvement Programme, APTS Social Service Forum, Action Aid Association India and Asha Hospitals have joined together to offer free tele-health consultation and also psychological support to families who have lost their loved ones in the COVID-19 pandemic. Under the banner of Social and Emotional Rehabilitation of Virus Victims and Medical Services (SERV-Me), experts will reach out to people with psycho-social support and telemedical services for the patients who need guidance for home management of COVID and are facing emotional distress. Those in need of psycho-social support can call on 040-48214775 and those who want telemedicine counselling can call on 040-48213272. The telemedicine support has a team of senior medical doctors while the psycho-social counselling team is composed of trained counsellors dealing with anxiety, apprehension, grief, sleeplessness and behavioural problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-psychological-medical-help-for-kin-of-covid-victims/article34591805.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Junior doctors, senior resident doctors threaten boycott||Members of the Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA), and Telangana Senior Residents Doctors Association (TSRDA) have that they will boycott duties from May 25 if their demands, including ex-gratia for healthcare workers (HCWs) as announced by the State government, were not fulfilled. The State government on Tuesday announced 15% hike in stipends for House Surgeons (MBBS Interns), medical students pursuing Post Graduation (PG), superspecialty courses, PG Diploma, and MDS. It would come into effect in retrospect, from January this year. Stipend arrears However, the TJUDA members wanted the hike in stipend to be implemented from January 2020. On the other hand, the TSRDA said that the 15% hike in their honorarium is pending for approval and that they have been hoping it will be approved for the past six months. Both associations have also made a demand for the free treatment for HCWs and their family members since they are not able to find beds in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/junior-doctors-senior-resident-doctors-threaten-boycott/article34591812.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 10 lakh ‘CREDAI Hyd Cares initiative’ to DGP for welfare fund||Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India-Hyderabad presented a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh to DGP M. Mahender Reddy for the Telangana Police Welfare Fund under the ‘Credai Hyd Cares’ initiative on Tuesday. Credai-Hyd president P. Ramakrishna Rao and general secretary V. Rajshekar Reddy handed over the cheque in the presence of DG TS State Disaster Response & Fire Services Department Sanjay Kumar Jain and DIG Sumathi. “The police department is working hard as the frontline warriors during this pandemic and some of them succumbed to the deadly virus. We thought of contributing for this untouched sector,” they said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-10-lakh-credai-hyd-cares-initiative-to-dgp-for-welfare-fund/article34591828.ece
19 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||A two-decade-old dream come true for Sangareddy||A dream of about two decades came true for the people Sangareddy district who wished there should be a medical college at the district headquarters town with a population of about one lakh. Along with five other districts, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao sanctioned medical college for Sangareddy. The announcement was made on Monday. Indeed, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao made a promise of sanctioning medical college to Sangareddy and regional ring road (RRR) during his election campaign at the district headquarters town. After formation of government by the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) for the second time in the State, T. Jayaprakash Reddy, Congress legislator from the town, made an appeal to the Chief Minister in this regard again and promised to felicitate Mr Chandrasekhar Rao if medical college was sanctioned.  Since 2002 The promise of sanctioning medical college had been doing the rounds since 2002 during the tenure of N. Chandrababu Naidu as chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh, late Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy, K Rosaiah and N. Kiran Kumar Reddy but it was never realised. Mr Jayaprakash Reddy had taken up agitation several times for the establishment of medical college. It was alleged that the proposals for the medical college were approved before formation of Telangana but it was diverted to Siddipet after it was made a separate district. Though the ruling party leaders refuted the allegations stating that it was a new approval, people largely believe that the medical college was diverted to the native district of Chief Minister. With the establishment of medical college at Sangareddy people from even neighbouring Medak and Vikarabad in addition to the adjacent Bidar in Karnataka will benefit. “We thank Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao for sanctioning medical college. People will get better health care with the medical college. We are making all efforts to extend better treatment during corona pandemic for the public,” said Lok Sabha member K Prabhakar Reddy, MLAs Kranthi Kiran, Manick Rao, Bhupal Reddy and former MLA Chinta Prabhakar while speaking to reporters here Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-two-decade-old-dream-come-true-for-sangareddy/article34591835.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown extension adds to the woes of dispirited daily wagers||What started as a week-long lockdown in the city, has now stretched to a month. Several daily wagers complained of difficulties in managing households with the extended lockdown period. With no work and lack of resources, several families are now either dependent on foodgrains being distributed by NGOs or are having to borrow from relatives and neighbours, they said. Dry ration Subodh Bind, a street vendor said, “I have been out of work for the last month. Due to the lockdown, our stalls have remained non-functional and there has been no income. Several others in our area, who are rickshaw pullers or labourers have been affected in the same manner.” Mr. Bind added that with the help of NGOs, dry ration has been distributed among his JJ cluster neighbours. “There are over 250 families in my area and till now, we have provided dry ration like wheat, salt, oil and rice to around 82 families who are in dire need. During the 2020 lockdown, we were also getting cooked meals. However, this time the focus is only on dry ration. The situation is so bad that everyone is saying that they need ration but we are distributing among the extremely needy first,” said Mr. Bind. For several others, depending on relatives and neighbours for assistance has been the only way out during this crisis. Rekha Devi, a resident of the Pul Mithai area said, “My husband is a labourer and we were completely dependent on the daily wages that he received. With the lockdown imposition, we have lost out on the wages completely. I have four children. How are we supposed to run the household? We tried to use some money from the little savings we had but how long can that last? Now I am dependent on my brother who has arranged dry ration for our family. We are under immense pressure right now.” The uncertainty over how long the current situation will persist has also left many wondering about the future course of action. Kaushalya Devi, who works as a house help said, “This is the second time in a year that my husband, a daily wager, is completely out of work. I am worried that if this lockdown extends further, then some of my employers might not pay me my salary. We are already under extreme financial distress and the uncertainty over when things will return to normal is worse. I have already bought essential items on credit and am worried that I will end up owing a lot of money to the shopowner soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lockdown-extension-adds-to-the-woes-of-dispirited-daily-wagers/article34591786.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 held for killing foreigner near IGIA; victim was planning to return home||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly killing a Kenyan national near Indira Gandhi International Airport, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said that the accused have been identified as Virender Singh (33), Gopal Singh (34) and Dilbagh alias Billu (35), all residents of Rangpuri Village. The victim has been identified as Jama Said Farah. The police said that on Monday, they received a call regarding a body lying near Centaur Hospital. The police found a phone near the body and called the on last dialled number. “The call was received by one Manoj Sahu who was a travel agent. The travel agent then sent a copy of the deceased’s passport which helped in his identification,” Mr. Ranjan said. The police then found out that he had booked a flight through him from Delhi to Somalia. The travel agent then informed Farah’s daughter Jena who then called the police and stated that her father had come to India two weeks ago for treatment of a heart disease. Immigration clearance “Due to the pandemic, his treatment was deferred. Hence, he was going back to his country via Somalia on Monday. However, he was denied immigration clearance at IGI Airport due to non-availability of Somalia visa and was off loaded by the airlines,” the officer said. Farah then came out and took a cab, using an aggregating application, for a hotel in Mahipalpur. That was the last she heard from him. The daughter also shared the cab’s registration number. With the help of the registration number, the police arrested the owner of the vehicle, Virender. He allegedly told the police that he and his friends Gopal and Dilbagh were in the taxi when the victim boarded. They had an altercation with Farah over the fare and the accused thrashed him and threw him on the street. They also took his valuables and luggage so his identity could not be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-held-for-killing-foreigner-near-igia-victim-was-planning-to-return-home/article34591788.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Court denies anticipatory bail to Olympic medallist||A Delhi court on Tuesday refused to grant anticipatory bail to absconding Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar in the murder case of a wrestler, saying that he is prima facie the main conspirator and allegations against him are serious in nature.  Additional Sessions Judge Jadgish Kumar denied the relief to Sushil Kumar against whom a case of murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy has been registered. Wrestler Sagar Rana died while two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers on May 4 night, at the stadium premises in the Capital. While dismissing Sushil Kumar’s pre-arrest bail, the judge noted that “the allegations against the accused are serious in nature. From the perusal of record of investigation so far, it reveals that prima facie the accused is the main conspirator”. Further, the judge said, “The investigation is still going on and some of the accused persons have not been arrested. The NBW [non-bailable warrant] has already been issued against the accused.” Eyewitnesses’ statement The Additional Sessions Judge also relied upon the statements of eyewitnesses while dismissing the plea and said, “So at this stage, the court is not inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the accused”. Fearing arrest, the international wrestler moved the Rohini court in Delhi on May 17 seeking anticipatory bail, asserting that the investigation against him is biased and that no injuries are attributable to him. In the plea, the sportsman showed his willingness to join the investigation and provide a “true and correct picture of the incident” to help the investigating agency reach a logical conclusion. Sushil Kumar further claimed to have no connection with the alleged firing that took place during the brawl, adding that the firearm and vehicle found at the place of the incident do not belong to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-denies-anticipatory-bail-to-olympic-medallist/article34591792.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kalra taken to Khan Market as part of probe||As part of the probe, businessman Navneet Kalra on Tuesday was taken to Khan Market where oxygen concentrators were found hoarded in his restaurants and at his office in Okhla. Sources said that he was taken to four places owned by him, including restaurants Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Dayal Opticals in Khan Market, Nege & Ju in Lodhi Colony, and at his office in Okhla for the purpose of collection of evidence. Sources said that a “book of accounts” has been recovered which has details of transactions of oxygen concentrators which is being examined. They also said that Mr. Kalra couldn’t give a satisfactory response when asked about why action was not taken when people complained of faulty oxygen concentrators. Sources said that his movement was being tracked from the time his employees were first arrested. The police claim to have learnt that when raids at Khan Chacha were conducted, he had gone to to a noted hospital in Gurugram for a medical check up from where he disappeared. Mr. Kalra was arrested on Sunday from his relative’s farmhouse in Gurugram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kalra-taken-to-khan-market-as-part-of-probe/article34591787.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Remnants of Tauktae to hit Delhi today||The Indian Meteorological Department on Tuesday said that the remnants of the very severe cyclonic storm “Tauktae” is likely to interact with an approaching western disturbance and bring heavy to very heavy rainfall over Delhi and adjoining areas on May 19. “Thunderstorm with lightning and squall [speed reaching 50-60 kmph] very likely at isolated places over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Rajasthan along with heavy to very heavy rainfall,” the bulletin issued by the IMD read. On Tuesday, it was an overcast day in the Capital with the maximum temperature settling at 30.8 degrees Celsius which was nine degrees below normal for the season and the minimum settling at 26.8 degrees Celsius which was normal for the season. While weather stations at Palam and Lodhi Road received traces of rainfall, the weather station at Safdarjung which is the official reading of the Capital received 0.1 mm of rainfall. The weather department has issued an “orange” warning for the Capital on May 19 according to its impact-based forecast and has warned of waterlogging and traffic disruptions. The forecast for May 19 reads, “Generally cloudy sky with moderate rain/thundershowers accompanied with squall/gusty winds with heavy rain at isolated places. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 30 and 23 degrees Celsius respectively.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/remnants-of-tauktae-to-hit-delhi-today/article34591790.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccination for Tihar inmates aged 18-45 begins||Vaccination of age group 18 to 45 started at Tihar prison complex on Tuesday, a jail official said, adding that over 100 inmates received their first dose of vaccine. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel confirmed the development. Prison officials said that 1,472 persons over the age of 45 have been vaccinated so far in the three prison complexes, including Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli. The administration had also written a letter to the Delhi government asking them to start a vaccination drive for inmates between 18 and 45. There are over 19,000 inmates in Tihar and the capacity of prisons is a little over 10,000. According to data shared by jail officials, over 350 prisoners have tested positive for COVID-19 since March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vaccination-for-tihar-inmates-aged-18-45-begins/article34591789.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||High Court seeks govt.’s stand on GNCTD Act plea||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to respond to a plea seeking to strike down the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Amendment Act which increases powers of the Lieutenant-Governor. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Ministry of Home Affairs and the office of Lieutenant-Governor seeking their stand on the plea by a lawyer. The petition has argued that the Act would lead to confusion among the residents as to who would be taking decisions for the Capital. It argued that vesting of powers in the L-G “would not be in harmony with the Republican system of government”. It has said that the L-G already had “overriding powers in the matters of land, police and services” and by the latest amendment to the GNCTD Act, he now has authority over all legislations passed by the Delhi Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/high-court-seeks-govts-stand-on-gnctd-act-plea/article34591782.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kalra’s plea for quick decision on bail denied||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday rejected a plea seeking for an expeditious decision on the bail plea of businessman Navneet Kalra arrested in connection with alleged black-marketing of oxygen concentrators. Justice Subramonium Prasad declined to entertain the plea saying “let the law take its own course”. The judge also refused to interfere with the observations made by a Sessions court here while dismissing Mr. Kalra’s bail plea, saying the Supreme Court has already laid down the law with regard to observations made by courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kalras-plea-for-quick-decision-on-bail-denied/article34591783.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||HC disposes of plea to waive clinical trials||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday declined to entertain a petition seeking waiver of clinical trials of foreign vaccines and priority in vaccination to those who have already taken the first dose. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said the relief sought in the petition by a lawyer seeking priority in vaccination for those who have already received the first dose of the vaccine cannot be given “just for the asking”. “If everyone is given priority, question would be who will come next in line. The government has its own priorities,” the court remarked. “We see no reasons to entertain the writ petition. Concerned respondent authorities may treat the petition as a representation and decide it in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case,” the HC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-disposes-of-plea-to-waive-clinical-trials/article34591784.ece
19 May 2021||Mumbai,||Cyclone impact: Mumbai records highest ever 24-hour rain in May||Mumbai received 230 mm rainfall due to the cyclonic storm Tauktae, with a weather expert claiming it to be the highest 24-hour downpour in May in the recorded history. According to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Mumbai centre, the Santacruz observatory recorded 230.3 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Besides, the Colaba observatory recorded 207.6 mm rain during the same period. As per the IMD’s calculations, rainfall above 204.5 mm is considered extremely heavy. “Mumbai (Santacruz): 230 mm in last 24 hrs due to cyclone effect, this is the highest 24hrs rain in Mumbai in May in the recorded history. #CycloneTauktae,” Vineet Kumar, a researcher on cyclones in the north Indian Ocean at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune, tweeted on Tuesday. The IMD’s head SID, climate research and services at Pune, K.S. Hosalikar, retweeted Mr. Kumar’s post. Gusty winds and heavy showers lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Monday when the very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae passed close to the coast while moving towards Gujarat. The cyclonic storm damaged a sea-facing safety wall and iron gates near the iconic Gateway of India and some jetty stones in the vicinity also got dislodged in its impact, civic officials said on Tuesday. The main structure of the historic monument did not suffer any damage, but a portion of the footpath near it caved in, they said. Huge tidal waves in the Arabian Sea threw heaps of garbage at the monument. A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation official said they picked up four trucks of garbage from the premises of the monument. “A number of basalt stones near the Gateway of India has got dislodged in the impact of the cyclone and a small portion of the footpath there caved in,” the official said. The area has been barricaded and the stones collected for repairs, he said. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the monument on Tuesday and reviewed the damage caused on the premises and the cleanliness work undertaken there by the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cyclone-impact-mumbai-records-highest-ever-24-hour-rain-in-may/article34591447.ece
19 May 2021||Mumbai,||BMC extends deadline for global tenders for vaccines||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has extended the deadline for its global tenders for COVID-19 vaccines till May 25, after the civic body failed to get any response. The original deadline was May 18. The BMC had on May 12 issued global tenders to procure 10 million COVID-19 vaccine doses from international market in a bid to speed up the inoculation drive in the city. Presently, the civic body is solely dependent on supply of Covaxin and Covishield. Following suit, other municipal corporations such as Thane and Navi Mumbai have decided to float global tenders. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena Lok Sabha MP Rahul Shewale has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to announce a uniform policy draft for the global tenders for vaccines which can be used by State governments and municipal corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bmc-extends-deadline-for-global-tenders-for-vaccines/article34591448.ece
19 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Man cheated trader of Rs. 8.62 lakh worth foodgrains, held||The APMC police have arrested a 45-year-old man who cheated a trader of foodgrains worth Rs. 8.62 lakh. The complainant, Dhawal Kanji Sota, owns a shop in the grain market of APMC. On May 5, the accused, identified as Amrish Badiyani, came to his shop and introduced himself as a member of the International Association for Human Value, an organisation run by Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. Mr. Badiyani further claimed that during the lockdown, his organisation had taken up the task of distributing free foodgrain kitto poor people in Mumbai and he needed 2,000 such kits. From May 7 to May 9, the trader provided 1,500 kits and the accused kept delaying the payment saying that the organisation would be paying the whole money at one go. “We traced the accused to Vashi on Monday and arrested him,” an officer from APMC police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-cheated-trader-of-rs-862-lakh-worth-foodgrains-held/article34591449.ece
19 May 2021||Gaza City,||Death toll climbs as Gaza conflict rages||Heavy air strikes and rocket fire in the Israel-Gaza conflict claimed more lives on both sides on Tuesday as tensions flared in Palestinian “day of anger” protests in Jerusalem and the occupied West Bank. The UN Security Council was to hold an emergency meeting amid a diplomatic push to end the fighting, a day after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed Israel would “continue striking at the terrorist targets”. Israel’s intense bombing campaign has killed 213 Palestinians, including 61 children, and wounded more than 1,400 people in Gaza in more than a week of fighting against Islamist group Hamas, according to the Health Ministry in Gaza. The death toll on the Israeli side rose to 12 when a volley of rockets Hamas fired at the southern Eshkol region killed two Thai nationals working in a factory and wounded several others, police said. Israeli strikes that again sent fireballs, debris and black smoke into the sky have levelled homes and multi-story towers, cratered roads and left two million Palestinians in the enclave desperate for reprieve. “They destroyed our house but I don't know why they targeted us,” said Nazmi al-Dahdouh, 70, of Gaza City, who remained shocked by what he called “a terrifying, violent night”. The humanitarian crisis deepened in the impoverished strip, from where Hamas has launched nearly 3,500 rockets at Israel since May 10, . But a convoy of international aid trucks that started rolling into Gaza through a border crossing from Israel, Kerem Shalom, was halted when Israel quickly shuttered it again, citing a mortar attack on the area. The UN Security Council session, the fourth since the conflict escalated, was called after the United States, a key Israel ally, blocked adoption of a joint statement calling for a halt to the violence on Monday for the third time in a week. Humanitarian disaster The conflict risks precipitating a humanitarian disaster, with the UN saying nearly 40,000 Palestinians have been displaced and 2,500 have lost their homes. Fighter jets have hit what the Israeli military dubs the “metro”, its term for Hamas’s underground tunnels, which Israel has previously acknowledged run in part through civilian areas. Israeli fire has battered crucial Gaza infrastructure, causing blackouts and prompting the electricity authority to warn on Monday it only had enough fuel left to provide power for another two to three days. A strike Monday knocked out Gaza's only Covid-19 testing laboratory, the Health Ministry said, and the Qatari Red Crescent said a strike damaged one of its offices in the enclave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/death-toll-climbs-as-gaza-conflict-rages/article34591136.ece
19 May 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka’s China-backed tax haven clears final hurdle||A Chinese-funded tax-free enclave billed as Sri Lanka’s answer to Dubai and Singapore cleared the final legal hurdle on Tuesday as the Supreme Court in Colombo ruled it could go ahead with only minor tweaks. The largest single foreign investment in Sri Lanka is one of several massive Asian infrastructure projects funded by China as Beijing increases its regional footprint. Sri Lanka’s top court rejected 19 petitions challenging the “Colombo Port City Economic Commission” Bill and approved the $1.4-billion project subject to minor amendments which the government immediately said it accepted. Project officials have said they hope the brand new “Port City”, an area of reclaimed land, will attract billions of dollars for trade, banking and offshore services similar to what is available in Dubai and Singapore, two of its potential competitors. Named the “Colombo Port City” because of its proximity to Colombo’s main harbour, the sea reclamation — carried out with considerable Chinese labour — completed in 2019 has doubled the size of Colombo’s financial district by adding 269 hectares. Under the proposed legislation expected to be passed by Parliament, the Port City will be administered by a commission with unprecedented powers to fast track investment approvals. ll transactions within the Port City will be denominated in foreign currency and all salaries earned by any worker will be tax-exempt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankas-china-backed-tax-haven-clears-final-hurdle/article34591130.ece
19 May 2021||Washington,||U.S. to send 80 mn vaccines abroad||The U.S. will send at least an additional 20 million COVID-19 vaccine doses, in addition to the 60 million AstraZeneca vaccine it has already committed, to other countries, President Joe Biden said on Monday. The additional doses will include not just AstraZeneca but also Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson’s vaccines. “Rampant disease and death in other countries can destabilise them — those countries — and pose a risk to us as well,” Mr. Biden said during remarks at the White House. “New variants could arise overseas that could put us at greater risk and we need to help fight the disease around the world to keep us safe here at home, and to do the right thing of helping other people. It’s the right thing to do. It’s the smart thing to do. It’s the strong thing to do,” he added. While the Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines are being used in the U.S., the AstraZeneca vaccine has not been approved. A stockpile of 60 million doses is awaiting safety clearance by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). If received, it will be shipped abroad in its entirety. Although the Biden administration has not released a plan on how it will apportion the vaccines across countries, India is expected to receive a significant share of these. Enough vaccines Mr. Biden said the U.S. would have secured enough vaccines for itself by the end of June. ”The United States will share at least 20 million of those doses, that extra supply with other countries,” Mr. Biden said. “This means over the next six weeks, the United States of America will send 80 million doses overseas.” Mr. Biden said the 80 million doses represent 13% of the country’s vaccine production (by June-end) and that the U.S. will be donating more than Russia and China , which had donated 15 million doses, according to him. “There’s a lot of talk about Russia and China influencing in the world with vaccines,” Mr. Biden said. “We will not use our vaccines to secure favours from other countries,” he added. Mr. Biden also announced a new milestone in the U.S.’s fight against COVID : a decline in COVID-19 cases in all 50 States for the first time since the pandemic started. Mr. Biden also said those who do not get vaccinated would end up “paying the price”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-send-80-mn-vaccines-abroad/article34591139.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden raises ceasefire, civilian toll in call to Netanyahu||President Joe Biden expressed support for a ceasefire between Israel and Gaza’s militant Hamas rulers in a call to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, but he stopped short of demanding an immediate stop to the eight days of Israeli airstrikes and Hamas rocket barrages that have killed more than 200 people, most of them Palestinian. Mr. Biden’s carefully worded statement, in a White House readout on Monday of his second known call to Mr. Netanyahu in three days as the attacks pounded on, came with the administration under pressure to respond more forcefully despite its determination to wrench the U.S. foreign policy focus away from West Asia conflicts. Mr. Biden’s comments were open-ended and were similar to previous administration statements of support in principle for a ceasefire. That’s in contrast to demands from dozens of Democratic lawmakers and others for an immediate halt by both sides. But the readout of the call to the Israeli leader showed increased White House concern about the air and rocket attacks —including Israeli airstrikes aimed at weakening Hamas — while sticking to forceful support for Israel. The U.S. leader “encouraged Israel to make every effort to ensure the protection of innocent civilians”, the White House said. An administration official familiar with the call said the decision to express support and not explicitly demand a ceasefire was intentional. While Mr. Biden and top aides are concerned about the mounting bloodshed and loss of innocent life, the decision not to demand an immediate halt to hostilities reflects White House determination to support Israel’s right to defend itself from Hamas, the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.  Separately, the U.S., Israel’s top ally, blocked for a third time on Monday what would have been a unanimous statement by the 15-nation U.N. Security Council expressing “grave concern” over the intensifying Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the loss of civilian lives. The U.S. rejection killed the Security Council statement, at least for now. White House press secretary Jen Psaki and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said the U.S. was focusing instead on “quiet, intensive diplomacy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-raises-ceasefire-civilian-toll-in-call-to-netanyahu/article34591134.ece
19 May 2021||Dhaka,||Bangladesh arrests scribe under Official Secrets Act||A journalist in Bangladesh known for her strong reporting on official corruption was arrested on charges of violating a colonial-era Official Secrets Act which carries a possible death penalty, authorities said on Tuesday. Rozina Islam, a senior reporter for the leading Prothom Alo newspaper, allegedly used her mobile phone without permission to photograph documents related to government negotiations to buy coronavirus vaccines while she waited in the room of an official involved in the process, according to case documents seen by The Associated Press. Ms. Islam is known for reporting on corruption involving the Ministry of Health and others. Several of her recent stories have drawn attention to the millions of dollars spent procuring health equipment to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. She was held for more than five hours late on Monday in the room of a personal assistant of the secretary of the Ministry of Health, said her sister, Sabina Parvin. Her family said she was physically and mentally harassed while being held. Sensitive documents Ms. Islam was then handed over to police and faces charges under the Penal Code and Official Secrets Act for alleged theft and photographing of sensitive state documents, said Harun-or-Rashid, an Additional Deputy Commissioner of Dhaka Metropolitan Police. The charges carry a possible death penalty, the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-arrests-scribe-under-official-secrets-act/article34591133.ece
19 May 2021||Bangkok,||Myanmar Internet a virtual battlefield: report||Myanmar’s military rulers are seeking to limit access to the Internet to an internal network of only “whitelisted” sites to quash opposition to their seizure of power, according to a report by the International Crisis Group. It likened the Internet to a “virtual battlefield” where the military is struggling to gain an edge because it lacks technological capacity, while social media companies such as Facebook have banned military officials and many government agencies. The report released on Tuesday noted a narrowing of the leeway for online dissent and abuses of social media to spread hatred toward minority Muslim people in western Myanmar’s Rakhine under Aung San Suu Kyi’s elected government, which was ousted in a February 1 coup. Since then, authorities have imposed nightly Internet outages and sought to limit access to social media platforms. International telecoms companies such as Norway’s Telenor and other businesses have protested the moves, which they say are crippling business activity.  Many tech-savvy young people are involved in the civil disobedience movement against the coup and the military lacks the sort of capabilities that China has developed over the past several decades, enabling it to police the Internet and ban access to certain sites, the International Crisis Group report said. So instead the military, also known as the Tatmadaw, is developing an “intranet” for inside the country that allows mobile access only to approved, or “whitelisted" applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-internet-a-virtual-battlefield-report/article34591138.ece
19 May 2021||Reykjavik,||‘U.S. against militarisation of the Artic’||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Tuesday that Washington wanted to avoid a military build-up in the Arctic, a day after Russia defended its military activities in the strategic region. “We have concerns about some of the increased military activities in the Arctic. That increases the dangers or prospects of accidents... and undermines the shared goal of a peaceful and sustainable future for the region,” Mr. Blinken told a press conference in Reykjavik. “What we need to avoid is a militarisation of the region,” Mr. Blinken said on the eve of an Arctic Council meeting of Foreign Ministers on Wednesday and Thursday where he will meet his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-against-militarisation-of-the-artic/article34591131.ece
19 May 2021||Islamabad,||Police save blasphemy suspect in Pak.||The Pakistani police said on Tuesday they foiled an attempt by a mob to lynch a blasphemy suspect recently arrested on charges of insulting Islam. The mob stormed the Golra police station on the outskirts of Islamabad on Monday night, after the police refused to hand over the suspect to the crowd outside for punishment, local police chief Asim Ghaffar said. The suspect, Shaukat Ali, was unharmed while six police officials were slightly injured in the attack, Mr. Ghaffar said. Mr. Ali is accused of sharing anti-Islam content on social media. Blasphemy carries the death penalty in Pakistan. A Punjab Governor in Islamabad was shot and killed by his own guard in 2011, after he defended a Christian woman, Asia Bibi, who was accused of blasphemy. She was acquitted after spending eight years on death row and left Pakistan for Canada to join her family after receiving threats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/police-save-blasphemy-suspect-in-pak/article34591137.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracking the pandemic’s rural march||When the first wave of the novel coronavirus pandemic hit the country, the central government imposed the strictest lockdown for almost two months. For most of the migrants stuck in urban areas without incomes, jobs and food to survive, the only escape was to walk back to the rural areas where they came from. Migrants walked back thousands of kilometres to return to rural areas not because the villages were best equipped to deal with the pandemic but primarily because it provided them protection  from hunger and starvation. During the second wave now, it is the rural areas which are bearing the brunt of the pandemic with most cases being reported from rural areas. And, unlike last time, there is nowhere to go. Estimates versus the reality The second wave was expected at least based on past experience of other countries and of earlier pandemics but also because most scientists predicted it given the changing nature of the virus and the pandemic. However, unlike the last time when it was largely in urban areas, this time it has spread to villages. Also, in contrast to the previous episode, it has spread this time to the rural areas in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha — States which remained largely unaffected by the spread of the pandemic during the first wave. Most of these States are those with a low availability of health professionals and a lower level of health infrastructure. The result has been a much higher level of infections and deaths. Stories of bodies floating in rivers or left buried on the banks are being reported from both Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. While these are stark visuals of the nature of impact that the pandemic has caused on infections and deaths resulting from the infections, these are all estimates; gross underestimates of the actual reality in the rural areas in many of these States. Neglect of primary care The scale of the misery inflicted by the pandemic was expected in most of these States, where the existing health infrastructure has been found lacking. But what made it worse was also complete apathy and a lack of governance in improving the health infrastructure despite knowledge of the second wave of the epidemic. As in the latest report of the Rural Health Statistics 2019-20 (https://bit.ly/3hAKHNC) released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), not only are these States which figure among the States with the worst health infrastructure but are also ones where the situation has worsened over the years. Compared to 10,337 functioning subcentres in rural Bihar in 2005, only 9,112 subcentres were functioning in 2020. The number of community health centres declined during the same period from 101 in 2005 to only 57 in 2020. Despite population growth, during the same period, the number of primary health care centres increased marginally to 1,702 in 2020 compared to 1,648 in 2005. The situation in Uttar Pradesh, another large State, is no different with the number of primary health centres declining from 3,660 in 2005 to 2,880 in 2020. While the number of community health centres increased from 386 to 711 during the same period, sub-centres increased only marginally, from 20,521 in 2005 to 20,778 in 2020. The situation with regard to the availability of health professionals is not very different, with most States witnessing a worsening situation. For example, only 29% of specialists were in place in the community health centres in Uttar Pradesh as against the requirement based on official norms. Compared to the norm, Bihar reported the highest shortfall in availability of subcentres, at 58%, followed by Jharkhand, at 44%, and Uttar Pradesh, at 41%, as on July 1, 2020. Similar numbers in the case of primary health care centres were 73% for Jharkhand, 58% for West Bengal, 53% for Bihar and 51% for Uttar Pradesh. Avoidable events Given the state of the rural health infrastructure, it was obvious that the pandemic would lead to catastrophic outcomes once the rural population was exposed to the virus. The lack of governance in this case is not the state of health infrastructure that the State governments inherited but the failure to contain the spread of the pandemic despite the knowledge of the state of rural health infrastructure. This failure to estimate the scale of the havoc created by the pandemic was obvious in the case of the central government — steps were not taken to contain the spread along with augmenting the rural health infrastructure and there were decisions such as prolonged electioneering in some of the States. West Bengal, which has seen the fastest rise in cases, was witness to the longest period of electioneering this time, with no precautions such as social distancing in place. Similar adventurism in the case of Uttar Pradesh saw hundreds of polling officials getting infected and passing away due to the pandemic during the conduct of local body elections in the State. The Maha Kumbh organised in the middle of the pandemic, with millions of devotees participating, further added to the spread of the infection with devotees returning to rural areas in different States. All of these were eminently avoidable, with the resources used to augment and strengthen the rural health infrastructure. Judiciary and the state While all these created the perfect breeding ground for the pandemic to spread to rural areas, the severity of the infections was also a result of the misgovernance of State governments. This bordered on ignorance of the level of severity to outright denial and complete apathy of the health and humanitarian crisis unfolding in the respective States. In most cases, the judiciary at the level of High Courts has stepped in to fill the vacuum created by an absent state. The judicial intervention of the Allahabad High Court last month directing the State government to impose lockdowns in Uttar Pradesh was in turn challenged by the State government in the Supreme Court. Attempts to voice concern over the state of health infrastructure and the spread of the pandemic by helpless citizens was countered with threats of legal action by the Uttar Pradesh government until the Supreme Court stepped in. Instead of expanding testing and contact tracing, attempts were made to restrict testing and report a lower number of infections, leading to a sense of complacency within the State administration. The reality in rural areas of most of these States is worse than what is being released to the public through official estimates. This is true for the number of deaths which by all measures appears to be much higher than official statistics. The absence of testing and treatment infrastructure has left the rural population at the mercy of private health providers; a large majority of the population has been left unable to avail the services of private health-care providers. The slow pace of vaccinations in rural areas despite the vulnerabilities has only contributed to the rise in infections and thousands of deaths which could have been easily prevented. Aggravating rural distress Rural areas provided refuge to the majority of the migrant population which had lost jobs and incomes during the first phase. It also helped the economy revive given that rural areas were largely unaffected. However, this time round it is the rural areas which are facing the worst of the pandemic as well as economic distress. Rural wage data as well as data on rural non-farm income available from official and private surveys point to a dismal economic scenario. While many have lost their primary  income earner, even for those who managed to recover, it has come at the cost of huge private health expenditure. Many are likely to fall into a debt trap with the usurious rate of interest from the private money lenders pushing them into chronic poverty. For the rest, the loss of jobs and income has come at the cost of depleted savings. Rural areas are not just staring at the worst of the pandemic but also at prolonged economic distress. While the pandemic with its uncertain nature is certainly responsible for it, the blame must equally lie with the government, both at the State as well as central levels, for its failure to anticipate and prevent the thousands of deaths. Himanshu teaches Economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tracking-the-pandemics-rural-march/article34591115.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Planning for future waves of the pandemic||The failure to plan and prepare for multiple waves of COVID-19 in India has resulted in the despair and helplessness we are seeing today. Since more waves are expected, what lessons can we learn from the present in order to plan for the long term? This article speaks of the challenges and the road ahead. Surveillance strategy First, while it is easy to blame modellers for failing to predict waves, the reason why they are not able to do so is that clear data are unavailable. There is unreliable testing and under-reporting of cases and deaths even now. This does not instil confidence in any of the modellers to come up with realistic estimates. Under-reporting and manipulated data inputs can only provide faulty projections. The Central and State government should use real-time data by encouraging reliable reporting and initiating standardised definitions. This is the time to have a standardised definition of how many cases are expected per million population. Instead of admiring the efforts of administrations in the areas that have fewer cases, efforts should be made to detect the minimum number of cases, to instil confidence in people that the surveillance system works in the state. This can only be done through the syndromic approach of identifying suspect cases and through a reliable testing strategy which does not change when there is a surge in cases. The COVID-19 trajectory in other countries shows that there will be multiple waves in India. In Japan, the health system is crumbling during the fourth wave. Identifying impending waves is very important in mitigating a catastrophe. India missed building containment and mitigation measures while Maharashtra was seeing a surge in cases during the second wave. This lesson should be incorporated into plans for future waves. A strong surveillance system reporting the minimum number of cases will thus provide reliable early markers of an impending wave. Review mechanisms should be strengthened to detect the outbreak in the initial stages and extinguish it before the pandemic spreads to other areas. Concurrent genomic sequencing in real-time in the fixed proportion of samples will give us an idea of the likelihood of the variants causing several outbreaks. If the outbreaks in Kerala, Punjab, and Maharashtra were noticed from the results of genomic sequencing, India could have advocated for local lockdowns in high-burden areas and imposed severe restrictions to stop the wide spread of the second wave. We can prevent the adversities of future waves by relying and acting on the inputs of a strong surveillance system. Vaccinating the population Next, through vaccination, we can turn the story around. India can emerge as the world’s biggest exporter of vaccines in addition to helping citizens in the country. The Central government should proactively reach out to all the vaccine manufacturing firms in the west and invite them to collaborate with Indian firms under the ‘Make in India’ programme. India needs to fast-track the manufacturing of all vaccines which have been approved for use by various regulatory authorities through a single-window clearance. India can become a soft superpower if it facilitates faster manufacturing by helping the Indian industry. This is not an unrealistic ambition as the country has already proved how it can scale up testing facilities within a short period of time. At this stage, there needs to be greater impetus in stepping up manufacturing and coverage of vaccines. Not many countries in the world have the wherewithal to manufacture their own vaccines if India cannot cater to the vaccination needs of its own citizens and that of the world. With newer variants of concern emerging, it is important to update the vaccines depending on how the virus changes. This provides a clear case and a good business opportunity for setting up manufacturing facilities in both the public and private sectors. Vaccines might be the shot in the arm for our economy. Greater financial allocations, stepping up systems to expand vaccination, applied research, enhancing effective communication, and monitoring effectiveness will solidify India’s role in the future for preventing and managing pandemics. Since 2009, the World Health Organization has declared six public health emergencies of international concern, including COVID-19. In the near future, India has to have a system that can respond to newer pandemics in the making. We cannot build reactive systems for each wave and each pandemic. Nearly 60% of known infectious diseases and up to 75% of new or emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic in origin. Respecting the boundaries of animals and preserving the ecosystem in its natural form is important in order to prevent future pandemics. Therefore, the country needs to adopt the ‘One Health’ agenda in its entirety and ensure that environmental health and animal health are given similar priority as human health. Robust public health workforce The rapid spread of SARS-CoV-2 shows us the importance of timely and efficient public health responses. We can only fight better when we have a battle-ready public health workforce. Unfortunately, our health systems are collapsing. Doctors and nurses have to bear the burden mainly because of a depleted or absent public health workforce. It is an essential to hire front-line workers in public health who can engage in surveillance and contract-tracing, and mobilise people for primary healthcare services, including vaccination. The front-line public health workforce is particularly absent in urban areas, while critical care capacity (oxygenated beds, ICUs) is limited in rural areas. Irrespective of the urban-rural divide, the country needs to reconfigure the health systems to ensure that one Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker is hired for every 1,000 people, an Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) and nurse practitioner are hired for every 5,000 people and a hospital with at least 100 beds, including beds with emergency and critical care services, caters to a population of 30,000-50,000.  It is time to have plans for pandemics. We need to improve the health system and public health and regularly review plans to ensure that we prevent future disasters. For now, it is important to have enhanced surveillance to detect and contain future waves, expand vaccination, and work towards building a robust pandemic preparedness plan. Giridhara R. Babu Professor and Head, Life Course Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/planning-for-future-waves-of-the-pandemic/article34591127.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The czar of brinkmanship must seek peace||The recent stand-off between Russia and Ukraine has again captured headlines in the international news media. This geopolitical situation appears to be complex due to the indirect involvement of its multiple stakeholders, including the United States, Turkey and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Increased tensions between Ukraine and Russia can be viewed as a continuation of the unresolved conflict of 2014. Since then, the ‘illegal annexation of Crimea’ has become a buzzword in international politics, and Russia has been constantly painted as an aggressor and a hostile power. In addition to this, the country has been criticised for its involvement in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in eastern Ukraine, where Russian-backed separatists have been fighting with Ukrainian troops. From the beginning of April 2021, Moscow has allegedly deployed thousands of troops as well as tanks and artillery near Ukraine’s eastern border. It has also mobilised troops in the annexed Black Sea region of Crimea. This was enough to send a shock wave among the political elite in Ukraine, forcing them to appeal to the U.S. and NATO and ask for an intervention, if needed. How dangerous can this become in the short term, and to which extent is the fear-mongering of the Ukrainian administration justified by the real situation on the ground? NATO, U.S. response On April 13, 2021, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg invited Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba to the NATO headquarters for a meeting of the NATO-Ukraine Commission on the security situation in Ukraine. Mr. Stoltenberg said, ‘Russia’s considerable military build-up is unjustified, unexplained, and deeply concerning.’ He underlined that NATO would continue to provide significant political and practical support to Ukraine. In turn, Mr. Kuleba made a strong statement that ‘the mistakes of 2014 must be avoided this time, so that Russia cannot catch anyone by surprise’. Besides powerful rhetoric from NATO, Ukraine seems to be desperate to receive more commitments and concrete actions. Dealing with Russia, a powerful and unpredictable neighbour, forces Kiev to rely on NATO/U.S. military support if Russia is to continue with its provocations. The question though is how far the NATO alliance can go in its support, given that Ukraine has not yet obtained membership. In June 2020, NATO recognised Ukraine as an Enhanced Opportunities Partner, along with Australia, Finland, Georgia, Jordan, and Sweden. This partnership aims to maintain and deepen cooperation between countries that have made significant contributions to the NATO-led missions and operations. The Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has also used the current tension as an opportunity to push for NATO membership, arguing that ‘this is the only way to end the war in Donbas’. Notably, the U.S., under the new administration, has taken a more resolute stance towards this conflict, unlike the predecessors of the U.S. President, Joe Biden. Mr. Biden seems to be less apprehensive about provoking Russia and is ready to support Ukraine militarily, if the need arises. The recent visit of the U.S. Secretary of State, Antony J. Blinken, to Kiev indicates the U.S.’s foreign policy priorities. The underlying rhetoric of this visit was to support the ‘independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine’. Support from Turkey On April 11, 2021, Mr. Zelensky visited Istanbul to mark the 10th anniversary of Ukraine’s strategic partnership with Turkey. This was also an opportunity for him to be reassured by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, that Turkey stands by Ukraine amidst the current tensions with Russia. Both leaders discussed the security issues in the Black Sea region. During the bilateral meeting, Mr. Zelensky emphasised that ‘the visions of both countries regarding geopolitical threats coincide with each other’. In other words, the visit was a diplomatic success for Ukraine as it had obtained the necessary guarantees from Turkey should tensions with Russia escalate. It is worth recalling that Turkey has not acted in synchrony with Russia during several conflicts, e.g., in Syria, Libya, and, most recently, in Nagorno-Karabakh. Russia’s moves So what is Russia’s end goal? Arguably, the cornerstone of the Russia-Ukraine conflict is insufficient communication, especially on the part of Vladimir Putin’s Russia. It is very difficult, if not impossible, to speculate on the overarching rationale behind Russia’s tactical decisions towards Ukraine. There are more questions than answers regarding the strategic calculus of the Russian administration. A deficit of explicit messages from Moscow creates room for misinterpretations and exaggerations on the part of Ukraine and its western supporters. This misunderstanding can be best illustrated by the Russian explanation of its recent ‘military build-up’ in western Russia. According to the Russian Defence Minister, Sergei Shoigu, it was just a ‘three-week drill’ meant to test combat readiness to respond to NATO’s threats. Russian President Vladmir Putin has been known for his geopolitical adventures, especially in West Asia. In the case of the eastern Ukraine, it is highly unlikely that he would be willing to make further territorial gains this time around. He possesses enough diplomatic (and pragmatic) skills not to indulge in yet another geopolitical endeavour, that might entail serious repercussions from the international community. Mr. Putin is aware of the ‘red line’ that should not be crossed. Hence, from the Russian perspective, the current ‘military build-up’ can be viewed as another round of muscle flexing and an attempt to perpetuate the narrative of a powerful and capable Russia. For a peaceful resolution All the stakeholders in the ongoing crisis should focus on establishing a constructive dialogue among themselves using clear and unambiguous language. The only way forward is to seek a peaceful resolution to the Russia-Ukraine conflict rather than exacerbating the reality and using quid pro quo tactics. Both countries do need support from the global community, but not in a military form. There is a need for a platform (similarly to the Minsk Agreements) that will facilitate negotiation, mutual consensus and possible compromises, as well as engagement with mediators. The long-term solution should be sought out in order to break the vicious cycle of animosity and misunderstanding. Tatiana Belousova is Assistant Professor, International Institute for Higher Education Research and Capacity Building (IIHEd), O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana. She also teaches the course on the ‘Evolution of the Post-Soviet Space’ at the Jindal School of International Affairs (JSIA)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-czar-of-brinkmanship-must-seek-peace/article34591118.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Repoliticise urban planning||In the last few decades, Tamil Nadu, the most urbanised among the major States, has lost its political vision in city planning. Housing policies and urban planning have been presented as a techno-bureaucratic exercise, preventing the political leadership from taking ownership and responsibility. In the process, the citizens find their needs unrepresented. With large urban projects on the anvil and the third master plan for Chennai on the drawing board, it is time for the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government to repoliticise planning and adopt a vision consistent with its people-friendly promises. Planning of the past and present For long, the State government stood apart with its innovative planning practices. In 1948, it produced a comprehensive housing report and impressive solutions for the housing shortage. As early as the 1960s, it created a comprehensive plan for Chennai. It set up the Slum Clearance Board in 1971, the first of its kind in India. The then DMK government adopted a radical policy to make the State slum-free. The iconic photograph of then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi taking a boat ride in the rejuvenated Cooum is a telling example of how urban development projects remained an essential part of the political agenda. Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa supported solar-powered greenhouse schemes for the rural poor. State leadership directly associated itself with planning policies, and building liveable cities was central to political action. What changed over time? First, policymakers depoliticised planning and presented it as a mere technical exercise of allocating resources such as land and money. They deployed what political scientists Matthew Flinders and Jim Buller describe as ‘institutional and preference-shaping tactics’ to achieve this. Institutions were created to give experts a longer rope, reduce political interference, and avoid short-term considerations in planning. However, they are meant to function within the parameters set by the elected political leadership. This appears increasingly absent in Tamil Nadu. As Flinders and Buller point out, using the ‘preference-shaping tactic’, institutions create a choiceless situation by offering the opinions of experts as the only solution. They exclude contesting views from public discussion. There is no political moderation of expert-driven agendas. While theorists may argue that depoliticisation improves efficiency, on the ground, as planning and policies keep failing, the credibility of politicians erodes significantly. A telling example of depoliticised planning is the Tamil Nadu Affordable Urban Housing and Habitat Policy, 2020. It thrives on ambiguity and opaqueness. It has reduced state role and allows the market to take care of low-income housing without providing any information on shortage, household incomes, and affordable housing prices. It remains silent on the numbers of households that cannot afford the housing supplied by the market. On the contrary, early plans, such as the 1948 report, offered empirical evidence, transparent assessment, and a clear political agenda. That report acknowledged that 75% of the population in Chennai belonged to the low-income group with an income of Rs. 50 or less a month. These families could not afford houses built by the market at the cost of Rs. 5,000. The government then took full charge of providing housing for lower-income households. Similarly, in 1971, the government admitted that the Housing Board had failed to deliver since it had diluted its mission by focusing on higher-income groups. The government created a separate board and invested its resources in low-income housing. In contrast, current policies do not disclose the conditions of housing and cities. They do not clearly commit to keeping the sale price of low-income housing within the affordable range in private projects that avail themselves of financial support from state-supported shelter funds. The case of the third master plan for Chennai appears no different. The activities have commenced without any political framework. Will the government agree if the planners again propose a market mechanism to allocate land use and resources? What outcomes do they want the plans to achieve? The way forward As economist Allan Drazen explains, the government must acknowledge the divergent sets of interests and choose the mechanism to negotiate them. Only political leadership can offer a widely accepted framework. The government must take ownership and ensure specific outcomes. The possibilities are merging the Housing Board, which increasingly functions as a developer, with the Slum Board; pooling all land and resources and using them only for low-income housing; enforcing wider consultation; moving away from conventional land use planning; and adopting strategic urban design projects to make spaces for people and safe streets. A. Srivathsan is a Professor at CEPT University. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/repoliticise-urban-planning/article34591124.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Engage with U.S. progressives||It is tempting to surmise the shift in the U.S.’s approach on providing COVID-19-related aid to India as well as on the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver on COVID-19 vaccines, drugs, therapeutics, and related technologies as being driven by the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with New Delhi. But it is more than just that. The development was a result of the determined push by some sections of the political and business class, civil society, and Indian Americans. Besides them, the progressives in the Democratic Party made a big difference. President Joe Biden called Prime Minister Narendra Modi in late April expressing the U.S.’s determination to be with India in its most difficult hour. To reduce the negative perception over Vice President Kamala Harris’ tepid response to the crisis in India, the administration arranged for her to address a diaspora event where she brought up her Indian roots and lamented over the deteriorating situation in the country. The responses by these top leaders to assuage the Indians and Indian Americans came at a time when a section was seeking to underscore New Delhi’s past folly of banking on Washington in times of need. Urging Biden to act Among the progressives who urged the President to act soon were Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, and Congressman Rohit ‘Ro’ Khanna, the Democratic vice chair of the Congressional India Caucus. Incidentally, while Ms. Jayapal’s comments on human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir annoyed New Delhi earlier, Mr. Khanna urged the Indian government to maintain democratic norms and allow peaceful protests by farmers, at a meeting of the leadership of the India Caucus with Indian Ambassador to the U.S., Taranjit Singh Sandhu. Irrespective of these positions, the progressives saw the aid and TRIPS waiver through a different prism. To contextualise the role of progressives, days ahead of the May 5 decision of the Biden administration on the TRIPS waiver, 110 members of the U.S. Congress wrote to President Biden urging him to support the waiver. The signatories included Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Khanna, and Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi who represents Illinois. At the same time, Senator Bernie Sanders and nine other Senators made a similar plea to the White House. Thus, the Biden administration’s decision on the waiver and the vaccines, characterised as courageous by many, was a result of the push by the progressives. Joining in this effort, the co-chair of the Congressional India Caucus, Brad Sherman, and over 50 colleagues wrote last week to President Biden seeking supply of specific items amid concern that as long the virus persists in India “there is the potential for additional variants that could pose a threat to a vaccinated America”. The overall approach is to work with India in its battle against the second wave and prepare for subsequent ones.  Not to be ignored The outreach by Mr. Sandhu and his South African counterpart to members of the U.S. Congress on the waiver notwithstanding, it is evident that the progressives have a grip on policymaking. Its members’ pronouncements on other issues that India finds unpalatable could happen again. But India will have to remain engaged with this section instead of offering a cold shoulder as it did in the recent past. As the adage goes, all politics is local. K.V. Prasad is a journalist and former Fulbright-APSA Fellow with the U.S. Congress||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/engage-with-us-progressives/article34591122.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Delete and control||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has finally dropped its espousal of convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) as treatment for moderate COVID-19 in its latest guidelines. In its guidelines of April 22, CPT was already on its last legs, with the advisory recommending that it is advisable only in early moderate disease, or within seven days of symptoms. These updates flow from periodic reviews of medicines and treatment protocol by a task force of doctors and experts of the ICMR. Practising doctors are not legally bound to follow these recommendations to the T but are expected to circumscribe their treatments within the guidelines. Last year, the ICMR, in one of the definitive clinical trials in the world, demonstrated that CPT neither saved lives nor improved patient outcomes but was equivocal about it in public. This gave leeway to some States, particularly the Delhi government, which openly disavowed the ICMR’s findings, encouraging several doctors to put the onus on hapless caregivers to source such plasma from those who had recovered from the illness. The clamour for plasma had birthed its own kind of ecosystem. There were apps designed to connect donors to recipients, an inevitable black market, and, if the plasma did not seem to be working, the tendency was to blame the quality of plasma rather than recognise the futility of the treatment. Last week, it took a letter by a clutch of concerned public health professionals to India’s Principal Scientific Adviser as well as results from a trial, published in The Lancet , spanning around 11,000 patients — that again found no benefit — to demote CPT. Further evidence is emerging that CPT may be contributing to the evolution of coronavirus mutations that, together, may have been the final nail in the coffin. However, this is not the end of the road for treatments with limited scientific basis finding a mention in the ICMR guidelines. Hydroxychloroquine and the anti-parasitic drug, ivermectin, continue to find a place for the treatment of mild disease despite a specific mention of “low certainty of evidence”. There is an argument that doctors, battling a disease that has so far defied a predictable treatment regime, cannot always observe the necessary clinical equipoise. Unlike doctors on the frontline, a collective of experts such as the ICMR taskforce, has the comfort and the distance to dispassionately assess evidence and be very specific with its recommendations. Publicising these at regular intervals serves to educate the public about the evolving nature of treatment and be better prepared as future patients and caregivers. This will work better towards easing the pressure on doctors as well as in improving trust in systems that are designed to offer the best possible expertise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/delete-and-control/article34591110.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Stormy start||Millions of people wearied by the onslaught of the coronavirus have had to contend with a furious tropical cyclone that has left a trail of death and destruction before making landfall in Gujarat. Cyclone Tauktae swelled into an extremely severe cyclonic storm, dumping enormous volumes of water all along the west coast, and caused loss of life in Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and Gujarat, before weakening overland. To thousands who had to be evacuated to safe locations, this year’s pre-monsoon season presented a double jeopardy, caught as they were between a fast-spreading virus variant and an unrelenting storm. Many coastal residents would have felt a sense of déjà vu , having gone through a similar experience last year, when the severe cyclonic storm, Nisarga, barrelled landwards from the Arabian Sea, pounding Alibaug in Maharashtra as it came ashore. The cyclones in both years spared densely populated Mumbai. The twin crises have, however, strained the capacities of multiple States, especially the coastal ones, although the impact of the storm was considerably mitigated by disaster response forces. Once again, the value of creating a trained cadre, supported by the defence forces in rescue and relief work, is seen. The heralding of the 2021 monsoon season by a cyclone comes as another reminder that the subcontinent is at the confluence of more frequent, extreme weather events originating in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea every year. How well India is prepared to handle cyclones depends on developing greater expertise in forecasting and disaster mitigation, and crafting policies to increase resilience among communities. Last year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) launched an impact-based cyclone warning system from the October-December season designed to reduce economic losses by focusing on districts and specific locations, and incorporating such factors as population, infrastructure, land use and settlements. The IMD also claimed that its accuracy of forecasts, for instance, in plotting landfall location, is now better. Together with ground mapping of vulnerabilities, this is a promising approach to avoid loss of life and destruction of property. The importance of precise early warnings cannot be overemphasised, considering that the Arabian Sea has emerged as a major source of severe cyclones, and their intensity is aggravated by long-term rise in sea surface temperatures linked to pollution over South Asia and its neighbourhood. Climate-proofing lives and dwellings is a high priority now, a task that warrants a multi-sectoral approach: to build sturdy homes of suitable design, create adequate storm shelters, provide accurate early warnings, and ensure financial protection against calamities through insurance for property and assets. Governments must rise up to the challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stormy-start/article34591111.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Preventing crime.||It is a debatable question how the criminal codes have succeeded in preventing crime in the world. One thing is obvious that criminal law only punishes people after they have committed the offence and the matter of detecting the real culprit is one of no little difficulty. But, even in countries where the whole moral order has been upset by external or internal shocks the remedy, as a writer in the “Science Siftings” says to be sure, does not lie in placing whole communities under virtual martial law in response to hysterical public opinion and shooting down people on suspicion. This is merely bringing about what may well be called police anarchy. “If we arrest wholesale and punish on suspicion, we are going to inflict such punishments upon the innocent, for whom legal procedure has built up — and justly — protective barriers. Men, even those guilty of crime, must be properly tried and duly convicted; and the moment we lower these standards and permit police dragnets to enmesh the innocent with the guilty, then we are reverting to primitive methods which civilisation has long discarded.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/preventing-crime/article34591119.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Diplomatic drive to expose Pak. guilt||New Delhi, May 18: As part of its general diplomatic drive to build up international opinion against Pakistan’s barbarous behaviour in East Bengal, India is deputing special emissaries to the more important world capitals to put across its point of view forcefully at the highest levels of Government. The idea is to explain personally to the heads of State and heads of Government — on a selective basis wherever it is possible to establish direct contact with the top men — the magnitude of the refugee problem and the inherent dangers of an Indo-Pakistan conflict, if the Yahya regime persists in its present policy of massacre and mass expulsions to alter the population balance in Pakistan. The high level contacts with various countries, which are in a position to exert pressure or exercise influence on Pakistan either through gentle arm-twisting or friendly persuasion, are intended to supplement the diplomatic efforts already being made by the Indian missions there to rebut the mischievous Pakistan propaganda that the so-called secessionist movement in East Bengal is of India’s creation — and that if in the bargain India has saddled itself with this refugee problem it has only to thank itself for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/diplomatic-drive-to-expose-pak-guilt/article34591120.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST Council to mull COVID relief: Govt.||Requests for relief from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on critical COVID-19 materials will be placed before the GST Council at its May 28 meeting, the Centre told the Delhi High Court, which had asked it to consider exempting the GST levied on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use. Stating it had an ‘open mind’ on all tax relief requests, the Finance Ministry, in a counter affidavit filed before the Bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh on Tuesday, argued that merely levying a reasonable GST rate on oxygen concentrators cannot be considered a violation of the Right to Life under Article 21 of the Constitution. “If the argument of the petitioner is accepted, then it will lead to absurd consequences and interpretations, wherein citizens will be seeking exemption from property tax, since housing is an essential facet of Right of Life... or exemption from taxes on several food items since Right to Food has been held by the Supreme Court to be a part of Right of Life under Article 21,” the Ministry submitted to the court. Judgment reserved The Court, which reserved its judgment following Tuesday’s proceedings assisted by Amicus Curiae Arvind Datar, had asked the Centre to drop the GST levy temporarily till the pandemic subsides. The petitioner in the case, a senior citizen getting a concentrator as a gift from a nephew abroad, had invoked Article 21 to challenge a May 1 notification that levied 12% GST on such imports from 28% earlier. ‘Parity to deter misuse’ “Significant relief has already been provided on personal imports of oxygen concentrators with reduction of duty incidence from 77% to 12%,” the Ministry said, adding that tax parity between commercial and personal imports would prevent misuse of the latter route. “It is felt that any person importing concentrator for personal use or has sources for receiving such supplies in gifts would be in better position to afford the nominal 12% GST as compared to others who source it through commercial channels,” the Ministry said, urging the Court to dismiss the petition. Since GST rates and general exemptions are prescribed on the recommendation of the GST Council, all the representations seeking GST relief shall be placed before the Council at its next meeting, the Ministry said. “The government is receptive to the needs of the citizens... The government has an open mind to all these requests (for tax relief and exemptions) and it would intervene for further concession, as necessary, in the present unprecedented and very dynamic situation to provide relief to the public, particularly those who are not in a position by themselves to afford the COVID relief supply,” the Ministry added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-council-to-mull-covid-relief-govt/article34591097.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tata Motors’ loss narrows to Rs. 7,585 cr. on improved sales||Tata Motors on Tuesday reported a narrowing of consolidated net loss to Rs. 7,585 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, aided by improved sales. The company had posted a consolidated net loss of Rs. 9,864 crore in the January-March period of 2019-20, Tata Motors said in a filing. Total income stood at Rs. 89,319 crore. It was Rs. 63,057 crore in the year-earlier period. The company’s British arm, Jaguar Land Rover reported a pre-tax loss of £952 million for the quarter owing to the £1.5 billion of exceptional charges. However, JLR clocked a 20.5% increase in revenue to £6.5 billion during the quarter led by China and the new Defender model. For FY21, JLR’s revenue was £19.7 billion. Commenting on JLR’s performance, company CEO Thierry Bollore said, “I have been encouraged by the company’s resilience and strong recovery during a uniquely challenging year.” On a standalone basis, it reported a net profit from continuing operations of Rs. 1,645.69 crore. It had reported a loss from continuing operations of Rs. 4,871.05 crore in the year-earlier period. Standalone total income was Rs. 20,305.9 crore as against Rs. 10,001.8 crore. On the outlook, it said while demand remains strong, the supply situation over the next few months may be adversely impacted by disruptions from lockdowns in India and semiconductor shortages globally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-loss-narrows-to-rs-7585-cr-on-improved-sales/article34591103.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Taxpayers fret over GST deadline relief||The relaxation in GST compliance timelines has left taxpayers puzzled as no extension has been granted beyond the May 20 due date for filing the GSTR-3B and remitting taxes, while the date for filing GSTR-1 required to claim input tax credits has been extended to May 26. Tax advisors said small and medium enterprises were likely to feel the pinch from this move since they may not be able to claim their complete input tax credits and could end up paying more tax. ‘Correctly compute ITC’ “Ideally, the due date for filing GSTR-3B should have been extended to a date after the due date of GSTR-1 enabling the recipient taxpayer to correctly compute and avail eligible input tax credit (ITC) while filing their GSTR-3B,” said Saloni Roy, senior director at Deloitte India. While this was unlikely to be a significant issue for large firms, it could pose liquidity issues for some small and medium enterprises, remarked Abhishek A. Rastogi, partner at Khaitan & Co. “It’s still not too late and perhaps, the government may extend the GSTR-3B deadline as well, or further relax interest applicability beyond 15 days for all categories,” he said.  Accountants are advising clients not to delay their GSTR-3B filings. “As far as GSTR-3B is concerned, there is no extension but there is a waiver of late fees by 15 days for taxpayers with turnover exceeding Rs. 5 crore and by 30 days for other taxpayers,” said Siddharth Surana, advisor - strategy and business transformation at RSM India, a tax consulting and audit services provider.  ‘Minor relief’ “Taxpayers should deposit the GST liability for April by May 20 to avoid interest liability. There is no waiver of interest in case of delay in payment of tax, though the interest rate has been reduced,” Mr. Surana underlined, terming the measures as ‘minor procedural relief’. In view of the second wave of the pandemic, on May 1, the government had notified some changes in the GST compliance norms as relief measures for industry, including more time to file some returns, waiving penalties for 15-30 days and reducing the interest on delayed tax payments in a graded manner. During the national lockdown last year, the government had provided a GSTR-3B compliance extension for May 2020, but this year, extension has been provided only for GSTR-1, Ms. Roy observed.  Taxpayers should deposit the GST liability for April by May 20 to avoid interest liabilitySiddharth SuranaRSM India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/taxpayers-fret-over-gst-deadline-relief/article34591090.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Google rolls out News Showcase in India||Google on Tuesday announced the roll-out of News Showcase in India with 30 news publishers, including national, regional and local news organisations. The News Showcase allows partnering publishers to curate content which is displayed as story panels on Google’s News and Discover platforms. The technology firm also pays the publishers to license their content, providing limited access to pay-walled content for readers. In India, Google has partnered with news organisations, including The Hindu Group, HT Digital Streams Ltd., The Indian Express Group, ABP LIVE, India TV, NDTV, Zee News, Amar Ujala, Deccan Herald, Punjab Kesari, The Telegraph India, IANS and ANI. Globally, more than 700 news publications have signed agreements for Google News Showcase in countries including Germany, Brazil, Canada, France, Japan, the U.K., Australia, Czechia, Italy and Argentina. “Today’s announcement comes at a particularly challenging moment in India, with Indians seeking out authoritative news and information as the COVID-19 crisis deepens,” said Brad Bender, VP, Product, News, Google.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-rolls-out-news-showcase-in-india/article34591098.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Tractor sales growth may ease to 3-5% in FY22’||Rising COVID-19 cases in rural areas amid the second wave of the pandemic, along with last year’s high-base effect may limit the growth of domestic tractor sales to 3-5% in FY22, according to Crisil Ratings. “The already high base of last fiscal and severity of the second wave preclude significant tractor volume growth this fiscal,” Gautam Shahi, director, Crisil Ratings Ltd., said, adding several States had imposed lockdowns and crucially, rural India was less insulated this time around. States such as Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, that account for over 50% of volumes, saw a surge in infections. “Growth in domestic tractor sales volume will be limited to 3-5% this fiscal, given the strong second wave of COVID-19 infections and rising cases in the hinterland, apart from the high-base effect of last fiscal,” the agency said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tractor-sales-growth-may-ease-to-3-5-in-fy22/article34591101.ece
19 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex rises to 2-month high as fresh cases slow||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty on Tuesday settled above the levels not seen in more than two months, as economic recovery hopes amid continuous decline in fresh COVID-19 cases further perked up investor sentiment. Recapturing the 50,000-level milestone, the BSE Sensex soared 612.60 points, or 1.24%, to settle at 50,193.33. This was the highest closing for the index since March 16. Similarly, the NSE Nifty went past the psychological 15,000-mark. At the closing bell, the NSE gauge quoted higher by 184.95 points, or 1.24 points, at 15,108.10 – the best closing since March 10. On the Sensex chart, M&M was the top gainer, rallying nearly 6%, followed by Bajaj Auto, Titan, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and L&T. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, ITC, Dr Reddy’s, SBI and HUL suffered losses. Sectorally, BSE auto, industrials, consumer durables, capital goods, power and utilities indices rallied up to 3.19%. Telecom and FMCG indices fell up to 1.66%. In the broader market, midcap and smallcap indices outperformed the benchmark by rallying as much as 1.87%. Largecap index rose 1.22%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-rises-to-2-month-high-as-fresh-cases-slow/article34591106.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Concessional duty: CBIC amends rules||Importers taking advantage of concessional rate of import duty will have to give prior information to the customs officers about goods being imported and also its estimated quantity and value, the CBIC has said. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended the Customs (Import of Goods at Concessional Rate of Duty) Amendment Rules, which lay down the procedures and manner in which an importer can avail the benefit of a concessional duty on import of goods required for domestic production of goods or providing services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/concessional-duty-cbic-amends-rules/article34591104.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Mphasis units to hire 800 in 3 countries||Mphasis announced plans to open development centres in Mexico, Costa Rica and Taiwan. Together, these new centres will create about 800 jobs in the next six months, the company said in a statement on Tuesday. The facilities would focus on large-scale operations in application development, support, testing, operations and financial analysis, and offer nearshore services, it said. CEO Nitin Rakesh said the company had seen ‘tremendous’ growth in the hi-tech business in recent years. “To enhance support to strategic clients, we have been investing not only in building deeper expertise but also in increasing geographical coverage in regions that are strategic for our clients.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mphasis-units-to-hire-800-in-3-countries/article34591094.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Intra-circle roaming starts in cyclone-hit States: COAI||Telecom operators said intra-circle roaming has been initiated in States impacted by Cyclone Tauktae. This will allow mobile subscribers to switch their service provider in case their native service provider has been affected. “Intra-circle roaming has been initiated so that mobile phone users can easily switch between TSPs in case their native TSP is affected ,” said S.P. Kochhar, DG, COAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/intra-circle-roaming-starts-in-cyclone-hit-states-coai/article34591099.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Canara Bank||Canara Bank reported fourth quarter net profit of Rs. 1,010 crore as against a net loss of Rs. 6,567 crore in the corresponding year-earlier period. The bank also posted a net profit of Rs. 2,557 crore for FY21 over a net loss of Rs. 5,838 crore in the previous year. Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) stood at Rs. 60,288 crore as of March 31, while net NPA was Rs. 24,442 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/canara-bank/article34591092.ece
19 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Credit Suisse to hire over 1,000 techies this year in India||Credit Suisse on Tuesday said it has plans to hire more than 1,000 information technology employees in India this year to fuel the Swiss bank’s digital aspirations. The new hires would comprise developers and engineers who have capabilities in cybersecurity, data analytics, cloud, API development, machine learning and artificial intelligence, the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/credit-suisse-to-hire-over-1000-techies-this-year-in-india/article34591093.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Air traffic declines 27% in April: DGCA||Domestic air-passenger trips in April registered a decline of 27% compared with the previous month at a time when various parts of the country witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases. According to DGCA’s monthly report, domestic carriers together registered 57.25 lakh travellers in April compared with 78.22 lakh in March. Passenger load factor also showed a declining trend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/air-traffic-declines-27-in-april-dgca/article34591095.ece
19 May 2021||Johannesburg,||De Villiers won’t come out of retirement: Cricket South Africa||Cricket South Africa on Tuesday announced that AB de Villiers won’t be coming out of international retirement ahead of the upcoming T20 World Cup in India, saying that he has decided “once and for all” that his mind will not change. CSA said that “discussions with AB de Villiers have concluded with the batsman deciding once and for all, that his retirement will remain final.” The statement was reportedly made after CSA announced the team for a tour of the West Indies. Tuesday's statement gave no further details of events or discussions that led to de Villiers’ decision. Surprise In May 2018, de Villiers had announced his retirement from international cricket. He played 114 Tests, 228 ODIs and 78 T20Is before announcing his surprise retirement. However, last month the 37-year-old versatile cricketer said it would be “fantastic” to make an international comeback ahead of the T20 World Cup. The T20 World Cup is scheduled to be held in India in October-November. Victor Mpitsang, convener of selectors, said: “There has been a lot of speculation, especially given how he has been playing in the IPL. Mark Boucher was very clear that he was having conversations with AB. "Obviously he would always add value in whatever format he was playing, especially in a T20 World Cup, but I have not spoken to him personally and I have to respect the fact that he retired from international cricket."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-villiers-wont-come-out-of-retirement-cricket-south-africa/article34591216.ece
19 May 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Tough times, but we are ready for the task’||The news of human suffering and death caused by the pandemic is having a traumatic effect on the minds but, as a professional footballer, one has to stay focused on giving his best for the country. Big challenge Anirudh Thapa, a key midfielder of the Indian National team, said this while adding that the news of losing close ones to COVID-19 is creating an atmosphere of despair all around. This remains a big challenge every player who has got a call-up to represent his country in the upcoming 2022 World Cup and 2023 Asian Cup qualifiers in Qatar. The National team is flying off to Doha on Wednesday to play the remainder of the qualifiers — which are against host Qatar (June 3), Bangladesh (June 7) and Afghanistan (June 15).  “The last few weeks have been difficult with the COVID situation because the infections are increasing and we keep getting news that some of our close ones have passed away. It is difficult to focus because there is a fear that we and our family members might also get infected with the virus. Everyone is concerned about that and we are trying to stay focused and follow the protocols specified to us by our coaches,” Thapa said during an interaction. Thapa, who is considered one of the best midfielders currently in business, said the players picked by head coach Igor Stimac for the upcoming assignment have been kept mentally fit by special modules created by the strength and conditioning coach Luka Radman (popular with the players as Professor). “We were all aware that we had the matches in June and we kept preparing for it in the confines of our home. We were following the programmes that Professor was sending us in the group in order to stay fit and keep ourselves ready for the upcoming assignments,” Thapa said. When asked about the reason behind India’s recent 6-0 debacle against UAE in a friendly in March, Thapa said it may have happened because Stimac was testing the youngsters ahead of the big assignments. “What he (Stimac) is now trying to do is find the best players for each position. That is the reason why he gave debut to so many players in the last round of friendlies India played in Dubai. “There has been a lot of disruptions owing to the pandemic but when the team — the seniors and the newcomers — comes together we are sure to get the best result for our country,” said Thapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tough-times-but-we-are-ready-for-the-task/article34591301.ece
19 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Vemuri Sudhakar succumbs to COVID||Vemuri Sudhakar, a respected badminton official across the world, succumbed to COVID-19 here on Tuesday. He was 70 and is survived by wife and two daughters. Sudhakar officiated in three Olympics (1992-2000) besides many World championships, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and many national champions for close to four decades. Dronacharya S.M. Arif, who shared a special bond with Sudhakar, called it a huge personal loss. “I always shared my thoughts not just on the game but about many aspects of life, too, with him. He was such a wonderful personality,” he told The Hindu . Chief national coach P. Gopi Chand and the Badminton Association of Telangana president K.T. Rama Rao also expressed their condolences. “A much loved, revered and respected figure in the Indian badminton fraternity left us this morning. A colossal figure in the badminton circuit in Hyderabad, he passed on his wisdom to several upcoming players and officials,” Gopi said. “Sudhakar leaves an unparalleled legacy of integrity, honesty and commitment to the sport of badminton, and he will remain irreplaceable in the hearts of those who knew and loved him,” he said. Senior BAI official and former AP Badminton Association secretary K.Ch. Punnaiah Choudhary said Sudhakar was largely responsible in ensuring there is a pool of qualified technical officials by conducting various seminars and clinics. Former national doubles champion Manoj Kumar, who broke the news to the media, said he missed a personal friend. “Right from my playing days, he has been a great friend and guide,” Manoj said. Former World championship women’s doubles bronze medallist G. Jwala — who Sudhakar wrote to, calling her his “favourite child” from the hospital bed — said the badminton fraternity lost a gem. “It is the end of an era. We miss you uncle,” a visibly emotional Jwala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vemuri-sudhakar-succumbs-to-covid/article34591291.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||History repeats itself: first for the men, then for the women||In his letter of resignation from the Committee of Administrators, Ramachandra Guha emphasised the bane of the ‘superstar’ culture in Indian cricket. It was no surprise. Captains have decided whom they want as coaches, senior players have often been a law unto themselves, and former players have sometimes wielded an unhealthy influence. So it shouldn’t come as a shock when similar charges are laid at the door of women’s cricket too. Perhaps it has something to do with our sporting DNA. Raman’s letter In his letter to the President of the Board of Control for Cricket in India following his removal as head coach, Woorkeri Raman said, “If some people in the system have been highly accommodative to the extent of being seemingly obsequious to an accomplished performer for years on end — and if that performer feels constrained to adhere to the culture — then I would leave it to you to decide if the coach was asking for too much.” That’s a roundabout way of putting it, but the message is clear: there’s a superstar culture here, and we should do something about it. Fifth coach in four years Ramesh Powar is the fifth head coach in four years (he was also the third); four were sacked owing mainly to player pressure. In this period, India made it to the final of two World Cups — the ODI (2017) and T20 (2020). Yet if there is some insecurity in the team, it is partly owing to this musical chairs with coaches, partly because there have been no annual contracts since September 2020, and mainly because the BCCI has done little to clear the uncertainties. The BCCI, which took over the administration of the women’s game in 2006, has raised its profile but fails to bring to it the passion and seriousness which it brings to the men’s game. When Powar was first removed from his post, Madan Lal was quoted as saying: “If you keep removing coaches, it would be better to keep a dummy who listens and acts according to the players. The coach is part of the team and takes decisions which should be abided by the team.” Madan Lal is now part of the Cricket Advisory Committee that removed Raman after a short period in the job. The last woman head coach Poornima Rau was sacked in 2017. She had this to say in a recent interview: “Put the players in their places, put the former cricketers in their places…Whoever these superstars are, they just build a wall around them, have agendas, there is a constant bickering within the team.” Culture issue Tushar Arothe, who succeeded Rau, said later, “There is a lot of politics in women’s cricket. What I have seen from very close quarters in the team is that, there is a lot of appeasement going on. I think the blame falls on former women players. Also, it is about the culture in the team. If a player doesn’t get along well with the coach, the latter is changed at their behest. Former players should strictly stay away…” As coaches came and went, the team culture has remained the same. And it has been ignored. Interestingly, Powar was replaced in December 2018 after a public spat with current ODI captain and legend of the Indian game, Mithali Raj who accused him of bias. Powar said Raj had been blackmailing the team by threatening to retire if she wasn’t asked to open the batting. As is usual in such cases, the question of patriotism also figured. It is important now that they clear the air to ensure India carry no baggage going into the new season. Indian officials are well known for their balancing act when it suits them, sometimes using a coach to keep the captain in check, and sometimes the reverse. The next World Cup is in 2022, and Mithali Raj has said it will be her last. She will be 40 at the end of next year. For years Indian women’s cricket was in the shadows, with the occasional world class player being feted. Then came that terrific performance at the 2017 World Cup which was telecast live, and along with that came the commercial opportunities, invitations to play in domestic T20 tournaments abroad, financial contracts and a serious upgrade in status. Similar upgrade That has to be matched by a similar upgrade in BCCI’s response to the change. It can begin by talking to the last four coaches. To understand the superstar culture better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/history-repeats-itself-first-for-the-men-then-for-the-women/article34591212.ece
19 May 2021||GENEVA,||Federer crashes out at Geneva||Roger Federer lost his comeback match after two months away, falling to Pablo Andujar 6-4, 4-6, 6-4 in the second round of the Geneva Open on Tuesday. Federer's first match on clay in almost two years kept him on court for almost two hours in only his second tournament since the 2020 Australian Open. The past 15 months have included two surgeries on his right knee. In the decisive set, the top-seeded Federer forced a service break and led 4-2 before Andujar rallied. The former saved two match points on his serve, but the third ended with a wayward forehand under pressure on the baseline. Andujar put his hands to his head after clinching victory and exchanged an almost apologetic smile with Federer at the net. The 39-year-old Federer and 35-year-old Andujar were playing each other for the first time on the Tour. Before going on court, Federer was a spectator for part of the ATP Tour debut of perhaps the best prospect in Swiss men's tennis since his own rise in the 1990s. With Federer watching some of the match, 18-year-old Dominic Stephan Stricker beat former U.S. Open champion Marin Cilic 7-6(5), 6-1 in the first round. The Swiss left-hander, who served nine aces, broke Cilic's serve four times and was broken twice.  The results:   Second round: Pablo Andujar bt Roger Federer 6-4, 4-6, 6-4; First round: Marco Cecchinato bt Stefano Travaglia 6-3, 3-0, retd.; Feliciano Lopez bt Daniel Altmaier 7-6(6), 6-4; Marton Fucsovics bt Henri Laaksonen 7-5, 7-5; Ilya Ivashka bt Fernando Verdasco 7-6(5), 6-4; Pablo Cuevas bt Reilly Opelka 7-6(5), 6-2; Dominic Stephan Stricker bt Marin Cilic 7-6(5), 6-1; Fabio Fognini bt Guido Pella 6-2, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-crashes-out-at-geneva/article34591227.ece
19 May 2021||Chennai,||We need to reach out and help: Dinesh Karthik||These are difficult times and questions are raised about our ability to connect with those who are waging a battle for their very life. International cricketer Dinesh Karthik has been moved by the tragic stories from the Covid-19 second wave. And the wicket-keeper batsman has been doing his bit quietly. Lot of happiness Just recently he gave cheques to two families devastated by Covid. “It gave me a lot of happiness. The fact that I can lessen their suffering, make a difference to their lives,” he told The Hindu on Tuesday. And then, he has been constantly receiving requests for help. “When I was in Delhi there was one patient who was desperate for a hospital bed,” he said. Karthik called his contacts and managed to find a bed. “The satisfaction from helping someone was immense.” The Tamil Nadu skipper then helped a Covid patient seeking oxygen in Chennai. “The joy you get out of helping those in need in these times equals your every achievement on the cricket field,” he said. Yet, there have been occasions when Karthik had to meet with disappointments. When a request for Remdesivir came, he tried every source, but could not find the injection. Pales in comparison The pandemic, Karthik said, enabled him to see things in the right perspective. “Some of the things we work or fight for pales in comparison to this life and death duel. Before the pandemic broke out, we took our freedom for granted. Now we know how precious it was.” Seeing the poor suffering, he said, “Makes us realise how privileged we are. So we need to reach out.” Karthik is sure India would eventually win against Covid. “We are a tough, durable country.”  The joy you get out of helping those in need in these times equals your every achievement on the cricket field||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-need-to-reach-out-and-help-dinesh-karthik/article34591294.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manas Dhamne trains with Riccardo Piatti||Manas Dhamne is thrilled to be training with one of the leading coaches of the world, Riccardo Piatti, in Italy. But, he is disappointed that he has to withdraw from the Indian team for the Asia-Oceania World junior tennis event in Kazakhstan in June. “Manas felt sad as the Kazakh travel did not work out,” said dad Manoj Dhamne. After training for a week last year with Piatti, who has coached Novak Djokovic, Ivan Ljubicic, Richard Gasquet and Milos Raonic among others, Dhamne had to wait for long to return to Italy owing to the pandemic. S. Vasudevan, a member of the Indian team that reached the Davis Cup final in 1987, helped Dhamne to get to Switzerland, train for a week, play an ITF junior tournament and then move to the Piatti base. “Tennis-wise he has a great potential to become a world-class player. He beat an 18-year old in the ITF junior event in Sierre. “He is for sure in great hands with Piatti. I really hope he will turn out to be a champion player,” said Vasudevan when contacted at his base in Switzerland. Impressive Dhamne also impressed at the Swiss Tennis Academy in Biel. “Dhamne is a very dedicated boy. He listens carefully and brings it on the pitch. He hits the ball very clean and can also accelerate well. He is already very big for a 13-year-old,” said Peter Frey of the academy, which has good coaches and “world-class fitness trainers”. Dhamne did use many months of waiting time to compete in the ITF junior tournaments in India, apart from finishing runner-up in the National under-18 championship. The high standards of physical fitness, demanded by tennis in Europe, will take some time for Dhamne to acquire. After Dhamne won the under-12 singles title and finished runner-up in doubles in the Eddie Herr championship in Florida in 2019, the International Management Group (IMG) extended support to him to train in Europe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manas-dhamne-trains-with-riccardo-piatti/article34591503.ece
19 May 2021||London,||Harry Kane wants to leave Spurs: reports||Tottenham Hotspur striker Harry Kane has informed the Premier League club of his desire to leave this summer, with the England international looking to resolve his future before next month’s European Championship, Sky Sports reported on Monday. Kane said last month he was frustrated at not winning trophies with Spurs even as the prolific striker continues to win individual accolades.  Kane has a contract with the north London club until 2024, which could prove to be a stumbling block for a club looking to sign the 27-year-old who is valued at over £100 million. Sky reported Manchester United, Manchester City and Chelsea have been in touch with Kane’s representatives. Prolific  With 22 strikes and 13 assists, no player has been involved in more Premier League goals than Kane this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harry-kane-wants-to-leave-spurs-reports/article34591861.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||BWF to vote on proposed five-game scoring system||Replacing the current three-game format with a best-of-five scoring system will once again be put to vote by the Badminton World Federation at its AGM on Saturday. The BWF, under president Poul Erik Hoyer Larsen, had floated the idea in 2014 for the first time but it didn’t receive the support. The 11x5 system, couldn’t gather enough votes during last year’s AGM. This time, a joint proposal to “amend the Laws of Badminton relating to the Scoring System” came from Badminton Indonesia and Badminton Maldives. “One of the key topics that will be voted on by the Membership is the proposal... to amend the Laws of Badminton relating to the Scoring System,” BWF said on Tuesday.    According to the BWF strategic plan, it wants to “include new and innovative elements of the game to ensure this continues to excite, engage and enhance global fan base”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bwf-to-vote-on-proposed-five-game-scoring-system/article34591500.ece
19 May 2021||Hyderabad,||Sports Ministry sanctions aid to Joseph James||Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports has sanctioned Rs. 2.5 lakh to Joseph James, former Indian powerlifting coach and double gold medallist in Asian championships under the jointly collaborated initiative of Sports Authority of India, the IOA and the MYAS to support former international athletes and coaches during the current pandemic under the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay’s National Welfare for Sportspersons scheme. The 55-year-old former powerlifting champion, now working as a Physical Education Teacher in St. Michael’s School and staying in Hyderabad for the last 35 years, developed serious breathing issues on April 24 after contracting COVID-19. His oxygen levels were low and the family had to admit him at the Vivekananda Hospital in the City. He was in ICU for about a week and was discharged on May 5. He is stable now and under home quarantine. James informed The Hindu that the Telangana Olympic Association treasurer K. Maheshwar got in touch with them and initiated the procedure for this financial assistance. “We are grateful to the TOA general secretary K. Jagdishwar Yadav for following up our case with the Centre and ensuring that I got this financial assistance,” he said.  “On behalf of the entire TOA and the entire sports fraternity of Telangana, we are grateful to the MYAS, SAI and the IOA for their gesture,” Mr. Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-ministry-sanctions-aid-to-joseph-james/article34591795.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Received death threats after 2011 WC: du Plessis||Former South Africa skipper Faf du Plessis has revealed that he and his wife received death threats after a mix-up with AB de Villiers led to the latter’s run out during their 2011 World Cup semifinal defeat to New Zealand. “I received death threats after that (match). My wife received death threats. We turned on social media and we were blown away. It became very personal. There were some very offensive things said that I won’t repeat,” du Plessis was quoted as saying by ESPNcricinfo . “It makes you introverted towards people and you put a shield up. All players go through this and it forces us to keep our circles very small. “It’s why I’ve worked so hard on creating a safe space within our camp,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/received-death-threats-after-2011-wc-du-plessis/article34591213.ece
19 May 2021||SYDNEY,||BCCI paying quarantine bill of Australians: CA||The BCCI is footing the bill for the 14-day quarantine of Australian IPL players, who have arrived here from Maldives, Cricket Australia interim CEO Nick Hockley said on Tuesday. The players had to spend 10 days in Maldives due to a ban imposed by the Australian government on travellers from COVID-ravaged India till May 15. Hockley said the BCCI has kept its promise and funded the whole operation. “Yes,” said Hockley when asked if BCCI was paying for the mandatory quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-paying-quarantine-bill-of-australians-ca/article34591214.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Indian women to play a Test in Australia||Indian women’s cricket team is set to play a Test in Australia after playing one in England next month. India, which plays its first Test in seven years from June 16 in England, will play another one during the tour of Australia. They will also play ODI and T20I matches Down Under. India last played a Test against Australia in 2006. “England and Australia are the two teams that still play Tests and going forward you will see a Test slotted in when they visit India or when India tour the two countries,” a BCCI official said. The Indian squad assembles in Mumbai on Wednesday ahead of the UK tour comprising a Test in Bristol, followed by three ODIs and as many T20Is. The team will quarantine for two weeks before flying out to UK with the men’s team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-to-play-a-test-in-australia/article34591217.ece
19 May 2021||ST. JOHN’S,||Hetmyer, Russell return to West Indies squad||Andre Russell, Chris Gayle, and Shimron Hetmyer were on Tuesday named in West Indies’ provisional 18-man squad for the five-match T20 International home series against South Africa, Australia and Pakistan. Russell and Hetmyer last played in 2020 while Gayle was part of the series against Sri Lanka in March. Sheldon Cottrell, Hetmyer, Russell, Oshane Thomas and Hayden Walsh Jr. return alongside the majority of the squad which featured in the 2-1 victory against Sri Lanka.  The squad:   Kieron Pollard (captain), Nicholas Pooran, Fabian Allen, Dwayne Bravo, Sheldon Cottrell, Fidel Edwards, Andre Fletcher, Chris Gayle, Shimron Hetmyer, Jason Holder, Akeal Hosein, Evin Lewis, Obec McCoy, Andre Russell, Lendl Simmons, Kevin Sinclair, Oshane Thomas, and Hayden Walsh Jr.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hetmyer-russell-return-to-west-indies-squad/article34591220.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punia loses her mother||Priya Punia, who is part of India’s UK-bound women’s cricket squad, has lost her mother to COVID-19. The 24-year-old posted on the social media after her mother succumbed to the virus. “Today I realised why you always told me to be strong. You knew that one day I would need the strength to bear the loss of yours. I miss you mom! No matter the distance I know you are always there with me. My guiding star, my mom. Love you always,” Priya wrote on Instagram. “Please follow the rules and take precautions. This virus is very dangerous,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punia-loses-her-mother/article34591221.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Saha tests negative, available for Eng. tour||Wicketkeeper-batsman Wriddhiman Saha has recovered from COVID-19 and will be available for India's tour of England next month. Saha has reached his home in Kolkata after completing a fortnight-long quarantine at a Delhi hotel. He was picked for the England-bound squad subject to fitness. The 36-year-old was among the players who contracted the virus during the IPL. Saha needs another negative RT-PCR test before he joins the pre-departure bio-bubble in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saha-tests-negative-available-for-eng-tour/article34591225.ece
19 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Top boxers for Asian meet||The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) on Tuesday announced full strength men and women squads for the Asian championships to be held in Dubai from May 24 to June 1.  The squads:   Men: Vinod Tanwar (49kg), Amit Panghal (52kg), Mohammad Hussamuddin (56kg), Varinder Singh (60kg), Shiva Thapa (64kg), Vikas Krishan (69kg), Ashish Kumar (75kg), Sumit Sangwan (81kg), Sanjeet (91kg) and Narender (+91kg).       Women: Monika (48kg), M.C. Mary Kom (51kg), Sakshi (54kg), Jasmine (57kg), Simranjit Kaur (60kg), Lalbuatsaihi (64kg), Lovlina Borgohain (69kg), Pooja Rani (75kg), Saweety (81kg) and Anupama (+81kg) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-boxers-for-asian-meet/article34591292.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||NRAI gets into Esport||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI), in collaboration with the Mobile Premier League (MPL), will release a mobile version of non-violent shooting game, with ISSF style trap and skeet formats, on August 15. This venture has been triggered by the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) collaboration with five international sports federations — baseball, cycling, rowing, sailing and motorsport — to launch the inaugural Olympic Virtual Series (OVS) in the run-up to the Tokyo Games. “We welcome the IOC’s move to introduce virtual Esport versions of real world physical sport. “We are sure this will encourage people to take up these sports virtually and potentially chart a way for them to emerge as champions in the physical sport,” said NRAI president Raninder Singh. Welcoming the drive, Gagan Narang said: “Technology is increasingly playing an important role in improving player performances, and amplifying the experience. This initiative will critically increase fan awareness about competitive sports.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nrai-gets-into-esport/article34591302.ece
19 May 2021||LONDON,||Robinson and Bracey named for NZ Tests||Gloucestershire wicketkeeper-batsman James Bracey and Sussex seam bowler Ollie Robinson were named in England’s Test cricket squad for the first time on Tuesday for next month’s two-match series against New Zealand. Bracey has scored 478 County championship runs this season at 53, while Robinson has taken 29 wickets at 14. Bracey and Robinson were touring reserves for England’s winter Test programmes in Sri Lanka and India, and were part of the extended squads for last year’s behind-closed-doors series against West Indies and Pakistan.  The squad: Joe Root (Capt.), James Anderson, James Bracey, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Zak Crawley, Ben Foakes, Dan Lawrence, Jack Leach, Craig Overton, Ollie Pope, Ollie Robinson, Dom Sibley, Olly Stone and Mark Wood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/robinson-and-bracey-named-for-nz-tests/article34591228.ece
19 May 2021||LONDON,||Cantona in EPL Hall of Fame||Former Manchester United forward Eric Cantona became the third player to be inducted into the Premier League’s Hall of Fame, after former Newcastle United striker Alan Shearer and ex-Arsenal forward Thierry Henry, the league said on Tuesday. Cantona won four league titles in five seasons at United, scoring 70 goals in 156 league appearances for the Old Trafford club. The Frenchman, who also won the 1991-92 First Division title with Leeds United, retired in May 1997 aged 30. “I am very happy and very proud,” Cantona told Premier League website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cantona-in-epl-hall-of-fame/article34591295.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Birth of Vamana||Lord Narayana is born to Aditi and sage Kashyapa, after Aditi’s diligent observance of payo vrata. Srimad Bhagavatam describes His appearance at the time of birth, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. He was born with four hands, holding the conch, discus, mace and a lotus flower. He was dark-hued. He had a lotus-like face. He had earrings in his ears. The Srivatsa could be seen on His chest. His arms were adorned with bangles. His shoulders had ornaments too. He had on His head, a crown studded with gems. He had anklets on His feet. He was wearing the vanamala. The flowers in this garland attracted bees, which were buzzing around the flowers. He also had the Kaustubha. He was born in the month of Sraavana. His star was Sravana. The muhurtha in which He was born was known as Abhijit. The tithi was Dvadasi. This Dvadasai is known as Vijaya Dvadasi. He was born during the waxing phase of the moon. When He was born, musical instruments could be heard. Apsara damsels danced. Gandharvas sang. Kinnaras, Suparna (Garuda), Yakshas, sages and devas all gathered in joy, and danced and sang. Flowers fell on Aditi’s ashram. Even as Aditi and Kashyapa were watching their son, He assumed the form of a Brahmachari. Sages performed upanayana for Him. Surya taught Him the Gayatri, Brihaspati gave the sacred thread. Kashyapa gave the girdle known as maunji, made of munja grass. The moon gave him the danda (the staff). Aditi gave Him a loin cloth. Brahma gave Him a kamandala (water jar). The Saptarishis gave Him darbha grass. Kubera gave Him the bhiksha vessel. Bhiksha was given to Him by Uma Devi. After His Upanayana, Vamana did a homa, after cleaning the place, and placing darbha grass in the four corners of the chosen place. He then did samita daana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/birth-of-vamana/article34591175.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 07:41 IST,||Sudoku — May 19, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-19-2021/article34591996.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Heart on your sleeve||The planet pays a heavy price for the clothes we wear, whether it is a pair of jeans, a brightly-dyed silk scarf, or man-made fabrics. Fashion For Good, a social enterprise for fashion and textile innovation based out of Amsterdam, has been working on sustainability in the global fashion industry. Launched in 2017, by The Laudes Foundation, Fashion For Good brings together various brands to usher change into one of the most polluting industries. “The Laudes Foundation understood that it had to be a collaborative effort as a single brand would not be able to bring about this change within their supply chains on their own,” says Priyanka Khanna, head of Fashion For Good’s Asia programme. Fashion For Good realised that a lot of technological innovations with the potential to transform the industry, were coming from universities and startups. It also found the need to document and amalgamate the information and knowledge it was generating. On Rokin, a street in central Amsterdam, stands a heritage building which has been converted into offices, a sustainable apparel community, and a museum which is open for virtual tours at fashionforgood.com . Every year Fashion For Good holds an exhibition based on different challenges of the industry. This year, there were three from India, in a show titled ‘Grow’, focussing on biomaterials. These are their stories:   The biggest grouse against the fashion industry is the volume of effluents generated by dyeing units. Now, Deven Supercriticals has found a way to dye textiles without using water. Supercritical fluid is any material above its critical pressure and temperature. “When carbon dioxide goes above its critical temperature, it works like a solvent. It is no longer a gas and can be used instead of water to dissolve dyes,” says Dr Swapneshu Baser, founder of Deven Supercriticals in Mumbai. The dye is infused into fabrics as opposed to being ‘coated on’ in traditional methods. This results in an improved quality of textiles with brighter, sharper, and longer lasting colours in uniform shades. “There is another industry-related application for supercritical fluids,” says Baser. Fibre can be extracted by crushing plastic bottles and while it partially solves the problem of solid waste by recycling bottles, the dyes needed to colour this fabric are again water based. “However, if you make the fibre, create the fabric, and then use this waterless technology for dyeing, then it becomes end-to-end green technology,” he says, adding conventional dyes can be used in this process too.    Most people think of hemp as contraband. “In reality, industrial hemp is an all-rounder,” says Raghavendra Singh, co-founder of Chlorohemp, a startup working to commercialise the industrial hemp value chain in India, and also on developing a database on Indian hemp varieties. “We aim to do that by developing large-scale integrated hemp processing units in India as we are lagging behind many countries in this area,” he says. The cultivation of industrial hemp in India was only permitted from 2018. Communities in the Himalayan regions already use hemp fibre to make ropes, gunny bags, jackets and the like. Fabric made of hemp is anti-bacterial, strong and breathable, making it suitable for both summer and winter. Through a process of decortication (removal of the outer layer) and degumming, fibre is procured and spun into yarn at spinning mills. Based out of Uttrakhand and Himachal Pradesh, Chlorohemp works with local farmers to extract hemp fibre. Strands of hemp are longer than cotton or other fibres and need to be processed in specific spinning mills and Chlorohemp supplies global standard hemp fibres ready for spinning, to an international market.” Graviky Labs create ink out of carbon emissions. “We at Graviky Labs turn pollution back into fashion,” says Anirudh Sharma, the founder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/heart-on-your-sleeve/article34591412.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||When healers need healing||Earlier this month Shalini Anant, an Udaipur-based psychotherapist, posted a message on Facebook in memory of fellow therapist Lovepreen Kaur, who had died after a COVID-19 infection. “You have taken a piece of my heart with you…,” it began emotionally. “She was a friend, a lovely human being, a wonderful therapist, a constant learner. It was so sudden; she was so young — just 41,” says Anant over a phone call. She took a break from taking on clients over the next few days, to process her loss. Mental health professionals are burdened with collective grief, personal losses, struggles with COVID-19 and care-giving, the need to listen and partner with clients’ heightened emotions, and longer work hours for less money. Many are doing pro bono work, extending their hours, or are offering a reduced fee, with the understanding that people have lost jobs and need their support now more than ever before. They have been trained to be resilient and to be able to dip into a toolbox of self-care, but “a pandemic of this scale is going to affect us,” says Dr Alok Kulkarni, senior consultant psychiatrist, Manas Institute of Mental Health, Hubli. “The nature and scale has been tremendous.” His sister and brother-in-law are both doctors working on the frontline, and while he worries, he talks of resilience built over the years, by leaning on one another and personal routines such as exercise, mindfulness, and meditation. Grounding rituals such as dancing, a martial art, or gardening, help with the mind-body connect. Peer support is a tool that mental health professionals are used to turning to, and not just now, with many going into therapy themselves. “It is a practice, like doing yoga,” says Anant.  Coping with COVID-19  Shalini Masih, a psychotherapist from Delhi, is still recovering from the exhaustion that comes with COVID-19. Both she and her husband tested positive, and they needed to isolate from their toddler, who was ‘adult’ about it at first, and then one day, threw a tantrum, refusing to be touched by her nanny. “There was no choice but to put on a PPE suit, double mask and go out to hold her,” says Masih. After much coaxing, the little girl, through tears and screams, asked, “Where is my nest?”. Unusual, because it was not a part of her active vocabulary. “We may have talked about how a mama bird feeds the baby bird and pointed it out on a few occasions, but that was it,” says Masih, who carries her daughter’s words as a symbol of the pandemic: “It was a reminder of how unsafe she was feeling because of something that had significantly altered in her world. It is what many of us are going through, because we are seeing our nests crumble.” Masih records two subtle changes in the way relationships function now. The first is in the therapist-client interaction. “When I had COVID-19, my clients were all checking in on me, telling me to take steam or have coconut water and giloy,” she says of the care and concern that comes from human bonding. The second is the increasing reliance on community. It is the reason she is soon starting a weekly series of listening circles, where mental health professionals can sit down together (virtually for now) and talk. “People feel being in the profession means you have to be stoic, that you can’t have a breakdown, but to have a tantrum like my daughter did is a healthy thing, a way to express rage and helplessness, not just grief.” She hopes the listening circle will help with all this and more.  Frontline forward  Even as therapists help people grapple with spiralling COVID-19-related anxiety, the increase in PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder) and neurotic disorders such as OCD (obsessive compulsive disorder), there have been a few positives from the situation. Their own peer support groups have gone online, opening them to a pan-India or sometimes global participation. There is also a discussion on a professional will, a legal document that puts forth the future of treatment for a client, in case of the untimely death of a therapist. Then there are changes at the college level. “Students have understood that they have a voice,” says developmental psychologist Shraddha Kapoor, Associate Professor in the Human Development and Childhood Studies department, at Lady Irwin College in Delhi. “They will tell us, ‘We cannot cope.’ That they cannot make a deadline, and the teachers and the university are accepting it,” she says. She and the teachers of her college have left their DMs open for students to communicate with them and share personal challenges, or just to talk. About three of four “reach out” daily. “They will open the conversation with something about a project, test the waters, and then put out something personal,” says Kapoor. Recognising the age gap, Kapoor and her post graduate class did a presentation on how to be happy, as an extension of their study on counselling. The idea was to help students take back some control in the face of so much uncertainty, and to get younger students to reach out to future professionals who will work with children and families. It is the days to come that we need to keep our eye on, with just .75 psychiatrists (last count in 2019) per 1,00,000 people and no data available of numbers of other mental health professionals. It may be years before people begin to acknowledge the trauma they have been through, before they turn to professionals for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-healers-need-healing/article34591406.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Understanding photography||Chennai Photo Biennale is conducting two workshops on Essential Camera Skills, one for pre-teens and one for teenagers and adults. Mentored by Shannon Zirkle, this five-day online course will teach participants the essentials of using a DSLR or a mirrorless camera. Also learn how to shoot manually — which camera settings are appropriate under which conditions, how to stop action and show movement, or make the background fuzzy — as well as what it takes to compose and expose a photo properly. The mentor will give in-class and out-of-class activities for students to practice everything they learn during the workshop. After completing all essential camera skill classes, participants will receive a certificate of completion.  For pre-teens , ages 9 to 12, the fee is Rs. 4,000 per student, classes from May 17 to 21, 3 pm to 4 pm. Link to register: http://bit.ly/EssentialCameraSkills2  For teens and adults , the fee is Rs. 4,000, May 17 to 21, 4 pm to 5 pm. Link to register: http://bit.ly/EssentialCameraSkills1  Student members of CPB Prism can avail themselves of a 25% discount. For details, email sakshi@chennaiphotobiennale.com or call 7092681870.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/understanding-photography/article34591408.ece
19 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Congress MLA resigns from Rajasthan House||Senior Congress MLA and former Minister Hemaram Choudhary, who belongs to the camp of former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, on Tuesday resigned from the Rajasthan Assembly. Mr. Choudhary, 73, elected from the Gudamalani constituency in Barmer district, requested Speaker C.P. Joshi to accept his resignation “with immediate effect”. Mr. Choudhary was among the 18 MLAs of the ruling party who, along with Mr. Pilot, had staged a rebellion in July last year and created a political turmoil in the State. There was no immediate threat to the Congress government’s stability after Mr. Choudhary put in his papers, as the party had 105 MLAs in the 200-member Assembly and it also enjoyed the support of Independents and smaller parties. The six-time MLA from Gudamalani did not give any reason for his resignation, but his move was seen as an indication of the Pilot camp’s resentment over the Congress leadership’s failure to address its grievances. Nine months after the return of rebel leaders into the party fold, neither a Cabinet reshuffle has taken place nor have any political appointments been made. Mr. Choudhary said he would speak about the reason behind his resignation after it was accepted. “I had tendered my resignation earlier as well, but it was not accepted... I have been [an] MLA for two-and-a-half years, and have done enough politics,” Mr. Choudhary told presspersons on being asked about his decision to quit.  Earlier resignation Mr. Choudhary had earlier sought to resign in 2019 during the first session of the State Assembly after the government’s formation, reportedly because he was miffed at not being inducted into the State Cabinet. He withdrew his resignation after being pacified by senior leaders. He was the Revenue Minister in the previous Congress regime during 2008 to 2013. The Congress leader was unhappy that his recommendations for a transfer and posting of local officials were not accepted, while the requests from other MLAs were accommodated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-mla-resigns-from-rajasthan-house/article34591777.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 50,000 ex gratia to families that lost member to COVID-19, says CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the government will provide Rs. 50,000 ex gratia to every family that has lost a member due to COVID-19 and an additional Rs. 2,500/month if the deceased was the sole breadwinner. The government has also promised free education and financial assistance to children who have lost both their parents. Ration to non-cardholders It said it would also provide free ration to poor people in the Capital who do not have a ration card. “Due to COVID-19 and the lockdown, many homes are facing financial difficulties. People have lost their loved ones and sometimes, the sole earning member. I know many children who have lost both their parents We have been thinking about a plan on how to help people overcome this difficulty and have come up with four steps to provide relief during this tough time,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a digital address. He added that the measures will be passed by the Delhi Cabinet in the next few days. Mr. Kejriwal said the 72-lakh people in the Capital, who have a ration card, will get 5 kg ration every month from the State government as well an additional 5 kg ration under the scheme by the Prime Minister. “The Central government has fixed a quota for ration cardholders for every State and new ration card cannot be made right now. So, for those people, who are poor and do not possess a ration card, the Delhi government will provide ration to them as well if they demand. They do not need to submit any income certificate,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Providing details about the pension scheme for children, the Chief Minister said: “All those children who have lost both their parents or a parent to COVID, will be given Rs. 2,500 per month till the age of 25. They will also be provided with free education.” Offering his condolences to all those who have lost loved ones due to COVID-19, Mr. Kejriwal said it was his duty to take care of the two-crore people of Delhi that were his family during these troubled times. On where the government was getting the money to finance the four COVID-19 relief measures, Mr. Kejriwal said the people of Delhi had elected a government that was working efficiently and had saved money by avoiding unnecessary expenditure.  People who do not possess a ration card will be provided free supplies by the government. They do not need to submit any income certificate Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rs-50000-ex-gratia-to-families-that-lost-member-to-covid-19-says-cm/article34591441.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Food rights group welcomes free ration move||While terming Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement of free ration to non-cardholders as a “welcome move”, Anjali Bharadwaj of the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan said the government must act with urgency as the city already in the fifth week of lockdown. Stating that it was important the government shares details of the scheme soon, Ms. Bharadwaj said: “It is a welcome move, but the government must act with urgency. We are virtually in the fifth week of lockdown. Even today when the announcement was made, the details of the scheme were not shared. We have been getting so many SOS calls and it is practically impossible to help so many people.” Referring to the e-coupon system, which was implemented last year during lockdown for non-ration cardholders, Ms. Bharadwaj said: “By the government’s own admission there were 60 lakh people who were catered through the e-coupon system. But initially, it was said that one had to register online, which became difficult as the poor do not have access to smartphones. It was after we approached the Delhi High Court that it was ordered that help desks had to be set up.” “So, it is very important that while working out the scheme this time, the government ensures that it is easy to access for the needy. A recent Supreme Court order also states that distribution of ration should be done on the basis of self-certification and identification proof is not asked for...,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/food-rights-group-welcomes-free-ration-move/article34591438.ece
19 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Isolation units in Rohtak villages lying unused||A 20-bed isolation facility at Rohtak’s Nindana village, set up five days ago, has been lying vacant, as patients with influenza-like symptoms in this village — the hometown of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal — prefer to stay in their houses. In fact, none of the 46 isolation facilities in as many villages in the district, identified as Covid hotspots, has any patient. Rajesh Kataria, husband of Nindana village Sarpanch Saroj, said that the isolation facility had 20 beds – 12 at the Primary Health Care and eight at a school – but none was occupied. “Firstly, the people in the village have enough space at home to isolate the Covid patients. Secondly, even in case of space crunch, they are too scared to come into contact with other patients. So, they prefer to stay at homes,” said Mr. Kataria. He added that eight beds at the school were also being shifted to the PHC building to facilitate the teams of doctors visiting the patients. Mr. Kataria said the serious patients preferred to go to hospitals, and those with mild and moderate symptoms chose to stay in home isolation. Mahesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, District Rural Development Authority, Rohtak, said the purpose of the isolation centres was to provide space to those patients who cannot isolate themselves at home.  ‘Not a hospital’ “It is not a hospital. It is just an additional facility for patients with mild and moderate symptoms to stay in isolation,” said Mr. Kumar. He conceded that none of the isolation centres in the district had any patients so far. However, the common refrain of the local villages in the district was that there were not adequate facilities, such as attendants and doctors, at these centres, which kept the patients away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/isolation-units-in-rohtak-villages-lying-unused/article34591781.ece
19 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cancel flights from Singapore, says CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday appealed to the Central government to cancel flights from Singapore, which has reported a strain that is said to be “very dangerous” for children. Mr. Kejriwal took to Twitter to talk about the new strain of the virus that he said could invade India in the form of a third wave.  “The new form of COVID in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children. It could reach Delhi in the form of a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Cancel all air services with Singapore with immediate effect 2. Work on vaccine alternatives for children on a priority basis,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi has over the past month been reeling under the second wave of COVID-19 infections that saw the positivity rate peak on April 22, when it was 36.2%. Singapore refutes reports Reacting to reports about a new strain, the Singapore Health Ministry stated: “There is no truth whatsoever in the assertions... There is no “Singapore variant”. The strain prevalent in many cases in Singapore in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cancel-flights-from-singapore-says-cm/article34591436.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Family of ailing doctor seeks govt. aid for treatment||Friends of Amit Gupta — a doctor at a Delhi government hospital — who has been under treatment for COVID-19, said they were yet to receive any assistance from the government. On ventilation for 9 days Dr. Gupta’s friends and colleagues have been trying to get assistance from the government since he has been on ventilator support at a private hospital for the past nine days. His wife Shristi Mittal, who is also a doctor at the same Delhi government-run hospital — Satyawadi Raja Harish Chandra Hospital — said they have spent over Rs. 13 lakh in the last two weeks on his treatment. Dr. Gupta was on COVID-19 duty at the hospital before he tested positive on April 22, his wife said. “We are spending about Rs. 1.25-Rs. 1.5 lakh/day on treatment, which is more than our monthly salary. We have started a fundraiser on social media and friends, relatives, and even strangers are helping us,” Dr. Mittal said. Kulsaurabh, who knows Mr. Gupta, said they have been trying to meet the Chief Minister to present his case and other similar cases. Joyutpal Biswas, General Secretary of Federation of Resident Doctor’s Association, said they have written to the Chief Minister and Health Minister to provide assistance for all doctors who test positive and are undergoing treatment, but yet to get any response. “Currently, the government gives compensation if a healthcare worker dies and not for COVID-19 treatment,” Dr. Biswas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/family-of-ailing-doctor-seeks-govt-aid-for-treatment/article34591439.ece
19 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||NSCN(IM) action against RTI activists resented||Extremists belonging to at least two factions of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) have been facing criticism or backlash from people in their own backyards. Members of the Naga community in Manipur have resented punitive action by members of NSCN’s Isak-Muivah faction against Right to Information (RTI) activists who have sought details of expenditure by the autonomous district councils (ADCs) in the State. In an open letter, civil society members in Manipur’s Senapati district have sought justice for the “victims of unlawful abduction, harassment and threat” by NSCN (IM). Three RTI activists — P. Johnson Samo, P.R. Amos and S.P. Benjamin — have also written to the Poumai Naga Union, the apex body of the community, citing the abduction and torture of a friend who had to withdraw his RTI application besides paying a hefty penalty for seeking information. The trio said that they had filed an application under RTI to the chief executive officer of ADC Senapati, seeking information relating to the implementation of various developmental works under four former ADC members during 2015-2021. The trio resented the “inhuman treatment” meted out to Senapati-based RTI activist Kh. Enoch. Backlash in Arunachal Locals in Arunachal Pradesh thrashed four members of the outlawed Yung Aung faction of the NSCN (Khaplang) in Longding district to release a villager named Khamjan Wangsu. The incident took place on May 16. The district police said Lalto Wangham, the head gaon burah (village chief) of Longkhao village lodged a complaint on May 17 relating the incident. According to the complaint, members of NSCN (K-YA) abducted Mr. Wangsu after firing indiscriminately at the villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nscnim-action-against-rti-activists-resented/article34591778.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Virus hit every family but Central govt. officials living in ivory towers, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday remarked that COVID-19 has not spared even a single family while the Central government’s officers are living in “ivory towers” oblivious of ground realities. “It is like a raging fire and nobody is bothered...No one is applying their mind. The virus has not spared any single family. Your (the Centre) officers are living in ivory towers,” a Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Navin Chawla remarked. The court was of the view that the manufacture of Sputnik V vaccine in India with the collaboration of Panacea Biotec with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) should be seen as an opportunity to ensure there is no vaccine shortage. “Every day you [Centre] are castigated by each and every court and still you are not awake...God bless this country,” the court said. The observations came while hearing Panacea Biotec’s plea to modify a July 2020 order of the court, in which it had undertaken not to prosecute further the execution proceedings instituted by it in relation to an arbitral award, passed in its favour. In its fresh application, Panacea Biotec sought release of the arbitral award on the ground that it needs funds in the larger interest of humanity as it has already manufactured trial batches of Sputnik V vaccine in collaboration with RDIF and the process of manufacturing scale-up batches is on. Next hearing During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Balbir Singh, representing the Centre, argued that Sputnik V’s manufacture by the company will not benefit the India as it will be for global supply by RDIF. It posted the case for further hearing on May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/virus-hit-every-family-but-central-govt-officials-living-in-ivory-towers-says-hc/article34591434.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Civic body hospital has stopped admitting patients: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday alleged the North civic body had declared Balak Ram Hospital a COVID-19 care facility with 150 beds, but they have now stopped admissions at the facility without any prior notice. “It seems that in Delhi, the BJP is fighting a war against the city’s people. Till date, in this struggle of Delhi, they have not done a single thing that could rescue the people. They have around 3,400-3,500 beds in Delhi. We held numerous press conferences, only after that were 300-400 beds reserved for COVID-19 patients. Even in that, they didn’t allow admission in half of the beds,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak. ‘A cruel joke’ “Balak Ram Hospital, which they declared would be a COVID-19 hospital and 150-200 beds were reserved for such patients. But without any order, without any information, the hospital was told verbally to stop taking COVID-19 patients. Now Balak Ram Hospital will not take COVID-19 patients,” the AAP leader said. He added that even if the BJP can’t add more beds, they should not reduce existing beds for COVID-19. “At least the two to three hospitals, where 200-300 beds are for COVID-19, don’t close them. This is a cruel joke played on the people of Delhi. AAP opposes this...,” Mr. Pathak said.  Balak Ram Hospital was declared a COVID-19 hospital... But without any order the hospital was told to stop taking patients Durgesh Pathak AAP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/civic-body-hospital-has-stopped-admitting-patients-aap/article34591443.ece
19 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan: health centres to be used for virus treatment||As part of efforts to reduce pressure on hospitals in the cities, the Rajasthan government is making arrangements for treatment of COVID-19 patients at all the 350 Community health centres (CHC) across the State. Medical oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators and essential medicines will be available at these centres. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here on Tuesday that the beds would be reserved in CHCs in accordance with their capacity and the patients admitted there. The availability of treatment would obviate the need for villagers to travel to the towns, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-health-centres-to-be-used-for-virus-treatment/article34591779.ece
19 May 2021||May 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hope against hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hope-against-hope/article34591794.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||City reports over 4K cases, test positivity dips to 6.8%||Delhi reported 4,482 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the tally to 14,02,873, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 265 deaths were reported in 24 hours, taking the toll to 22,111. A total of 65,004 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 6.89%, which means that around seven people out of 100 taking COVID-19 tests are positive for the virus. The last time the TPR was less than this was on April 7, when it was 6.1%. The TPR was 36.2% on April 22, but since then it has stayed below it. A decrease in positivity is a good sign, as per experts. TPR should be ideally below 5%. Also, out of total of 24,305 beds, 40.75% were free as on Tuesday evening. Of the total cases, 13,29,899 people have recovered and there are 50,863 active cases. Oximeter for patients The government on Tuesday directed officials to make sure that every COVID-19 patient, who is under home isolation, has a pulse oximeter. People are currently not being inoculated with the second dose of Covishield as the Centre has increased the gap between the first and the second dose, said AAP leader Atishi. Delhi doesn’t have stock of Covaxin to inoculate people in the age group of 18-44 and Covishield stock for the age group will last only for three days, as per an official bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-reports-over-4k-cases-test-positivity-dips-to-68/article34591442.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||Deputy CM questions PM’s live telecast||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday questioned the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with officials on the COVID-19 situation. “The statement of the Prime Minister in today’s meeting was telecasted live. In a previous meeting, there was an objection that CM Arvind Kejriwal’s live telecast had broken the protocol. Today’s protocol allowed for live broadcast? How would it be known which meeting can be live telecast and which cannot be,” Mr. Sisodia said in a tweet in Hindi. Interacting with DMs at a meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Modi said they were free to innovate to suit their local requirements and asked them to share their feedback about any change in policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/deputy-cm-questions-pms-live-telecast/article34591445.ece
19 May 2021||Agartala,||One killed amid tension in Tripura||Continuing tension between supporters of the TIPRA (The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance) and the BJP in interior districts of Tripura has left one person dead. Police recovered the body of a BJP supporter from inside bushes at a locality in Chawmanu of Dhalai district on Tuesday morning. The victim has been identified as Rana Mohan Tripura,a resident of Devendra Roaja Para. Local BJP leaders alleged that he was mowed down by activists of TIPRA, a regional party floated by State’s royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-killed-amid-tension-in-tripura/article34591780.ece
19 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||13 IPS officers compulsorily retired: MHA||Nearly two months after it turned down a request for information under the Right To Information Act, 2005, surrounding IPS officers across the country, who since 2014 have been prematurely retired, removed or dismissed from service, the Ministry of Home Affairs has revealed that 13 officers have been retired in public interest while five were dismissed. The MHA also informed that sanction for prosecution has been accorded by the Ministry against five officers across the country. While the Ministry shared the names of all officers who had been retired, dismissed and those facing sanction of prosecution, the names of 24 IPS officers, who are presently under suspension, were not revealed, stating that “there’s no public interest involved”. Hemant Kumar, an advocate of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, had sought the information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/13-ips-officers-compulsorily-retired-mha/article34591433.ece
19 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Will continue plasma bank but not promote it’||A Delhi government-run plasma bank for COVID-19 treatment at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) will continue operations but the facility “will not promote” it, said ILBS Director S.K. Sarin On Monday, the Indian Council of Medical Research had dropped the use of convalescent plasma therapy from the recommended treatment guidelines for COVID-19. “The plasma bank will continue as part of the blood bank. We will not promote it as a treatment, but if any doctor wants to use it, we will provide the plasma,” Dr. Sarin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-continue-plasma-bank-but-not-promote-it/article34591444.ece
