20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||26 bodies recovered from barge off Mumbai, 49 remain missing||Twenty-six bodies have been recovered and 49 are still missing from Barge P-305, which sank 35 nautical miles (NM) off the Mumbai coast due to cyclone Tauktae. “As of now, 186 crew members of accommodation barge P-305 and two from tug ‘Varapradha’ have been rescued by naval ships and aircraft,” a Navy spokesperson said on Wednesday.  INS Kochi , which entered the Mumbai harbour in the day to disembark 125 survivors and mortal remains of four crew members, was immediately sailed out in the evening again to continue the search effort, the spokesperson said. INS Kolkata is scheduled to enter the Mumbai harbour to disembark the survivors rescued from barge P-305 and ‘Varapradha’ as well as the mortal remains of 18 crew members, he added. The names of those rescued have been conveyed to the Oil and Natural gas Corporation (ONGC) and Afcons. Naval ships INS Teg, Betwa, Beas, P-8I aircraft and Seaking helicopters are continuing with the search and rescue operations. Three construction barges of Afcons, working on a project of the ONGC, and one drilling rig of the ONGC deployed for exploration purpose in Bombay High off the coast of Mumbai, were impacted by cyclone Tauktae, which hit the Arabian Sea off the coast of Mumbai on May 17. Assistance for Gujarat The cyclone, which made landfall between Diu and Una town of Gir-Somnath district in Gujarat on Monday night after barrelling along the west coast, left a trail of devastation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who conducted an aerial survey of areas hit by the cyclone in Gujarat, on Wednesday approved an assistance of Rs. 1,000 crore for “immediate relief activities” in the State, a release said. According to the Gujarat government, 46 persons lost their lives in cyclone-related incidents in the State. The Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena have criticised Mr. Modi for not conducting the aerial survey in Maharashtra, also hit by the cyclone. Mr. Modi announced an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh for the kin of those killed due to the cyclone in all affected States. Immediate financial assistance for the other affected States would be given after the respective State governments shared assessment of the damage with the Centre, a Press Information Bureau release said. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/26-bodies-recovered-from-barge-off-mumbai-49-remain-missing/article34601423.ece
20 May 2021||Pune,||Active cases dip as State records 51,457 recoveries||COVID-19 recoveries in Maharashtra continued to exceed the case surge, with 51,457 patients being discharged on Wednesday as compared with 34,031 new cases. The active case tally has now dipped to 4,01,695. A spike of 594 deaths pushed the toll to 84,371. As per the State Health Department, 335 of these occurred over the last 48 hours. The total tally touched 54,67,537, while cumulative recoveries rose to 49,78,937, with the recovery rate rising to 91.06%. The State’s case fatality rate stands at 1.54%. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, “Of 3,18,74,364 laboratory samples tested thus far, 54,67,537 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 17.15%) have returned positive, with over 2.86 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours.” Pune reported more than 4,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 9,84,876. As per State Health Department figures, 52 deaths took the total death toll to 10,535. District authorities said active cases have dipped to 68,000, while the death toll has crossed 15,600. Mumbai reported 1,329 new cases to take its tally to 6,91,352, while active cases declined to 29,445. As many as 57 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 14,373. Nagpur saw nearly 2,000 cases as its tally touched 4,82,239, of whom 23,272 are active. Forty deaths pushed the toll to 6,252. Kolhapur reported 80 deaths and more than 1,100 cases as its toll rose to 2,886 and the tally reached 94,156, of whom 14,177 are active. Solapur district reported 40 more deaths and over 2,200 new cases as its toll rose to 3,532 and the tally reached 1,48,221, of whom 18,432 are active. Beed in Marathwada reported 32 deaths and 950 cases, taking its tally to 78,874, of whom 10,767 are active, while its toll has risen to 1,549. Nashik reported more than 2,100 new cases, taking its tally to 3,73,294, of whom 18,432 are active, while 35 deaths took its toll to 4,171.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-cases-dip-as-state-records-51457-recoveries/article34601942.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 affected should defer shots by 3 months||Vaccination should be deferred by three months after recovery in individuals having lab test proven SARS-2 COVID-19 illness, said the Health Ministry in a statement issued on Wednesday. COVID-19 patients who have been given anti-SARS-CoV-2 monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma should also defer vaccination by three months from the date of discharge from the hospital. The Ministry also recommended COVID-19 vaccination for all nursing mothers. The Ministry said it had accepted the recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC). “These recommendations have been based on the evolving situation of the COVID-19 pandemic and emerging global scientific evidence and experience,” it stated. It recommended that individuals who have received at least the first dose of the vaccine and got the infection before the completion of the dosing schedule should also defer by three months the second dose after clinical recovery from COVID-19. Blood donation “Persons with any other serious general illness requiring hospitalisation or ICU care should also wait for 4-8 weeks before getting the COVID-19 vaccine,’’ it noted. Also an individual could donate blood after 14 days of either receipt of COVID-19 vaccine or testing RT-PCR negative, if suffering from COVID-19. There was no requirement for screening of the vaccine recipients by Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) prior to vaccination. The matter of vaccination of pregnant women was under discussion and further deliberation by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI). “The Health Ministry has written to States and UTs to direct the concerned officials to take note of these recommendations and undertake necessary action for their effective implementation. States have also been advised to undertake training of the vaccination staff at all levels,’’ said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-affected-should-defer-shots-by-3-months/article34601421.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. beds for black fungus patients fill up within hours||Ravi G. waited for hours at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute to get a bed for his brother Muralikrishna, who was diagnosed with black fungus or mucormycosis after he got COVID-19. But the wait was in vain. The government had earmarked 10 beds at the institute for COVID-19-associated mucormycosis (CAM), which filled up within hours on Wednesday. “There is a long queue of patients waiting for a bed. I eventually admitted my brother to a private hospital, but I am unable to bear the expense,” said Mr. Ravi. H.V. Manoj Kumar, dean and director of the institute, said they had taken in 16 patients even though they had 10 beds. “This is much beyond our capacity, but there are more patients waiting in the triage centre, whom we don’t know how to accommodate,” he said. This prompted the government to open another 20 bed CAM ward at Victoria Hospital on Wednesday morning, which also was full within hours. Several patients are still waiting to get a bed, clearly indicating the scale of CAM cases in the city. “We are working on adding more beds and opening another ward dedicated to CAM patients, which may be operational from Thursday,” said Smitha Segu, task force head and nodal officer for COVID-19, Victoria Hospital. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar on Sunday said a total of 97 patients had contracted CAM in the State. However, multiple doctors The Hindu spoke to on Tuesday estimated there were at least 200 cases in the city itself. The State government declared CAM a notifiable disease on Wednesday, mandating all hospitals to report cases to the Department of Health and Family Welfare. This will provide the government the exact number of cases being reported in the State, a data that the State government does not have till now. With cost of treatment being unaffordable to many in private hospitals, there is a demand for augmenting CAM treatment facilities in the public sector and also allotment of beds in private hospitals under government quota like for COVID-19. The government is yet to take a call on this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-beds-for-black-fungus-patients-fill-up-within-hours/article34601469.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||SARS-CoV-2 B.1.617.2 variant rampant in State||An early analysis report by the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi, on the genomic sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 variants in Kerala has reported that the virus variant B.1.617.2, first detected in India in December last and declared as a Variant of Concern (VoC) by WHO last week, has significantly increased in circulation in the State. B.1.617, also known as the “double mutant” variant, was first detected in India in October last. Since then, three sub lineages of this variant have been detected, namely B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3 “Analysing the virus samples from April in the State, we have informed the government that B.1.617.2 has increased in circulation, which is probably the reason for the huge spurt in cases in Kerala. In earlier samples, the predominant variant had been B.1.1.7 (the “UK variant”), while B.1.617 had been found in a small proportion,” says Vinod Scaria, Principal Scientist, IGIB. It was Public Health England, U.K., which escalated B.1.617.2 from a Variant under Investigation to a VoC in May first week as preliminary data said that it was nearly 50% more infectious than the B.1.1.7 variant. The WHO, stepped in last week to declare the variant a VoC, which is now present in 44 countries. “The B.1.617.2 is extremely transmissible though so far, no large scale immune escape affinity has been detected. Though some in-vitro studies say that it can reduce the efficacy of the current COVID-19 vaccines, we do not know its clinical relevance yet,” Dr. Scaria says. He says that given the high transmissibility of the variant and the fact that it is now present all over the country, Kerala samples are expected to have an increased proportion of the same. This variant is expected to emerge as the dominant variant in future too. At present, there is no evidence that the B.1. 617. 2 variant is resistant to current vaccines. While this is reassuring, the high transmission potential of the variant is a major cause for concern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sars-cov-2-b16172-variant-rampant-in-state/article34601597.ece
20 May 2021||BENGALURU,||CM announces Rs. 1,111.82 crore package||The Karnataka government on Wednesday announced a package of Rs. 1,111.82 crore to provide relief to workers in unorganised sectors and farmers who are impacted by the month-long lockdown owing to the spike in COVID-19 cases. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues and said that the government has taken this step “with the intention of making people hunger-free during this period”. Lockdown is in force in Karnataka till May 24, barring a window to buy essentials. A decision on extending the lockdown further would be taken on May 23, the Chief Minister said. Among the compensation announced is Rs. 10,000 per hectare to each farmer growing flowers, fruits and vegetables. This would cost the State exchequer Rs. 82 crore. A compensation of Rs. 3,000 each would be given to drivers of autorickshaw, maxi-cab and taxi, who are licensed and registered. Construction workers registered with Karnataka Building and Other Constructions Workers Welfare Board would get Rs. 3,000 each and this would cost Rs. 494 crore. Workers such as barbers, dhobis, hamalis, rag pickers, potters, incense stick makers, goldsmiths, mechanics, blacksmiths, domestic workers, and cobblers would get a relief of Rs. 2,000 each and about 3.5 lakh workers would benefit, announced the Chief Minister. Street vendors selling fruits and vegetables would be paid Rs. 2,000 each and it would cost Rs. 45 crore to the State exchequer. Poor artists and their teams would be given compensation of Rs. 3,000. Loan benefit Besides compensation sums to specific groups, the government has also extended the repayment of instalment of loans on small, medium and long terms availed by farmers, SHGs from Primary Agricultural Credit Society and Land Development Banks beginning May 1, 2020 to July 31, 2021. With the support of the Centre, he said 10 kg of rice would be provided to each BPL beneficiary in May and June free of cost. Apart from this, the State government has extended the same benefit to about 30 lakh additional beneficiaries. For management of the pandemic, he said each gram panchayat would be given Rs. 50,000 each from the SDRF and about 6,000 GPs would benefit from this package. Frontline workers The Chief Minister declared people supplying LPG cylinders, teachers and electricity linemen as frontline workers. COVID-19 patients were given free treatment in hospitals, including private and those designated by the government. During the first and second wave, a total of 2.06 lakh infected people have been provided with treatment and incurring an expenditure of Rs. 956 crore. He said it was intended to provide vaccination for all citizens between 18 to 44 free of cost and three crore doses would be procured at Rs. 1,000 crore. The Chief Minister said 2,150 doctors would be appointed within three days to facilitate COVID treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-announces-rs-111182-crore-package/article34601514.ece
20 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID-19 claims 106 lives in a single day in the State||The State has again reported more than 100 deaths in a day. As many as 106 persons succumbed to the virus in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, and 23,160 new infections were reported during the same period. The toll jumped to  9,686 and the cumulative tally inched close to 15 lakh as it reached 14,98,532. As many as 24,819, the highest in a day so far, patients have recovered in the past day taking the recovery rate to 85.36% and the number of recoveries to 12,79,110. There were 2,09,736 active cases in the State, while the death rate remains at 0.65%. The daily positivity rate slightly came down to 22.86%, as 1,01,330 samples were tested in the past day and the overall positivity rate of 1.82 crore samples tested was at 8.21%.  West Godavari district reported the highest single-day toll of 17 deaths in the past day. It was followed by Nellore and Visakhapatnam, which reported 11 new deaths each. East Godavari and Vizianagaram reported nine deaths each while Anantapur, Chittoor, Krishna and Srikakulam reported eight deaths each. Further, Guntur reported seven deaths and Kurnool reported five. Prakasam reported four deaths and Kadapa reported one new death. East Godavari reported 3,528 new infections, the highest among the districts, as it inched close to the two-lakh mark. It was followed by Chittoor (2,670), Anantapur (2,334), Visakhapatnam (2,007), West Godavari (1,879), Prakasam (1,590), Guntur (1,501), Krishna (1,496), Srikakulam (1,440), Kurnool (1,310), Nellore (1,239), Kadapa (1,221) and Vizianagaram (945). Active cases in East Godavari crossed 30,000, which account for 15% of the total active cases in the State. Kurnool has only 7,601 active cases which is the least among the districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-claims-106-lives-in-a-single-day-in-the-state/article34601412.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Expect thunderstorm activity in many districts till weekend||Thunderstorm activity will continue over many parts of the State till the weekend ahead of the formation of a weather system over Bay of Bengal. With westerly winds strengthening over the region, it would lead to convective activity and thunderstorms. The low pressure area brewing over the Bay of Bengal would also influence a rise in mercury level and rain over the State. Chennai may also get light rain during the next two days. Officials of the Meteorological Department said scattered rainfall will continue over Tamil Nadu till May 22. On Thursday, heavy spells of rain may occur at a few places over the Nilgiris, Theni, Villupuram, Tirupattur and Vellore. Thunderstorms are also likely in interior and coastal parts of the State till May 23. However, the intensity and spatial spread of the rainfall may decrease once the weather system forms over the Bay of Bengal around May 22. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday, Udhagamandalam received 4 cm rain. This was followed by 3 cm of rain over Krishnarayapuram in Karur district. The Meteorological Department has also forecast that southwest monsoon may advance into south Andaman sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal around Friday. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the low pressure area is expected to form over north Andaman sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on Saturday. It is likely to become a cyclone and move towards West Bengal and Orissa coasts. Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO), a global weather phenomenon, had initially influenced the formation of cyclone Tauktae in Arabian sea. With other favourable weather conditions, MJO, the east-moving pulse of clouds and rain, is also aiding the forming of low pressure over Bay of Bengal. This also strengthened the monsoon current and triggered onset of SW monsoon over the Andaman sea, he added. The department has also warned fishermen not to venture into sea on May 22 and May 23 as strong southwesterly winds with speed reaching 45 to 55 km per hour is likely along and off Tamil Nadu coast. On Wednesday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 35.2 degree Celsius and this is set to further increase to 37 degree Celsius till Friday, according to the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/expect-thunderstorm-activity-in-many-districts-till-weekend/article34601814.ece
20 May 2021||MANGALURU,||Senior doctor booked for not wearing mask in Mangaluru||The police on Wednesday filed a case against a senior physician B. Srinivas Kakkilaya under Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act for not wearing face mask while shopping at a super market in the city. Mangaluru East Police booked Dr. Kakkilaya under Section 4 (power of the government to take special measures to prevent the outbreak of an epidemic disease), Section 5 (no person shall contravene or disobey provisions of Section 4) and Section 9 (refers to investigation and trial parts) of the Act based on a complaint filed by a partner of the super market. He was served with a notice to appear before the investigation officer and give an explanation. Dr. Kakkilaya then visited the police station at Kadri and gave his statement. He was wearing a mask while arriving and leaving the station. In his complaint to the police, Ryan Rosario, partner of Jimmys Super Mart in Kadri, said that Dr. Kakkilaya visited the store on Tuesday morning. Despite being asked by the staff of the store, Dr. Kakkilaya refused to wear a mask. The doctor said that he treats patients without wearing face mask and the staff of the store cannot ask him to wear mask. The doctor has put customers and staff at risk by not wearing a mask, which has been made compulsory by the government, Mr. Rosario said. In a CCTV image of the incident that went viral on the social media, Dr. Kakkilaya is seen at the cash counter arguing that he was not putting people at risk by not wearing a mask and that he recovered from COVID-19 a year ago. When the executive in the shop is heard saying that it is a rule to wear a mask, Dr. Kakkilaya said he will not follow any “foolish rules”. “I have spoken against lockdown and have put it in writing,” he said and added, “I am for science. I do not want to be fooled by this ‘foolish government’.” Earlier, Dr. Kakkilaya has involved himself in malaria and dengue prevention activities of Mangaluru City Corporation by providing required technical suggestions to the civic body and the Health Department. Meanwhile, the Mangaluru chapter of the Indian Medical Association has condemned the action of Dr. Kakkilaya at the super market. In a statement, honorary secretary of the chapter Animesh Jain said that the IMA stands by the government guidelines and endorses mask wearing by every one in public places, social distancing, hygiene and frequent hand washing as per the guidelines of the World Health Organisation (WHO). “We do not stand by any of the actions and statements by the doctor,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/senior-doctor-booked-for-not-wearing-mask-in-mangaluru/article34601517.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Foreign medicos to join fight against virus||In a significant order, Tamil Nadu has lifted the restriction on the intake of students for internship at government medical colleges as a one-time measure to handle COVID-19. “We have decided to rope in the foreign medical graduates [under the Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship or CRRI] as part of the measures to strengthen the health workforce to manage the situation,” Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian told The Hindu . The decision will pave the way for about 500 foreign medical graduates to join the health workforce. They have been waiting for internship, having completed their degree at foreign universities and cleared the qualifying examination conducted by the National Medical Commission. The decision followed a proposal sent by the Director of Medical Education (DME), who underscored the urgent need for measures to contain COVID-19 cases that had reached “alarming proportions” with increased mortality. NOC sought The DME requested the government for permission to issue no-objection certificate (NOC) for the CRRI to students of other States, private colleges and other universities and foreign medical graduates without any ceiling. The proposal was to relax the Tamil Nadu Medical Council’s stipulation that medical colleges issue the NOC to foreign medical graduates and students of other States after ensuring that the admission under the CRRI did not exceed 10% of the MBBS seats allotted by the National Medical Commission.  This is part of the measures to strengthen the health workforce to manage the situation Ma. Subramanian Minister for Medical and Family Welfare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/foreign-medicos-to-join-fight-against-virus/article34601673.ece
20 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Low pressure likely in Bay of Bengal, State braces for more rain||Within days of Cyclone Tauktae leaving its immediate neighbourhood, Kerala is bracing for more rainfall in the run-up to the southwest monsoon season with a low-pressure area expected over the Bay of Bengal by May 22. Kerala can expect an increase in rainfall by May 26 due to the new development, officials at the IMD Meteorological Centre in Thiruvananthapuram said. Wind speeds are also likely to pick up along the Kerala coast. As per the latest IMD update, the low-pressure area likely to form over the north Andaman Sea and east-central parts of the Bay region could intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours. It is expected to move northwestwards and reach the West Bengal-Odisha coasts around the evening of May 26. The southwest monsoon is expected to advance into the south Andaman Sea and the southeast part of the Bay of Bengal by May 21. The IMD had said that the southwest monsoon is likely to set in over Kerala on May 31, with a model error of plus or minus four days. As it is, the IMD had forecast above-normal rainfall for Kerala till May 27. Kerala had recorded very heavy rainfall during May 14-17 under the influence of Cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea. The State had reported seven deaths in rain-related calamities and extensive damage to crops and houses. Sea erosion also had been severe along the coast forcing relocation of hundreds of families to relief camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/low-pressure-likely-in-bay-of-bengal-state-braces-for-more-rain/article34601602.ece
20 May 2021||Hyderabad,||IAS officer Janardhan Reddy to head TSPSC||The government has appointed a new team for the Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC) with senior IAS officer B. Janardhan Reddy as the Chairman and seven other members. Dr. Reddy is presently serving as Principal Secretary, Agriculture. As of now the TSPSC is functioning with just one member, Prof. Sailu Chintha as the acting Chairman out of the total strength of 11 members including the Chairman. The seven other members appointed include Ramavath Dhan Singh, who retired as Engineer-in-Chief; Prof. B. Linga Reddy, Professor of Physics in Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology (CBIT); Kotla Aruna Kumari, Special Grade Deputy Collector; Sumitra Anand, Telugu Pandit; Karem Ravinder Reddy, retired government employee; Aravelli Chandrashekhar Rao, practising Ayurvedic doctor and R. Satyanarayana, former journalist. The TSPSC was functioning with just one member since the last few months after several of its members including the Chairman Ghanta Chakrapani completed their tenure in December last. Three members C Vittal, Dr. B Chandravathi and Dr. Mohd. Mateenuddin Quadri also retired along with him. The government was criticised for delay in appointing a full-fledged commission even as it promised before the Graduate MLC elections that 50,000 vacancies would be filled up soon. Recruitment to various government departments are done through the TSPSC that conducts the exams, selection process and also finalises the selected list. Some people also moved the court requesting it to direct the government to appoint the Commission Chairman and the members at the earliest to complete the recruitment process. The Telangana High Court too had observed that the government should complete the process at the earliest. In fact, the reduced strength of the TSPSC was also a poll issue in the Graduate MLC elections. As per the TSPSC regulations half of the members should be those who have served as officers in the Central or State services with at least 20 years of service in either Central or State governments. The remaining can be chosen from among the eminent people from various sections of the society including academics, management, science and technology, law, humanities and those with integrity in the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ias-officer-janardhan-reddy-to-head-tspsc/article34601882.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi CM not speaking for India: Jaishankar||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal does not “speak for India”, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar declared on Wednesday after Singapore’s Foreign Minister Vivian Balakrishnan objected to Mr. Kejriwal’s claim that a highly infectious variant of COVID-19 affecting children came from Singapore. High Commissioner of Singapore Simon Wong praised the Indian response but maintained that Singapore “reserves” the right to implement the country’s online misinformation law “relating to assertions” from Mr. Kejriwal. Mr. Jaishankar’s comment came after Singapore summoned the Indian envoy to protest Mr. Kejriwal’s remarks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-cm-not-speaking-for-india-jaishankar/article34601427.ece
20 May 2021||Lucknow,||COVID-19 cases found in a third of villages: U.P.||Thirty-two per cent of villages in Uttar Pradesh have reported positive cases of COVID-19, a senior State official said on Wednesday. So far, 28,742 villages in the State reported positive cases during a testing drive in 89,512 villages, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Health. There was no COVID-19 in 68% of these villages, said the official, implying that cases were in the remaining 32%. “Sixty-eight per cent of our villages are still safe. It is our effort to ensure that the infection does not reach there,” he said. The State, meanwhile, continued to see a drop in fresh cases — it recorded 7,336 new cases on Wednesday — but the daily death count continued to linger over 280. U.P. recorded 282 new deaths, according to the State Health Department. The State’s focus on rural areas coincides with the discovery of floating bodies, suspected by many to be of COVID-19 victims but still officially unverified, in the Ganga and other rivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-found-in-a-third-of-villages-up/article34601428.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||In Kerala, CPI(M) finalises portfolios of Ministers||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretariat has reportedly finalised the allocation of Cabinet portfolios to Minister-designates in Kerala. CPI(M) insiders were skittish about revealing the details of portfolio allocation. However, two (LDF) leaders gave the media an inkling of the confabulations behind closed doors at the AKG Centre here on Wednesday. K. Krishnankutty of the Janata Dal (Secular) said he would get the Power portfolio. Indian National League legislator Ahammad Devarkovil said his party had settled for the Ports and Museum, Zoo and Archaeology department. To meet Governor today The responsibilities of the 12 CPI(M) Minister-designates remained largely in the realm of conjecture. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said he would make a statement only after meeting Governor Arif Muhammad Khan on Thursday. Nevertheless, speculation about future Ministers is rife in the media. Notably, Veena George was touted as the successor to former Health Minister K.K. Shailaja. By some accounts, DYFI national president P.A. Muhammad Riyaz is likely to land the Tourism and Public Works Ministry. He is Mr. Vijayan’s son-in-law. Higher and General Education departments could go to R. Bindu and V. Sivankutty, respectively. Ms. Bindu is the wife of CPI(M) acting secretary A. Vijayaraghavan. Both Minister-designates are former Mayors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-kerala-cpim-finalises-portfolios-of-ministers/article34601415.ece
20 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||MP’s case: CID officials to face contempt procedings||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Justices C. Praveen Kumar and K. Lalitha on Wednesday ordered that contempt proceedings be initiated against the Additional Director-General of Police (CID) and the CID’s Mangalagiri Station House Officer (SHO) for not sending Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju to Ramesh Hospital for a check-up on May 17, even when the Supreme Court was hearing the Special Leave Petition filed by him for bail. According to official sources, on May 15, the VI Additional Junior Civil Judge in Guntur, before whom the MP was produced, ordered that he be examined physically in Ramesh Hospital and the Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur. This order was passed under Section 54 of the Cr.P.C. While the above order was passed, Mr. Raju’s advocate moved the High Court by way of a h abeas corpus saying that the Magistrate had not ordered remand yet, which resulted in the illegal detention of the MP. Upon hearing the matter Saturday evening, the High Court directed that the MP be sent for examination before a medical board at the Guntur GGH. The court ordered that since the Magistrate also wanted the MP to be checked at Ramesh Hospital, the same should be followed. The medical examination was completed on May 16 and the medical board determined that there were no physical injuries on the MP’s body. When the matter came up for hearing in the High Court on Wednesday, the Judges said there has been a contempt of their order dated May 15. Additional Advocate General (AAG) P. Sudhakar Reddy told the court that the order copy was received only at 11 p.m. and that Mr. Raju could not be sent for an examination at that time since the jail authorities would not allow it. The High Court did not entertain the AAG’s argument and observed that the ADGP and the SHO could have sent the MP to Ramesh Hospital in the morning of May 17 even when the apex court was hearing his SLP but they did not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/contempt-proceedings-against-cid-officials/article34601385.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Teachers are frontline workers||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday declared that teachers, henceforth, would be treated as frontline workers. This has been a long-pending demand of teachers’ organisations. People supplying LPG cylinders and electricity linemen too would be categorised as frontline workers, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teachers-are-frontline-workers/article34601462.ece
20 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||Full lockdown in Haveri from May 21-25||Deputy Commissioner of Haveri Sanjay Shettennavar on Wednesday announced total lockdown from 6 a.m. on May 21 to 6 a.m. on May 25 with a four-hour relaxation on Sunday for purchase of groceries and vegetables. In an order issued on Wednesday evening, the Deputy Commissioner has said that all activities are prohibited from 6 a.m. on May 21 to 6 a.m. on May 23 except essential services such as milk supply, hospitals, pharmacies, petrol stations, ambulances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/full-lockdown-in-haveri-from-may-21-25/article34601515.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scrap update, Centre tells WhatsApp||The government of India has sent a notice to WhatsApp asking it to withdraw the controversial update to its privacy policy and sought a response from the company within seven days. It has also warned the Facebook-owned firm that the failure to give a satisfactory response may result in steps “in consonance with law”. The Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY), in the May 18 notice, has told WhatsApp that deferring the May 15 implementation deadline does not absolve it from “respecting the values of informational privacy, data security and user choice for Indian users,” a Ministry source said. The Ministry highlighted how the new policy violated several provisions of Indian laws, the source said. When contacted, a WhatsApp spokesperson said, “We reaffirm what we said before that this update does not impact the privacy of personal messages for anyone.” The MeitY notice directs WhatsApp to withdraw its Privacy Policy 2021 as the changes and the manner of introducing these changes “undermine the sacrosanct values of informational privacy, data security and user choice for Indian users and harms the rights and interests of Indian citizens.” “In fulfilment of its sovereign responsibility to protect the rights and interests of Indian citizens, the Government of India will consider various options available to it under laws in India. The government has given seven days’ time to WhatsApp to respond to his notice and if no satisfactory response is received, necessary steps in consonance with law will be taken,” the source said. The government had earlier this year also written to Will Cathcart, CEO of the instant messaging firm, asking that proposed changes to the privacy policy be withdrawn, expressing “grave concerns” over the implications of the choice and the autonomy of Indian citizens. In the latest missive to the U.S.-headquartered firm, MeitY has reiterated the issue of discriminatory treatment of Indian users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scrap-update-centre-tells-whatsapp/article34601424.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Storm likely in Bay of Bengal||A low pressure area — a precursor to cyclonic storm — is likely to form in the eastern Bay of Bengal and the Northern Andaman Sea by May 22, the IMD said on Wednesday. “It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during subsequent 72 hours and reach Odisha and West Bengal coast by May 26,” it said .page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/storm-likely-in-bay-of-bengal/article34601425.ece
20 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Nonagenarians spread positivity amid gloom||Two nonagenarians 230 km apart have become the template of positivity for healthcare and frontline workers for overcoming the COVID-19 gloom in Assam. On May 18, Snehalata Dutta went home after recovering from COVID-19 at a Covid Care Centre (CCC) in Tinsukia district’s Mohkhuli Model Hospital, about 5 km from Tinsukia town. She had no comorbidities but was very weak due to a persistent cough and fever when she was wheeled in about a fortnight ago from her village, Bisphtuia. “She could not eat and had trouble remembering, but was adamant about staying put in the Mohkhuli facility when we referred her to a bigger hospital because of her condition,” sub-divisional medical and health officer Chandralekha Saikia told The Hindu . Ms. Dutta referred to the Mohkhuli centre as “our hospital,” as most villagers in the vicinity do. “We thought she might not make it, but the nurses and medical staff did that extra bit to help her recover. Her determination worked too,” Ms. Saikia said, adding that her positivity appeared to have rubbed off on the healthcare workers as well as other patients. A few days before, 98-year-old Deepson Das of Bhakatgaon village in Golaghat district became the ‘poster boy’ of the vaccination drive by the local authorities.  Appeal to villagers “Apart from ambling in confidently, he appealed to the villagers to get themselves vaccinated as a preventive step,” a healthcare official at the Kamarbandha Ali public health centre said. Superstitions and a social media-driven theory that vaccines cause infertility have made many in the northeast sceptical about taking the vaccine. Assam on Tuesday recorded 5,835 fresh cases and 73 deaths, down from 6,394 cases and 92 deaths on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nonagenarians-spread-positivity-amid-covid-19-gloom-in-assam/article34601869.ece
20 May 2021||Kolkata,||Popular Kolkata club turns into hospital||Shanti Sardar, 29, is lying on a bed at the very spot where she comes with her family every autumn to join the crowds in admiring the idols of Goddess Durga and her children. She’s sharing this familiar space with eight strangers, all of whom have tested positive for COVID-19 and are, at the moment, undergoing treatment in this makeshift hospital at Atalanta Club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/popular-kolkata-club-turns-into-hospital/article34601560.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC for President’s Rule in Bengal||A lawyer has asked the Supreme Court to “direct” the Centre to advise President’s Rule in West Bengal on the ground of failure of the constitutional machinery, following reports about post-poll murders of BJP workers and wanton destruction of property allegedly by ruling Trinamool Congress “goons”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-in-sc-for-presidents-rule-in-bengal/article34601561.ece
20 May 2021||Belagavi,||Belagavi records 2,234 COVID-19 cases||Belagavi district breached the 2,000-mark of COVID-19 positive case for the second day on Wednesday. With 2,234 cases, the district stood next to Bengaluru Urban. According to a Health Department bulletin, there were five pandemic-related deaths and 830 patients were discharged. The total number of active cases reached 16,557.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/belagavi-records-2234-covid-19-cases/article34601513.ece
20 May 2021||Kalaburagi,||Districts offer big salaries for specialists||Reluctance of medical professionals, especially specialists, to work in COVID-19 hospitals in rural areas, has compelled administrations across Kalyana Karnataka region to offer eye-popping salaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/districts-offer-big-salaries-for-specialists/article34601465.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,||IISc. start-up gets nod for new COVID-19 test||A COVID-19 test developed by PathShodh Healthcare has received licence to manufacture the test for sale from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iisc-start-up-gets-nod-for-new-covid-19-test/article34601466.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Blood banks see drop in collection||The second wave of COVID-19 has severely affected blood donation. At the same time demand for blood has also dropped as hospitals are postponing elective surgeries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blood-banks-see-drop-in-collection/article34601467.ece
20 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. declares mucormycosis epidemic||Amid the increasing instances of mucormycosis or black fungus, the Rajasthan government on Wednesday declared it an epidemic and a notifiable disease. It will be mandatory for the health facilities to report every case of the disease in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-govt-declares-mucormycosis-epidemic/article34601859.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Conspiracy behind NRC reverification plea: AIUDF||A key member of the Opposition grand alliance in Assam has sniffed a conspiracy behind the move for the reverification of the National Register of Citizens. The AIUDF has also slammed State NRC Coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma for exceeding his authority in filing an interlocutory application in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/conspiracy-behind-nrc-reverification-plea-aiudf/article34601860.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. running out of drugs for mucormycosis||The supply of antifungal drugs — liposomal amphotericin b or amphotericin b — vital for treating mucormycosis , is drying up in Tamil Nadu with many patients' families and hospitals finding it difficult to source them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-running-out-of-drugs-for-mucormycosis/article34601674.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,||34,875 fresh cases, 365 deaths in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 34,875 fresh COVID-19 cases and 365 deaths on Weednesday. In Chennai, 6,297 persons tested positive and 91 persons died. Coimbatore reported 3,250 new cases and 17 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/34875-fresh-cases-365-deaths-in-tn/article34601676.ece
20 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,||Sterlite plant resumes oxygen production||After six days, 6.34 tonnes of medical oxygen was sent to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital from Sterlite Copper’s oxygen plant on Wednesday. Sterlite plans to generate 35 metric tonnes of oxygen a day .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sterlite-plant-resumes-oxygen-production/article34601677.ece
20 May 2021||Kolkata,||Narada hearing inconclusive, four leaders remain in custody||The hearing at the Calcutta High Court in connection with the Narada case remained inconclusive on Wednesday and will continue on Thursday. The development implies that the four heavyweight political leaders — Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former Minister Sovan Chatterjee — who were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday, will have to the spend Wednesday night in judicial custody. Three of the four arrested, except Minister Firhad Hakim, were admitted to the State-run SSKM Hospital. In another development, the Kolkata police filed a case against CBI personnel under Section 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act. The case was filed at the Gariahat police station in the city for violation of the restrictions imposed during the pandemic while arresting one of the accused. The CBI, along with personnel from the Central forces, had picked up all the accused on Monday morning from their respective residences. The CBI on Wednesday also filed a transfer petition to move the matter involving the case out of West Bengal and also made Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Law Minister Moloy Ghatak and Trinamool Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee party to the case. The hearing in the Calcutta High Court before a Division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee continued for over two hours, with senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi representing the four leaders arrested by the CBI and Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta appearing for the agency. Mr. Singhvi raised questions on the manner in which the stay order on the bail was granted to the four accused, stating that no court could give an order cancelling bail without notice to the accused. On Monday, a special court had granted bail to the accused, which was stayed by the High Court. Acting Chief Justice raised questions about the presence of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for six hours at the CBI office. In response, Mr. Singhvi said it was a “Gandhian protest”. Mr. Mehta said the developments outside the CBI office on Monday were attempts to “frustrate justice”. The case will come up for hearing on Thursday .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/narada-hearing-inconclusive-four-leaders-remain-in-custody/article34601352.ece
20 May 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. govt. to focus on testing in rural areas||The focus of the Uttar Pradesh government is on testing for fresh COVID-19 cases in rural areas of the State to arrest the spread of the virus in the villages, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Health. The State government tested 2.99 lakh samples in the last 24 hours, its highest single-day figure. Mr. Prasad stated that the recovery rate in the State had gone up to 91.4% while the active cases had been reduced to 1.23 lakh. About 20 lakh medicine kits had been distributed across districts in the last three days, he said. The U.P. police, meanwhile, said that it was carrying out 24-hour patrols of the rivers to prevent people from disposing bodies in them. So far, police have recovered 16 bodies floating in the river in Ghazipur, 11 in Ballia, eight in Chandauli, seven in Varanasi and one each in Kanpur and Hamirpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-govt-to-focus-on-testing-in-rural-areas/article34601373.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||NGOs can open Delhi accounts till June 30||The Union Home Ministry on Tuesday extended the deadline for non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to activate accounts with the State Bank of India main branch in Delhi (NDMB), a compulsory requirement to receive foreign funds, from March 31 to June 30. However, 10 NGOs petitioned the Delhi High Court the same day, seeking a longer extension of six months and seeking the court’s intervention in operationalising their foreign contribution accounts. The Ministry granted the extension, a day before the petition is to be heard by the court on Thursday. The 10 NGOs are part of a group of 490 NGOs that had made a representation to the Ministry seeking an extension as their funds were blocked due to various administrative lapses on the part of the bank and the Ministry. The SBI, in a press release on May 17, said that “out of the total 22,598 active FCRA [Foreign Contribution Regulation Act] associations, 17,611 entities (NGOs and Associations) approached SBI for opening of FCRA accounts.” Bank’s claim The bank claimed that it had opened accounts of 78% of the applicants. “The rest of the accounts shall also be initiated once their pending documentation formalities are completed,” it said. An NGO functionary, however, said that even though documents were submitted to the bank much before March 31, the accounts could not be operated as a form sent by the SBI making the NGO eligible to receive foreign funds was yet to be authorised by the FCRA division of the Ministry. According to the amended provisions of the FCRA enacted in September 2020, NGOs were asked to open accounts with the NDMB by March 31, failing which they will not be able to receive any fresh funds. At least five NGOs moved the Delhi and Gauhati High Courts, arguing that even though they had applied to open FCRA accounts at the bank before March 31, administrative delays on the part of the SBI and the Ministry severely restricted their activities, including providing COVID-19 related relief and paying urgent salaries of staff. HC directive Last week, the Delhi High Court asked the MHA to consider if the deadline can be extended in view of the pandemic. The Ministry issued an order on May 18, where it said that “keeping in view the exigencies arising out of the COVID-19 situation and to ensure smooth transition to the amended FCRA regime” the Central government, under section 50 of the FCRA, 2010 was making an amendment to allow NGOs to open an account with the SBI up to June 30 or earlier. “After that date, they shall not be eligible to receive foreign contribution in any other account other than the FCRA account opened in the NDMB,” the order said. Registration relief The MHA has also given a relief up to September 30 to the NGOs whose registration was expiring between September 29, 2020-May 31,2021. The NGOs had to apply for renewal of certificates or registration by May 31, which has now been extended to September 30, the Ministry said in an order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngos-can-open-delhi-accounts-till-june-30/article34601322.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||New storm likely in Bay of Bengal||Though Cyclone Tauktae is yet to entirely abate, a new storm may be in the works, this time, however, in the Bay of Bengal. The India Metereological Department said in a statement on Wednesday that a “low pressure area” — a precursor to a cyclonic storm — was likely to form in the eastern Bay and the Northern Andaman Sea by May 22. “It is very likely to gradually intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours and reach the Odisha and West Bengal coast by May 26,” according to the statement. There are relatively more cyclonic storms in May and November, particularly in the Bay of Bengal — coinciding with the arrival and exit of the monsoon — than in the rest of the year because of elevated ocean temperatures. However, the IMD has also forecast the arrival of the monsoon over Kerala on May 31 and that is premised on the monsoon’s arrival over the South Andaman Sea by May 21. M. Mohapatra, Director-General, India Meteorological Department (IMD), told The Hindu that the formation of a low pressure at this time would be favourable for the monsoon onset. “This strengthens the cross-equatorial flow and would give a push to the monsoon over the Andaman Sea. However it’s early to say what specific trajectory [the nascent cyclone] it will take and how strong it is likely to become. Only after a few days, when there is more confidence, can we say if it will obstruct or aid the monsoon onset,” he said. Significant rain Cyclone Tauktae, the first extremely severe cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea to make landfall in Gujarat in 130 years, brought significant rain and caused considerable infrastructure damage in several coastal States. The current cyclone, were it to fully form, will be called Yaas, a name proposed by Oman. Last May, Cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal ravaged West Bengal as a ‘super cyclonic storm’, the most powerful in the IMD’s intensity measuring scale. This year, the IMD has forecast a ‘normal monsoon.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-storm-likely-in-bay-of-bengal/article34601330.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gadkari wins Uddhav praise on COVID fight||The BJP and the Opposition parties and the Centre and various State governments may be at daggers drawn with regard to the handling of the pandemic, but Roads and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari has managed to find synergy with the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA)-led government in Maharashtra. Mr. Gadkari has been proactive in Nagpur, home of his Lok Sabha constituency and one that was the site of a major upsurge in COVID-19 cases in the massive second wave that has hit India. Whatever the reason, Mr. Gadkari’s interventions have been well received. While he has had to clarify that he advocated licensing domestic vaccine manufacturers to produce anti-COVID-19 vaccines to boost supply in India without realising that it had in fact been done by the Government of India, his point was well taken. While State governments scrambled for oxygen as cases and demand for the medical oxygen went up, Mr. Gadkari’s emergency call to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy secured 300 ventilators for Maharashtra. Mr. Gadkari said in a tweet: “I had called the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh and requested him to provide support to Maharashtra which is facing a grim situation due to COVID19. Acting swiftly on the request, the AP government sent 300 ventilators to the state. At this crucial time, it will be instrumental in saving precious lives. On behalf of the citizens of the state, I heartily thank him for his swift action.” This was appreciated by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, too. As Nagpur scrambled around for medical resources like the rest of the country, State administration and officials realised that Mr. Gadkari could be the leverage they needed at the national level. New scourge So it was that as a new scourge, black fungus, or Mucormycosis, hit COVID-19 patients, the injection required to treat it, Amphotericin B, has been in very short supply. Mr. Gadkari got the State drug authority clearance for Genetic Life Sciences, a Wardha-based company, to produce the injection, and also helped the company source raw materials for the same. The first batch of injections are supposed to be out in 10 days time. Close aides of Mr. Gadkari said the local administration has been cooperative with regard to his initiatives to increase capacities in Nagpur, whether for hospital beds, Remdisivir injections and now Amphotericin B. “It is an unusual occurrence that we are getting the same cooperation as the ruling alliance MLAs,” said a source. This could also be because the other big leader in Vidarbha and an MLA from Nagpur is former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has been scathing in his criticism of the MVA government’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis. Amid the politics surrounding the handling of the pandemic, the Nagpur model has stood out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gadkari-wins-uddhav-praise-on-covid-fight/article34601347.ece
20 May 2021||Kolkata,||Popular Kolkata club turns itself into COVID-19 hospital||Shanti Sardar, 29, is lying on a bed at the very spot where she comes with her family every autumn to join the crowds in admiring the idols of Goddess Durga and her children. She’s sharing this familiar space with eight strangers, all of whom have tested positive for COVID-19 and are, at the moment, undergoing treatment in this makeshift hospital. “I miss my two children. One of them is 11 and the other seven. I have never lived without them this long. I specially missed them yesterday [Tuesday] — my birthday. Otherwise the stay in this place has been fine. They should be releasing me in a day or two,” she said. “When not feeling too tired, I keep myself busy with Facebook and WhatsApp, or talk to the dadu [elderly man] on the next bed. He doesn’t seem to have a family because nobody ever enquires about him or brings him anything,” said Ms. Sardar, who lives in a slum in Kolkata’s Golf Garden area, barely a 10-minute walk away from the facility. She tested positive on May 10. It was her brother — a sanitation worker — who suggested that she immediately isolate herself and got admitted to this new ‘hospital’ that had opened that very day. Fortunately for Ms. Sardar, who works as a domestic help in several homes in south Kolkata, she found a place in this nine-bed facility, which is the popular, 1965-built Atalanta Club. Atalanta is the typical neighbourhood club, which in normal times holds Durga Puja and various other cultural events, and which has now turned into a full-fledged COVID-19 facility. “We are possibly the first club in the whole of India, and not just Kolkata, to turn into a critical care unit and not just an isolation centre,” said Rajeev Hariharan, general secretary of the club. Medical attention “We have four nurses and two ayahs attending to the patients round the clock. A doctor visits us every day. We are equipped to handle even those patients whose oxygen saturation has dropped to below 70; we have 15 oxygen cylinders at the moment, and we have been stocking cylinders for 30 years now, for use in cases of emergency,” Mr. Hariharan said. Saying the facility was a response to the call of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who recently urged puja committees to help in the fight against COVID-19, Mr. Hariharan said the club intended adding at least five more beds in the coming days. “All the expenses are being borne by the Rotary Club and by our members, who add up to around 350. Besides, we have been home-delivering food — free of cost — to over 100 patients daily for more than a month, which is being sponsored by the 1988 batch of Don Bosco students. If people don’t help people now, then when?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/popular-kolkata-club-turns-itself-into-covid-19-hospital/article34601870.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||AAP blows hot and cold about its political course||On Monday, the Aam Aadmi Party’s official Twitter account listed out the Muslim-majority countries to which Indian-made vaccines had been sent by the Narendra Modi government as part of the ‘Vaccine Maitri’ programme. Pakistan was top on the list, and the party said Mr. Modi sought votes from Indians but sent vaccines abroad. Two hours later, seeing the adverse reaction, an additional list of countries was posted. Pakistan is not among the 95 countries listed on the Ministry of External Affairs website that received the vaccines. Pakistan got the vaccines through COVAX — an initiative aimed at equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chaddha was sent a set of questions, including on the reasons for the said tweet, but there has been no reply. But the message had already been sent out — the insinuation that the Modi government was too friendly towards Muslim countries. The AAP has taken a leaf out of the BJP’s book on Pakistan. Linking Pakistan to Opposition politics is a familiar trope of BJP politics, but the AAP has been trying to use it against it. Arvind Kejriwal had characterised the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as a measure to help Pakistanis at the cost of Indians. Selective issues The AAP, while confronting the BJP on selective issues, has also chosen to remain aloof from other Opposition parties on issues that they jointly raised. There was no word from it on the arrest of Trinamool Congress Ministers in a corruption case by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which has not acted against BJP leaders accused in the same case. Since last December, there has been at least three joint Opposition statements on farmers’ agitation and the mismanagement of the pandemic by the government. The AAP was not a signatory to any of these. A section of the Opposition holds the Congress primarily responsible for keeping the AAP out. “The Congress is allergic towards the AAP,” an Opposition leader said. Sources said on the issue of the pandemic, the AAP was approached, but it was reluctant to participate. It is unclear whether it is the AAP’s reluctance or the Congress’s reservation that is keeping the AAP from being a signatory to these joint letters, but what is clear is the reluctance of the AAP to question the BJP on Hindutva issues. On Monday, when the rest of the Opposition was criticising the “high-handedness” of the Narendra Modi government for the CBI action against Trinamool leaders in the Narada case, the AAP was silent. Mr. Kejriwal did not make any public comment. In March, the entire Opposition had rallied behind the AAP against the Modi government for bringing in the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The AAP was among the parties that supported the government on August 5, 2019, when Parliament passed the J&K Reorganisation Bill, while the Congress, the Left, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Samajwadi Party (SP), among other Opposition parties, staunchly opposed it. In the morning, the AAP, which has three members in the Upper House, trooped inside the well with the rest of the Opposition protesting against the legislation. But within a few hours, they did a somersault. Party convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “We support the government on its decisions on J&K.” The AAP voted in favour of the government. Congress general secretary Ajay Maken, who has faced the AAP in Delhi, said the AAP led by Mr. Kejriwal did not have any ideology — political or otherwise. “We have seen them swing from extreme political left to extreme right. Having started as crusaders against corruption, over the years, there are numerous examples of the AAP shielding the corrupt,” he said. “Several questions have been raised about the ideological and political position of the AAP; it is for the AAP to clarify where it stands,” CPI general secretary D. Raja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-blows-hot-and-cold-about-its-political-course/article34601354.ece
20 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. declares mucormycosis an epidemic||Amid the increasing instances of mucormycosis or black fungus, which is primarily affecting people recovering from COVID-19, the Rajasthan government on Wednesday declared it an epidemic and a notifiable disease. It will be mandatory for the health facilities to report every case of the disease in the State. The State has at present more than 100 black fungus patients, for whom a special ward has been established at the Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital here. More of these cases are being reported from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sirohi and Kota districts. Principal Health Secretary Akhil Arora said the declaration of mucormycosis as an epidemic would ensure its “integrated and coordinated” treatment along with the treatment for COVID-19. The notification was issued under the Rajasthan Epidemic Act, 2020. Mucormycosis appears as a side effect among COVID-19 patients who are put on oxygen support through liquid medical oxygen cylinders or oxygen concentrators. The State government has also given instructions for procurement of oxygen concentrators of good quality and ensure strict compliance with safety measures while using them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-govt-declares-mucormycosis-an-epidemic/article34601369.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||DD International to present ‘India story’||State broadcaster Doordarshan is planning to set up a new channel DD International to “project India’s point of view” to the world. Doordarshan floated an Expression of Interest (EOI) seeking applications for consultancy service to provide a detailed project report for establishing the channel. As per the EOI document, the idea is to “build a global presence for Doordarshan and to establish an international voice for India”. International criticism This comes against the backdrop of growing criticism in the international media about the Narendra Modi government’'s handling of the pandemic. The EOI says the channel will present India’s point of view on contemporary issues of both global and domestic significance. Officials said it was felt that India’s perspective was getting lost in the noise. The EOI also mentions that the channel will specifically tell “the India story to a global audience”. Doordarshan’s global outreach is primarily through bilateral distribution arrangement with select broadcasters in other countries apart from live streaming through Prasar Bharati’s global digital platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dd-international-to-present-india-story/article34601334.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||‘No patient has died due to oxygen shortage’||No patient has died because of oxygen shortage, the Maharashtra government told the Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court on Wednesday. A Division Bench of Justices Ravindra Ghuge and B.U. Debadwar said COVID-19 patients are coming to hospitals in a critical condition and the demand for oxygen has grown multiple times. Advocate Rahul Chitnis, appearing for the State, said, “No patient in the State has died only for the non-supply of oxygen.” The court said it would hold nodal officers responsible if they failed to supply oxygen. If such a situation arose, nodal officers would be held liable for action, the court remarked. ‘Create buffer stock’ The court directed the Centre in collaboration with the State to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen. The location of emergency stock should be decentralised so it is made available immediately, the court suggested. Other than COVID-19 patents, there are cancer patients and those with heart, liver, kidney ailments who may need oxygen and they too should be provided for, the court noted. The Bench has been continuously hearing a bunch of suo motu public interest litigations on the shortage of medicines, oxygen, ventilators and beds due to the ongoing pandemic. The court said that it had come to its notice that ventilators from some suppliers were of inferior quality. It asked the State to apprise the court on how many ventilators have been received. Helplines appreciated The High Court appreciated the work done by authorities on the efforts to publicise the helpline numbers for ambulances and the arrangements made for the vehicles to reach rural areas so that the poorest of poor are attended to. In the last hearing, the Bench had ordered that no politician, Minister or people’s representative should hold public functions till the lockdown restrictions are eased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-patient-has-died-due-to-oxygen-shortage/article34601335.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre raises subsidy on DAP fertilizers; no hike for farmers||The Central government has enhanced the subsidy on di-ammonium phosphate, or DAP fertilizers, in order to retain the selling price for farmers at the current level of Rs. 1,200 per bag, following a review meeting on fertilizer prices chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The move, which entails raising the subsidy from Rs. 500 per bag to Rs. 1,200 per bag of DAP, will raise India’s annual fertilizer subsidy bill of about Rs. 80,000 crore by Rs. 14,775 crore as subsidy in the Kharif season, a statement said. While international prices of phosphoric acid and ammonia used for producing DAP have gone up by 60%-70%, the actual price of a DAP bag is now Rs. 2,400, the government said. With the existing subsidy, the price would have to be pegged at Rs. 1,900 per bag, but it has been retained at Rs. 1,200 per bag. In April, India’s largest fertilizer producer, IFFCO, had announced a 58.33% hike in DAP prices, but later said farmers would continue to get old stocks at existing prices and the hiked prices were “only tentative”. “The PM stressed that farmers should get fertilizers at old rates despite the international rise in prices,” the official statement said, calling this an unprecedented subsidy hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-raises-subsidy-on-dap-fertilizers-no-hike-for-farmers/article34601343.ece
20 May 2021||Patna,||Tejashwi converts official residence into mini hospital||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday said he had converted his official residence into a COVID-19 care centre, with 50 beds for patients and all necessary medical equipment. Mr. Yadav, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly, has set up the centre at his 1 Polo Road residence in Patna in his personal capacity. “But I cannot run the centre as it is a government bungalow,” he said in a video message. “I urge the State government to take over my official residence where I’ve provided all facilities of beds, oxygen cylinders, medicines, free food and all medical equipment for COVID-19 patients, to convert into isolation wards or quarantine centres as people are not getting beds, medicines or other necessary help in government hospitals,” Mr. Yadav said in the video, with photographs of the arrangements made at his residence. He said that he had been writing to the government for the past four years but had not received a response from it. “But being a responsible Opposition leader, I want to give my government bungalow to the government. I urge the government to let me know if it needs any other required help from us,” he added. Earlier, on May 18, Mr. Yadav had written to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, seeking his permission to visit hospitals. “For the last few weeks, my party MLAs and leaders were undertaking initiatives to arrange beds, oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs to handle the rising cases of COVID-19 in their respective areas. I want to visit those areas and hospitals to assess the initiatives taken by my party for COVID-19 patients,” he said in the letter.  Drama, says JD(U) However, Janata Dal (U) leader Suheli Mehta said, “Tejashwi Yadav is indulging in drama.” Bharatiya Janata Party leader and party spokesperson Nikhil Anand said, “Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav wants to do politics while sitting in Delhi to hog the limelight. He has neither seriousness over COVID, nor does he have a positive mindset. When everything in Bihar is under control and the State government has made all the necessary arrangements to face the pandemic, Tejashwi is seeking permission to come to the State. I want to ask him with whose permission he went to Delhi that he is seeking permission to come back.” Mr. Yadav has been in New Delhi for the past few days. Bihar, on May 18, recorded 111 COVID-19 fatalities, the highest in a single day. The State’s death toll due to COVID-19 has gone up to 4,039, with a total of 6,64,115 positive cases. The number of active cases in the State, so far, is 64,698, with an 89.65% recovery rate. So far, 93.1 lakh people have been vaccinated in Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tejashwi-converts-official-residence-into-mini-hospital/article34601356.ece
20 May 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. counters claim on teachers’ deaths||The Uttar Pradesh government has said that only three teachers died of COVID-19 while on duty during the recently concluded panchayat poll, dismissing the figure of over 1,600 deaths claimed by teacher unions. Satya Prakash, Under-secretary of the Basic Education Department, Uttar Pradesh, said on Tuesday that so far District Magistrates had provided the State Election Commission a list of only three confirmed deaths of teachers. The State government’s statement stands in stark contrast to the claim made by the Uttar Pradesh Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, a union for primary teachers. The union earlier this week released a list of 1,621 teachers and staff of the Basic Education Department who allegedly died of COVID-19 after being assigned duty in the panchayat polls and control rooms for the pandemic. The SEC recently informed the Allahabad High Court that 77 polling officers and agents in 28 districts had died while on duty as polling in the panchayat polls. Data from other districts was awaited, the SEC told the court on May 7. Reacting to the claim of only three deaths, Dinesh Chandra Sharma, president of the Uttar Pradesh Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, said the government statement was “insensitive, irresponsible and far from reality”. “We won’t let them kill the rights of the children of the teachers who died. We will fight for their families at all levels,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-counters-claim-on-teachers-deaths/article34601370.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||NHRC flags lack of cover for doctors on contract||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday asked the Union Health Ministry and the Delhi government to “consider providing adequate medical care and financial protection” to contractual medical and paramedical staff engaged in COVID-19 care. The NHRC issued notices to the Health and Family Welfare Secretary and the Chief Secretary of Delhi asking them to submit reports within two weeks, an NHRC statement said. The NHRC said the governments should consider getting medical insurance for the contractual healthcare workers so they can get treatment in private hospitals. The NHRC also asked them to provide financial support to Dr. Amit Gupta, a senior resident in paediatrics at Satyavadi Raja Harish Chandra Hospital, Delhi, who was admitted to the ICU of Medanta Hospital in Gurugram for COVID-19 treatment. The NHRC said the complainant in the matter said Dr. Gupta could not get a bed in the hospital he worked at and did not get any financial support from the government on the grounds that he was engaged on contract. Serious issue “The Commission has observed that it is a serious issue if the contractual doctors/resident doctors and paramedical staff of the Delhi government and other Central government hospitals are not getting life care medical facilities when they fall ill during their service to save lives of the people during such a pandemic situation. Presently, the country is already facing huge crisis of medical facilities and losing lives too,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-flags-lack-of-cover-for-doctors-on-contract/article34601365.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on challenges for entrepreneurship in the new normal||SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) in association with The Hindu Group will host a webinar on ‘Challenges for Entrepreneurship in the New Normal’ on May 22 at 5 p.m. The webinar is a part of the 15-part SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021 series that spotlights science, engineering and technology courses and their relevance to the 2020s workplace. Hari Krishnan Nair, co-founder at Great Learning; Siddharth Chaturvedi, Executive Vice-President at AISECT Group; and Dr. Ananth Kumar, Assistant Professor (Management) and Executive Secretary (CET) Vice-President at SRM Innovation and Incubation Center (SIIC) will speak as a part of the webinar. The discussion will be moderated by Yashasvini Rajeshwar, Founder and CEO of AuxoHub. To register for the FREE webinar, visit http://bit.ly/SRMTHE8 or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-challenges-for-entrepreneurship-in-the-new-normal/article34601324.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||Send Stan Swamy for check-up: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the superintendent of the Taloja central jail to take Father Stan Swamy to JJ Hospital for a check-up on Thursday. It also directed the Dean of the hospital to form a committee to examine him and submit a report on May 21. The court said the committee must consist of one neurophysician, ear, nose and throat specialist, general surgeon, general physician and any other doctor required to examine him. A division Bench of justices S.J. Kathawalla and S.P. Tavade said if the jail has the facility of video conferencing, a virtual meeting shall be arranged to produce him before the court on May 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/send-stan-swamy-for-check-up-bombay-hc/article34601325.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘PM-CARES must disclose details of COVID-19 care’||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court to direct the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES Fund) to disclose the money it has allocated so far for COVID-19 care. Activist Saket Gokhale said PM-CARES should produce details of its mechanism to monitor the progress of the various projects it had allocated money for. ‘Important stakeholder’ Mr. Gokhale urged the court to make PM-CARES a party in its suo motu case on COVID-19 management and lapses. The application said the fund has been, since the first national lockdown, an “important stakeholder in the procurement and funding of essential supplies and services for the Covid-19 pandemic”. “The PM-CARES Fund, according to the press release announcing its constitution, was set up primarily keeping in mind the current Covid-19 pandemic,” Mr. Gokhale pointed out. “Since its inception, the PM-CARES Fund has collected monetary contributions from India as well as overseas which includes salary contributions by employees and members of several Government of India Ministries and PSUs,” he said. The application listed a series of announcements said to be made by the fund, including an allocation on May 13 last year of “Rs. 3,000 crore for COVID-19, of which Rs. 2,000 crore will be earmarked for the purchase of ventilators, Rs. 1,000 crore for care of migrant labourers and Rs. 100 crore to support vaccine development”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-cares-must-disclose-details-of-covid-19-care/article34601332.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||CPI(M) finalises portfolios in Kerala||An LDF member said the next government would have a Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe community member as Devaswom Minister, after a hiatus of 40 years. He said M.K. Krishnan of the CPI(M) had last held the post in 1981. By most accounts, the CPI(M) had chosen the party’s Central Committee member K. Radhakrishnan for the post. The former Speaker may also hold the Parliamentary Affairs portfolio. CPI(M) members mentioned central committee member M.V. Govindan as potential Minister for Excise and Local Bodies. The party had purportedly earmarked CPI(M) State secretariat members K.N. Balagopal and P. Rajeev for Finance and Industries and Law, respectively. An LDF source said Roshy Augustine of the Kerala Congress (M) could get the Water Resources Ministry. At the same time, Nationalist Congress Party leader A.K. Saseendran has purportedly settled for the Forest department portfolio. The other names doing the rounds are V.N. Vasavan (Cooperation and Registration), Saji Cherian (Fisheries and Culture) and V. Abdu Rahman (Minority Welfare and Non-Resident Keralite Affairs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-finalises-portfolios-in-kerala/article34601337.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||26 bodies recovered from barge off Mumbai||Commodore Manoj Jha, who is overseeing the effort for the last two days off the Mumbai coast, said, “Operations can be challenging but our work is to ensure that we prepare for contingency. We’ve been able to save another 300 lives at sea. Two other vessels were in distress, they were about to abandon ship and we assured them support.” The rescue operations were continuing and naval ships and aircraft were at work. “Not only the Navy, Coast Guard and ONGC ships are working. It is a joint operation. Others are also helping us,” Commodore Jha pointed out. Referring to the relief efforts under way 15-20 NM South East of the Pipavav Port off the coast of Gujarat, the Navy spokesperson asserted that Support Station 3 and drill ship Sagar Bhushan were now being safely towed back to Mumbai by ONGC support vessels. “Food and water to the 300-odd crew members of these vessels were also provided by the naval helicopters from Mumbai earlier in the day,” he stated. On completion of operations off the Gujarat coast, the Navy has diverted INS Talwar to join the other three naval ships searching for the missing crew of Barge P-305, off Mumbai. According to the Coast Guard, Sagar Bhushan, with 101 personnel onboard, reported the loss of all eight anchors 63 NM North West of Mumbai and was adrift while barge SS-3, with 202 personnel on board, was adrift 58 NM West of the city. The Coast Guard has diverted several ships to join the Navy and the ONGC in the rescue efforts. Ex gratia announced Mr. Modi announced an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh for the kin of those killed due to the cyclone in all affected States. The announcement was made after Mr. Modi held a review meeting in Ahmedabad with Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and top officials to assess the damage. Gujarat will get additional assistance after an inter-ministerial team, which will visit soon, submits its assessment, a Press Information Bureau release said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/26-bodies-recovered-from-barge-off-mumbai/article34601338.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi CM does not speak for India: Jaishankar||“Singapore and India have been solid partners in the fight against COVID-19. Appreciate Singapore’s role as logistics hub and oxygen supplier. Their gesture of deploying military aircraft to help us speaks of our exceptional relationship. However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify — the Delhi CM does not speak for India,” said Mr. Jaishankar after Singapore summoned the Indian envoy to protest Mr. Kejriwal’s remarks. Mr. Jaishankar’s comment was appreciated by Simon Wong, High Commissioner of Singapore, who maintained that Singapore was satisfied with “crystal clear” response from the Government of India. “In Singapore, we have Protection from Online Falsehoods & Manipulation Act (POFMA) to mitigate misinformation and we reserve the right to invoke POFMA relating to assertions made by the CM of Delhi. However, we are satisfied with the Government of India's clarification,” Mr. Wong said. In a rather unusual diplomatic gesture, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) announced that the Indian High Commissioner was summoned by the Singapore government on Wednesday “to convey strong objection to the Delhi CM’s tweet on the ‘Singapore variant’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-cm-does-not-speak-for-india-jaishankar/article34601339.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Scrap new privacy policy, Centre tells WhatsApp||The MeitY notice directs WhatsApp to withdraw its Privacy Policy 2021 as the changes and the manner of introducing these changes “undermine the sacrosanct values of informational privacy, data security and user choice for Indian users and harms the rights and interests of Indian citizens.” “In fulfilment of its sovereign responsibility to protect the rights and interests of Indian citizens, the Government of India will consider various options available to it under laws in India. The government has given seven days’ time to WhatsApp to respond to his notice and if no satisfactory response is received, necessary steps in consonance with law will be taken,” the source said. The government had earlier this year also written to Will Cathcart, CEO of the instant messaging firm, asking that proposed changes to the privacy policy be withdrawn, expressing “grave concerns” over the implications of the choice and the autonomy of Indian citizens. ‘Unfair terms’ In the latest missive to the U.S.-headquartered firm, MeitY has reiterated the issue of discriminatory treatment of Indian users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scrap-new-privacy-policy-centre-tells-whatsapp/article34601340.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘BJP raising fake toolkit issue to divert attention’||The Congress on Wednesday accused the BJP of trying to raise a “fake toolkit” issue to divert attention from the “failures” of the Narendra Modi government in handling the second wave of COVID-19. It claimed that the basic data of a document related to the Central Vista project was “forged” as the Congress toolkit on COVID-19. Addressing an online press conference, Randeep Surjewala, the party’s chief spokesperson, rubbished BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s claim that metadata — data containing basic information such as author, creation date, file size — had clearly proven that a person working in the All India Congress Committee (AICC) Research Department was behind the controversial document that called for “destroying the Prime Minister’s image”. “The apparent forgery and its use to divert agenda and agenda setting has been exposed. I understand that Dr. Sambit Patra will have to go to jail and he is jittery because of that... And this metadata nonsense that he is doing, we clearly said yesterday that the Central Vista document is our document,” Mr. Surjewala said, adding that the metadata of a real document cannot be used to justify a forged document. On Tuesday, the Congress party had filed an email complaint with the Delhi police naming BJP president J.P. Nadda, Union Minister Smriti Irani, Mr. Patra and party organising secretary B.L. Santish for sharing “a forged and fake document” on social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-raising-fake-toolkit-issue-to-divert-attention/article34601341.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,||2,67,115 fresh COVID-19 cases, 3,666 deaths||India recorded 2,67,115 new COVID-19 cases and 3,666 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday. The country has reported 2,57,62,461 cases and 2,86,946 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 34,875 new infections, followed by Karnataka (34,281) and Maharashtra (34,031). Maharashtra recorded 594 new casualties on the day, followed by Karnataka (468) and Tamil Nadu (365). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. As many as 20,08,296 samples were tested on Tuesday (the results for which were made available on Wednesday), which is around 1.39 lakh more tests than on Monday. India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 22.7% on May 9 and reduced to 16.9% as on May 19. Only 13.12 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/267115-fresh-covid-19-cases-3666-deaths/article34601350.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai gets three bids for supply of Sputnik V||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has received three bids for three crore doses of the Russian vaccine for COVID-19, Sputnik V, civic body Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said. Talking to The Hindu , Mr. Chahal said, “We got three proposals on Tuesday, but we still extended the date till May 25. Now we have three bids of one crore Sputnik V doses each.” This comes a day after the BMC received three incomplete proposals from three firms. The first dose of Sputnik V was given in Hyderabad last week and around three lakh doses are believed to be delivered in India. The price of one dose of Sputnik V has been fixed at Rs. 995. On May 12, the BMC issued an expression of interest for purchase of one crore COVID-19 vaccine doses, which was extended till May 18. One of the conditions in the bid said, “Companies sharing land borders with India will not be admitted and the firm will have to provide its own storage space and equipment if it requires anything different from what is available.” Apart from Sputnik V, the municipal corporation is trying to get Moderna, Pfizer, and Johnson and Johnson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-gets-three-bids-for-supply-of-sputnik-v/article34601359.ece
20 May 2021||Srinagar,||Vaccination drive in J&K sluggish despite protests||The pace of COVID-19 vaccination drive remained sluggish in J&K on Wednesday, even as the Union Territory administration had promised to resume it on “a war footing” from May 19 following severe shortage for over a week in the hospitals, especially in the Kashmir valley. According to the official data, a total of 7,611 doses were administered to eligible persons above the age of 45 years in the entire UT. “Out of these, 7,055 were administered in the Jammu division and 556 in the Kashmir division,” the officials said. No jabs given In summer capital Srinagar 252 jabs were given, while not even a single person was inoculated in winter capital Jammu. The official figures show that Kashmir division’s Kulgam, Pulwama, Kupwara and Bandipora districts too failed to inoculate any eligible person on Wednesday. The sluggish vaccination comes a day after the UT administration promised to start the vaccination drive on “a war footing” from Wednesday as it drew flak from the political parties and locals for acute shortage. The Jammu division has managed to inoculate 87.84% of the population above 45 years compared to 61.20% in the Kashmir division. According to the Health department, the UT received a fresh consignment of Covishield vaccine on Tuesday. Contrary to the claims, the inoculation pace of less than 10,000 persons is on the lower side in J&K that saw as many as 50,000 doses administered per day in April. Kashmir Divisional Commissioner Pandurang K. Pole had said that the government has placed an order of 1.2 crore doses. “Efforts are being made to get the remaining population in the 45 above age group vaccinated in the coming days,” Mr. Pole added. The UT administration is under fire from the political parties as well as locals for failing to ramp up the vaccination drive. There are growing protests from the locals. “I am a long-term diabetic and hypertensive patient. I am waiting for my second dose. I am visiting the Hazratbal health centre for 10 days now,” said Nazir Khan, 78, of Kanitar. National Conference leader and Member of Parliament from Anantnag Hassnain Masoodi also expressed concern over the unavailability of the doses. “The Anantnag district administration needs to ensure adequate supply,” he added. J&K main regional parties, including the NC, the Peoples Democratic Party, the Peoples Conference and the J&K Apni Party, have also demanded speeding up the process of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-drive-in-jk-sluggish-despite-protests/article34601863.ece
20 May 2021||Lucknow,||BJP MP accuses Sunni Waqf Board of grabbing land||BJP’s Barabanki MP Upendra Rawat wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday, supporting the demolition of a mosque in the district and accusing the Sunni Waqf Board of grabbing government land. “The Waqf Board has grabbed government land in the name of mosques and got them registered illegally,” Mr. Rawat said, demanding a probe in the matter. The Barabanki administration had on Monday night pulled down the mosque in the Ram Sanehi Ghat tehsil, claiming that the construction was illegal and being demolished on court orders. “I request the Chief Minister to probe the illegal grabbing of land by the Sunni Waqf Board and take strict action against those found guilty,” Mr. Rawat wrote. Speaking to PTI, he questioned the Waqf Board stand that if the mosque was 100-year-old, why was it registered in 2018. Waqf Board chairman Zufur Farooqui, meanwhile, said the board was ready for any probe in this matter. Asked about the Ram Sanehi Ghat mosque, he said it was registered in 1968 as a religious place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mp-accuses-sunni-waqf-board-of-grabbing-land/article34601861.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Lord Krishna’s leela||Devaki was the daughter of Devaka. Devaka was the younger brother of King Ugrasena, and Kamsa was the son of the latter. Kamsa was very fond of his cousin Devaki, and when Devaki married Vasudeva, Kamsa decided to drive them in the royal chariot to their palace. But as the chariot was on the way to Vasudeva’s palace, a voice was heard that warned that the eighth child of Devaki would kill Kamsa. Why did the Lord arrange for such an announcement to be made? When He took the Rama avatara, Ravana had no warning of what was in store for him, although poet Kalidasa gives a hint. Kalidasa says that the moment Rama was born in Ayodhya, Ravana’s crown dropped from his head. But even Kalidasa says nothing of any explicit warning to Ravana. The Krishna avatara was exceptional in this sense, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. Even before Krishna was born, what He was going to do was spoken about. Was this not a leela of Krishna? To be killed suddenly is far preferable to knowing that danger awaits, but not knowing when it will strike. Kamsa had to undergo the torment of not knowing when and how Krishna was going to kill him. Krishna wanted to show the world that he who rejected Him and hated Him would suffer the agony of Kamsa. Killing Kamsa was no big deal for Krishna, for Kamsa was not such a great opponent. Ravana was the recipient of many boons. Hiranyakashipu was mighty, and Madhu and Kaitabha were all strong. And the Lord had destroyed them all. Comparatively, Kamsa was not a difficult person to vanquish, Kooratazhvan points this out. And yet, why do we celebrate every deed of Krishna the way we do? It is because of Krishna’s style of doing things. Daring his enemy, giving him hints of his death, and then crushing him — that was Krishna’s leela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lord-krishnas-leela/article34601357.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||Cyclone deaths: ‘ONGC must be punished’||Nawab Malik, Maharashtra Minister, on Wednesday criticised the ONGC for not paying heed to the warnings on Cyclone Tauktae.It should have evacuated all the workers from the barges, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyclone-deaths-ongc-must-be-punished/article34601326.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||6 UNESCO heritage sites added in India||Six sites, including the Ganga ghats in Varanasi, temples of Kancheepuram and the Satpura Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh, have been added to India’s tentative list of UNESCO world heritage sites, Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Wednesday. Mr. Patel said six of the nine sites submitted by the Archaeological Survey of India had been accepted by UNESCO for inclusion in the tentative list, which is a requirement before the final nomination of any site. The recently-included proposals are the Maratha military architecture in Maharashtra, the Hire Bengal megalithic site in Karnataka and Bhedaghat-Lametaghat of Narmada Valley in Madhya Pradesh. The six proposals were included in the list on April 13, according to the UNESCO World Heritage Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-unesco-heritage-sites-added-in-india/article34601327.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI books IFFCO chief, ex-IPL MD||The CBI has booked the managing director and chief executive officer of Indian Farmers Fertiliser Co-operative Limited (IFFCO), then managing director of Indian Potash Limited (IPL) and eight others, including their sons, for alleged import of fertilizers and raw materials at highly inflated rates. “Searches have been conducted on the premises of the accused persons at 12 locations in Delhi, Gurugram, Mumbai and other places,” said a CBI official. The main accused in the case are U.S. Awasthi, the current managing director and CEO of IFFCO, and Pravinder Singh Gahlaut, then managing director of IPL. The agency has registered the case based on the references from the Chemicals and Fertilizers Ministry, Department of Fertilisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-iffco-chief-ex-ipl-md/article34601328.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||Tarun Tejpal verdict put off till May 21||The Mapusa District and Sessions Court in Goa on Wednesday adjourned the verdict in the 2013 sexual harassment case against journalist Tarun Tejpal to May 21 because of a power outage in the State following Cyclone Tauktae. On May 12, the court postponed the ruling to May 19 due to a shortage of staff following the pandemic. Advocate Shrikant Shivade representing Mr. Tejpal told The Hindu , “There is no electricity due to the cyclone for two days and the hearing is adjourned to May 21.” Mr. Tejpal is accused of raping his colleague in the elevator of a five-star hotel. He was arrested on November 30, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tarun-tejpal-verdict-put-off-till-may-21/article34601336.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Class 12 exams necessary, says teacher in SC||A Kerala-based Mathematics teacher has opposed in the Supreme Court a petition filed by an advocate to cancel the Class 12 examinations due to COVID-19. Idukki resident Tony Joseph, who teaches Mathematics for Class 12, said students had been preparing for the examinations since December. Instead of cancellation, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations should either postpone or hold it online. Mr. Joseph, represented by advocate Jose Abraham, said the second wave was already on a downward curve. “The Class 12 exam is career-defining... Admission to higher education institutions hinges on the result of this exam,” Mr. Joseph argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/class-12-exams-necessary-says-teacher-in-sc/article34601344.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC for President’s Rule in Bengal||A lawyer has asked the Supreme Court to “direct” the Centre to advise President’s Rule in West Bengal on the ground of failure of the constitutional machinery, following reports about post-poll murders of BJP workers and wanton destruction of property allegedly by ruling Trinamool Congress “goons”. Advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay said the apex court should “direct/request” the West Bengal Governor to give a detailed report on the “law and order situation in the State of West Bengal and failure of constitutional machinery in the State”. The court, if satisfied, should then “be pleased to hold and declare that there is no rule of law in the State and there is complete failure of constitutional machinery”. The petition also urged the apex court to direct the West Bengal government to immediately transfer the “killing” of 16 “perceived” BJP workers to a Special Investigation Team (SIT) for an investigation monitored by the Supreme Court. The SIT should file periodic reports on the investigation before the apex court, Mr. Upadhyay underlined. “Massacre killings of suspected BJP workers/supporters and destruction of their houses/properties have taken place soon after the election result were declared… The remaining workers/supporters of BJP and their families have been left with no other option than to leave their houses/residences and hide themselves to save their lives and limbs. Media reports have further revealed till filing of the instant petition that the incidents of killing of BJP workers and destruction of their properties by the people of TMC are still going on with complete impunity…” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-for-presidents-rule-in-bengal/article34601345.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Should have aligned with Trinamool’||Senior Congress leader M. Veerappa Moily on Wednesday said his party should have struck an alliance with Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress in the West Bengal election, even as he expressed anguish over “ad hocism” in the grand old outfit. The former Union Minister also sought action against West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee President Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury for the poll debacle in the State, describing him as a “weak leader”. Mr. Moily cited the wrong selection of an alliance for the “wipe-out” in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/should-have-aligned-with-trinamool/article34601348.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||Shift Babu to private hospital: HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the shifting of Hany Babu, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon caste violence case, to Breach Candy Hospital for treatment of his undiagnosed eye infection after his family agreed to foot the bill. The direction came after doctors at GT Hospital, where Mr. Babu was admitted on testing positive for COVID-19, said they did not have an MRI machine to test the ophthalmic artery. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and S.P. Tavade was hearing a plea filed by Jenny Rowena, wife of Mr. Babu, urging the court to grant him medical bail. As an interim measure, she sought tests for mucormycosis either by a diagnostic nasal endoscopy or KOH staining and microscopy, culture sample. Advocate Yug Chaudhry told the court that Mr. Babu’s eye infection had reached cheek, ear and forehead and that he was not being treated for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shift-babu-to-private-hospital-hc/article34601349.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||We will allow doorstep jabs: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday told the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that if the Central government does not allow door-to-door vaccination, it would grant the civic body the go-ahead. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation filed by two city-based lawyers who sought vaccination at home for senior citizens above 75 years and those who are bed-ridden and wheelchair-bound. Advocate Dhruti Kapadia, one of the petitioners, told the court that the BMC’s affidavit said people would be able to choose wards and book vaccination slots, while those without identity cards should associate themselves with an NGO. “We are only trying to understand what is the reason behind not having door-to-door vaccination? Why can’t you start it? We will grant you permission. Do not wait for the Centre’s permission and go to the aid of elderly,” the court told the counsel appearing for the BMC. Ms. Kapadia said the kin of beneficiaries can give consent forms to the BMC so nobody can be held responsible if anything goes wrong. “You please consult with the Commissioner. If someone is bed-ridden, why can’t the BMC conduct vaccination for them at home? Should they not have a vaccine only because they cannot be brought out?” the court asked the counsel. The court said, “Why not give permissions to people who can give vaccination, with proper consideration of risks, if they are willing to do it. If the Centre is not giving you a green signal, we will give you a green signal.” The Bench directed the BMC to file an affidavit on the matter on Thursday. When the counsel pointed out that it was short notice, the Bench said, “We know it is a short time, but then lives are precious. Each day is important for them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-allow-doorstep-jabs-bombay-hc/article34601371.ece
20 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Conspiracy behind NRC reverification plea: AIUDF||A key member of the Congress-led Opposition grand alliance in Assam has sniffed a conspiracy behind the move for the reverification of the National Register of Citizens (NRC). The All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) has also slammed State NRC Coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma for exceeding his authority in filing an interlocutory application in the Supreme Court seeking “complete, comprehensive and time-bound reverification” of the NRC. “How can a State government officer file an application when the Supreme Court had rejected similar review petitions of the Central and State governments in 2019,” AIUDF general secretary Md. Aminul Islam told journalists on Tuesday. “We want to know the reason behind the latest move, whether or not the Centre and the Assam governments were aware of ,” Mr. Islam said. He also found a flaw in Mr. Sarma’s claim that the published citizens’ list was a “draft” NRC. “How can he say that when the Supreme Court, the Registrar General of India and the Union Home Ministry have already made it clear that the NRC published in August 2019 is the final document,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conspiracy-behind-nrc-reverification-plea-aiudf/article34601864.ece
20 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. wants compensation for families of COVID victims||Congress leaders in Haryana have hit out at the ruling BJP-JJP government, accusing it of ‘mishandling’ the COVID-19 pandemic and demanding financial assistance to the families of COVID-19 victims. Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda sought financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh each to the kin. He demanded a survey be carried out to identify such families. “Families, who have no surviving earning members, should be given a pension of Rs. 5,000 per month and children of such families should be provided free education. We also have to be mindful that this assistance will reach affected families only when the government conducts the survey in a fair manner,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-wants-compensation-for-families-of-covid-victims/article34601943.ece
20 May 2021||Jaipur,||Rajasthan MLA Gautam Lal Meena dies of COVID-19 infection||Gautam Lal Meena, Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Dhariawad in Rajasthan's Pratapgarh district, died of COVID-19 infection on Wednesday. He was admitted to Maharana Bhupal Government Hospital in Udaipur on May 16 and was put on ventilator support when his condition deteriorated rapidly over the last two days. Mr. Meena, 55, was elected an MLA thrice from Dhariawad in 2003, 2013 and 2018. He was earlier the Pradhan of Dhariawad Panchayat Samiti. He was actively looking after the arrangements for treatment of patients during the pandemic in his tribal-dominated constituency and extending relief to the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-mla-gautam-lal-meena-dies-of-covid-19-infection/article34601360.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||Minister flags case surge in smaller States||Smaller States are showing an upward trend in new COVID-19 cases and there is a need to be cautious about this, said Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday. He was interacting with Health Ministers and Principal Secretaries/ Additional Chief Secretaries of West Bengal and the eight States of the north-eastern region. He said the government aimed to provide COVID-19 vaccines to all adults by end of the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-flags-case-surge-in-smaller-states/article34601364.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||Social Justice Ministry to give financial aid to trans people||The Social Justice Ministry would give transgender persons a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 1,500 at a time that livelihoods have been affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Department of Social Justice secretary R. Subrahmanyam said on Wednesday. Social Justice Minister Thawarchand Gehlot added in a tweet that the “immediate subsistence assistance” to trans persons would be given through direct benefit transfer, for which beneficiaries can register with the National Institute of Social Defence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/social-justice-ministry-to-give-financial-aid-to-trans-people/article34601366.ece
20 May 2021||Guwahati,||233 Assam jail inmates test positive for COVID-19||The sudden detection of COVID-19 infections among 105 inmates of the Dibrugarh and Sivasagar jails in eastern Assam has taken the current positive count among prisoners to 233. Officials said there were 128 cases across 16 of Assam’s 31 jails till May 17, including six facilities that also serve as detention centres for declared foreigners. “But 54 prisoners in Dibrugarh Central Jail and 51 in the Sivasagar jail tested positive over the past couple of days, after some 400 of them were tested,” Inspector-General of Prisons Barnali Sarma told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/233-assam-jail-inmates-test-positive-for-covid-19/article34601367.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||15 districts record over 20% positivity rate||Fifteen out of the 37 districts in Tamil Nadu have reported a seven-day average positivity rate of over 20%. According to the data available with the Medical Department, the overall seven-day average positivity rate — from May 11 to 17 — was 19.8%. Among the districts that reported a higher positivity rate than the State’s average were Chengalpattu, Theni, Coimbatore, Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi, Nagapattinam, Ramanathapuram, Krishnagiri and Chennai. Chengalpattu alone topped 30%, with its seven-day average being 31.7%. Though Chengalpattu’s positivity rate dropped from 38.2% on May 11 to 25.6% on May 17, the positivity rate in districts such as Theni and Coimbatore is on the rise. Theni’s positivity rate steadily rose from 23.2% on May 11 to 32.1% on May 17, while that of Coimbatore increased from 25.6% to 31.3% during the same period. In Chennai, which has been recording over 6,000 cases, the positivity rate was 25.1% (29,770 tested) on May 11. On May 17, the rate was 23.2% (26,468 tested). “Cases are on the rising level in districts such as Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Madurai and Thoothukudi. Among the worst-hit are districts such as Coimbatore and Tiruppur,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. Any early sign of decline was definitely not an indicator of the cases getting stabilised, officials said. “As far as the cases in Chennai are concerned, it is too early to say. It might be deceptive in the initial stages; so, we need to keep a watch,” he said. “Recording 33,000 cases a day is a big number. It will take some more time to stabilise, and cases need to stabilise across the State,” added Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T. S. Selvavinayagam. “The high positivity rate indicates that more people are affected and that we need to increase testing to keep the potential cases under control. In Tamil Nadu, we have adopted a syndromic approach. Let us not wait for testing. Any person with a symptom such as upper respiratory infection will be assumed to be affected with COVID-19 and treatment will be initiated,” Dr. Selvavinayagam said. While medical infrastructure is being ramped up, it is important to go to the root of the disease for prevention, he said. “Our strategy is to focus on how to ensure that the disease is contained. Containment areas and disinfection are among the main focus areas... to break the chain of transmission. Through effective containment measures, disease transmission... can be prevented,” he said. Any rise in cases in semi-urban or rural parts of Tamil Nadu will hit the already limited health infrastructure in some of these areas, an official said. “In the first wave, the cases started to drop in Chennai but rose in many other districts such as Madurai, Virudhunagar and the spread of the virus reached till Kanniyakumari. Chennai has five major COVID-19 hospitals, a number of other government facilities and private hospitals. This is not the case in a number of districts, such as Sivagangai or Theni, that have only one main government hospital,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-districts-record-over-20-positivity-rate/article34601819.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kuruvai season may see coverage of 3 lakh acres this year too||Despite reports of rural areas of the State registering a number of COVID-19 cases, the government is hopeful of getting the normal extent of three lakh acres covered for paddy in the Cauvery delta during the Kuruvai cultivation season. Conscious of the shortage of labour for farm work, M.R.K. Panneerselvam, Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, told The Hindu that achieving the coverage would not be an issue in view of increasing mechanisation. “These days, machines are used for transplanting seedlings which was once a labour intensive activity,” the Minister pointed out, adding that those, having borewells, had started using the farm work. Observing that “it is a matter of livelihood” for farmers of the delta to raise paddy during the season, the Minister said the farm work had begun, adhering to the government’s norms on personal distancing. “We are fine-tuning the guidelines too,” Mr Panneerselvam added. As of now, transplantation has been done for an extent of 55,000 acres. As nursery has been completed for 1,800 acres, this will take care of 18,000 acres for transplantation. On Sunday, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, after chairing a consultative meeting with farmers in Thanjavur, said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would take a call on opening the Mettur dam for irrigation on the scheduled date of June 12. On Monday, the water level of the dam stood at 97.82 ft (full level: 120 ft) with the storage being 62.052 thousand million cubic feet (capacity: 93.47 tmc ft). Between June 1 last year and May 12 this year, the State’s realisation of Cauvery water was around 208 tmc ft, an excess of 32.5 tmc ft. A perusal of the data of the paddy coverage in the delta and the opening of the Mettur dam in the last 10 years reveals that the coverage was achieved in 8 out of 10 years, using groundwater essentially, as the dam was opened in June only twice – 2011 and 2020. In the remaining eight years, the release of water commenced once in July; on four occasions in August; twice in September and once in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kuruvai-season-may-see-coverage-of-3-lakh-acres-this-year-too/article34601934.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman’s harrowing experience at crematorium forces GCC to act||A woman in Vepery had a harrowing time on Tuesday night, after her 98-year-old aunt died of COVID-19 complications. A moving post of her experience was forwarded to the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, who has ordered action against persons guilty at the Otteri Crematorium as well as GCC personnel and for regulation of staff at burial grounds in the city. The bereaved woman faced several issues, including not getting any record of death or cremation, and was abused by persons at the crematorium for not paying what they demanded. The dead woman was under palliative care at home in Vepery. The Corporation was informed of this and had taken a letter from the family citing that it did not want hospital assistance. The nonagenarian died a little after 7 p.m. on Tuesday and the officials subsequently reached the house. “We assumed that since she died a little after 7 p.m, it would not be possible to do the cremation the same day and had arranged for a freezer coffin so that the cremation could take place the following day. However, the Corporation personnel told us that since she had tested [COVID-19] positive, she could not be kept overnight in a freezer coffin and that the cremation would have to happen immediately, even though it was night,” the resident said. While they were ready to move to the burial ground, the resident said that she had enquired about the doctor’s certification of death. “The GCC personnel told us that the GCC doctor would not be able to come at this time in the night and would certify the next morning. I found that very strange — a dead person being cremated with no record whatsoever,” she said and stated that she refused for her aunt to be taken away without any paperwork and proceeded to contact the Health Inspector of the Zone who explained the procedures to her.  Money demanded Following an assurance from the health inspector, the body was taken to the Otteri crematorium and there, the resident said she was intimidated by the people there to pay up Rs. 8,000 to get the body cremated. “I offered Rs. 3,000 against the Rs. 8,000 they demanded and this set off a storm of abuse being hurled at me. Three persons who were there jumped onto a bike and rode away,” she said. “This was concerning since the persons there had just taken the body inside and had emerged soon after, making me wonder if they had actually begun the cremation. They finally agreed to take Rs. 3,000 on the condition that when I come back the next day to collect the ashes, I will pay the balance. A GCC official was there, and had seen everything happen,” she said. With no family in the city as well as the lockdown in place, the resident only had another person, her driver, who had accompanied her to the burial ground. When she approached the officer in-charge of the crematorium about the Form 2 which has to be completed and submitted, the official there said that it would only be given the next day. “I was left with no record of death or the cremation. While trying to ensure a dignified funeral, I was faced with this nerve-wracking experience,” the resident said. On coming to know about the issues faced by her, Mr. Bedi reached out and reassured her that they would look into it. “I am most reassured by the fact that the GCC has now reached out and will be looking into these concerns. There needs to be a police check post or booth at the Otteri burial ground as well for additional safety,” the resident said. Advisory to be issued Assuring that action would be taken, Mr. Bedi told The Hindu that they would look into the issue and suspend the persons involved. “If they aren’t able to find that persons involved, the burial ground staff will have to be shifted. I have given instructions for the staff present at burials grounds to have a dress code and wear an ID card as well. A press release with whom to reach out in case of an emergency will also be issued soon,” he said. Officials have decided to hand over the ashes personally to the resident to ensure she does not have to go back to the burial ground again. Further, he added that an inquiry was held at the Otteri burial ground that is maintained by the NGO ICWO, along with the Vigilance Officer and the zonal team. It was ascertained that the caretaker and four assistants were present on Tuesday night. The manager of ICWO has been instructed to immediately terminate the five persons and produce a copy of the letter in an hour. Alternative arrangements had been made to replace the staff members so that cremation did not get affected.  While trying to ensure a dignified funeral, I was faced with this nerve-wracking experience||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womans-ordeal-at-burial-ground-spurs-corporation-into-action/article34601678.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mylapore MLA starts helpline||Kalaiselvi Rajnikanth, a resident of Muthu Street, Mylapore, was in quarantine as her children tested COVID-19 positive, and she could not step out to get the Rs. 2,000 relief amount announced by the government. She sent a message to the helpline started by Mylapore MLA Dha. Velu and volunteers helped her get the money the next day. The helpline — WhatsApp number 9677243222 — was started by the MLA four days ago to help the elderly people, differently abled and COVID-19 patients in his constituency during the pandemic. Till date, he has extended help to over 100 people. “I texted the MLA’s number and his volunteers arrived at my house and collected my details. They helped me get the relief money quickly. Such a platform to convey problems to the elected representatives is a good move,” said Ms. Kalaiselvi. Residents feel that such initiative should be replicated in all constituencies. Mr. Velu said, “The elderly people are vulnerable to the virus. They cannot step out to get the relief money or even essentials. The same is the case with COVID-19 patients and differently abled. Since we have volunteers and party cadre in 13 divisions, I am able to help the people.” People called him for civic issues and to get essentials delivered at their homes. “I forward them to volunteers or the Greater Chennai Corporation officials and get the issues sorted out quickly. I also follow up on the complaints and get reactions from the public,” he added. Apart from this, the MLA has also started an awareness drive about vaccination, especially in the slums, in Mylapore. “We have to reach out to the people and build trust. People can contact me any time. Even if I miss their call, I will call back,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mylapore-mla-starts-helpline/article34601680.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK’s poll post-mortem may not happen now||The AIADMK is likely to take some more time for conducting, in an organised way, a post-mortem of the party’s defeat in the Assembly election in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The ongoing COVID-19 lockdown and the recent death of a brother of the party’s coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, are cited as reasons for the party not having any structured discussion on its performance in the poll. The party leadership has to decide, sooner or later, nominees for a couple of posts in the legislature party - deputy leader and whip, say senior functionaries of the party. Two years ago, in the wake of the debacle of the AIADMK-led front in the Lok Sabha poll, the then Ministers, district secretaries, legislators and parliamentarians met at the party headquarters for over one-and-a-half hours. Dual leadership Even though the meeting then was overshadowed by the debate on dual leadership and did not lead to any tangible follow-up, it will be in the interests of the party to do stock taking now, says a seasoned party functionary, who got elected from the southern region. Online meetings A senior leader in the western region feels that just as the DMK held a number of online meetings last year, his party too can follow suit in making use of various platforms being offered by technology for such internal interactions. As the COVID-19 pandemic is acquiring serious proportions in terms of cases in the State, it is ideal to have online meetings instead of the conventional way of having discussion at the party headquarters. In the last few weeks, many victorious and defeated candidates of the party had met both Mr. Panneerselvam and party co-coordinator Edappadi K.Palaniswami individually and shared their perspective. Submit in writing A few senior members say that the former has hinted that a committee may be formed to study the reasons. All the unsuccessful candidates have been asked to submit in writing as to what led to their defeat. Long standing functionaries As for the reasons, there is a view among many long-standing functionaries of the party that the last minute policy decision of the AIADMK regime to provide internal reservation of 10.5% for Vanniyars within the quota of Most Backward Classes (MBCs) did not generate any positive impact for the party in northern districts, where the performance of the AIADMK and its allies including the PMK and the BJP was miserable. On the other hand, it had worked against the party. “How would you explain the defeat of our Law Minister and a votary of the quota C.Ve. Shanmugam, in Villupuram? Also, other two prominent Ministers from the Vanniyar community — M.C. Sampath in Cuddalore and K.C. Veeramani in Jolarpet — have lost. At the same time, the PMK too could win only in five out of 23 constituencies,” points out a veteran leader, raising questions about the efficacy of the AIADMK-Pattali Makkal Katchi tie-up. The absence of support of the Scheduled Castes coupled with that of religious minorities and the departure of the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam and Puthiya Tamilagam from the alliance had affected the prospects of the party. There is a view among sections of the party that the present set of office-bearers has to be revamped with the infusion of new and young blood. Both Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam are said to be receptive to the idea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmks-poll-post-mortem-may-not-happen-now/article34601812.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Burial grounds under watch||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched real time monitoring of burial grounds in various parts of the city. The civic body has started taking steps to streamline the handling of bodies of COVID-19 patients. Following complaints of malpractices at the burial grounds, Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi ordered officers to start real time monitoring of burial grounds and resolve issues reported on such premises. Mr. Bedi directed vigilance officers to visit burial grounds to prevent collection of exorbitant charges from the bereaved families. The real time monitoring of burial grounds had been facilitated by the personnel at the integrated command and control centre at Ripon Buildings. Minister P.K. Sekar Babu inspected the facility on Wednesday in Ripon Buildings and advised officials to streamline the administration of burial grounds. Public can call 044-25384520 to report administrative malpractice at burial grounds. A WhatsApp number 9498346900 has been shared on social media for the purpose. For free hearse van service, public can call 155377. The Corporation officials have started identifying employees who demand exorbitant charges for cremation. “All services in the 41 crematoriums at 37 locations in the 15 zones of the Corporation are free of cost. The Corporation has more than 147 burial grounds. On Wednesday, most of the burial grounds did not have a waiting list of more than three,” said Deputy Commissioner (Works) Meghanatha Reddy. In the event of a waiting list being more than three, the bodies will be taken to other burial grounds for cremation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crematoriums-under-watch/article34601682.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Make all COVID-19 G.O.s available online’||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State government to instruct its departments and undertakings to upload and update all government orders, instructions, memorandums and circulars related to COVID-19 and the consequent lockdown on the government’s website so that people do not have to rely upon unauthenticated information circulated on the social media. Advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Thoothukudi has filed the case claiming that neither the government’s official websitehttps://www.tn.gov.in/nor the special website https://stopcorona.tn.gov.in/ contained all government orders and circulars issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department, the Police Department, the Tourism and Culture Department and a host of other government departments in connection with COVID-19. He said the official website contained a link to government orders of public interest issued by various departments but a look at that section proved that it had been months since many departments had uploaded any government orders. During the pandemic, it was essential that every citizen was able to access all government orders, circulars and notifications regarding COVID-19 easily from one access point. He also claimed that as of now, people are able to access GOs and circulars only through social media where the authenticity of the document being circulated is doubtful. Another case The same lawyer has filed another PIL petition seeking a direction to the government to pay one month’s salary to all police personnel in the State towards risk and hardship allowance since they were in the forefront in the fight against COVID-19 by risking their lives. He said though the government had announced incentives for doctors and nurses, nothing much had been done with respect to police personnel. He said one month’s salary must also be paid to sanitary workers and that a fixed cash assistance of Rs. 10,000 each must be given to journalists and employees of cinema theatres, marriage halls, auditoriums, clubs, salons, shopping complexes and big format shops which remain closed during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-all-covid-19-gos-available-online/article34601822.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State running out of stock of drug for treating mucormycosis||The supply of the anti-fungal drugs Liposomal Amphotericin B or Amphotericin B, which are vital for treating mucormycosis, is drying up in Tamil Nadu with many patients’ families and hospitals finding it difficult to source them. Mucormycosis, a serious fungal infection now predominantly affecting people post-COVID-19 with uncontrolled diabetes, has been on the rise in several parts of the country. With cases gradually increasing in Tamil Nadu as well, the demand for the drug has shot up. An ENT specialist from a leading private hospital in Chennai said that Liposomal Amphotericin B or, in its absence, Amphotericin B was the first line of drug for mucormycosis and there were no effective alternatives. “Though Tamil Nadu is not yet seeing as many cases compared to other States, the drug shortage is already being felt,” he said. While requests seeking help for procuring the drug were plenty on social media from many other States, they had now increased in Tamil Nadu as well. Two people from Chennai The Hindu spoke to, said they found it extremely difficult to source the drug. One of them said that after desperate parallel attempts by the family failed , the private hospital where his father was admitted managed to source it at the last moment. A woman from Madurai said that her father-in-law, who recovered from COVID-19 recently, was diagnosed with mucormycosis and had already lost sight in one eye. “The doctors at the private hospital have now administered first dose of the drug and are in need of more doses. We are trying to source but not finding it anywhere,” she said. A doctor at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai said there was adequate supply of the drug at the moment although it was treating only one case of mucormycosis at present. S.A. Ramesh of Lifecare Pharma Private Limited, a pharmaceutical distributor and the president of Chennai Chemists and Druggists’ Association, said that there were four or five Indian companies manufacturing the drug. “However, the active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) needed for the manufacturing were largely imported, particularly from China,” he added. He said as the demand for the drug was not high earlier, most companies possibly stocked up APIs only in limited quantities. “A number of factors like expiry time and the need for cold chain storage may influence how much of APIs companies generally stock up. Because of such factors, it is becoming difficult for these companies to meet the demand,” he added. He also said he was hearing about difficulties in importing APIs from China due to certain restrictions, but was not sure how far it was accurate. Few senior ENT specialists said China had stopped sending certain raw materials needed for the drug for the past few months due to the policies of the Indian government. The option of importing from them other countries must be explored. Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers, tweeted on Tuesday that a strategy had been chalked out to ramp up domestic production and also to import the drug from “all over the world”. Meanwhile, a senior official from Tamil Nadu’s Medical and Family Welfare Department, said that an order for 5,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B had already been placed through Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation to meet the demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-running-out-of-drug-to-treat-mucormycosis/article34601631.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panels set up to care for COVID-hit children||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a seven-member task force in all districts headed by the Collector for providing intervention programmes to provide care and protection to children affected and infected by COVID-19 as well as children of COVID-19-affected/infected parents. An unprecedented and unexpected widespread rise in COVID-19 cases during the second wave had devastated the lives of citizens and many had lost their lives. The impact of COVID-19, especially affecting children was a serious concern, an official release stated. The district-level task force would check the details of all adults, who have died due to COVID-19 and find out if children have been orphaned or children are in need of care and protection. The task force would produce such children before the Child Welfare Committee. The Committee would decide on their rehabilitation, such as adoption, foster care, sponsorship among others and institutionalisation, as the last resort as per the provision of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. It would also place such children in temporary shelters, while parents are undergoing treatment and children, who are left without relative or guardian or necessary care. The task force would also provide psychological counselling and support to children infected/affected due to COVID-19. It would also ensure timely referral of such children to treatment centres and provide nutritional support during the post-treatment period. The District Level Task Force shall meet every week and as and when required for providing intervention programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panels-set-up-to-care-for-covid-hit-children/article34601826.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||40-bed COVID-19 care ward opened at VHS hospital||The Cognizant Foundation and the Rotary Club of Madras East Trust have set up a 40-bed COVID-19 care ward at the Voluntary Health Services Hospital (VHS) here. The Foundation is the CSR arm of the IT major. M. Srinivasa Rao, president-elect of RCME, handed over the ward to VHS on Saturday. S. Suresh, honorary secretary, and Yuvraj Gupta, director and chief operating officer of VHS, were present. The new facility has been set up at a cost of Rs. 1.11 crore and is equipped with oxygenated beds and medical infrastructure to provide critical care. The ward is part of “Cognizant C3” initiative, the company's COVID-19 response framework.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/40-bed-covid-19-care-ward-opened-at-vhs-hospital/article34601684.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3,422 cases booked, 5,428 vehicles seized||As many as 3,422 cases were booked against people who violated lockdown restrictions on Tuesday and 5,428 vehicles impounded from those who were out without justification. Beginning Tuesday, to curb the spread of novel coronavirus in the city, police intensified implementation of lockdown by blocking vehicles en masse to check e-registration passes and allowing only essential workers. Police insisted on e-registration to move from one police station limits to another even in the permitted time from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. To tighten restrictions further, they established vehicle check points on the borders and another 153 checking points were also set up. Barricades were put up on roads leading to arterial roads. Police impounded all vehicles plying without e-registration or any other emergency purposes. A fine of Rs. 9.90 lakh was collected from the violators, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3422-cases-booked-5428-vehicles-seized/article34601686.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bangladesh boy undergoes femur replacement in city||A 11-year-old Bangladeshi boy recently underwent total femur replacement at a private hospital in the city. Rajonya Chinmoy Paul, a resident of Tangai near Dhaka, was bedridden for months with bone cancer. He had been undergoing chemotherapy in Bangladesh earlier and was referred to Apollo Children’s Hospital. Doctors here diagnosed his condition as osteosarcoma of the left distal femur (lower part of the thigh bone). Osteosarcoma is high grade tumour that affects the ends of long bones. It is often found around the knee joint and occasionally around hips and arms. It requires aggressive treatment regimen as it could spread rapidly to other organs if not treated early. Conventionally the bone is amputated to save life. R. Sankar, senior consultant, paediatric, orthopaedic and spine surgeon, replaced the femur with a prosthetic bone. He ensured that as much of the tissue as possible was saved to ensure stability to the bone. “In normal circumstances distal femur (thigh bone) osteosarcoma is treated with removal of the tumour and replacement of the removed portion with a prosthesis. When we did a PET CT scan we found another tumour focus in the top part of the same femoral bone,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bangladesh-boy-undergoes-femur-replacement-in-city/article34601809.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Loyola College distributes COVID care kits among underprivileged||Loyola Alumni Association, through the college’s outreach volunteers, has started supplying home care COVID-19 medical kits to the underprivileged families in select areas with the help of the Greater Chennai Corporation. The kit has been given to 184 outreach community leaders from 39 neighbourhood areas. The kit contains a pulse oximeter, sanitiser, face shield, a packet of kabasura kudineer , 30 pieces of three-ply masks, and 30 zinc vitamin tablets. “The purpose of the kit is to help those who have contracted the infection to identify themselves and go to healthcare centres for treatment,” said College principal A. Thomas. The college invited representatives of each community in the neighbourhood to the campus and trained them on the use of the kit. It contains an instruction sheet in Tamil. The project was taken up as an awareness activity by engaging the neighbourhood community, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loyola-college-distributes-covid-care-kits-among-underprivileged/article34601685.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE to upload data on temple assets online||The State government has initiated major changes in the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department aimed at transparency in the management of temples under its control. At a meeting chaired by Minister for HR&CE P.K. Sekar Babu on Tuesday, officials were instructed to make public, information on temple administration, officials and various works online. Officials were asked to upload records relating to temples, temple lands and buildings under their control along with their geo-coordinates so that the public can access them. Documents relating to the movable and immovable assets of temples are to be scanned and uploaded on the portal. HR & CE Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hrce-to-upload-data-on-temple-assets-online/article34601808.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Perarivalan gets 30 days leave||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has ordered for 30 days casual leave to A.G. Perarivalan, a convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, after considering the plea of his mother D. Arputhammal. Life convict Perarivalan is in Puzhal central prison and his mother had represented to the State government requesting casual leave to her son on medical grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perarivalan-gets-30-days-leave/article34601683.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide aid to unorganised workers’||The Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and AIADMK co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on Wednesday urged the State government to provide Rs. 2,000 and a special pack of ration to unorganised workers. He recalled that daily wage workers, autorickshaw drivers, hairdressers, weavers, pavement vendors, workers of fireworks and match industries, and those in the construction and other informal types of activity were given a financial assistance [of Rs. 1,000 each] and ration last year, when he was the CM. He pointed out that no such measure had been announced this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-aid-to-unorganised-workers/article34601823.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel soon to collaborate with NGOs||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday announced that a State-level coordination committee of IAS officers would be constituted to collaborate with NGOs in providing support to those affected by COVID-19. Besides, a Command Centre would be set up to identify and provide specific interventions for patients, such as providing oxygen and life-saving drugs and also to create awareness among people of the need to undertake vaccination with the help of NGOs. During his meeting with representatives of various NGOs, Mr. Stalin said the State government has provided a list of tasks from which the NGOs could choose and commence their work. Mr. Stalin stressed the need for NGOs to join hands with the State government in working for the welfare of the people in the midst of the pandemic, whose second wave was far more severe than the first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-soon-to-collaborate-with-ngos/article34601829.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hyundai gives Rs. 5 crore for COVID-19 relief||The Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund continued to receive donations from industrialists and businesspeople following Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s appeal for contributions to help the State fight COVID-19. Over one crore Hyundai Motor India, represented by its Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Seon Seob Kim, presented a cheque for Rs. 5 crore. Lakshmi Machine Works Chairman and Managing Director Sanjay Jayavarthanavelu gave Rs. 3 crore. TVS Supply Chain Solution Managing Director R. Dinesh gave Rs. 2 crore. B.S. Abdur Rehman Crescent Institute of Science and Technology, represented by its Chancellor B.S.A. Arif Buhary Rahman and Pro-Chancellor Abdul Qadir Abdul Rahman Buhari, donated Rs. 1.30 crore. Velammal Educational Trust Chairman M.V. Muthuramalingam contributed Rs. 1.25 crore. One crore Chettinad Group of Companies Managing Director M.A.M.R. Muthiah, Bannari Amman Sugars Chairman S.V. Balasubamaniam, Indian Bank Managing Director Padmaja Chunduru, Kauvery Group of Hospitals founder and Executive Chairman Dr. S. Chandrakumar, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi on behalf of Vellore district, Swelect Energy Systems Managing Director R. Chellappan, Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Group of Institutions Chairman A. Srinivasan, Caplin Point Laboratories Chairman C.C. Paarthipan, Rela Hospital Chairman Dr. Mohamed Rela, Trivitron Healthcare Chairman and Managing Director Dr. G.S.K. Velu and Sai University founder and Chancellor K.V. Ramani donated Rs. 1 crore each. Under one crore CapitaLand Chennai operations head C. Velan donated Rs. 98 lakh. MIOT Hospital’s Prithvi Mohandas handed over a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh. Billroth Hospitals Chief Executive Officer Dr. Kalpana Rajesh and Sri Narasu’s Coffee company gave Rs. 50 lakh each. VGP group of companies contributed Rs. 40 lakh. Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam, the Tamil Nadu Medical Chemists and Druggists Association, the Indian National Congress, Girias Firm and McGan Law Firm contributed Rs. 25 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hyundai-gives-rs-5-crore-for-covid-19-relief/article34601830.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t organise receptions, says Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who would be touring Salem, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchi on May 21, has called upon party members not to meet him or visit the places where he would be staying. In a statement, he also requested them to avoid organising receptions or putting up posters and festoons. “I am not in a position to meet the party members since it is an official tour. Though meeting you makes me happy, in the present situation [COVID-19 outbreak], your health is more important,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-organise-receptions-says-stalin/article34601831.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t privatise vaccine complex‘||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Wednesday urged that the integrated vaccine complex at Chengalpattu should not be privatised. In a statement, he said reports about attempts to privatise the facility was shocking and the move was unjustifiable, especially when the need for vaccines in India was increasing. Handing over the facility to the private sector would defeat the very purpose of why the complex was formed in the first place. The complex should either be run by the Centre or taken over by the State government. He urged the government to provide a solatium of Rs. 25 lakh each to the families of police personnel, who lost their lives while in the line of duty, fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. In a Twitter post, he said 54 police personnel had lost their lives so far in Tamil Nadu. They played a major role in the fight against COVID-19 and their families should be compensated. Police officials on duty should be provided with a special allowance, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-privatise-vaccine-complex/article34601811.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea against nomination of three MLAs||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court to declare as illegal a notification issued by the Union Home Ministry on May 10 nominating three MLAs to the Puducherry Legislative Assembly. G.A. Jagaannathan, an agriculturist from Puducherry, has filed the case on the ground that the credentials of all three individuals nominated by the Centre were questionable and that the nominated MLAs should be men of eminence. The petitioner said that the Puducherry Assembly is constituted with 30 elected MLAs and three nominated MLAs. In the recently held elections, All India NR Congress emerged as the single largest party with 10 MLAs followed by BJP with six MLAs. The single largest party was called upon to form the government with the support of the BJP MLAs and an independent MLA. N. Rangasamy was sworn in as Chief Minister of the Union Territory on May 7. Thereafter, the Chief Minister tested positive for COVID-19 and got admitted in a private hospital in Chennai. This had led to delay in the swearing in of other MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-against-nomination-of-three-mlas/article34601815.ece
20 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Vijayakant admitted to hospital, stable||DMDK president Vijayakant was admitted to MIOT Hospital on Wednesday morning. Hospital sources said Mr. Vijayakant had tested negative for COVID-19 on RT-PCR and also chest CT negative for COVID-19 pneumonia. He had been admitted with fever. He was being evaluated and his condition was stable. “I hope DMDK founder and my dear friend Vijayakant, who has been admitted to a hospital for a medical check-up, recovers and returns to undertake his political duties at the earliest,” Chief Minister M.K. Stalin tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayakant-admitted-to-hospital-stable/article34601817.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI/puducherry,TAMIL NADU||34,875 persons test positive in Tamil Nadu||The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 a day surpassed 34,000 in Tamil Nadu, taking the active case-load past 2.5 lakh on Wednesday. A total of 34,875 persons tested positive and 365 died, taking the overall case tally to 16,99,225 and toll to 18,734. The State now has 2,53,576 active cases. Of these, Chennai accounts for 48,326, followed by Coimbatore with 27,189 persons and Chengalpattu with 15,237 persons. The active cases rose to 11,126 in Madurai and 11,390 in Tiruvallur. In Chennai, 6,297 persons tested positive and 91 persons died. This took the overall case count to 4,56,496, while the toll crossed 6,000. There were 2,275 cases and 46 deaths in Chengalpattu, while Coimbatore reported 3,250 cases and 17 deaths. There were 1,000-plus cases in five districts: Erode (1,362), Madurai (1,156), Tiruvallur (1,778), Tiruppur (1,573) and Tiruchi (1,459). Kanniyakumari recorded 23 deaths, while there were 18 deaths in Tiruvallur. Of the 365 deaths (178 at private and 187 at government hospitals), 72 persons did not have co-morbidities. Among them was a 20-year-old man from Virudhunagar. He was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai with complaints of fever on May 14 and died of COVID-19 pneumonia on May 16. Four more persons, aged in their 20s, succumbed to the infection. A total of 24 persons, aged in their 30s, died of COVID-19. Among them was a 32-year-old woman from Chengalpattu with dichorionic diamniotic twin gestation. She was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on May 15 after testing positive on May 13. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia on May 17. A total of 23,863 persons, including 6,266 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. So far, 14,26,915 persons have been discharged. In the last 24 hours, 1,70,355 samples were tested. This has taken the overall sample count to 2,56,04,311. The number of persons tested so far is 2.50 crore. Vaccination update The State received another one lakh doses of Covishield on Wednesday. The overall vaccination coverage stood at 70,59,490, with 45,755 more persons vaccinated. These included 24,197 persons aged 45-59 and 10,109 senior citizens. Meanwhile, the Union Territory of Puducherry recorded 29 deaths in 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,241, even as 1,759 new cases were added on Wednesday. Puducherry registered 23 deaths, Karaikal five and Mahe one. The patients were in the 33 to 85 age group, and 13 of them had no co-morbidity. With this, the region-wise toll crossed the 1,000-mark in Puducherry, where the figure stood at 1,013, followed by Karaikal (131), Yanam (71) and Mahe (26).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34875-persons-test-positive-in-tamil-nadu/article34601825.ece
20 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rural police reach out to people hit by lockdown||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police are reaching out to people in need of help in the second wave of the pandemic too. The police have also come to the help of people who suffered losses in the recent rains. On Tuesday, the rural police supplied grocery items and dresses to 35 families of Chinnarpathi tribal settlement at Aliyar. “Adults in the tribal families are unable to go to work due to the lockdown. We arranged kits containing essential commodities and handed them over to the tribal families,” said M. Vivekananthan, DSP, Valparai. The kits also contained bed sheets, shirts and dresses for women and children, said Aliyar sub-inspector Selvaraj. The Negamam police also came to the support of people. Sub-inspector Muthukumar and team handed over 100 kg rice and other grocery items to residents of Kattampatti village. The Pollachi east and Mahalingapuram police stations together introduced another welfare measure – a food collection point for the homeless and destitute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-police-reach-out-to-people-hit-by-lockdown/article34601545.ece
20 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||260-bed facility to come up at Govt. Arts College||Nearly 60% of the 260 beds to come up at the Government Arts College, Coimbatore, are expected to have oxygen support and function as a step-down facility of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). Officials, who are in the know of the works, said that the plan was to set up around 150 beds with oxygen support at the Arts College and turn it into a step-down facility. This will enable the CMCH to shift patients, whose condition has improved but still require oxygen support, to the step-down facility. In case of unavailability of O2 beds at CMCH, patients who require oxygen support alone could be admitted to the facility directly, said officials. Wait continues As of Tuesday, CMCH had 678 O2 beds and 213 ICU beds. In addition, a 15-bedded waiting area was set up adjacent to the COVID-19 ward, a few days ago. Though two buses with oxygen support were also introduced at the hospital, patients are waiting in ambulances to get O2 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/260-bed-facility-to-come-up-at-govt-arts-college/article34601547.ece
20 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ninth load of oxygen from Rourkela to arrive in Coimbatore today||The ninth loaded Oxygen Express train that left Rourkela carrying 36.74 MT of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) is expected to reach Madukkarai near Coimbatore on Thursday. The tenth loaded Oxygen Express train also departed from Rourkela with 29.24 MT of LMO in three tankers, a release from Southern Railway said. The 11 loaded Oxygen Express train also left Rourkela for Tamil Nadu on Wednesday carrying 78.58 MT of LMO in four containers. The train delivers nearly 800 MT of LMO to various States each day. Tamil Nadu has received a total of 439.89 MT of LMO through eight Oxygen Express trains up to May 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ninth-load-of-oxygen-from-rourkela-to-arrive-in-coimbatore-today/article34601836.ece
20 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Food packets distributed||All Religious Affinity Movement volunteers have been distributing free food packets amid the COVID-19 lockdown after distributing around one lakh food packets in 2020 across Coimbatore district, said its State president J. Mohmed Rafi. “We have distributed around 7,000 packets in the past week,” he said. On Wednesday, the volunteers travelled from Kavundampalayam to Flower Market in the city and distributed 1,200 packets of ‘biriyani’ and water bottles to those in need, particularly daily wage labourers from other districts who were out of job due to the lockdown, according to Mr. Rafi. A resident of Saibaba Colony, Mr. Rafi said that works are on to launch free ambulance services for Coimbatore on behalf of the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-packets-distributed/article34601841.ece
20 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown violators booked||The police registered more than 3,700 cases against persons who violated lockdown restrictions, motor vehicle rules, people who ventured out without wearing mask and those who failed to maintain physical distancing in public places on Wednesday. The traffic police, Coimbatore city, registered 3,284 cases and seized eight motorcycles for various violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-violators-booked/article34601550.ece
20 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Clubs launch project ‘Sanjeevani’||Rotary Clubs based in and around Coimbatore have launched a project titled ‘Sanjeevani’ to coordinate the COVID-19 relief activities in the region. According to a press release, the 41 Rotary Clubs of Coimbatore Region under Rotary District 3201, also known as G-41, have jointly launched this project under the leadership of District Community Chairman P.P. Lakshmanan. This project will focus on three verticals namely ‘Vertical 1’ that focuses on vaccination drive, ‘Vertical 2’ on generation of public awareness and ‘Vertical 3’ deals with providing medical equipment to government hospitals and primary health centres. Works are on to provide 180 oxygen beds to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and 260 oxygen beds to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, according to the release. An Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) device will also be donated soon to CMCH under the project, the release said. For further details regarding the ‘Sanjeevani’ project, those interested may contact 96006 77111 and 98433 49596.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-clubs-launch-project-sanjeevani/article34601835.ece
20 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||LMW contributes to CM fund||Sanjay Jayavarthanavelu, Chairman and Managing Director of Lakshmi Machine Works, Coimbatore, has handed over a cheque for Rs. 3 crore to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to control the spread of COVID-19 in the State, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lmw-contributes-to-cm-fund/article34601834.ece
20 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MLA donates concentrators||Vanathi Srinivasan, MLA, and National President of BJP Mahila Morcha, donated three oxygen concentrators to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Wednesday to ensure increased oxygen supply for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-donates-concentrators/article34601839.ece
20 May 2021||CUMBUM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek water release on June 1||Appealing to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to release water from Mullaperiyar dam on June 1 for the single crop, farmers associations from Cumbum Valley said that a little over 14,000 acres in Theni district would benefit by this action. In a press release, Cumbum MLA Ramakrishnan said here on Wednesday that he would seek the CM’s intervention as the timely release of water from the reservoir would help 11,807 acres in Cumbum Valley and Uthamapalayam, 488 acres in Bodinayakkanur and another 2,412 acres in Theni. With the water level at Mulla Periyar dam standing above 130 feet and over 63 feet in the Vaigai dam, the release of water for irrigation should not be a problem. Moreover, with the south-west monsoon set for May 31 in Kerala, the district would stand to gain due to the proximity of the Western Ghats. Considering the good weather conditions, the government should order for release of water, the MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-water-release-on-june-1/article34601624.ece
20 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||CM to inspect oxygen manufacturing plant at Perundurai SIPCOT||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is scheduled to inspect the oxygen manufacturing plant functioning at Sipcot Industrial Growth Centre at Perundurai here on Thursday. Mr. Stalin is expected to arrive from Coimbatore by 2 p.m. and inspect the facility at the National Oxygen Limited, which is a public limited company manufacturing 37 tonne oxygen every day. Oxygen from the plant is supplied to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and government hospitals in Salem, Dharmapuri and Coimbatore districts. He would also hold discussions with Collector C. Kathiravan, doctors and officials on the steps taken to curb the spread of virus in the district. Later, he would proceed to Salem to hold consultations with officials. On Wednesday, Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy inspected the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-inspect-oxygen-manufacturing-plant-at-perundurai-sipcot/article34601845.ece
20 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door surveillance launched in Erode||With over 2,000 active COVID-19 cases reported in corporation limits, 400 teams comprising 1,200 staff and volunteers began door-to-door surveillance to check for fever and other symptoms among residents. As on Tuesday, the district reported a total of 35,760 cases with 7,652 persons under treatment. Of the total cases reported across the district, one-third of the cases were reported in the 60 wards in the corporation limits and hence, the civic body had roped in the anganwadi staff, women self-help group members and volunteers for the surveillance. There are about 1.30 lakh houses in the corporation limits and each team comprising three persons were visiting houses to know the number of persons in each house, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, persons with COVID-19 symptoms and other ailments. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that surveillance helps in early identification of asymptomatic persons and treatment at the right time prevents spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-surveillance-launched-in-erode/article34601557.ece
20 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Industrialist donates health products to children at homes||A Coimbatore-based industrialist has donated Rs. 2.5 lakh worth healthy nutritious products to children at government homes in the district here. P. Priyadevi, District Child Protection Officer (DCPO), has recently asked the people to alert the office if they come across children who lost their parents due to COVID-19, so that required assistance can be provided to the children. Following this, Ravi Sam, chairman, CSR and Affirmative Action Sub-Committee, CII Southern Region and Managing Director, Adwaith Lakshmi Industries Limited, contacted the officer and dispatched the products recently. Dry fruits, dry nuts, dates, millets and other nutritious products that could help 200 children in the government homes were received and distributed to the children, she said. Mrs. Priyadevi told The Hindu that there are 22 government children homes in the district and the children are currently lodged only at 13 homes. Call the District Child Protection Office at 0424-2225010 to provide information. Childline operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress – 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrialist-donates-health-products-to-children-at-homes/article34601837.ece
20 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Incentives for contract workers at GH sought||Members of the Erode District Medical Department Workers’ Association, affiliated to AITUC, has urged the government to provide incentives to contract workers at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurrai. In an email sent to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, association president S. Chinnasamy said about 450 workers were deployed on contract basis at the hospitals in Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incentives-for-contract-workers-at-gh-sought/article34601540.ece
20 May 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Ki. Ra. cremated with State honours||The mortal remains of Tamil writer Ki. Rajanarayanan, who passed away in Puducherry on Tuesday, were consigned to the flames with State honours on his family farm at his birthplace, Idaiseval, near here on Wednesday. After the body was brought to his home from Puducherry on Tuesday night, people from various walks of life paid homage to the writer. Speaker M. Appavu, Ministers Anitha R. Radhakrishnan, Thangam Thennarasu and P. Geetha Jeevan; MPs Kanimozhi and Su. Venkatesan; Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj; Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar; Vilaathikulam MLA G.V. Markandeyan; and Tamil writers paid tributes. The body was taken out in a procession to the farm, a kilometre away, for the last rites. “Tamil has lost a celebrated personality who contributed to Tamil literature by writing until he breathed his last. On behalf of the writers, we thank the Tamil Nadu government for having accorded State honours to Ki. Ra. and announced that a statue would be installed for the writer at Kovilpatti,” Ms. Kanimozhi said after paying her respects to the writer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ki-ra-cremated-with-state-honours/article34601820.ece
20 May 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||New Dharmapuri, Salem Collectors assume charge||S. Divyadarshini assumed charge as the Collector of Dharmapuri on Wednesday. She was earlier the Collector of Tiruchi. Ms. Divyadarshini belongs to 2011 batch of Indian Administrative Services and topped the Civil Services Exams that year. She replaces S.P. Karthika, who was shifted as Tiruchi Collector. Ms. Divyadarshini had started her civil services career as the Assistant Collector of Coimbatore in 2012-13, before she was posted as Sub Collector of Mayiladuthurai in Nagapattinam district between 2013-15. She also held positions as Deputy Home Secretary, and Public Works Department Secretary. She was also posted as the first Collector of the newly created Ranipet district. Earlier, on being received by officials, Ms. Divyadarshini refused to accept bouquet of fruits and accepted only books.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  S. Karmegam assumed charge as Salem Collector on Wednesday. Mr. Karmegam told reporters that the lockdown is not for law and order purposes but for protection of the people from the pandemic. For the next few weeks, the public should remain within their homes and adhere to lockdown norms so that we could come out of this pandemic soon, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-dharmapuri-salem-collectors-assume-charge/article34601844.ece
20 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||New Collector assumes office||Aneesh Sekhar assumed office as the new Collector here on Wednesday. In a brief chat with reporters after taking charge at the Collectorate, he said that his first and foremost priority would be to contain the COVID-19 virus. He said that there was nothing new to say to tackle the COVID virus. All that is required is to follow the standard protocol. Having worked in Madurai earlier as Corporation Commissioner, he said that he was familiar with the needs of the people here. Thanking the government for giving him an opportunity to serve the people, he said that he would study the prevailing scenario with the teams and tackle the situation very soon. He said that the pandemic could be effectively distanced with the full cooperation of the residents and hoped to get their support in fighting the virus. The official machinery, which has been working round-the-clock, would see results only when the people obeyed the restrictions imposed by the government. The containment measures and enforcing the lock down restrictions would be accorded top priority, he said and urged the media to highlight the need for wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and keeping the environment clean. He said that only when people remained indoors during the lockdown, the officials could work more efficiently. ‘Unless there was absolute need, people should not step out of their homes,’ he said. Later, he held a meeting with officials from various departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-collector-assumes-office/article34601936.ece
20 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Contact CWC to help children in distress||The District Child Welfare Committee has urged the public to contact it if they across children in distress - those whose parents have died due to COVID-19 or those who are in need of care and protection. In a statement, it has urged the public not to believe in messages about adoption of orphaned children, being circulated on social media platforms. Children can be adopted only through legal procedure along with permission of the CWC. The public can inform CWC district chairperson V.M. Vijayasaravanan at 97866 15915 about children who have lost their parents to COVID-19. If there are any instances of child marriage or child abuse, the public can inform CWC member M.R. Shanthi at 94428 43937. The public can contact CWC members B. Pandiaraja (86081 96393) or Shanmugam (98421 62762).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contact-cwc-to-help-children-in-distress/article34601618.ece
20 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to improve higher education||The Save Higher Education Movement - Tamil Nadu has urged the State government to set right the various issues plaguing higher education in the State. It has come out with a total of 47 proposals and has submitted the same to the government. It said the salary of teachers of self finance, government and university colleges, particularly guest lecturers was meagre. The government must take steps to improve the salary of teachers who have suffered financially during the COVID-19 pandemic. There was a need for a new Act to protect the welfare of teachers. It stressed the need to form a high-level committee to probe various irregularities in colleges and universities, particularly with regard to recruitment of teachers. It urged the government to consider extending the mid day meal programme to colleges. It must be ensured that the SC/ST grievance cells functioned properly. A subject on the importance of Tamil culture and civilisation must be made mandatory in all colleges. Everyone in the State must learn the importance of the language. A tribunal must be set up to hear issues pertaining to teachers and students. Its State coordinator R. Murali said that it had consulted academicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-improve-higher-education/article34601621.ece
20 May 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Panel formed to monitor oxygen requirement||District Collector K. Megraj said that a monitoring committee has been formed to monitor the oxygen requirements in the district. Speaking to reporters after inspecting a COVID-19 Care Centre on Wednesday, he said that there were about 590 oxygen beds in the district and the district requires 4.5kl of medical oxygen on a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-formed-to-monitor-oxygen-requirement/article34601551.ece
20 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. to roll out vaccination for 18-44 age group today||Puducherry will roll out COVID-19 vaccination for the 18-44 age group from Thursday. According to the health department, at the moment, only online registrants are allowed to take the jab and no walk-ins are entertained as per Centre’s guidelines. The vaccination is also targeting only residents of the Union Territory. Registrants at the portal have to submit proof of residence at the site of vaccination. Launching the registration and session allocation for the vaccination in the Raj Nivas, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said all arrangements were in place. The portal is user-friendly and while registering, people can pick their convenient time slots, she said. For scheduling an appointment for vaccination, the beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group should register in the Union Health Ministry's CoWin site,https://www.cowin.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-to-roll-out-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-today/article34601810.ece
20 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||T. Djeamourty passes away||The former MLA T. Djeamourty died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday. He was 62 and is survived by wife and two daughters. According to Director of Health and Family Welfare S. Mohan Kumar, the former MLA was brought to the Government General Hospital in a serious condition, but doctors could not save him. The two-time MLA underwent angioplasty a few years ago and was diagnosed with COVID-19 last year. He lost in the recent Assembly elections from Ariankuppam. He first won the seat in 2006 as Independent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/t-djeamourty-passes-away/article34601816.ece
20 May 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||‘Oxygen stock is available’||Minister for Law S. Regupathy on Wednesday said that sufficient oxygen stock was available in Pudukottai district. Liquid oxygen was being procured every day and provided to patients in need, Mr. Regupathy told reporters after inspecting the Government Hospital at Aranthangi. The number of RT-PCR tests have been scaled up, he said and added that several patients affected by the viral infection had been cured due to the steps taken by the State government. The Minister said 66 COVID-19 patients were currently undergoing treatment at the Government Hospital in Aranthangi. Mr. Regupathy said necessary steps would be taken to upgrade the Government Hospital at Aranthangi into headquarters hospital adding that measures would also be taken to make sure that CT scan facility was available on all days for patients requiring them. He later inspected the COVID Care Centre established at the Aranthangi Government Polytechnic College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-stock-is-available/article34601968.ece
20 May 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||11 mentally-ill patients in Yerwadi test positive||Eleven of the 53 inpatients at Yerwadi Home for the Mental Illness and Rehabilitation Centre tested positive for COVID-19, officials said here on Wednesday. The mentally-ill people were under treatment at the Home, established by the State government and run by an NGO. According to officials, about five days ago, two of the inmates developed cough and cold. After swab tests confirmed COVID-19 infection, they were admitted to Ramanathapuram Government Headquarters Hospital. While one of them succumbed to the viral infection, the other patient was stable, doctors said. Health Department officials screened all the inmates, and nine of them tested positive. They were all shifted to the hospital and a COVID Care Centre. “Those who required oxygen support alone were moved to the hospital,” a volunteer from the NGO said. Additional Collector M. Pradeep Kumar, who visited the hospital on Wednesday, told reporters that steps would be taken to vaccinate the differently abled and the mentally ill in the district soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-mentally-ill-patients-test-positive/article34601931.ece
20 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Minister reviews works for setting up treatment centre at SSP||Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji said that areas in Salem have been classified into zones and special arrangements have been made as part of COVID-19 containment measures. Mr. Balaji, the Minister in-charge for Salem district, reviewed the progress of works for setting up COVID-19 treatment centre on the premises of Salem Steel Plant (SSP) and advised officials to speed up works and bring it into utilisation at the earliest. Mr. Balaji said that special ambulance facilities had been arranged for the treatment centre. “There are 20 panchayat unions and four municipalities in the district and they have been classified into 24 zones. Special arrangements would be made at these zones and patients would be transported to the centre and can return after treatment in ambulances. There are 60 wards in the corporation limits and it has been classified into eight zones. Special officers have been deployed for it and special arrangements are being made for these zones as well”, he said. Mr. Balaji said that the medical oxygen pipeline works from the plant to the treatment centre were complete and there would be continuous supply of oxygen to 500 beds from the Steel Plant. He added that measures were being taken to increase bed strength at the facility. On action taken against private hospitals for irrational use of oxygen, Mr. Balaji said that he has, however, advised the district administration to continue supply to those hospitals after issuing necessary warning as patients are undergoing treatment there. Mr. Balaji said that action would be taken against private hospitals which still ask patients’ relatives to get Remdesivir despite orders from the Chief Minister. The Minister said that works are progressing to set up modular oxygen systems at Edappadi and Attur government hospitals and similar measures are being taken at Sankari and Mettur hospitals as well. Power production hit Mr. Balaji said that production of 210 MW of power in one of the units at Mettur thermal power station had been affected due to the fire at the plant on Tuesday. However, two units of 420 MW capacity and two units in Thoothukudi plant of 420 MW capacity were in standby for production. Hence, there would not be any power cut. He added that repair works were progressing and the Chief Minister had ordered speedy completion of works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-reviews-works-for-setting-up-treatment-centre-at-ssp/article34601553.ece
20 May 2021||Salem/Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable markets to remain closed from today in Salem||Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji has said that vegetable markets would remain closed in the district as part of containment measures from Thursday and vegetable sales would be done through mobile outlets. Reviewing containment measures in the district, Mr. Balaji said that the district has been divided into 177 zones and 354 zonal teams have been deployed to monitor the zones. Mr. Balaji said that each team would have officials from health, revenue, police and local body departments. He said that the teams would enforce lockdown strictly in their respective zones. He added that there are 38 COVID-19 care centres in the district and each centre has an ambulance. In Erode, as a precautionary measure the Uzhavar Sandhai at Sampath Nagar will be functioning at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Panneerselvam from May 21. Collector C. Kathiravan said that to prevent overcrowding at the Uzhavar Sandhai, the market was divided into three and was functioning at Sampath Nagar, Corporation Primary School at Kumalankuttai and at Periyar Nagar from April 12. Due to the spread of virus, the markets at Kumalankuttai and Periyar Nagar were closed while the market at Sampath Nagar will function on the school premises from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-markets-to-remain-closed-from-today-in-salem/article34601554.ece
20 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) helps patients||A dozen members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Thanjavur district unit, have been deputed by the party to serve COVID-19 patients convalescing at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. According to a party statement, the cadres were divided into two groups to assist the patients on how to get the samples tested for novel coronavirus infection and to complete the other tests such as CT scan as the patients found it difficult to locate the testing centres within the hospital complex. The party cadres render their service between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. Meanwhile, Thanjavur district secretary, CPI (M) G. Neelamegam urged the government to ensure supply of adequate beds with oxygen for treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and at the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Kumbakonam. The CPI (M) also called for provision of oxygen beds at the Taluk Headquarters Hospitals also in Thanjavur district. Claiming that the anticipated third wave of novel coronavirus might be severe, he urged the State government to expand and enhance the healthcare facilities in the district to save the people. Meanwhile, the district administration has dedicated two 'oxygen buses' of Thamarai International School, Thanjavur, for serving COVID-19 positive cases. Thanjavur Collector, M. Govinda Rao said that the `oxygen buses’ would be used to transport COVID-19 positive cases from the screening centres or from their respective places to the hospitals and used as standby oxygen support facility at the hospitals till the patients get the oxygen beds allocated to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-helps-patients/article34601958.ece
20 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Delta farmers buoyed by Minister’s assessment of kuruvai crop coverage||Paddy cultivation is set for a brisk start in Thanjavur and Thiruvarur districts, the core delta region, in the wake of the hope expressed by Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister, M. R. K. Panneerselvam that the normal extent of three lakh acres could be covered for kuruvai crop State-wide. According to official sources, normally 1,35,000 hectares in seven out of 12 districts in delta region would be brought under the kuruvai crop with Thanjavur-Tiruvarur districts accounting for 55 to 60 per cent of the cultivable area. Farmers, particularly those having their landholdings in old Cauvery delta areas such as Thirukattupalli, Thiruvaiyaru, Kumbakonam and Aduthurai in Thanjavur district and Kudavasal, Nannilam and Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district enjoy the additional benefit of groundwater irrigation facility and usually stick on to the customary dates for kuruvai cultivation. Manpower shortage Though the farmers in these areas have been in an advantageous position due to irrigation facility, they have to manage problem of manpower shortage. The services of farmhands are vital right from raising of the nursery to transplantation to the stage of panicle initiation, said V.Sankaran of Thirukattupalli. Now, with the Agriculture Minister himself expressing confidence that achieving the normal kuruvai coverage would not be an issue in view of the increasing mechanisation activity in agricultural operations, G. Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam, a progressive farmer has called upon the government to initiate necessary steps to make available agricultural machines such as transplanting machines, paddy driers etc., at an affordable rent through the Agriculture Engineering Department or disburse such machinery to farmers at 100 per cent subsidy. Urging the government to double the subsidy amount for mechanised agriculture operations, Sundara Vimalanathan, secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, emphasised that at least two pesticide sprayers should be made available for rent at every village and as well as five drones per union for spraying of pesticides/fertilizers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-farmers-buoyed-by-ministers-assessment-of-kuruvai-crop-coverage/article34601959.ece
20 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen concentrators donated||The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Thanjavur, has donated oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 9 lakh to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. The 10 concentrators were handed over to the College authorities by the Chamber office-bearers on Wednesday in the presence of Collector M. Govinda Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-concentrators-donated/article34601955.ece
20 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Man electrocuted||Kathirvel (32) of Chithathikadu near Peravurani was electrocuted on Wednesday morning as he was preventing his two-year-old infant son from getting into contact with an overhead power cable that had snapped. On seeing the child in danger, Kathirvel rushed to save him, but was electrocuted. His infant son suffered minor burns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-electrocuted/article34601954.ece
20 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen production resumes at Sterlite plant||After six days, 6.34 metric tonnes of medical-grade oxygen, of 96.30% purity, was sent to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital from Sterlite Copper’s oxygen plant on Wednesday. The plant resumed operation after a snag hit the production last Thursday. Sterlite Copper Chief Executive Officer Pankaj Kumar flagged off the tanker in the presence of a few members of the monitoring committee formed by the Tamil Nadu government to oversee the operation of the plant in compliance with the Supreme Court’s order. With the government medical college hospitals at Thoothukudi, Palayamkottai and Nagercoil desperately looking for medical-grade oxygen to save COVID-19 patients, Sterlite Copper’s promise to generate 35 metric tonnes a day came as a silver lining. After an overhaul spread over a week, the plant generated oxygen which was dispatched to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital last Thursday. But the snag in the cold box held up the production. The Collectors of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi made frantic efforts for oxygen from other sources to save nearly 2,000 COVID-19 patients on oxygen support at two medical college hospitals. Experts from ISRO’s Propulsion Research Complex in Tirunelveli district helped Sterlite technicians fix the problem. “Oxygen generated at our plant from the early hours of Wednesday was stored in the on-site facilities. The first tanker after the snag was sorted out moved out of our premises at 5.15 p.m.,” said sources in Sterlite Copper. “Since the plant is producing one metric tonne of liquid oxygen per hour, the second tanker is expected to leave in the early hours of Thursday,” the sources added. A statement from Sterlite Copper said the second tanker, with 6 metric tonnes of oxygen, will be sent to Kanniyakumari District Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam in Nagercoil, while Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital will get 5 tonnes. Besides overhauling its second oxygen plant for generating the life-saving gas within a fortnight, Sterlite Copper has created facilities for bottling the oxygen generated in the cylinders, too, besides loading it in tankers. The oxygen cylinders can be sent to private hospitals.  The first tanker after the snag was sorted out moved out of our premises at 5.15 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-production-resumes-at-sterlite-plant/article34601828.ece
20 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Beedi leaves, turmeric seized; one held||The police have seized turmeric and beedi leaves worth Rs. 4 lakh as it was about to be smuggled to Sri Lanka by boat from Terespuram here on Wednesday. They said surveillance has been intensified along the Thoothukudi coast following smuggling of turmeric, beedi leaves, narcotic substances, sea cucumber and other banned articles in boats to Sri Lanka. When Q Branch special team, led by Inspector Vijaya Anita, was patrolling near Terespuram around 3.30 a.m. on Wednesday, they saw a few people loading bags in a country boat from a cargo van. On seeing the police, the boat with a few unidentified people ran away while the cargo van with 840 kg turmeric packed in 28 bags and 420 kg beedi leaves in 14 bags was seized. The police arrested van driver F. Umar Ali, 40, of Mettupatti near Terespuram. When Umar Ali was grilled, he reportedly told the police that one Mohamed Azarudeen of Zakhir Hussein Nagar near Thalamuthu Nagar on Thoothukudi outskirts was behind this illegal activity. Efforts are on secure Mohamed Azarudeen and the others who escaped in the boat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beedi-leaves-turmeric-seized-one-held/article34601626.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Couple arrested for cheating depositors||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) - II of Tiruchi has arrested P. Muthuramalingam (43) and his wife Bharathi, proprietors of Chendur Fincorp, who had gone absconding since June 2019 after swindling huge amounts of money as deposits from customers. An EOW team rounded up the couple at Nagercoil on Tuesday and had them remanded in judicial custody after appearance before a special court at Madurai. Police sources said Muthuramalingam had started the firm in 2017 at Thillai Nagar and offered attractive schemes to lure investors into depositing huge amounts of money. The company expanded its presence by opening branches at Coimbatore, Dindigul and Chennai thereafter. The charge against Muthuramalingam was that he had encouraged people from across the State to invest and offered them incentives initially. Subsequently, Muthuramalingam reportedly failed to pay the incentives following which complaints began to pour in. The Economic Offences Wing -II of Tiruchi undertook investigation in June 2019 when the couple escaped after allegedly cheating the customers and swindling the amount. The company was subsequently sealed. The EOW registered a case against the firm and the couple based on a complaint from one of the customers. The sources said the The Economic Offences Wing had thereafter received complaints from more than 800 investors against Muthuramalingam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-arrested-for-cheating-depositors/article34601957.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Integrated bus stand to be a reality soon||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru on Wednesday said that a proposal would be mooted immediately for construction of an integrated bus stand at Panjappur and an integrated market for vegetables at an adjacent location. As a prelude to the revival of the earlier proposal to set up an integrated bus stand at Panjapur on Tiruchi-Madurai Highway on the outskirts of the city, Mr. Nehru visited a site owned by the Tiruchi City Corporation at Panjappur. Accompanied by District Collector S. Sivarasu and Corporation Commissioner of Tiruchi S. Sivasubramanian, Mr. Nehru inspected the site and held a detailed discussion with them. Distance between the proposed site and the Central Bus Stand, merits and demerits of the proposed site, the land required for the bus stand, and commercial and practical viabilities of the new bus stand were among the factors discussed. After analysing various aspects of reviving the proposal, which was mooted during the DMK regime in 2006-11, Mr. Nehru visited the Tiruchi Corporation and held another discussion with them. Speaking to The Hindu Mr. Nehru said that the integrated bus stand was a long-felt demand of the people of Tiruchi. His first priority was to set up the bus stand. Among various options, Panjappur had a number of advantages over others. The Tiruchi City Corporation had about 565 acres at Panjappur and he had asked the officials to process a file to allot 100 acres of land for the bus stand. The Minister said that his aim was to make the proposed bus stand as a model in terms of passenger amenities, passenger and bus crew friendliness, and accessibility. It would be a state of art bus stand, with a design factoring in the features of some of the best bus stands in the State. As many as five National Highways would have easy access to Panjappur through the semi ring-road. It was an ideal location for all buses bound for Chennai, Kanyakumari, Dindigul, Karur-Coimbatore, Thanjavur, Karaikudi-Ramanathapuram and other destinations. Mr. Nehru said that he had asked the Collector and the Corporation officials to expedite the process of preparing the proposal, adding he would take up the people’s long-pending demand to the notice of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin immediately. In addition to the bus stand proposal, Mr. Nehru said that he had asked the officials to explore the possibilities of establishing an integrated market for vegetables, fruits and flowers adjacent to the proposed bus stand. It might require about 40 acres of land. There would be no issues in sourcing the land required for it as the Corporation had sufficient land at Panjappur itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/integrated-bus-stand-to-be-a-reality-soon/article34601964.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Good food, yoga help asymptomatic patients at COVID Care Centres||While cases continue to spike in Tiruchi district, officials have been taking efforts to ensure that asymptomatic patients at the various COVID Care Centres (CCC) are being provided with quality treatment and nutritious food. Centres, which assist in isolating the patient and avoiding the further spread of the infection, have also been providing care through yoga and other exercises. The district administration has so far been strict and does not recommend home isolation for most patients and insists on their stay at a CCC. “When they show signs of recovery, after around a week, we send them home. This is solely to avoid further spread. At home, it is difficult to maintain isolation,” a health official said. The Bharathidasan University Khajamalai Campus has 150 beds, Government Engineering College Sethurapatti has 600 beds, Nehru Memorial College in Thuraiyur has 150 beds, SRM Medical College Hospital has 160 beds, Bishop Heber College has 350 beds and Kurinji College of Engineering and Technology in Manapparai has 150 beds. Yatri Nivas has allocated 500 beds, while the National Institute of Technology -Tiruchi has also provided 500 beds. At these centres, patients are admitted through reference of the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital or the Primary Healthcare Centres. “They are given a reference slip, and admitted here by health workers,” the official said. Only those with blood oxygenation of more than 95% are allowed at the CCCs. At the CCC in the Bishop Heber College premises, the patients are woken up at around 6 a.m. when a round of refreshments, including tea and protein-rich snacks such as boiled chickpeas, and moong dal is given. Breakfast, lunch and dinner is provided through sponsorship from Aswins Sweets and Snacks. “They provide breakfast such as uthappam, idlies, dosai, while lunch includes veggies and green leafy vegetables,” the official said. Following breakfast, the patients are guided to take part in exercises including breathing, laughter therapy and yoga asanas. The District Siddha Medical Office also provides Kabasura Kudineer. To aid a team of doctors and staff nurses who work in three shifts, four oxygen tanks and two oxygen concentrators have been kept on standby in case of emergencies. “We can put the patient on oxygen support until we are able to shift them to the Tiruchi GH,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-food-yoga-help-asymptomatic-patients-at-covid-care-centres/article34601966.ece
20 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||MNM general secretary quits party||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) general secretary Muruganandham on Wednesday resigned from the party post and the primary membership along with his supporters, in protest against what he called the “autocratic” style of functioning of its founder Kamal Hassan. Listing out the reasons for resigning from the party, Mr. Muruganandham, who unsuccessfully contested the recent Assembly election from Thiruverumbur constituency in Tiruchi district, told reporters here that there was “absolutely no inner-party democracy” in the MNM. It was purely being run as per the “whims and fancies” of Mr. Kamal Hassan, he claimed. Ignoring the opinions and views of the party functionaries, Mr.Hassan had made several autocratic decisions that ultimately led to the party’s debacle in the Assembly elections, he said. According to him, Mr. Hassan failed to analyse the strength of the alliance parties before entering into pre-poll alliance. Rather than fielding the candidates of the MNM, he allotted about 100 seats to the alliance parties that had no solid following among the people. When the issue was raised in the executive committee meeting held to discuss the party’s poor performance, Mr. Hassan refused to answer the questions and passed the buck on to functionaries, Mr. Muruganandham said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-general-secretary-quits-party/article34601807.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Educationist passes away||Vellore Mohamed Habibullah, a social worker and educationist, passed away on Tuesday evening after a brief illness at the age of 80. He is survived by his son, daughter and wife. Mr. Habibullah was the managing trustee of NEED Trust, and instrumental in reviving the Viscountess Goschen Government Muslim Girls Higher Secondary School (VGGMGHSS) in Tharanallur, East Boulevard Street. Over 300 girl students are now on the rolls. Managed by Goschen School Development Committee, an ancillary body of the Parents-Teacher Association (PTA), the 111-year-old school (originally an Urdu-medium institution), is one of the two institutions for Muslim girls under the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educationist-passes-away/article34601956.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report over 4,800 fresh cases||The central region reported 4,871 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, reflecting the sharpest single-day spike witnessed in the region. A marked increase of 700 cases was reported in a single day. The region reported 39 deaths, continuing with the trend of a sharp increase in deaths. In Tiruchi district, 13 patients succumbed to the viral infection. Nagapattinam reported eight deaths, Thanjavur six, Karur five and Pudukottai reported four deaths. Ariyalur district reported two deaths and Tiruvarur one. Tiruchi district continued to report increasing number of fresh cases with as many as 1, 459 patients testing COVID-19 positive on Wednesday. Thanjavur district reported a noticeable fall in the number of cases with 813 fresh cases. The bed capacity in both districts was scaled up with Tiruchi reflecting 17 ICU beds and 124 oxygen-support beds, and provision of 101 ICU and 184 oxygen beds in Thanjavur. Tiruvarur reported a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases with 717 fresh cases, and Nagapattinam 603. Similar trends were also reported in Pudukottai with 426 fresh cases. In Karur, 376 patients tested positive. Meanwhile, 259 fresh cases were reported in Ariyalur and 218 in Perambalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-over-4800-fresh-cases/article34601967.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Unmonitored movement of attenders raises concern||Uncontrolled and unmonitored movement of attenders of COVID-19 patients at various hospitals and those quarantined in their home has raised serious concern over spreading of the deadly virus, say Health Department officials. Unlike the first wave, when the authorities ensured that COVID-19 patients were admitted in the hospitals and home-quarantined their immediate contacts by strictly implementing containment zone measures, the authorities seem to have taken a liberal stand now. This has prompted many to venture out and frequent restaurants for buying food and medicines from pharmacies. Such outdoor movement of COVID-19 patients and their attenders is clearly visible in and around the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. With the arrival of at least 500 fresh cases of COVID-19 along with equal number of their anxious relatives, the GH is bustling with activities. The scenario is similar in most of the private hospitals in Thillai Nagar and Woraiyur. Several of them seem to be visiting the nearest restaurants for buying food for patients. What is causing concern to the people is the way in which they mingle with other customers waiting for parcels at restaurants or buying medicine at the pharmacies. The people, who visit restaurants for buying parcels, invariably stand with the attendants of COVID patients. It is visible at medical shops too. In some cases, COVID patients themselves visit the restaurants or medical shops. “This is posing a great concern. COVID-19 patients or their attendants mingling with others is the main cause of virus spreading. It is high time to check the issue,” says N. Jamaludeen, a consumer activist in Tiruchi. Resident welfare associations have raised allegations that that the self quarantine patients and relatives also venture out to market or restaurants for buying essential commodities. But, some are really helpless. “I do not have the option but to go out to get food for my family. Since all four of my family are affected, neighbours or relatives are scared to lend help as they feel that they also will get the virus if they happen to come close to us,”says a 45-year-old man residing in Lawsons Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unmonitored-movement-of-attenders-raises-concern/article34601972.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||MNM general secretary quits||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) general secretary Muruganandham on Wednesday resigned from the party post and the primary membership along with his supporters. Mr. Muruganandham, who unsuccessfully contested the recent Assembly election from Thiruverumbur constituency in Tiruchi district, alleged to reporters here that there was ‘absolutely no inner-party democracy’ in the MNM. It was purely being run as per the ‘whims and fancies’ of Mr. Kamal Hassan, he claimed. Rather than fielding the candidates of MNM, he allotted about 100 seats to alliance parties that had no solid following among the people. When the issue was raised in the executive committee meeting held to discuss the party’s poor performance, Mr. Hassan refused to answer the questions and passed the buck on to functionaries, Mr. Muruganandham claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-general-secretary-quits/article34601961.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sivarasu back as Collector||Two months after being shifted out, S. Sivarasu assumed charge as District Collector again on Wednesday. Mr. Sivarasu was transferred as Additional Commissioner, Industries and Commerce, during the first stage of electioneering on the direction of the Election Commission. In the latest shuffle, S. Divyadharshini who replaced him has been posted as Collector of Dharmapuri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sivarasu-back-as-collector/article34601962.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.89 feet on Wednesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,324 cusecs and the discharge was 2,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34601971.ece
20 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Gaping hole on bridge, a threat to motorists||As a huge hole developed in the bridge across the Tamirabharani on Palayamkottai-Thoothukudi highway is yet to be closed, road users crossing the danger zone, particularly during the night, are risking their lives A toll is being collected for use of the national highway. When the 47.25 km-long Thoothukudi-Palayamkottai four-lane national highway was laid in 2013 at a cost of Rs. 349.50 crore to connect the Kanniyakumari – Kashmir National Highway, a four-lane bridge was built across the Tamirabharani near Vallanaadu, which is being used everyday by a few thousand vehicles including trucks carrying 40-feet-long imported logs. As a huge hole developed in the bridge’s Thoothukudi – Palayamkottai stretch in 2017 due to poor quality of this concrete structure, it took more than six months for the National Highways Authority of India (NHIA) to plug the hole for a few crores of rupees. Another hole developed in the same stretch of the bridge within 12 months after the first hole was closed. This time, it took nearly two years for the officials to close the hole with the help of the experts drawn from various parts of the country and the vehicles were diverted along the adjacent stretch i.e. Tirunelveli – Thoothukudi stretch. Armed with modern gadgets, the experts examined the entire bridge and its quality of construction. The third hole that developed on the Tirunelveli – Thoothukudi stretch of the bridge a month ago is still there to pose serious threat to the motorists, especially in night. After the locals informed, Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj inspected the spot and instructed the NHAI officials to initiate immediate steps to plug the hole. “Even as the narrow decades-old bridge is still strong even after witnessing and withstanding several floods, the new bridge reportedly constructed with modern technology and at a cost of several crores of rupees is unable to withstand the vehicular traffic owing to poor quality of construction. The NHAI, which is not properly maintaining the Palayamkottai – Thoothukudi four-lane national highway even though hefty toll is being collected, has miserably failed to maintain this important bridge. We, the villagers of Vallanaadu, have planned to file a case in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court seeking waiver of toll until this highly unsafe bridge is made safe and the entire Thoothukudi – Palayamkottai highway is re-laid,” said Shanmugavel, an entrepreneur from Vallanaadu. He said the service road branching out from the eastern side of this bridge to the cremation ground on the bank of the Tamirabharani should be laid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaping-hole-on-bridge-a-threat-to-motorists/article34601620.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 70 residents of village in Tiruppur test positive||Amid the aggressive second wave of COVID-19 in the State, the Health Department recently detected a cluster of cases in Karaipudur village panchayat in Palladam Block of Tiruppur district, where over 70 residents have tested positive. According to Block Medical Officer N. Sudarvizhi, a woman aged around 60, who sold milk to the residents of N.S.K. Nagar in the village panchayat, tested positive last week. This caused the Health Department to organise a camp at the locality for lifting the swab samples of around 100 residents as part of the contact tracing process. “Out of the 100 samples, 76 turned out to be positive on Monday,” she said. Following the detection of the cluster, the Health officials closed as many as five streets of N.S.K Nagar, which has around 350 residences, on Monday to curb the spread of COVID-19 to other residents. Out of the 76 COVID-19 patients, 10 were referred to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment and the rest were advised home quarantine, Ms. Sudarvizhi said on Wednesday. All the patients were said to be stable and were experiencing only mild symptoms, she noted. Palladam Block has five primary health centres (PHC), including Arulpuram PHC that caters to the residents of Karaipudur village panchayat, she said. Vaccine shortage “People are keen to take the vaccine shots, but we are facing shortage in all centres at the moment,” the Block Medical Officer said, noting that only around 7,000 eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated at least once in the Block. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan told The Hindu on Wednesday that the district administration had been stepping up testing in rural parts where three or more COVID-19 positive cases were present. “We have tested almost all in the particular village [Karaipudur] to control the spread,” he said, adding that steps would be taken to closely monitor “potential super spreaders” such as milk vendors in rural areas of Tiruppur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-70-residents-of-village-in-tiruppur-test-positive/article34601542.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur resident feeds hundreds during lockdown||For the past one week, Indira Sundaram has been packing the rear of her car with hundreds of food packets from her residence on Kangeyam Road in Tiruppur to distribute them to those who cannot afford lunch during the COVID-19 lockdown in the city. “We distribute around 700 food packets every day,” she said. The 54-year-old Ms. Sundaram, who also runs a charitable trust, said she had been distributing food packets for the homeless people, differently abled and conservancy workers and also distributed grocery items to those in need in locations such as near Tiruppur Railway Station, Old Bus Terminus, Anupparpalayam and Velampalayam. The food got prepared at a private kitchen in Sirupooluvapatti every day and the packets would be packed by 11 a.m., she said. Following this, she loads the packets in her car and visits different locations for distribution till about 2.30 p.m. “My habit is to distribute [the packets] directly and not to depend on others,” Ms. Sundaram said. She recalled her voluntary work in April 2020 during the first nationwide lockdown, when she helped in looking after senior citizens who were rescued and sheltered at schools by the district administration. This experience has been helping her in volunteering independently this time, according to Ms. Sundaram. Apart from Tiruppur, she said her trust had also been attending to calls from the villages on the city’s outskirts and even in Coimbatore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-resident-feeds-hundreds-during-lockdown/article34601848.ece
20 May 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Destruction of palmyra trees assailed||Green Needa, a NGO engaged in promoting greenery, has assailed the destruction of around a dozen palm trees on the outskirts of the town. In a statement, the chief coordinator of Green Needa, M.Rajavelu, said that nearly a dozen palm trees, have been destroyed by pouring of acid on the roots at Vilamal area. The Palmyra Board should step in to rectify the situation, in consideration of the benefit of palm trees in preventing soil erosion and reducing the velocity of winds during cyclone or gale. He urged the State to ensure that the direction given by the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court that palm trees should be saved from becoming extinct, be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/destruction-of-palmyra-trees-assailed/article34601960.ece
20 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||New Dean takes charge||R. Suganthy Rajakumari has assumed office as new Dean of Government Medical College here on Wednesday. She was hitherto Dean of Kanniyakumari Medical College, Asaripallam. Earlier, she had served as Professor of Dermatology in Tirunelveli MCH, Kilpauk MCH, Sivaganga Medical College, Madurai Medical College and Thanjavur Medical College. She had completed her MBBS from Tirunelveli Medical College and was gold medalist and best out-going student during her post-graduation in Madras Medical College. She said that she was able to increase the number of beds in KMCH from 850 to 1,206 during her tenure as Dean and got a dedicated electricity feeder to the hospital that saved huge money on fuel for generators. Besides renovating dilapidated buildings, she got furniture and equipment for the hospital through sponsors. She began her duty by planting neem saplings on the medical college hospital premises. “Virudhunagar has got a dry climate and the hospital and college premises need lot of shade. I have brought 1,000 neem saplings to be planted here,” she said. She said that she would approach the Department of Forest to plant at least 2,000 saplings in the college and hostel premises. She has invited to philanthropists to donate furniture like drip stands, stretchers, wheelchairs, disposable bedsheets, sterile gloves and N95 masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-dean-takes-charge/article34601628.ece
20 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Seven more deaths in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district reported seven deaths on Wednesday for the second consecutive day taking the toll to 300. Among the victims was a 20-year-old man who tested positive on May 14 and was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai with complaints of fever. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on May 16. The other victims were aged between 49 and 70 years. They included a 65-year-old woman. They died at different hospitals in the State between May 14 and 18. The district reported 445 fresh cases and 438 discharges. The total number of positive cases was 27,487.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-more-deaths-in-virudhunagar/article34601937.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Do not penalise autorickshaws engaged for emergency purposes: CITU||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) has appealed to the District Collector and the Commissioner of Police not to penalise or obstruct autorickshaws which were being operated for emergency purposes within the city and outside during the lockdown period. In separate memorandums to the top officials, CITU district secretary S. Rengarajan said the livelihood of labourers in the unorganised sector was severely hit during the lockdown period, specifically that of thousands of auto drivers. Due to suspension of bus services, the general public had to engage autorickshaws for emergency purposes, medical reasons and to reach railway stations to travel to other destinations. In several places, autorickshaws were being stopped by police personnel and fines imposed. Even autorickshaws that had passes and were recognised by railway administration at Tiruchi junction were being fined by the police when they were transporting travellers, Mr. Rengarajan claimed adding that at a time when autorickshaws drivers were unable to get rides even twice a day they were being forced to pay fines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-penalise-autorickshaws-engaged-for-emergency-purposes-citu/article34601970.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seeking divine intervention to ward off COVID-19||In search of divine intervention to provide succour amidst the raging second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, a private temple attached to the Kamatchipuri Adhinam in Coimbatore has installed a deity named ‘Corona Devi’ to pray for warding off the virus. Located in Ondipudur, the temple saw the installation of the deity on Tuesday, said the mutt’s manager Ananda Bharathi. “This year, [COVID-19] is more severe than it was last year. Hence, we felt that by regarding [the virus] to be a god and praying to it, the disease would be cured,” he said. Mr. Bharathi gave the example of Plague Mariamman, a deity established during the spread of plague around a century ago. Following the installation on Tuesday, the mutt began a 48-day-long ritual involving yagams (ritual involving fire), which will be done between 11 a.m. and 12 noon every day for the deity, he said. As part of the COVID-19 safety protocol, no devotees will be allowed to participate in this daily ritual, Mr. Bharathi noted. Rajesh Govindarajulu, a historian based in Coimbatore, said that deities such as Plague Mariamman were not installed afresh but the existing deities were converted by the local community. He gave the example of the Plague Mariamman Temple on Big Bazaar Street in the city, where the temple itself was around 150 years old, but the plague occurred in Coimbatore district a little over a century ago as per historical records. “Primarily, this was done to collectively and focus on the issue,” Mr. Govindarajulu said, adding that such deities were an “expression of the society and not that of an individual.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeking-divine-intervention-to-ward-off-covid-19/article34601556.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,250 positive cases in Coimbatore||As many as 3,250 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said that the district had 27,189 active cases of the disease on Wednesday while 2,012 persons recovered. The department said that 17 more persons from the district died of the disease in the last few days, taking the official death toll to 922. A total of 870 beds - 523 in different hospitals and 347 in Covid Care Centres, earmarked for patients in the district were vacant as of Wednesday evening. Tiruppur district’s daily caseload continued to be above 1,500-mark for the second consecutive day as 1,573 new cases were reported on Wednesday. The new cases took the overall tally past the 40,000-mark to 40,610 cases. The Health Department reported the deaths of two men aged 61 and 56, taking the district’s toll to 285. A total of 8,088 patients were active cases. 575 patients were discharged from treatment centres on Wednesday. A total of 108 beds (one oxygen bed and 107 non-oxygen beds) were vacant in government and private hospitals and 726 beds were vacant in CCCs in the district as of Wednesday, the Health Department said. Erode district reported 1,362 new cases, taking the tally to 37,107. While 804 persons were discharged, 8,186 continue to be under treatment. Nine persons died, raising the death toll to 210. As many as 795 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 422 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, 15 deaths were reported. In Namakkal, 410 cases were reported. Three deaths were reported in the district, including one woman patient. Krishnagiri recorded 712 fresh cases on a single day, and 329 patients were discharged after treatment. Four deaths were registered in the district. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 6,738 as of Wednesday. Dharmapuri recorded 331 fresh cases. A total of 300 patients were discharged with one death registered in the district. The total number of cases in the district was 2,321. In the Nilgiris, 320 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 13,747. The number of deaths in the district stood at 64 on Wednesday while 2,432 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3250-positive-cases-in-coimbatore/article34601549.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foreign medicos to join COVID-19 fight||The Director of Medical Education said he should be permitted to issue the NOC to foreign medical graduates to undergo the CRRI at government medical colleges without obtaining the NOC from the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University since the processing fee collected by the university was a “huge financial burden” on the students. The DME suggested that the fee be reduced to Rs. 2 lakh. Under the existing fee structure, the foreign medical graduates seeking admission to the CRRI have to pay Rs. 5.5 lakh to get the NOC from the Dr. MGR Medical University. The DME also sought the lifting of the restriction on the internship by students of private and foreign medical colleges at seven government medical colleges — Madras Medical College; Stanley Medical College; Kilpauk Medical College, Chennai; Madurai Medical College; Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College, Salem; Coimbatore Medical College; and Tirunelveli Medical College. Acting on the proposal, the government authorised the DME to issue the NOC without any ceiling. The restriction on the intake of interns at the seven government medical colleges was lifted for this year only. But the fee structure was not changed as the order asked the authorities to follow the present procedure for fee collection. Since the order doesn’t change the fee structure, the foreign medical graduates have appealed to the government to consider a total waiver of the CRRI fee at both government and private hospitals and also increase the quota for them.  The restriction on the intake of interns at the seven government medical colleges was lifted for this year only||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foreign-medicos-to-join-covid-19-fight/article34601827.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Watching from above||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/watching-from-above/article34601939.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Jansons Institute of Technology: Programme on Introduction to CAD/CAM design tools, 3.30 p.m.; Podcast contests, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34601543.ece
20 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Concern over oxygen scarcity in Belagavi dist. persists||Despite the government statement about optimal availability, there are still concerns among private hospitals, NGOs and other groups over oxygen scarcity in Belagavi district. As of Tuesday, 2,144 COVID-19 and other patients in government and private hospitals in the district are consuming around 4 kilo litres of liquid oxygen per day, according to officers. However, some doctors estimate that the demand is around twice that quantity. Some doctors, including Ashok Patil, director of Belgaum Hospital, and Amit Bhate, director of Jeevan Rekha Hospital, said that the government has centralised oxygen supply. Also, it has ensured that oxygen is not available in the open market for hospitals to buy. This is seriously affecting their operations and may force them to close down hospitals, they said. NGOs, including Al Iqra and Mahesh Foundation, that were supplying cylinders to patients in home isolation, complain that the government has stopped allocating them cylinders. “Our work has been severely hit due to this abrupt decision,’’ said Mudassar Ternikar, member of an NGO that is engaged in COVID relief work. Officers, however, maintain that the scarcity is temporary, as it is an effect of rationing of cylinders. “We are trying to streamline the supply of oxygen in the district. We have succeeded in this to a large extent. We have supplies coming from JSW Ballari and other sources. We also have local production. We shall be able to tide over the scarcity and ensure that oxygen reaches all patients who need it,” Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said. “The district is also getting 25 tonnes of oxygen from Riyadh and other West Asian countries; that will help us immensely,’’ he said. “The district administration is working with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to regulate cylinder supply. We are setting up an oxygen care centre at the Youth Hostel, in association with the IMA. They will have 25 oxygen concentrators donated by Hindalco. We also plan to run four oxygen buses around town, with up to 10 cylinders in each one of them. They will be stationed in select areas where patients in home isolation can come and inhale the life-saving gas for two-three hours,’’ the Deputy Commissioner said. “The State government ordered withdrawal of cylinders from NGOs as it was unmonitored. Anyway, such cylinders were around one per cent of the total cylinders on track,’’ said Assistant Drug Controller and in-charge of logistics of drugs and oxygen Raghuram Nidavanda. The reasons for this are that those who need oxygen should shift to hospitals and that it is dangerous to keep an oxygen cylinder at home. It is an offence to hoard oxygen cylinders at home, by unregistered persons, he explained. Local production of oxygen in Belagavi district is around 700 litres per day and each hospital gets an average of 40 cylinders per day. These are released in units of 20 per shift of 12 hours. Hospitals are supposed to use cylinders judiciously and seek refills by returning empty cylinders. Officers have observed that some local refill plants suffered from scarcity of liquid oxygen which is their raw material, for a few days last week. “Local refillers such as Venkatesh Patil could not meet their targets of around 400 cylinders per day. However, additional allotment of 13 kilo litres of oxygen released on Tuesday will help the refill units,” Mr. Nidavanda said. Mr. Patil’s unit has upgraded its capacity and installed modern machines to refill Dura cylinders, that have capacity to carry 20 times more oxygen than jumbo cylinders. “This helps us cover larger hospitals with fewer cylinders,” Mr. Nidavanda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concern-over-oxygen-scarcity-in-belagavi-dist-persists/article34601526.ece
20 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bagalkot needs Amphotericin||Bagalkot is suffering from scarcity of drugs such as Amphotericin, needed to treat black fungus or mucormycosis. Officers told Deputy Commissioner K. Rajendra in Bagalkot recently that they have requested the State government to ship stocks of Amphotericin to the district. As many as four cases have been detected in the district till Monday and the number could rise, they said. Dr. Rajendra said that there is a chance of black fungus spreading due to the use of poor quality water in humidifiers while supplying oxygen to patients. He asked the officials to ensure that distilled water is used for the purpose. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi M.G. Hiremath maintained that there were no black fungus cases in Belagavi district. However, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi told reporters in Athani on Sunday that a black fungus patient from Raibag was admitted in Miraj in Maharashtra and that he had helped shift him to Bengaluru from Miraj, on the request of the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bagalkot-needs-amphotericin/article34601522.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Auto, taxi drivers seek enhanced relief, more time to pay EMI||Auto and taxi drivers whose earnings have taken a huge hit for the second consecutive year have found the government’s relief package inadequate. Somashekar, president of Namma Chalakara Trade Union, said: “We have been campaigning for the government to announce a package of Rs. 10,000 for drivers, relaxing payment of EMIs for at least four months, and waiving taxes, but what has been announced is of no use to drivers.” In fact, drivers have been asking the government to relax taxes for a period of one year. On Wednesday, the Chief Minister announced Rs. 3,000 for each driver, for which it has earmarked Rs. 63 crore. Around 2.1 lakh auto, taxi and maxi-cab drivers are expected to benefit from this. However, drivers are sceptical of whether the aid will reach them. In 2020, during the first wave of COVID-19 and the lockdown, the State government offered a package of Rs. 5,000 per driver. “It was offered to 7.5 lakh drivers, but not even half of them received it. Now, the government is saying that 2.1 lakh drivers will benefit in this round, making it evident that a majority will not receive it,” Mr. Somashekar added. The lockdown has badly affected auto and taxi drivers, who have earned little or no revenue but are saddled with EMIs and other expenditure. “We are finding it difficult to pay for essentials, rent and loans. This time, they have reduced the amount from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 3,000,” said Raghavendra N., an auto driver from Bengaluru. Lorry owners angry On the other hand, lorry owners and private bus operators expressed anger with the government for ignoring them. G.R. Shanmugappa, president of the Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners and Agents’ Association, said: “The Chief Minister has ignored us while announcing the relief package. Every month, we pay Rs. 500-Rs. 600 crore as tax to the government. We demand that the State government announce a Rs. 5,000 relief package for our drivers, waive taxes, and provide medical insurance. If our demand is not met, we will not take out our vehicles from June 1.” A senior official said that maxi-cab drivers are also eligible this time around. “We will invite fresh applications. Those who received relief packages are also eligible to receive the compensation this time. Last time, among those who had applied, 2.16 lakh drivers met the conditions for receiving the relief. ”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-taxi-drivers-seek-enhanced-relief-more-time-to-pay-emi/article34601508.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Who’ll bear cost of treating black fungus?’||The State government on Wednesday declared COVID-19-associated mucormycosis (CAM) as a notifiable disease and mandated all private hospitals to report cases to the Department of Health and Family Welfare. The order also stated that no hospital that has the facilities for treatment should refuse admission to any patient. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar had said on Monday that the treatment for CAM should be given for seven consecutive weeks and costs Rs. 2-3 lakh While the order lists six government medical colleges across the State [BMCRI in Bengaluru, and medical colleges in Mysuru, Shivamogga and Kalaburagi, Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru, and KIMS, Hubballi] as centres for CAM treatment, it is silent on expenses incurred on treatment in private hospitals. On who will bear the cost, Dr. Sudhakar said he would discuss with the Chief Minister the possibility of the State government providing free treatment. With private hospitals charging anywhere between Rs. 4 - 6 lakh as a package for treatment of CAM, many patients, unable to find beds in government facilities, are left high and dry. “A private hospital said they will admit only if we agree for a package of Rs. 5 lakh and make a hefty advance, which we are unable to afford. But we are also unable to find a bed in a government hospital,” said Ravi G., whose brother Murali Krishna is suffering from CAM. He demanded that the State augment facilities or allot government quota beds in private hospitals bearing treatment expenses in private hospitals, like for COVID-19. Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), said a decision on this has to be taken by the Department of Health and Family Welfare and Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST), which pays for COVID-19 treatment of patients in the government quota. Treatment plan The treatment protocol notified by the government on Wednesday, based on a report by an expert committee, puts patients on antifungal therapy with either Liposomal Amphotericin-B or Amphotericin-B injections administered for a 14- 21-day period in a hospital. One injection dose of Amphotericin-B costs anywhere in the range of Rs. 6,000-Rs. 9,000, which is driving the cost of treatment for the infection northwards, sources said. The SOP includes strict control of diabetes, reducing steroids, stopping immunomodulating drugs and surgical debridement of all necrotic material. The guidelines asked patients under home isolation to look for warning symptoms: facial/cheek pain, bloody and foul smelling nasal discharge, nasal stuffiness, and eye symptoms like eyelid edema, redness in the eye, and any visual disturbance. Those who have recently recovered from COVID-19 are also directed to look for these symptoms, control diabetes mellitus levels, and exercise judicious use of steroids, strictly based on doctor’s advice. Those on home oxygen therapy have been instructed to use clean and sterile water for humidifiers during home oxygen therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wholl-bear-cost-of-treating-black-fungus/article34601495.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Blood banks see drop in collection||The second wave of COVID-19 followed by lockdown restrictions has severely affected blood donation drives in recent months. At the same time, however, demand for blood has also dropped as hospitals are postponing elective surgeries. Chairman of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), Karnataka State Branch S. Naganna told The Hindu that before the pandemic, the IRCS used to collect 3,500 blood units per month. Over the past few months with the steep rise in cases, this has dropped to 500-600 units. He pointed out that while elective surgeries can be postponed, there is still a need to provide blood to patients with Thalassemia, cancer, road accident victims, those on dialysis, and other emergency procedures. One of the reasons for poor collections is the inability of banks to conduct large drives. Working professionals and students who form the bulk of donors are no longer easily accessible as colleges are closed and people are working from home. “The situation is grim. Due to pandemic and lockdown restrictions, IT companies, big industries and colleges have remained closed. A majority of the donors are staying at home due to the work from home option. We are not in a position to hold blood donations camps in large numbers. Moreover, there are many instances of the donors testing positive for COVID-19. These factors have resulted in reduced blood collection,” Mr Naganna said. He added that last year, too, blood collection had been impacted due to the outbreak of pandemic. “Every year, on an average the IRCS collects 40,000 units of blood. Last year, it had come down to 23,000 units. After November, we had seen some improvement but now due to the steep surge in the pandemic cases, it has dropped again,” he added. Other blood banks in Bengaluru are in a similar situation. Dr Narasimha Murthy, medical officer of Bangalore Medical Services Trust (BMST)--a not –for-profit organisation by the Rotary Club and TTK group of companies-- said that monthly collections have dropped 1,000 units from 3,200 units. “We are already in mid-May, but we have managed to collect only 600-690 units of blood. A majority of the blood donors fall in the age group of 18 to 45. We used to get a lot of support from companies and colleges but due to lockdown restrictions they are closed. Some residential complexes also become containment zones thus posing a challenge for blood collection,” said Dr. Murthy. Fortunately, demand has come down by 50% due to surgeries being postponed. “We are now providing blood as per availability. At present, we currently give 150 to 200 units a month to Thalassemia patients.” Blood banks across Karnataka have also been affected; prior to COVID-19, they used to collect more than the target fixed, which is no longer the case. Last financial year from 2020-21, all 240 blood banks in the State had collected a total of 6.30 lakh units. In April 2021, records show that they had collected 48, 400 units of blood. D. Jayaraju, State Deputy Director (Blood Safety) said the government has not received any reports on scarcity of blood. “Each blood bank has a directory of donors. If there is a demand for rare blood groups they contact the donor and arrange for the blood. To contain the spread of COVID-19, restrictions have been imposed on gathering of people as a result blood donation camps cannot be held like in normal days. However, blood banks are sending vehicles to places wherever donors are available in small numbers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blood-banks-see-drop-in-collection/article34601483.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Milk unions cut procurement rates as market shrinks during lockdown||The shrinking market for milk and milk products during the lockdown period and mounting losses has forced the district milk unions to reduce procurement price paid to farmers. While Hassan, Mandya and Shivamogga district unions have already reduced the procurement price, the Bangalore Milk Union Ltd. (BAMUL), among the largest procurer of milk in the State, on Wednesday announced reduction of procurement price by Rs. 1.5 per litre starting June 1, KMF sources said. Kolar and Tumakuru district unions are also expected to follow suit. This will hit farmers directly as they have seen their income decline since March last year. In Bengaluru, a dairy farmer received on average Rs. 29 per litre of milk depending on fat content in March 2020, which came down to Rs. 24 per litre as the union cut procurement price. It had climbed back to Rs. 27.5 per litre. With the latest announcement, their earning per litre will be Rs. 26. This is besides Rs. 5 per litre given by the State government. According to KMF sources, the cost of production of milk in the State is about Rs. 35 per litre. “On an average, unions are losing about Rs. 5 for every litre of milk being converted into milk powder as the cost of powder has crashed from Rs. 260 per kg to Rs. 180,” Bengaluru milk union president Narasimhamurthy told The Hindu . Further, he said since the State has received good pre-monsoon showers, milk procurement has also gone up. About 15 lakh litres of milk that was sold loose or in a range of milk products is now being converted to milk powder at a loss. KMF sources said that close to 40 lakh litres of milk of about 85 lakh litres procured daily is being converted into milk powder. While BAMUL’s procurement has gone up from about 15 lakh litres to 19 lakh litres daily, the sales has dropped from earlier 11 lakh to 9 lakh litres daily. The sale of cheese has stopped, resulting in about two lakh litres of milk in addition. Currently, it converts close to 10 lakh litres of milk daily. Mr. Narasimhamurthy said: “BAMUL reported losses to a tune of Rs. 10 crore in April and is set to lose about Rs. 15 crore in May. By reducing procurement price by Rs. 1.5 per litre, we hope to keep the monthly loss below Rs. 5 crore.” Many unions, including BAMUL, that have run out of capacity to convert milk into powder are taking milk to Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Unions are paying between Rs. 18 and Rs. 20 per kg for powder converted from milk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/milk-unions-cut-procurement-rates-as-market-shrinks-during-lockdown/article34601505.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc. start-up gets nod for new COVID-19 test||A COVID-19 test developed by PathShodh Healthcare, a start-up incubated at the Society for Innovation and Development (SID), Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), has received licence to manufacture the test for sale from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). The test received the licence after validation at the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad, as per the requirements of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a release said. According to the release, the novelty of the technology is based on the measurement of electrochemical redox activity of IgM and IgG antibodies specific to the SARS-CoV-2 Spike Glycoprotein (S1). “The S1 protein has a Receptor Binding Domain (RBD) which latches on to the ACE2 receptors on the host cells before infection. Hence, antibody tests targeting the S1 spike protein are more representative of immune response against infection compared to those that target the Nucleocapsid (N) protein,” it explained. “The capability to quantify the COVID-19 antibody concentration will be crucial in estimating the declining antibody response over time and hence its possible impact on immunity against recurrence of infection. This technique will also play a very big role in elucidating seroconversion response to COVID-19 vaccines, and thereby play a supporting role in vaccination programmes in the future,” the release quoted Navakanta Bhat, Dean, Division of Interdisciplinary Sciences and Professor, Centre for Nano Science and Engineering (CeNSE), IISc, and co-founder of PathShodh Healthcare, as saying. Vinay Kumar, CEO and co-founder of PathShodh, said, “This novel technology can detect COVID-19 antibodies all the way down to the nanomolar concentration. It can work with venous or capillary (finger-prick) whole blood sample as well as serum sample. We plan to deploy the product in the market in the next couple of weeks. PathShodh’s current production capacity is about 1 lakh tests per month, and we can scale this up further by augmenting the manufacturing infrastructure.” The test has been developed by leveraging PathShodh’s Lab-on-Palm platform “anuPathTM”, which interfaces with disposable test strips functionalised with an immunoreceptor specific to COVID-19 antibodies. The results are automatically displayed by the handheld reader, eliminating subjective errors due to manual readout of test results. The funds for developing and commercialising this technology were provided by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, under its initiative on Centre for Augmenting WAR with COVID-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH). The technology development was also supported by SINE at IIT Bombay and IKP Knowledge Park, Hyderabad. The Society for Innovation and Development at IISc provided the seed funding for this development, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-start-up-gets-nod-for-new-covid-19-test/article34601487.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four buses seized||Transport Department officials on Monday seized four buses at Attibele check post belonging to a private operator in Andhra Pradesh. Roundabout route The private operator was allegedly plying the buses between Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu via Bengaluru in violation of the lockdown rules. Though the police seized the private buses, arrangements were made for Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses to ferry the passengers to their destinations. “The buses belong to Tirumala Cab Services, a private transport company in Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh,” a police officer said . Based on a complaint by Lazar R., Assistant Regional Transport Officer, the Attibele police registered a case against the owner of the company and four of his drivers under the Disaster Management Act and also under Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-buses-seized/article34601480.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court imposes cost on advocate for ‘frivolous’ plea||Observing that the police are risking their lives by religiously attending to their duties despite the pandemic, the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday imposed cost on an advocate for filling a “frivolous” PIL petition making “baseless” allegation that the State police committed atrocities to enforce COVID-19 lockdown. A vacation Division Bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while rejecting the petition filed by S. Balakrishnan, a trade unionist and social worker besides being an advocate practising before the High Court. The Bench directed the petitioner to pay Rs. 1,000 to the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority. The Bench said that it cannot order a roving enquiry into the allegation made in the petition citing a few stray instances while pointing out that the petitioner wanted a roving enquiry based on unsubstantiated allegations. Except making bald allegation, no material has been placed on record by the petitioner on allegation of atrocities by the police, the Bench said. Pointing out that hundreds of police personnel, who are frontline workers, doctors and paramedical staff have lost lives in Karnataka while discharging their duties while assisting citizens during the pandemic, the Bench said it cannot be said that the police indulged in violence to enforce law. Justice Sharma orally told the petitioner that the Karnataka police are “most disciplined” going by his experience, while pointing out that he had not found them misbehaving with him or the public when he goes to buy milk every morning. He also said that during his morning walk, he had interacted with police personnel posted on duty in front of the Chief Minister’s house and found that many of them had left their families in their villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-imposes-cost-on-advocate-for-frivolous-plea/article34601499.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Plea in HC seeks compensation to those who died after polling duty||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday ordered issue of notice to the State government, the Election Commission of India, and the State Election Commission (SEC) on a PIL petition seeking compensation to legal heirs of public servants who died of COVID-19 after discharging polling duties during the recent byelections to the Legislative Assembly and the Lok Sabha and the elections to urban local bodies. A vacation Division Bench, comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice M. Nagaprasanna, passed the order on the petition filed by Ambresh Kencha of Bidar. The petitioner has cited newspaper reports that around 55 teachers had died of COVID-19 after attending polling duties and several of them have been taking treatment for the infection. The petitioner has demanded that Rs. 1 crore compensation should be paid to the family memebrs of deceased staff and Rs. 30 lakh if any family members of such staff who have died due to COVID-19. As the public servants cannot refuse polling duty, it is the duty of the authorities to pay compensation and ensuring proper treatment to them and their family members as infection was a result of their close contact with public during polling duty, the petitioner has contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-plea-in-hc-seeks-compensation-to-those-who-died-after-polling-duty/article34601486.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Family cheated of Rs. 7.9 lakh||The cybercrime police are on the hunt for a man who duped a family of Rs. 7.9 lakh by promising to sell them Liposomal Amphotericin-B. The complainant, Govindaraju, 71, a resident of Hoskote, told the police that his son has been admitted to hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. He was later diagnosed with mucormycosis or black fungus but the doctors asked the family to arrange for Liposomal Amphotericin-B injection as they did not have stock. When the family made enquiries, a man, who identified himself as Ashok, contacted the patient’s wife. He claimed to be a representative of a pharma company and offered to courier the injection if she paid him Rs. 7.9 lakh online. “They transferred the amount to the account. But as soon as the transaction went through, he switched off his phone,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-cheated-of-rs-79-lakh/article34601493.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel to frame guidelines for 2021-22 academic year||With the pandemic threatening to throw yet another school year out of gear, the State government on Wednesday announced its decision to form an expert committee to frame guidelines for the 2021-22 academic year. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the committee will look into issues ranging from ways to engage children, especially those in rural areas and government schools, in academic activities to minimising dropouts. It will also look at alternative teaching modules both online and offline in the backdrop of COVID-19 and teacher training methodology. It will comprise educationalists, child specialists, health experts, members of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, representatives from top institutions such as Indian Institute of Science and NIMHANS, and members of parents, private and teachers’ associations. During a meeting on Wednesday, the Minister instructed officials to work on the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) in the ensuing academic year. Department officials have been instructed to ensure that students receive their textbooks within the next two months. For the benefit of PU students and to engage them in online mode of education, study material will be made available on the Diksha portal launched by the Union government. For students of classes 1 to 10, textbooks, workbooks and other material have been made available on the portal. Mr. Kumar said the government is contemplating providing compensation to families of teachers who succumbed to COVID-19 under Teachers’ Welfare Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-to-frame-guidelines-for-2021-22-academic-year/article34601506.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Recoveries continue to increase||For the second day in a row, the number of recoveries outnumbered fresh COVID-19 cases, as the State on Wednesday reported 49,953 persons discharged and 34,281 new cases. Karnataka on Tuesday saw a record 58,395 recoveries as opposed to 30,309 fresh cases. However, the number of deaths continued to be cause for concern, with 468 fatalities recorded on Wednesday, as per the bulletin by Health Department. The total toll has touched 23,306. Cumulatively Karnataka has so far reported 23,06,655 COVID-19 cases. Active cases stand at 5,58,890.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recoveries-continue-to-increase/article34601484.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre gives nod to utilise O2 produced in State||The Central government has, in principle, granted permission to the State to utilise liquid medical oxygen manufactured in the State for treating COVID-19 patients here, said Minister for Industries Jagadish Shettar, who is also the Minister in charge of oxygen supply. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, he said the Centre was expected to issue a formal notification in this regard. So far, oxygen produced by companies in the State would be distributed through a centralised system. He said efforts were on to revive defunct oxygen gas plants and to leverage the Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. oxygen gas generation capacity at their Yelahanka, Raichur, and Bidar plants. “Similarly, we are in talks to procure another compressor for bottling of oxygen in KPCL Raichur plant,” the Minister said. After the Supreme Court order of 1,200 tonne allocation to Karnataka, the Centre has increased allocation to 1,015 tonne from 965 tonne.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-gives-nod-to-utilise-o2-produced-in-state/article34601500.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Price hike sought||The KMF and unions have sought a hike by Rs. 5 per litre of milk in the State, BAMUL president Narasimhamurthy said. In comparison to neighbouring States where milk costs about Rs. 50 per litre, the price in Karnataka is between Rs. 35 and Rs. 40 a litre. “Considering the high input cost and decline in earning of farmers, we have sought a hike,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/price-hike-sought/article34601509.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Furnace in Wilson Garden crematorium closed||One furnace at Wilson Garden electric crematorium will be closed for urgent repairs for eight days from May 20 to May 27. On May 11, the Banashankari crematorium was closed for maintenance work till May 20. Prior to that, the civic body had to close Sumanahalli electric crematorium after its furnaces broke down.    Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, on Wednesday, virtually inaugurated a 150-bed COVID-19 treatment centre at KIA. The centre is located near the cargo terminal, and is open to employees working at KIA as well as the general public. People can contact Sannappaiah (9448116661) and Dr. Sanjay 9538279991) for treatment. “The patient must carry an Aadhaar card, prescription provided by the referral hospital and relevant medical documents,” BIAL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/furnace-in-wilson-garden-crematorium-closed/article34601478.ece
20 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Banking hours revised||Hassan district administration, on Wednesday, issued an order imposing restrictions on bank operations. Banks will operate only between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. This is in addition to the restrictions imposed through an order issued on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/banking-hours-revised/article34601527.ece
20 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||18 more deaths||Hassan reported 18 more deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,375 fresh cases on Wednesday. With that, the number of deaths increased to 867 and the number of cases to 67,964. Among the dead, eight are from Hassan taluk, three each from Arsikere, Channarayapatna and Holenarasipur taluks and another from Belur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/18-more-deaths/article34601528.ece
20 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Improve facilities at McGann Hospital’||A federation of progressive organisations in Shivamogga has appealed to the State government to enhance medical facilities at McGann Hospital, considering the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. Many people admitted to the hospital are dying of infection due to non-availability of advanced level treatment at the hospital, they said. A delegation of leaders K.P. Sripal, K.T. Gangadhar, M. Gurumurthy and others representing various organisations submitted a memorandum, addressed to the Chief Minister, to the Deputy Commissioner on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/improve-facilities-at-mcgann-hospital/article34601529.ece
20 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Work on Unkal road underbridge in Hubballi completed in record time||The Hubballi Division of South Western Railway (SWR) has completed work on the Unkal road underbridge near Unkal Railway Station Yard in a record time of 24 hours. According to a press release issued by the Hubballi Division, the underbridge (No 245) will facilitate easy movement of road traffic between Sainagar, Unkal and other parts of the city. The work was initiated on Saturday and it was completed in 24 hours. The underbridge was a long-pending demand of the public. The underbridge is 7.5 metres wide and has a height of 4.5 metres.And, it is 33 metres in length. A two-lane traffic will be facilitated through the underbridge. According to the release, 18 base slabs and 17 boxes were inserted utilising a mega line block during which 3,000 cubic metres of earth was excavated. The work was completed in compliance with all COVID-19 guidelines in a record time of 24 hours, the release said. The work was executed by Rail Vikas Nigam Limited and teams of Operating, Engineering, Signal and Telecommunication, Mechanical and Railway Protection Force of Hubballi Division worked hard to execute it. For execution of the work, two 400-tonne capacity cranes, five 200-tonne capacity earth excavators, three earth-movers, eight tippers and one road roller were used, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-on-unkal-road-underbridge-in-hubballi-completed-in-record-time/article34601525.ece
20 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Pay HESCOM bills online||With lockdown in place, Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) has appealed to electricity consumers under its jurisdiction to make use of online platforms to pay their power bills. In a press release, HESCOM has requested consumers to make use of the following online facilities to pay their electricity dues or make advance payment, including the HESCOM website and BBPS platforms. Consumers can pay their bills on the official website of electricity supply company, https://hescom.karnataka.gov.in. There are two options for payment on the website. Urban consumers should click on RAPDRP Town option and rural consumers should click on NON-RAPDRP Town option to make their payments. This apart, they can use their mobile phones to make payment through BBPS services such as PhonePe, Google Pay, Amazon Pay, SBI Yono, Bank of Baroda and others, the release said. In the release, HESCOM has said that it will continue to provide high quality service to its consumers and requested them to support it with payment of bills by utilising online services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pay-hescom-bills-online/article34601523.ece
20 May 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Districts offer big salaries for specialists||Reluctance of medical professionals, especially specialists, to work in COVID-19 hospitals in rural areas, has compelled administrations across Kalyana Karnataka region to offer eye-popping salaries. For instance, the Ballari administration has issued a notification offering Rs. 4 lakh a month for physicians/ and anaesthetists, and Rs. 1 lakh a month for MBBS doctors. It plans to recruit 20 physicians/ pulmonologists, 15 anaesthetists, and 30 MBBS doctors on a temporary basis for 11 months, for a 1,000-bed hospital in the district. JSW Steel, one of the biggest steel manufacturers in India, has built this dedicated COVID-19 hospital, with 300 oxygen beds, at Toranagal in Ballari district. As per the understating between the steel giant and the district administration, the JSW Steel built the hospital and put all the required equipment and machinery in place and the staff has to be recruited by the district administration. “The salaries offered by the Ballari district administration are far higher than the market prices. Salaries in private hospitals for specialists range from Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh in normal circumstances. During the pandemic, the salaries for the specialists have gone up to Rs. 3 lakh at the most. The reluctance on the doctors to work in COVID-19 facilities is the reason for rising salaries,” said Vikram Siddareddy, Chairman and Managing Director of United Hospital, Kalaburagi. When contacted, Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati said that the administration was under pressure to make use of the newly built hospital in the face of a growing number of COVID-19 cases and deaths. “A week ago, we issued a notification and an advertisement in many newspapers offering Rs. 2.5 lakh for physicians/pulmonologists and anaesthetists. But nobody showed interest. That is why we had to revise the salary offerings,” Mr. Malapati told The Hindu . The situation is similar in other districts of the region also. The Kalaburagi administration had recently called for a walk-in interview for medical professionals to work in its COVID-19 health facilities offering Rs. 80,000 for specialists and Rs. 60,000 for MBBS doctors. However, only five doctors joined so far. “We need more doctors to work in our COVID-19 health facilities and we are not able to get them for the salaries we are offering,” Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/districts-offer-big-salaries-for-specialists/article34601485.ece
20 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘COVID-19 package will help toiling masses’||Welcoming the COVID-19 package announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, BJP SC Morcha State vice-president Ambaraya Ashtagi said that the special assistance will help the toiling masses who have been hit by lockdown. “The package that envisages spending Rs. 1,250 crore has targeted the working population such as farmers, agriculture and industrial workers, self-employed youths, street vendors, artisans and those who are dependent on their traditional work. Most of these people are from economically weaker sections and their economic condition has further deteriorated due to the lockdown. However, the package will help them come out of the crisis and contribute to the economy. Free food thrice a day, free rice for all BPL families, an extension of loan repayment period for borrowings from cooperative societies, free COVID-19 vaccines for those in the 18-45 age group and financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 to each gram panchayat are some of the initiatives that are oriented to revive the rural economy,” Mr. Ashtagi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-package-will-help-toiling-masses/article34601530.ece
20 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Long queues in front of ration shops||Saroja and her daughter Manjula, who hail from Harapanahalli in Davangere district, work with Antony Waste Handling Cell Limited. Recently, they finished clearing mud accumulated around median in Pandeshwar and came to the ration shop in the area for rice. The ration shop owner asked the two where they were living. After finding out that they lived near Pumpwell Junction, the shopkeeper asked them to approach the ration shop closer to their house. “There is no rice left in the house. For the last few days, we have been eating only rotis. As it is difficult to get time off from work and get ration before the 9 a.m. deadline at a shop closer home, we came here now. Hope my supervisor gives us an off for procuring ration,” said Saroja before leaving the shop dejected, along with her daughter. Saroja was among the many who went to ration shops in Mangaluru and other parts of the district, where large number of people are queuing up for ration. The queue has become long since May 4 when the district administration restricted sales of essential items between 6 a.m .and 9 a.m. As the server of the Food and Civil Supplies Department opens at 7 a.m., it only leaves about two hours for people to get ration and return home by 10 a.m. The police have barred the use of vehicles after 10 a.m. “There were about 100 people lined up in front of a ration shop in Kulai on that day. As the network was slow, it took about five minutes to take biometric fingerprints and issue ration,” said Ramesh, a resident of Kulai. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath visited a few ration shops and asked Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra to allow people to buy ration till noon. “This has just remained a statement and is yet to come into action,” repented activist G.K. Bhat. Ration shops do not display details about rice and wheat given to APL, BPL and Antodaya ration card holders, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/long-queues-in-front-of-ration-shops/article34601520.ece
20 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Covaxin supply likely to be streamlined in 10 days||Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary said here on Wednesday that the supply of Covaxin, to Dakshina Kannada in particular and the State in general, is likely to become regular in another 10 days. Speaking to presspersons, the Minister said that the supply is being streamlined now in co-ordination with the Union government which has said that it will take another eight to 10 days to ensure regular supply of the vaccine to the State. Later, districts that are facing shortage will also get continuous supply. MLA from Mangaluru City South D. Vedavyas Kamath said that 12,000 persons are waiting to get the second dose of Covaxin in Dakshina Kannada. Mr. Poojary, who is also the Minister for Backward Classes Welfare, said that of 2.1 lakh persons aged above 60 who have registered for getting the vaccine, 58% have received the first dose and 39% the second dose. Of 4.16 lakh persons aged above 45 who have registered, 26% have received the first dose and 16% the second dose. In all, 10.92 lakh persons aged above 18 have registered for the vaccine. The Minister said that 11 oxygen generation plants will be set up in the district. Of them, two are expected to be ready in one month. Mr. Poojary said that the spread of COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada is under control with the number of new positive cases coming down in the last four days. Lockdown The Minister hinted that the lockdown is likely to be extended in the State beyond May 24. He said that many Deputy Commissioners, district in-charge Ministers and Health Department officials are of the view that lockdown should be extended by one more week to further curtail the spread of COVID-19. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will take a final decision before Monday next, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covaxin-supply-likely-to-be-streamlined-in-10-days/article34601532.ece
20 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three rescued fishermen handed over to Kerala||Coast Guard Karnataka on Wednesday handed over to the Kerala government the three fishermen who were rescued in the sea off 10 nautical miles from Kannur at midnight on May 14. According to a press release, the three fishermen were handed over to the Kerala government authorities in the presence of Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel in Mangaluru. The release said that the three fishermen, Arun (36), S. Francis (58) and Suriendar (64), were in the fishing boat IFB Bhadriya. The boat suffered an engine failure because of inclement weather on that night. Coast Guard ship Vikram braved the rough sea and rescued the three fishermen. The ship then proceed towards the Lakshadweep Islands coast for search and rescue operation of fishing boat IBD/TN/06/MM/5517 from Tamil Nadu and fishing boat IFB Aji Mersha from Kerala. The ship carried out extensive operation along with Dornier aircraft but could not trace the two boats and their crew members, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-rescued-fishermen-handed-over-to-kerala/article34601533.ece
20 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Ration available through the month’||Deputy Director, Food and Civil Supplies, Ramya C.R. has said that ration will be available in all ration shops till the end of this month. “People need not panic. They can buy ration within the permitted time of 10 a.m.,” she said. Ms. Ramya said that shops have been asked to issue coupons to around 150 persons per day and issue them ration. “If there are more people standing in queue even at 10 a.m., shops have been asked to issue ration to all of them and not send back any one empty-handed,” she said. Card holders are being asked to buy ration from shops closer to their houses as it will be easy for them to carry the material back home. Ms. Ramya said that for May, the district has received 5,825 tonnes of rice under the National Food Security Act. It has also received 501 tonnes of wheat. People can call helplines in Mangaluru city Ph: 0824-2423622, Mangaluru taluk 0824-2412033, Bantwal 08255-232125, Puttur 08251-231349, Belthangady 08256-232383 and Sullia (08257-231330) for assistance, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ration-available-through-the-month/article34601521.ece
20 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CREDAI to fund oxygen plant at Lady Goschen||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), Mangaluru, will, in association with other entrepreneurs associations, fund a portion of Rs. 84 lakh required for setting up an oxygen generation plant at the Government Lady Goschen Hospital in the city. CREDAI Mangaluru president Pushparaj Jain said that the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Mangaluru Contractors Association have given Rs. 15 lakh each, while the Association of Consulting Civil Engineers has given Rs. 8 lakh. The remaining amount will be given by CREDAI. Mr. Jain handed over a cheque for Rs. 41.86 lakh to the district administration towards the cost of the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/credai-to-fund-oxygen-plant-at-lady-goschen/article34601518.ece
20 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Plea for prioritising forest staff for vaccination yet to be considered||Constant exposure during combing operations outside forests and anti-poaching drives has resulted in a sizeable number of field staff contracting COVID-19 in Karnataka. Apart from anti-poaching drives, the field staff also come into contact with the public while dealing with other issues. This is not only resulting in infection among the forest staff but they could even end up spreading it in the remote hamlets of forest-dwelling communities. Recently, a gang of poachers was nabbed by the forest protection squad in south Karnataka region and some of the accused tested positive for COVID-19. As a result, the entire staff involved in the operation had to opt for isolation. Mahesh Kumar, Field Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, told The Hindu that a week-long combing operation was carried out to trap a tiger which had strayed into human landscape a few days ago outside Nagarahole. During the process the special tiger force members came into contact with public and at least five forest personnel have now tested positive. There are similar cases reported from those stationed at Handpost in H.D. Kote and another at Tithimathi all of which will deplete the strength of the field squad engaged in jungle patrolling. In Nagarahole, out of 605 personnel, 292 are yet to receive even the first round of vaccination. A senior forest department official told The Hindu that this will have a negative bearing on the forest protection duties and could give impetus to potential poachers. Ever since the lockdown was announced in the State, four cases of poaching have been busted by field staff at Nagarahole alone. Hence there is growing demand for declaring forest staff as frontline workers and prioritize them for vaccination. The Indian Forest Service Association, which represents over 3,000 IFS and over 25,000 field staff across the country, has also appealed to the Centre for prioritising their vaccination as many of them are constantly working with forest-based communities and the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG). Sanjai Mohan, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Head of Forest Force), has also appealed to the State government in this regard but there is no official notification till date. He pointed out that poaching tends to increase during such times as lockdown due to pandemic and the extra vigilance was imperative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-for-prioritising-forest-staff-for-vaccination-yet-to-be-considered/article34601489.ece
20 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Congress lodges complaint against Vijayendra||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra’s reported violation of the lockdown rules to visit religious shrines in Nanjangud near here on Tuesday has sparked off a row with the Congress leaders lodging a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru. A delegation met Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Wednesday and submitted a memorandum seeking her direction to the police to register an FIR against Mr. Vijayendra for violating norms. The Congress leaders alleged Mr. Vijayendra was also accompanied by several of his supporters and escorted by the police personnel when he visited the shrines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-lodges-complaint-against-vijayendra/article34601494.ece
20 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru to try PPP model for ICU beds||After COVID-19 Mitra triaging system, Mysuru is launching a new initiative where the ICU bed management is done on the PPP model. There has been a persistent need to increase ICU beds as demand for the same has been on the rise. About 25 patients in oxygen beds are waiting to be shifted to ICUs, but there is no shortage of oxygen beds. The challenges have been manpower (specialists, doctors, nurses) and equipment. “We are trying out this model in Mysuru from Thursday wherein doctors from Gopal Gowda Hospital have collaborated with a super speciality hospital to monitor ICU care. This solves our manpower issue. Meritor Group’s Muthukumar has supplied ICU beds, BiPAP and monitors. This solves our equipment issue. From Thursday, 30 beds will be available. Gradually, the number will be increased to 100 ICU beds,” said Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-to-try-ppp-model-for-icu-beds/article34601475.ece
20 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Survey in Mysuru||For early identification of COVID-19 infections, an extensive door-to-door survey was launched across 65 wards of Mysuru city on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-in-mysuru/article34601470.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘No crematorium was set up at landfill site’||The Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday told the High Court of Karnataka that no crematorium is being operated in the old landfill at Mavallipura to perform the last rites of bodies of COVID-19 patients. A statement was made in response to an application filed in court complaining that the BBMP had on April 29 passed an order to set up an open-air crematorium for cremation of bodies of COVID-19 patients to reduce the burden on electric crematoriums in the city. A vacation division bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice M. Nagaprasanna, after recording the statement made on behalf of the BBMP, adjourned further hearing on the application filed by Leo F. Saldanha of Environment Support Group, who had questioned the decision to set up an open-air crematorium at the site of the old landfill. Mr. Saldanha pointed out that besides being violative of earlier directions issued by the High Court on Mavallipura landfill, the decision poses danger to the public attending the cremation, and impacts the operation of flights by the Indian Air Force station at Yelahanka. It was also contended in the application that cremation, a ritual considered sacred, cannot be forced to be performed at a garbage landfill site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-crematorium-was-set-up-at-landfill-site/article34601472.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Portal for private hospitals shows most beds occupied||The recently launched centralised database spearheaded by the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) to track real-time status of beds in private hospitals appears to have done little to ease anxiety and panic among COVID-19 patients and their families. Most of the hospitals on the portal,searchmybed.com, list their beds as occupied without updating the data in real time, said senior Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials. As a result, family members and friends of COVID-19 patients are still in the dark over how many beds are actually available. Many people said they have no choice but to call multiple hospitals or hire an ambulance and knock on the doors of individual hospitals, defeating the purpose of the database. ‘Found a bed’ “My father-in-law needed a bed as his oxygen saturation levels had dropped. When a BBMP bed did not come through, I checked the private hospital portal. It showed zero beds available in the city. Then a friend said the data was not reliable. We started calling hospitals listed on the portal. We found a bed in one of the hospitals even though it had reported no beds available on the portal,” said Chandrashekhar, a resident of Banaswadi. A senior official overseeing bed allocation in the city acknowledged the problem and the frustration with the opacity of the system. “It has been a Herculean task to tame private hospitals. We need their cooperation and hence cannot even take stringent action against them during this health crisis, which is being misused. While PHANA has started this initiative, it can be only as good as the participation of individual hospitals, which doesn’t seem to be the case,” said the BBMP official. Of the total 2,876 beds on the portal, only 24 were ‘available’ on, and the status did not change all through the day. These 24 beds were in four of the 116 hospitals on the portal. While 3,241 general beds were available in government hospitals and under government quota on Monday evening, 112 hospitals showed all their general beds as occupied. On Wednesday, the number of beds on the portal had risen to 2,927, with 119 shown as vacant. Several key hospitals are yet to post information on the portal despite an order from Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta mandating all private hospitals to update bed availability data. Dr. H.M. Prasanna, president, PHANA, said most hospitals have started cooperating by uploading bed availability data. “We are striving to improve the portal,” he said. “The problem with HDU, ICU and ventilator beds is that in most hospitals, in-patients are occupying these beds and critical cases treated in emergencies are given preference, leading to beds not being shown vacant,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portal-for-private-hospitals-shows-most-beds-occupied/article34601479.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for cheating using fake pharma site||The Central division cyber crime police on Wednesday arrested two persons, including a foreign national, for creating a fake website in the name of a well-known pharmaceutical company and cheating people hoping to buy Remdesivir and other drugs used for the treatment of COVID-19. Ten bank accounts, which the accused used, with deposits amounting to around Rs. 4 lakh, have been frozen. The police also seized 110 SIM cards and four mobile phones from the duo, identified as Mohammed Ismail Khadri, 43, from Vidyaranyapura, and Alade Abdulla Yusuf, 26, from Nigeria, residing in Yelahanka . “Khadri is the owner of a mobile phone repair shop where he also sells SIM cards. He used fake IDs to get SIM cards for Yusuf and open bank accounts,” said a police officer. “The accused would ask people to transfer money online, and then switch off their mobile phones once the transaction went through.” As soon as the money landed in the bank account, they would wire it to other accounts in an attempt to hoodwink officials and prevent customers from blocking the transactions. “With their arrest, the police have solved four cases of online fraud reported in the recent past,” said M. N, Anucheth, DCP (Central division).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-cheating-using-fake-pharma-site/article34601481.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP mulls over optimal use of govt. quota beds||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is working towards putting in place a system where COVID-19 patients at triaging centres will be prioritised in the government quota bed allocation system. Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, during a virtual meeting with Bangalore Apartments’ Federation and residents’ welfare associations on Wednesday, said that the civic body was still toying with the idea. The BBMP is operating 48 COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) and physical triaging centres in the city. Those who have tested positive can walk into any of these centres for physical triaging or stabilisation. In the current system, if medical intervention is required, the centre will refer the patient to a hospital. Call for medical professionals Mr. Gupta called upon medical professionals to volunteer their services and help the civic body in either manning the centres or screening patients for triaging. He added that measures were being taken to ensure quick bed turnaround. “We have seen cases where patients insist on being in hospitals for 10 days even if they don’t require that kind of medical intervention. In cases where medical observation is essential, patients can be admitted in step-down hospitals. Patients cannot hold on to beds beyond the necessary time, as someone else may require it more,” he said. Calling upon citizens to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and “eat and drink alone”, the civic chief claimed that lockdown had been effective. Asked if the lockdown would be extended, he said, “The cases continue to increase in rural areas. The Karnataka government may issue some restrictive orders. We will have to wait and see the nature of these orders.” Mr. Gupta said the civic body would collaborate with RWAs to have testing camps in apartments with high caseloads. Clarifying the strategy of micro containment, he said the strategy is isolation. “We have asked details of positive cases to be shared with apartment associations and RWAs. While hand stamping is being done in some places, some suggest putting ribbons to identify houses with COVID-19 patients. Several initiatives of this nature can be taken up,” he said and clarified that BBMP was not doing any sort of barricading like it did last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-mulls-over-optimal-use-of-govt-quota-beds/article34601477.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Elephant dies after being hit by train near Sakleshpur||A tusker, aged about 25, died after being hit by a passenger train at Haside near Sakleshpur on Tuesday night. The elephant was hit by the Bengaluru-Karwar train (06585) while it was crossing the track around 10.30 p.m. The train was stopped at the spot for more than two hours until the carcass was removed with the help of a crane and the track was cleared. Rahul Agarwal, divisional railway manager of Mysuru, told The Hindu that according to the driver of the train, the elephant appeared in front of the train suddenly. “The driver did apply brakes. The train takes time to stop. However, one cannot apply brakes fully in such situations as such a step could derail the train. It is unfortunate that the tusker died,” he said. The officer said drivers on the route had been cautioned about the movement of elephants and constant whistling would be done while crossing the stretch. “Our staff immediately informed the Forest Department officials. They came to the spot. With the help of our crane, the track was cleared,” the DRM said. Further, he said the department would hold discussions with the Forest Department on the measures to avoid such incidents. Deputy Conservator of Forests of Hassan K.N. Basavaraj said the department had booked a case under the Wildlife Protection Act and a post-mortem was conducted on Wednesday. Fourth death Around 60 elephants, spread over different herds, have been roaming in Sakleshpur, Alur and Belur taluks of Hassan district. Often, they raid coffee estates, agriculture fields, damaging crops and hurting humans. This is the fourth elephant death reported in Hassan district this year. A female elephant was found dead of a bullet injury near Bisale in Sakleshpur taluk on January 3 and the post-mortem reported that it died of septicaemia. A tusker was found dead on February 28 near Borannanamane in Sakleshpur taluk due to natural causes. However, two tusks were missing. Another tusker was found dead on March 14 at Uduvare in the taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephant-dies-after-being-hit-by-train-near-sakleshpur/article34601497.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 package too little to address distress: Opposition||The Rs. 1,111.82 crore relief package announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday has come under criticism as being too little to address the woes of the poor. Terming the package as “unscientific”, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the actual size of the package was just Rs. 483 crore. “The relief of Rs. 494 crore announced to construction workers should not be added to the package since the government is paying the money from what workers have contributed earlier to their welfare fund,” he said. Similarly, the deferring deadline for repayment of loans in the cooperative sector should not be part of the package, he said. Several communities in distress have been left out, he added.  KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar termed the package as “an eyewash”. If the government intends to help the poor, it should at least provide Rs. 10,000 as relief and distribute through panchayats and issue cheques, he said. “If apps are to be used and payment is made through banks, then the announcement will remain on paper,” he said, adding that even though the government announced packages last year, relief did not reach all. Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy termed the relief package as “disappointing and very little”. The relief provided to farmers is negligible in the light of increasing input cost, he argued. Stating that the last year’s lockdown relief was yet to reach beneficiaries, he feared that it would repeat this year too. “How can families survive on Rs. 3,000 dole? This package is an eyewash,” he said. He estimated that there were about 55 lakh families in distress. Mr. Kumaraswamy said the BJP had unnecessarily appointed people to boards and corporations, resulting in wasteful expenditure. “Instead, sack them and use the money for public good,” he suggested. Farmers’ view Meanwhile, welcoming the deferment of payment of loans in the cooperative sector, Sugarcane Growers’ Association president Kurubur Shanthkumar said the State government should speak to the Centre to get a similar deferment in commercial banks for farmers. He also said that the cash relief announced for the farmers is too little, and relief should be actual loss suffered by farmers. In the light of complaints of private hospitals fleecing farmers, the government should arrange for their free treatment in private facilities, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-package-too-little-to-address-distress-opposition/article34601503.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A place to wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-place-to-wait/article34601474.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A tale of two cities||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-tale-of-two-cities/article34601536.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New service||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-service/article34601491.ece
20 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Out-of-job youths script a success story||Harinandhan Manoj had come to his home at Thamarakulam in Alappuzha from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for a short holiday on March 9, 2020. He was scheduled to return to the Gulf nation two weeks later, where he was working in a hotel. Mr. Manoj could not fly back due to the COVID-19 pandemic and he became unemployed. Around the same time, his relative Akhil Prakash, a safety engineer, was all set to fly to Singapore seeking a new pasture. His plans too were scuppered by the COVID-19-induced lockdown and restrictions. After income dried up “I had resigned my job in a textile shop in Haripad ahead of my planned trip overseas by March-end. But things turned topsy turvy after the pandemic-triggered lockdown and travel restrictions. It was a difficult time as all of a sudden the income dried up. Then came the idea of fish farming,” says Mr. Prakash. When the government relaxed lockdown restrictions last year, the duo was joined by four others — Sarath Raj (a Gulf returnee), Anoop A. (a service manager in a private firm), Jaleel Khan, (a Judo player), and Visanth V. (an electrician) — to set up a fish farm using the biofloc method on the land of Prakash at Thamarakulam. “The youths started work on the pond and biofloc system in June 2020. By October, they brought 2,000 seeds of Tilapia (GIFT) and 1,200 seeds of Anabas from Chennai and Vijayawada. Six months later in April 2021, they scripted a success story in aquaculture by reaping a “good harvest” in the first season. The group has harvested around 300 kg of Tilapia and 200 kg of Anabas, which they sold for a good price. They made a total investment of around Rs. 3 lakh. “The initial harvest was highly promising. We hope to make a profit from the second season onwards,” says Mr. Manoj. As the State is currently under lockdown to tackle the spread of the second wave of COVID-19, they have already ordered fish seeds for the second season. Expansion plans “Seeds will arrive in 10 days. We plan to expand and involve more vigorously in aquaculture,” they say. Apart from fish farming, members of the group also helped Manoj set up a poultry farm on the latter’s land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/out-of-job-youths-script-a-success-story/article34601948.ece
20 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||A 45-cm path to Guinness Book||A veterinary postgraduate student of the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) has entered the Guinness Book of World Records for carving the highest number of chain links from pencil lead. M. Manoj carved 212 independent graphite links to achieve the feat. The chain of freely movable links is 45 cm long. “The Guinness World Records team informed me of the achievement on May 17,” said Mr. Manoj, who is pursuing MVSc in Veterinary Public Health at the College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Pookode. He hails from Parasuvaikkal in Thiruvananthapuram district Earlier record The earlier record was by Lee Chien Chu from Taipei, whose graphite chain had 168 links, Mr. Manoj said. He had been carving sculptures on graphite for five years. “During the previous lockdown period I applied for a record titled ‘The most chain links carved from pencil lead,’” he said. “I made the chain by strictly adhering to the guidelines set by the Guinness Book authorities. I did not use any adhesives to attach the links,” he said. He used Artline Black Beauty pencil. Its graphite’s diameter was less than 2 mm and the work was completed with surgical blade no. 11 and 12. R.S. Rajesh, teacher, Government Higher Secondary School, Aryanad, and Anne Briskilla, surgeon at the Government Veterinary Hospital at Nediyamcode in the capital verified the work. “The major constraint I faced was the number of links I could carve in a single pencil. Hence I used two pencils to carve the 212 links. Connecting the links of two pencils was a problem, but I solved it by making a crack on the last link,” he said. It took nearly a month for him to complete the work, spending four hours a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-45-cm-path-to-guinness-book/article34601671.ece
20 May 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||RNA extractor handed over to Wayanad Collector||At a time when RT-PCR test results are getting delayed in the district due to the dearth of an RNA extraction equipment, the Wayanad district panchayat has procured and handed over an RNA extractor to the district administration. District panchayat president Shamsad Marakkar handed over the extractor to District Collector Adeela Abdulla here on Wednesday. The equipment, worth Rs. 35 lakh, would be set up at the newly established laboratory of the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University at Pookode, Mr. Marakkar told The Hindu .  Once the equipment starts functioning, the untimely delay in test results could be addressed effectively, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rna-extractor-handed-over-to-wayanad-collector/article34601645.ece
20 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||M.V. Jayarajan defends decision on Shailaja||CPI(M) Kannur district secretary M.V. Jayarajan has defended the exclusion of K.K. Shailaja from the second Pinarayi Vijayan Cabinet. “Ms. Shailaja was a newcomer in 2016. Initially, when the Health Department was offered to her, she expressed to then party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan her unwillingness to take up the role, citing lack of experience. It was the strength given by the party that made Ms. Shailaja a good Minister,” he said. He said that individuals were only “symbols” of the movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mv-jayarajan-defends-decision-on-shailaja/article34601664.ece
20 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||TPR remains at 26.02% in Ernakulam||Ernakulam recorded a test positivity rate (TPR) of 26.02% on Wednesday, when 4,282 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The TPR saw a slight rise on Wednesday, compared to a figure that had been below 25% for the past three days. A total of 16,454 samples were sent for testing. Thrikkakara saw 267 new cases, Palluruthy 171, Kumbalanghi 124, Pallipuram 107, Karukutty 106, and Vengola 104. Thripunithura recorded 90 cases, Kunnathunad 89, Kadungalloor 87, Fort Kochi 82, and Nellikuzhi 81. Four health workers tested positive, and the source of infection was unclear in 177 cases. While 5,513 people were considered to have recovered on the day, the active caseload has dropped to 51,651. The number of people admitted in ICUs continues to be on the rise, with 542 people in ICUs on Wednesday. In quarantine A total of 1,08,484 people remain in quarantine. As many as 242 people were newly admitted to hospitals and other treatment facilities, and 445 were discharged. Of those recovering, 42,702 remain at home. A total of 2,326 people are admitted at private hospitals, 65 are at INHS Sanjivani, 654 are at government hospitals, and 1622 are at FLTCs, SLTCs, and domiciliary care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-remains-at-2602-in-ernakulam/article34601647.ece
20 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rush for adoption of children orphaned by pandemic||Ever since his return from West Asia early this year, Pretheesh J. Pillai, a Kochi-based expatriate, has received at least two messages about children who lost their parents to COVID-19 being available for adoption. One child turned out to be from Delhi and another from Kerala. As someone who has been looking to adopt a child, Mr. Pillai tried to reach out, by which time both the children had already been adopted, though he was not sure whether it happened legally or illegally. “I have already registered with the website of CARA [Central Adoption Resource Authority, a statutory body of the Ministry of Women and Child Development] and am only interested in legal adoption. It turned out that the message had reached a few days after it was circulated,” he said. However, not all potential adopters need to be as circumspect, considering that the long virtual queue for adoption far outnumber the children legally available for adoption. Social media messages about children orphaned by the pandemic and available for adoption seek to tap into the impatience over this long wait by dangling an avenue to bypass it. Taking serious note of the matter, the Department of Women and Child Development has adopted a slew of measures to create awareness, including a social media campaign, against falling prey to what is being regarded as illegal adoptions. A webinar on legal adoption by an expert was also organised. Helpline “We had a system to track and bring all orphaned children under the ambit of the Child Welfare Committee [CWC]. Realising that the pandemic and the resultant lockdown disrupted that system, we have instituted a WhatsApp-based helpline to report children orphaned by the pandemic, while we have also given specialised training to our child protection officers to handle the new challenge,” said T.V. Anupama, Director, Department of Women and Child Development. One such child has been reported from a northern district, and the department is in active liaison with the child’s grandparents. There are three options for similarly orphaned children, with the first preference being to put them in the care of immediate family and relatives, provided they are willing to take care of the child. Where relatives are willing but do not have the financial means, the child is put in foster care with some assistance from the department. General foster care or adoption is the last resort where relatives are not willing. Bitty K. Joseph, Chairperson, CWC, Ernakulam, said she had even come across messages appealing to a specific community to adopt a child belonging to their community. “All such appeals for adoption are illegal, and such children should be put in the care of the CWC,” she added. ‘Legally free’ status For a child to be adopted, he or she should be declared “legally free” by the CWC. Three categories of children — orphaned, surrendered, and abandoned — are made available for adoption through CARA. Details of children handed over to specialised adoption agencies, the number of which has been restricted to one for each district, are uploaded on the CARA website, and once they are declared legally free by the CWC, they will be available for adoption. Couples looking for adoption will also need to register on the website, and they can choose up to three States where they are willing to adopt from. As and when three children matching the profile of their requirements become available, the couples concerned are alerted.  Social media messages about children available for adoption seek to tap into the impatience of prospective adopters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rush-for-adoption-of-children-orphaned-by-pandemic/article34601657.ece
20 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||P. Rajeeve has his task cut out||When P. Rajeeve takes oath as Minister on Thursday in the second Pinarayi Vijayan government, he has his task cut out. He assumes office at a time when the State is reeling under the impact of COVID-19, which has brought socio-economic and industrial activities to their knees. Besides, shortage of workers and lockdown restrictions on movement of raw materials and finished products have severely impacted industries. Mr. Rajeeve, 54, who won his debut election to the Assembly from Kalamassery with a margin of more than 11,000 votes over the IUML’s V.A. Abdul Gafoor, is the first representative from Ernakulam district in the State Cabinet after a gap of five years. Added responsibilities Mr. Rajeeve had on Tuesday said that the new position brought added responsibilities, and that the priorities of the CPI(M) for the Kalamassery constituency had been listed in the party manifesto. He added that he would help address key issues such as drinking water shortage and infrastructure. Ernakulam has a string of industrial estates as well as around 30,000 small and medium enterprises (SMEs), the latter employing nearly three lakh people directly and indirectly. The district is also the hub of innovation, with the Kerala Startup Mission headquartered in Kalamassery. The Infopark and the upcoming petrochemicals complex are torch-bearers for a new phase of industrial growth. Expediting the Kochi-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor project can bring long-term benefits to the State. The project is in its initial stage, and pushing it forward is expected to help Kerala reap the benefits of opening up a new front in the industrialisation process. The CPI(M) manifesto for Kalamassery had laid stress on SMEs, revival and strengthening of public sector undertakings like HMT, skill development, establishment of an innovation hub, and encouraging start-ups. On these lines, “our expectation is that the new government will, through measures like financial support, help revive industries when lockdown restrictions ease,” said M. Khalid, president of Kerala State Small Industries Association on Wednesday. An estimated 2.5 lakh small industries is the backbone of the State, providing employment to around 2.5 million people directly and indirectly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/p-rajeeve-has-his-task-cut-out/article34601655.ece
20 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rural police seize over 1,000 vehicles||Three youngsters near Aluva who ventured out on their motorcycles in violation of the triple lockdown on Wednesday morning ended up having a hard time, as they had to trudge back home on foot. The Ernakulam Rural police, out in numbers on the road to enforce the lockdown, were not amused a bit and seized their motorcycles, besides slapping them with a fine. “Booking violators of lockdown restrictions and seizing vehicles have turned out to be an effective deterrent. We seize vehicles for the day, and the persons concerned will have to get them from the police stations concerned in subsequent days. Vehicles of repeated offenders will be submitted to the court and released only after the lockdown is lifted,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Since the enforcement of the lockdown, before it was further tightened to a triple lockdown, earlier this month, the rural police have seized over 1,000 vehicles. With the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) in the district almost fully preoccupied with ensuring the smooth movement of oxygen, the police alone are engaged in the enforcement drive against motorists guilty of lockdown violations. The city police also seize such vehicles and release them only on subsequent days. “We had cracked down on two-wheeler violators in the early days of the lockdown, and that sent across a message. Also, unlike rural hinterlands, police personnel are present at all major points, and so roaming around evading us is quite a difficult task,” said a senior traffic police officer. The city police are also using CCTV footage to detect violations like speeding exploiting deserted roads, the message being that even those who manage to skip police patrol may eventually be caught and fined with the help of footage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-police-seize-over-1000-vehicles/article34601650.ece
20 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||SNC initiative to address shortage of oxygen||The Diving School of the Southern Naval Command (SNC) conceptualised and designed an Oxygen Recycling System (ORS) to address the issue of Oxygen (O2) shortage. The basic concept has been derived from diving sets used by naval divers. ORS is designed to extend the life of the existing medical O2 cylinders two to four times using the fact that only a small percentage of O2 inhaled by a patient is actually absorbed by the lungs, the rest being exhaled into the atmosphere along with carbon-dioxide (CO2) produced by the body. This exhaled O2 can be re-used, provided the exhaled CO2 is removed. To achieve this, the ORS has a second pipe to the patient’s existing O2 mask, which sucks out the air exhaled by a patient using a low-pressure motor. Both the mask inlet pipe (for O2) and the mask outlet pipe (for exhaled air) are fitted with non-return valves to maintain a positive pressure and unidirectional flow of gases at all times to ensure the patient’s safety against dilution hypoxia, according to a defence press release. The system was designed by Lieutenant Commander Mayank Sharma of the Diving School. “The exhaled gases, mainly CO2 and O2, are then fed into a Bacterial Viral Filter and Heat and Moisture Exchanger Filter (BVF-HME filter) to absorb any viral contaminants. After viral filtration, the gases pass through a high-grade CO2 scrubber with a High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filter, which absorbs CO2 and other particulates, allowing enriched O2 to pass through unaffected. The enriched O2 from the scrubber is then pumped back into the inhalation pipe of the patient’s face mask, thereby increasing the flow rate of O2 to the patient, and reducing the use of O2 from the cylinder,” the release said. The first fully operational prototype of the ORS was produced on on April 22 and underwent a series of in-house trials and design improvements at the Southern Naval Command, with third-party observers from ISO certified firms. The system also received initial evaluation certificate from the specialsists at Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) at Thiruvananthapuram. The system will now undergo clinical trials. The cost of the ORS prototype has been capped at Rs. 10,000 against an envisaged saving of Rs. 3,000 a day due to the recycling of O2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/snc-initiative-to-address-shortage-of-oxygen/article34601653.ece
20 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hold Class 12 exams, appeal CBSE schools||The National Council of CBSE Schools has urged Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank to conduct the Class 12 board examination even if it is delayed in view of the pandemic situation. The request for not cancelling the exam was made on the inference that the Class 12 pass certificate was a key document considered for entry into higher educational institutions. “We feel that the exam has to be conducted, even if it is delayed, probably even by using alternative examination patterns,” Indira Rajan, secretary-general of the council, said. Review meeting The Minister of Education had chaired a review meeting with the education secretaries of States and Union Territories on Monday to discuss measures for education system amidst the pandemic. The meeting also discussed the pending Class 12 exams. Mr. Ramesh Pokhriyal had sought suggestions from the States on the exams. Ms. Rajan said higher educational institutions would take into account the quality of the eligibility process while admitting students into programmes. “A decision to hold the exams will resolve the anxiety of students and parents. Many were eagerly awaiting entry into quality professional institutions,” she said. The board pointed out that a review on the Class 12 exams would be held on or after June 1. The Class 10 exams were cancelled earlier in view of the pandemic. Many students and parents had called for cancelling the Class 12 exams. They had suggested an evaluation system similar to the one for Class 10 students.  Pass certificate crucial for entry into higher educational institutions, council tells Union Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hold-class-12-exams-appeal-cbse-schools/article34601663.ece
20 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Horticorp begins pineapple procurement||With pineapple price sliding to Rs. 15 a kg for the best grade green quality and the ripe fruit fetching only Rs. 13 a kg in the wholesale market, the Kerala Horticulture Development Corporation has launched a procurement operation to support farmers. Pineapple farmers said around 6,000 tonnes of ripe fruit were likely to be abandoned, as harvesting and transport operations had been hindered due to the lockdown. With Ernakulam district coming under triple lockdown, there is little movement of goods and produce out of the district. Horticorp sources said the corporation had not set any volume target, but that it would continue procurement to help farmers. 18 tonnes procured As on Wednesday, the corporation had procured more than 18 tonnes of the fruit, and the next lot will be procured on Sunday. Horticorp is procuring pineapple through Vazhakulam Agro and Fruit Processing Company at a price of Rs. 15 per kg. Veteran pineapple farmer Baby John had said the spread of COVID-19 in cities like Mumbai and Delhi had resulted in considerably slackened movement of the fruit into upcountry markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/horticorp-begins-pineapple-procurement/article34601649.ece
20 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Farmers’ union chief passes away||M.K. Mohanan, district president of Kerala State Karshaka Thozhilali Union, passed away at Nedumbassery on Wednesday. He was 54 and was undergoing treatment for COVID-19. The funeral was held in line with the COVID-19 protocol at Kidangoor. He was a member of the CPI(M) Nedumbasserry area committee. He had risen through student politics and had served as the Angamaly area secretary and district secretariat member of the SFI and DYFI Angamaly area president. He is survived by wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-union-chief-passes-away/article34601651.ece
20 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Oxygen output augmented||The Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), Kerala, is taking all steps to augment production of gaseous oxygen and limiting the use of already depleting liquid medical Oxygen (LMO). LMO production at Inox India limited was increased from 149 tonnes to 188 tonnes a day as per the advice of PESO by reducing nitrogen production, said a statement from PESO here on Wednesday. Three ASU plants in Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad and Malappuram districts support gaseous oxygen cylinder supply in the State, thereby reducing the LMO load last week. Kerala was able to survive the peak demand for medical oxygen with the support of timely action by PESO in starting ASU plants in record time. Three air separation plants were fully functional in the last one week. An air separation unit was commissioned on May 15. The private sector ASU plant Auxilium Products LLP was granted approval by PESO at Kizhakkencherry village, Vadakkancherry, Palakkad. The ASU plant can produce 260 M3 per hour of gaseous oxygen. The plant is filling 3.31 tonnes of high-purity medical oxygen in cylinders based on demand. As many as 700 cylinders of seven metre cube can be filled a day. The plant can also produce 235 litres of high-purity liquid oxygen per hour. It can also store 40 KL of LMO. Another new ASU plant, Peenya Industrial Gas, has been granted permission by PESO at Veli, Thiruvananthapuram, in the private sector and is filling 7.08MT of medical oxygen in cylinders. PESO has advised the company to convert its 20KL argon tank to liquid medical oxygen tank, and it converted it into LMO. A total capacity of 40 KL LMO tanks is available at the new plant. PESO Kerala’s urgent steps to restart an ASU plant at Vattaparambu of Marakkara panchayat in Malappuram district was also fulfilled. This can augment gaseous supply in cylinders in Malappuram and adjoining districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/peso-to-raise-production-of-gaseous-oxygen/article34601648.ece
20 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Farmers stage ‘milk bath’ protest||A section of rural farmers in Kozhikode district on Wednesday resorted to a “milk bath protest”, expressing disappointment over the suspension of evening milk collection by the Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) from various milk cooperative societies. The distraught farmers, who assembled at Chundathumpoyil in Karassery panchayat, poured the collected milk over their heads to display their resentment towards the sudden decision that has put many at stake amidst a financial crisis caused by the COVID-19 lockdown. The protesters alleged that they were dragged into an unexpected crisis with the sudden stoppage of evening collection, which was a regular source of income for many poor households to manage the lockdown crisis. They also claimed that the affected farmers were struggling to find a viable alternative to overcome the situation. Milk Challenge Meanwhile, Milma’s decision has prompted a few other sections of rural milk producers to launch ‘Milk Challenge’ as a temporary solution to overcome the unexpected financial crisis. A group of farmers from Kozhikode’s Maikavu, who worked behind the idea, said the move would encourage local households to directly purchase milk from farmers and reduce wastage. It would also be highlighted as a constructive means of protest against Milma. It was following the difficulties to manage the huge excess stock during the lockdown period that prompted Milma to take the extreme step and reduce the daily collection to 60%. With many restaurants and other commercial establishments remaining closed, Milma was facing a commercial crisis in its overall sales as never before. The steady rise in local milk production with the newly launched dairy ventures was also found affecting Milma's crisis management plans. Dairy whitener Office-bearers of the Malabar Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union under Milma said the difficulty they faced to convert the excess stock as dairy whitener with the support of Tamil Nadu-based factories was the main reason to stop the milk collection. They also made it clear that all efforts were in place to fight the temporary situation and resume the collection as usual to support the struggling farmers. They also pointed out that the union was never unreceptive towards the demands of farmers as it stood by them in all critical situations and for the prosperity of the dairy sector. The new regulation was introduced only to surmount the unexpected challenge and to protect the Federation from steep business loss, they clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-stage-milk-bath-protest/article34601640.ece
20 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Dip in active caseload in Kozhikode||Active COVID-19 caseload in Kozhikode district dropped to 33,337 on Wednesday when 3,974 more people recovered from the infection. Two weeks ago, on May 5, it had crossed 50,000-mark. One of the reasons for the high rate of recoveries could be the revised discharge policies, which say infected persons can be discharged 10 days after they test positive for the virus if there are no symptoms, without any lab tests. A total of 27,290 infected people are under home isolation now. Meanwhile, 2,668 new cases were reported on the day. According to the District Medical Officer, the daily test positivity rate (TPR) is 19.35% when 14,380 samples were tested. There were 2,605 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of 39 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation reported 729 locally acquired infections, Olavanna 113, Perumanna 98, Unnikulam 72, Feroke 63, Kakkur 59, Koduvally 56, Chelannur 55, Vadakara 53, and Kadalundy 52.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dip-in-active-caseload-in-kozhikode/article34601638.ece
20 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||INL may bring Muslims closer to LDF||The induction of Ahamed Daverkovil, the lone legislator of the Indian National League (INL), into the Pinarayi Vijayan 2.0 Cabinet has revealed that there is more to it than meets the eye. For the INL, its general secretary getting a berth is beyond a mere recognition for the 27-year-old party that broke away from the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) following the Babri Masjid demolition. Even before the formal induction of the party into the Left Democratic Front (LDF) prior to the local body polls, the CPI(M) has been wooing the disgruntled elements in the IUML. That alliance yielded impressive gains in the elections. Also, without the merger of the INL and the National Secular Conference led by P.T.A. Rahim, MLA, the CPI(M) has been pursuing the Muslim electorate in Kozhikode and neighbouring districts. Like in the 2016 Assembly polls, the INL contested three seats, one each in Kozhikode, Malappuram, and Kasaragod. While it lost all three seats last time, it captured the Kozhikode South segment now. The CPI(M) believes that a stronger political relationship with the INL is the surest means to get to the Muslim voter in north Kerala where the IUML has a sway. In a sense, Mr. Daverkovil was a dark horse from the time of the Assembly polls. He was unexpectedly nominated, but he wrested the seat from the IUML. His Cabinet induction, sources said, was aimed at expanding the base of the LDF. Supporting independent Muslim candidates may have improved the community diplomacy of the CPI(M) in the Assembly polls. But a firmly established political alliance will pave the way for electoral gains in future. Bitter feud Already, the IUML State leadership is locked in a bitter feud with its middle and lower rung leaders over the selection of candidates in the local body and Assembly elections. The defeat of Noorbina Rasheed, a woman candidate fielded by the party after 25 years, in Kozhikode South was emblematic of the power struggle within the party, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inl-may-bring-muslims-closer-to-ldf/article34601660.ece
20 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||On beaches, a grim reminder of our poor civic sense||Recent images showing beaches across the State covered with plastic bottles, carry bags and other refuse after heavy rain and swell waves are a grim reminder of our lack of civic sense. “We are a State with consumer culture. We use a lot of plastic and other disposable materials in our day to day life, which ultimately find their way into the sea through various channels,” said K.S. Abdul Salim, Director (Solid Waste Management) of Kerala Suchitwa Mission. Waste management is technically the duty of local bodies, and agencies such as Haritha Kerala Mission and Suchitwa Mission are providing technical and financial assistance to them. However, it is also the responsibility of all individuals who create waste, and the Suchitwa Mission has been organising several awareness programmes for years across the State to drive home the message ‘My waste, My Responsibility’. The agencies have put pressure on the government and local bodies to follow green protocol and have been rewarding individuals who follow it. However, the rampant disposal of waste into rivers and on the roadside besides burning of plastic shows a lack of awareness among the public, especially in the rural areas. “If we collect waste deposited on a square kilometre of our beaches, it may amount to at least half a tonne,” said P. Ajayakumar, Technical Officer (Waste Disposal Management) of the Haritha Keralam Mission. He added that only a small percentage of the waste in the sea has found its way to the shores. “It may take us days to bring our beaches back to normalcy. With COVID and the lockdown, it may be hard to get enough manpower to carry out the task,” Mr. Ajayakumar said. That we have enough facilities to store and recycle the waste thus collected is the only relief for the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-states-beaches-a-grim-reminder-of-poor-civic-sense/article34601644.ece
20 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Online claim submission a tall order for farmers||The Agriculture Department’s move to encourage online submission of grievances related to the recent rain-related calamities has emerged as a hurdle for many rural farmers with poor internet connectivity and technical knowledge. Many are struggling to sign up with the Agriculture Information Management Standard (AIMS) portal to start with the e-filing process and claim the compensation. Users who tried to log in on Wednesday complained that they came across unknown processing errors and connectivity issues. As internet cafes and computer centres remain closed, farmers are unable to seek the help of private operators to file their claims. Though some of them tried to contact Agriculture Department control rooms, it didn’t help. Two youngsters from Kozhikode who tried to log into the portal on Wednesday for their parents said they couldn’t open the ‘create user link’. “A few others could not enter their mobile numbers to complete the verification process. Though the issue was taken up online with the department, the response was to send the screenshot of the page to the aimsagrikerala@gmail.com, they said. Meanwhile, Agriculture Department sources said that apart from submission through the portal, farmers would be allowed to communicate the details of their loss, including images, to agriculture officers concerned using WhatsApp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-submission-of-claims-a-tall-order-for-rural-farmers/article34601641.ece
20 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Suspect in textile shop burning case held||The Kozhikode City police on Wednesday arrested a 45-year-old man who was suspected of setting afire a newly opened textile shop at Parambil Bazar. P. Rafeeque, the accused who was at large, was arrested after a month-long investigation. It was on April 8 that the two-storey textile shop was allegedly set afire by an unidentified gang. The owner had claimed a loss of Rs. 1.5 crore in the incident. According to the police, the attack was the result of a personal rivalry between the textile shop owner and Rafeeque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspect-in-textile-shop-burning-case-held/article34601634.ece
20 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Loss due to rain pegged at Rs. 25 cr. in Kozhikode||Rain-related calamities subsequent to the Tauktae threat caused a loss of Rs. 25 crore in Kozhikode district. According to figures released by the District-level Disaster Management Authority, crops in 975.9 hectares were destroyed. The adverse situation hit over 11,000 farmers. Nine houses were destroyed resulting in a loss of Rs. 22 lakh. More than 250 houses were damaged. The Kerala State Electricity Board and the Public Works Department together suffered a loss of Rs. 8 crore. The Irrigation Department faced a major setback with the destruction of its various assets worth Rs. 10 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/loss-due-to-rain-pegged-at-rs-25-cr-in-kozhikode/article34601633.ece
20 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||LJD unhappy with exclusion from Cabinet||The Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) has expressed its bitter disappointment over its exclusion from the second Left Democratic Front government Cabinet. A meeting of the party’s State secretariat and the State committee said the LJD had wholeheartedly worked for the success of LDF candidates across the State. They said LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan, also the acting State secretary of the CPI(M), had repeatedly attributed the massive mandate to the induction of new political parties into the LDF fold. Based on the results of the three-tier local body election, the LJD occupied the fourth position within the Left front. But the LDF leadership failed to consider its electoral contributions, the leaders said. The LJD had contested in three sitting seats of the LDF but managed to win only the Koothuparamba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ljd-unhappy-with-exclusion-from-cabinet/article34601661.ece
20 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medicos flay ceremony||Students of at least three government medical colleges in the State have urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to drop the plan to have 500 participants at the swearing-in ceremony of the LDF government slated for Thursday. The students’ unions of the medical colleges in Kozhikode, Thrissur and Ernakulam have sent letters to the Chief Minister’s office. They said ‘500 is indeed a big number’ at a time when the people were staring at a pandemic. The medicos said they were shocked to see such a ceremony being held at a place where triple lockdown had been in force to contain COVID-19. Ordinary citizens are now being asked to follow the protocol and violators are facing the music. However, it looks like the curbs are not applicable to the ruling class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicos-flay-ceremony/article34601662.ece
20 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3,600 new cases in capital||The district's COVID-19 case load rose by 3,600 on Wednesday, even as the district administration declared more containment zones and opened new domiciliary care centres (DCC) as part of fighting the pandemic. The test positivity rate (TPR) continued to remain high at 24.5% while the active case pool stood at 24,024 cases. Death toll The death toll in the district rose to 1,309 with seven more deaths attributed to the infection. The deceased were in the 47-80 age bracket and the deaths had occurred on May 15 and 16. On the bright side, the district reported 6,312 recoveries from the infection on Wednesday. Of the newly reported cases, local transmission accounted for 3,393 cases. In all, 11 health workers have newly tested positive for the infection. On Wednesday, 5,290 people entered quarantine, taking the total number of quarantined in the district to 94,248. All wards of the Pulimath, Vithura and Venganoor grama panchayats have been declared containment zones. The following areas also have been declared containment zones as part of the precautions to check the spread of the infection: Valiyavila in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Kallumukku in Karakulam panchayat; Vallingavilakom, Kalaithottam, Arasumoodu and Shoolamkudi in Poovar grama panchayat; and Kulappara in Pazhayakunnumel panchayat. The following areas have been declared micro-containment zones: Rajaji Nagar in Thampanoor ward, police quarters at Palayam, Lenin Nagar, Forest Office Lane, Nandavanam residents' association, Mettukada residents' association at Thycaud, Meera Nagar, Gowreesha Residents' Association at Pattom, Adarsh Nagar Resident Association, Pottakuzhi Resident association, SST Residents' Association, P. T. Chacko Nagar, and Manganoorkonam Residents' Association. Three more DCCs have been opened in the district, given the large number of COVID-19 cases in the district, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. One DCC each have been opened in Chirayinkeezhu, Neyyattinkara and Thiruvananthapuram taluks. This adds 300 beds for COVID-19 care in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3600-new-cases-in-capital/article34601613.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘New faces not a reflection on old guard’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has taken a collective decision to induct fresh faces into the next Left Democratic Front (LDF) Ministry and it is not a reflection on the performance of the previous Cabinet. The party had decided to give new persons a chance to gain administrative and leadership experience, the Chief Minister said here on Wednesday. The furore over the non-inclusion of Health Minister K.K. Shailaja in the new Cabinet was understandable. It spoke of the people’s appreciation of the previous LDF government. The CPI(M) wholeheartedly welcomed the compliment, he said. ‘Different approach’ Mr. Vijayan said the CPI(M) Ministers in the previous government deserved an exemption. However, the party had chosen a different approach. The party took the relatively risky path of withdrawing experienced leaders and high-profile ministers from the electoral arena. Instead, it fielded comparative newcomers. The gambit paid off. People embraced the change, he said. When pressed why the Chief Minister remained the same, Mr. Vijayan said the party had decided so. “The decision was collective. It was not taken in privileged isolation by any one individual. You (media) are inclined to pin every decision on me. The truth is otherwise. The party thinks and decides collectively,” he said. Mr. Vijayan scotched reports that the Polit Bureau had disapproved of the CPI(M) State unit’s move to exclude Ms. Shailaja from the Cabinet. “I am not aware of such a decision,” he said. Mr. Vijayan refused to elaborate on the allocation of ministerial berths. He said constitutional propriety demanded that the Chief Minister-designate submitted the list of the Council of Ministers to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan before making a public statement. Mr. Vijayan said he planned to meet the Governor on Thursday morning. He said the administration would reveal the Ministers’ portfolios later. ‘A muted affair’ Mr. Vijayan said the swearing-in would be a muted affair. Select invitees would sit spaced out in the expansive and airy Central Stadium. The organisers would ensure that attendees strictly adhered to the COVID-19 protocol. Many invitees had graciously communicated that they would stay away from attending the event in person, given the pandemic. The Chief Minister slammed the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition for deciding to boycott the swearing-in. He said the Opposition had a crucial role to play in a democracy. He said the decision to spurn a newly elected government at the start of its term smacked off an evident lack of political decorum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-faces-not-a-reflection-on-old-guard/article34601668.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cases dip, but hospital admissions stay up||Kerala registered 32,762 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, when 1,40,545 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate in the State on Wednesday was 23.31%. The daily new cases are beginning to stabilise and the case graph is beginning to show signs of plateauing at 30-35,000 cases, a possible effect of the lockdown since the past two weeks, as had been projected by public health experts. Along with the dip in new cases, the active caseload in the State is going down steadily, thanks to the good number of recoveries being registered every day. However, the situation in the field continues to be intense as hospitalisations are still rising steadily, so are ICU admissions. 40,199 in hospitals The number of COVID patients being treated in hospitals in the State is 40,199, an increase from 37,974 cases on Tuesday. ICU admissions also went up slightly and on Wednesday, the number of critically ill patients being treated in COVID ICUs in both public and private hospitals was 3,883, with 1,510 requiring ventilator support. The State’s active caseload has dipped to 3,31,860, with 48,413 persons declared to have recovered from the disease. The total number of recoveries till date is 18,94,518. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 22,33,468 cases. At present, 9,64,885 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Wednesday, the State added 112 deaths to the official list, taking the cumulative COVID fatalities in the State to 6, 724. These are not deaths reported in the past 24 hours but which occurred over the past few days. Palakkad reported 38 deaths, Alappuzha 15, Kollam 14, Ernakulam 13, Kozhikode nine, Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur seven each, Kottayam four, Wayanad three while one death each was reported from Pathanamthitta and Malappuram. The active case pool has dipped drastically in many districts. Thiruvananthapuram, which had over 45,000 active cases has only 24,024 cases now. But the hospitalisations are rising steadily in the district, which now has 5,904 patients in hospitals. Most in Ernakulam Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 4,282, Malappuram 4,212, Thiruvananthapuram 3,600, Kollam 3,029, Thrissur 2,888, Palakkad 2,709, Kozhikode 2,668, Alappuzha 2,034, Kottayam 1,988, Kannur 1,789, Idukki 1,281, Pathanamthitta 1,108, Kasaragod 677, and Wayanad 497.  Active caseload falls with 48,413 persons recovering||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-dip-but-hospital-admissions-stay-up/article34601666.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Traffic restrictions in capital today||Elaborate traffic arrangements will be in place in the capital on Thursday in connection with the swearing-in ceremony of the Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front government at Central Stadium here. Traffic and parking restrictions will be in place from 12 noon to 6 p.m. on the Raj Bhavan road, Vellayambalam, Museum, Palayam, VJT Hall, Spencer Junction, Statue, Press Club, YMCA (road around Central Stadium), Azad gate and Pulimoodu, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said on Wednesday. As entry to Central Stadium is in adherence to COVID-19 protocols, only vehicles with entry pass will be allowed inside. Vehicles will be allowed from 12 noon in the direction of Central Stadium at blocking points set up for checks at main gate, Jacobs, Oottukuzhy, Government Press junction, Azad gate, and Vanross. The road around the stadium, from the Secretariat main gate to gate 4 to the Press Club, YMCA and Azad gate, has been designated as a one way for vehicles. No-parking zones Vehicles will not be allowed to be parked on the General Hospital road, Asan Square road, Palayam, VJT Hall, Spencer, Statue, Press Club, YMCA, Azad gate and other main junctions in the city. Parking zones Parking has been arranged for vehicles of attendees at various places. They are as follows: basket ball ground — for vehicles of the Governor, Chief Minister, and Ministers-elect; Secretariat Annex 2 — vehicles of MLAs, MPs, and special invitees (pass colour red; entering through Gate A); Secretariat campus — department Secretaries, top officials, police vehicles (pass colour yellow); from Press Club to Sports Council —vehicles of mediapersons; Government Press Road, Housing Board, Oottukuzhy road, YMCA road — vehicles of invitees (pass colour green; those entering through Gate B); and University College campus — vehicles of invitees (pass colour blue; those entering through Gate B) Vehicles should only be parked at places specified on parking passes obtained from boarding points at Gates A and B. Invitees’ vehicles coming from Oottukuzhy and Government Press Road direction and headed for the stadium should come via the Azad gate to the main gate and enter the stadium. Drivers should remain with the parked vehicles. Once the function concludes, they should not be in a rush to head out together. They should head out to the boarding point as per the number in the pass only on getting information from the police. More than three vehicles should not head together for the boarding point, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-restrictions-in-capital-today/article34601608.ece
20 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rainfall eases in district||With the intensity of rainfall decreasing in the district, people have begun leaving the relief camps for their homes, the district administration said on Wednesday. Nonetheless, 1,210 people were still in 17 camps across the southern district as of Wednesday evening, according to data released by the administration. The district administration had been forced to temporarily relocate hundreds of families to relief camps following the heavy winds and rain which battered the district during May 14-May 17 under the influence of Cyclone Tauktae which formed in the Arabian Sea. Thiruvananthapuram and Neyyattinkara taluks taluks account for the highest number of relocated families still residing in the camps. On Wednesday, there were 542 people from 147 families in nine camps. Eight houses were fully destroyed and 85 houses damaged in Thiruvananthapuram taluk. A total of 598 people from 146 families are in six camps in the Neyyattinkara taluk. Twenty houses were destroyed and 131 damaged in the taluk. The two camps in Chirayinkeezhu taluk has 70 people from 27 families. Minister’s visit Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan toured the coastal areas of the district that were hit by sea erosion. Mr. Muraleedharan visited Anchuthengu, Pallithura, Veli, Vettucaud, Shangumugham, Poonthura, Vellar and Pozhiyoor. He called on families relocated to relief camps. The Minister said that the problems faced by the coastal communities will be brought to the notice of the Union Minister for Fisheries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rainfall-eases-in-district/article34601612.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||11-year-old develops quizzing app to beat boredom||Beating boredom when cooped up at home for months is not easy. But 11-year-old Gautham V. Nair was keen on some intellectual stimulation too. An avid quizzer, he decided to launch a quizzing app so that children and adults alike could while away time and still learn something new. Quiz Gate, his brainchild, was launched on May 12 by Team Quiz Gate, a quizzing club, and has 300-odd responses now. Enhance knowledge Says Gautham, “Even children involved in quizzing would call me asking if I wanted to play ludo. So I thought why not a game that will enhance our knowledge, and decided to launch an app.” A Class VI student of Devagiri CMI Public School, Kozhikode, he also hopes to attract other children to quizzing virtually, through the app. Son of Devi K., a former polytechnic teacher, and Vineesh N.K. who works in the medical field, Gautham has been quizzing since he was six years old. He attended a quiz the first time at his mother’s insistence, but a year later was a regular at quizzing events, including those conducted by quizzing coach Snehaj Srinivas who is also Gautham’s mentor. Once the idea of an app came about, Gautham, who has attended an app development course, took care of the programme and design aspects, while another quizzer Mridul M. Mahesh advised him on the topics and questions. Gautham is also supported by Team Quiz Gate member and engineering student Jithin Babu. Gautham, who had earlier developed a news aggregator app, hopes that many more children will download his app from the Google Play Store and make quizzing their passion just like it is for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-year-old-develops-quizzing-app-to-beat-boredom/article34601950.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Triple lockdown beginning to have effect: Pinarayi||The impact of triple lockdown in the State is beginning to be felt as there is a reduction in disease transmission in all four districts where it had been imposed, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Wednesday. In other districts too where lockdown is in place, cases were coming down . He said that the test positivity rate is coming down in all four districts where disease transmission had been rampant, which had necessitated an intensified lockdown. The TPR in the last three days in Thiruvananthapuram was 26.03%, in Ernakulam 23.04%, in Thrissur 23.04% and in Malappuram 33.03%. The average TPR in the State in the past three days was 24.5% However, until there was a significant reduction in the new cases that are reported, it would be difficult to relax the lockdown, he added. Mucormycosis Mr. Vijayan said that 15 cases of COVID-associated Mucormycosis (CAM) had been reported in the State till now and that Kerala had begun exercising vigil as soon as there were reports about the same from Maharashtra. This was not a new disease in the State and in 2019 itself, 16 cases of the same had been reported. The disease was now seen in COVID patients with diabetes, in whom blood sugar levels or glycaemic control was poor. Managing glycaemic levels in COVID patients is thus extremely important, he said. Mr. Vijayan warned people not to self treat with steroids, which are life-saving drugs for COVID patients but which should be taken strictly on a doctors’ watch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/triple-lockdown-beginning-to-have-effect-pinarayi/article34601605.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Blend of digital, online classes mooted||A mix of centralised digital classes and online classes by school teachers has been proposed if State schools are unable to open in the new academic year in the wake of the COVID-19 surge. Besides the classes telecast on KITE Victers channel, online classes conducted by teachers from mid-June for classes 10 and 12 and by August for classes 8 and 9 if the lockdown continues figure in the proposal submitted by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) to the State government. The ‘G Suite for Education’ platform can be customised towards this end, says the proposal. Bridge courses in a limited manner to link what has been studied in the past academic year and what will be learnt this year should be conducted initially if classes are telecast on Victers from June 1. In the wake of the uncertain COVID-19 situation, the assumption should be that digital classes may be required the whole year. In such a scenario, the portions for each term should be fixed and published, timetable set, and classes telecast accordingly. At the end of each class, a few minutes should be dedicated to directions for teachers and parents on the mode of valuation and further activities to be taken up by the children. The classes, assessments, and worksheets should be available continuously on the Samagra portal. As the pandemic drags on, sessions to relieve mental stress experienced by students not going to school for an entire year and classes by experts should be telecast initially. Later, classes on arts and sports, work experience, and life skills should be given importance for students’ mental health. As the current Plus Two students would not have come to school the whole of last year, they should be allowed to meet their teachers and interact with them in compliance with COVID-19 protocols in the first 10 days once classes begin on June 1. Though all classes are available in digital format, it is proposed that new classes be got ready or the old classes customised whenever needed. The proposal submitted by KITE chief executive officer K. Anvar Sadath to General Education Principal Secretary A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish also recommends online training for teachers on a regular basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blend-of-digital-online-classes-mooted/article34601606.ece
20 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. purchases ambulance||The city Corporation has purchased an ambulance considering the increasing demand for transporting COVID-19 patients to and from care centres, hospitals and testing centres. Ever since the second wave of the pandemic broke out, the civic body has been using four ambulances which it had rented from private agencies and charitable trusts. The Corporation owns two ambulances, which are used primarily to transport dead bodies to the Shanthikavadam electric crematorium. These ambulances could not be used for other purposes, to transport patients. With the increase in demand from patients and their families for ambulance facilities, the Corporation decided to purchase two ambulances. One more will be purchased soon. The order for this also will be placed through the government E-Marketplace portal. According to Corporation officials, the control room set up at the main office has been receiving several requests for ambulances. All the rented ambulances have been engaged in transporting patients through the day. Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran flagged off the new ambulance on Wednesday in the presence of the Deputy Mayor, Standing Committee chairpersons and other officials. Nine out of the ten community kitchens, which the Corporation had planned to open, have started functioning. The community kitchen which was proposed to be opened in Attukal ward, has now been shifted to the Mudavanmugal ward, as adequate space could not be identified in Attukal. Another community kitchen was opened in the Vanchiyoor ward. One more community kitchen will be opened soon in Vattiyoorkavu, said the Mayor. With all the community kitchens becoming functional, the free supply of food from Janakeeya restaurants will be stopped. However, the package of providing food three times a day at a cost of Rs. 60 from Janakeeya restaurants will continue. Contributions Individuals and organisations have been contributing cash and materials for the running of community kitchens in the city. An agency which collects meat waste from the city contributed Rs. 25,000 for the purpose on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-purchases-ambulance/article34601611.ece
20 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC buses for essential services||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has decided to make available the COVID special services being operated for hospital staff during the lockdown for those working in the other essential services. Police personnel, staff of Revenue, Local Self-Government departments, COVID First Line Treatment Centres, and volunteers deployed by the district police administration and those working in other essential services to combat the pandemic will be able to travel in the special services, KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said. The decision comes in the wake of a memorandum submitted by the Kerala Police Association citing the hurdles faced by the personnel in commuting from home to workplaces. The government has issued orders to make available COVID-19 vaccines for KSRTC employees below 45 years on a priority basis, treating them as front-line warriors. The registration for vaccination will commence on May 20 and it will be provided unit-wise. Priority The CMD said priority would be given to conductors followed by drivers, mechanical and ministerial staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-buses-for-essential-services/article34601603.ece
20 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KIMS to set up FLTC||Multispeciality hospital KIMSHEALTH will collaborate with the State government to set up a COVID First Line Treatment Centre (FLTC) to treat patients exhibiting mild symptoms of COVID-19 and reduce the load on hospitals. The FLTC will have doctors, nurses and access to other staff round the clock besides medicines, oxygen, ambulance and biomedical waste management. COVID patients will be treated in rooms set apart for the purpose. If the condition of a patient worsens, he/she will be immediately referred to a COVID treatment hospital. The availability of beds, admissions, discharges and cases referred will be promptly updated on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal, a release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kims-to-set-up-fltc/article34601604.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two held with arrack||The Attingal police arrested two youths with 3 litres of arrack during a vehicle check recently. They were identified as Priju, 31, of Keezhattingal and Prasanth, 30, of Vakkom. The police were conducting vehicle checks near the Attingal Girls High School on Monday evening when they flagged the suspects who were on a scooter. However, they refused to stop and fled, forcing the police to give a chase and arrest them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-with-arrack/article34601609.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||162 vehicles seized||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have strengthened restrictions put in place as part of the triple lockdown in the district. On Wednesday, 162 vehicles were seized during checks. Cases were registered against 147 people for violation of COVID-19 norms. Fines were imposed on 2,661 people. Restrictions will be further tightened in days to come, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) P.K. Madhu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/162-vehicles-seized/article34601610.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Will create a sustainable development model: Pinarayi||The new Left Democratic Front government will strive to build upon the achievements of the previous regime and create a sustainable development model as an alternative to the liberalisation policy of the Centre, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. In an article released to the press on the eve of the swearing-in, he said the LDF would fulfil the mandate given by the people for development, welfare, and peaceful co existence. The new government would focus on bringing all sections together to find solutions to issues faced by the State. Mr.Vijayan said the government would remain focussed on developmental activities, utilising the $250 million concessional funding by the World Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and the $210 million aid from the World Bank for solid waste management. The government would strive to transform Kerala into a knowledge society and a hub of skilled labour, under plans to improve the living standards of the State to international levels over the next 25 years. He said the government would focus on IT, biotechnology, and tourism sectors. It would be ensured that development would remain inclusive of all sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-create-a-sustainable-development-model-pinarayi/article34601669.ece
20 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Farmers’ app gets a facelift||The Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has come up with a new version of its mobile application — Farm Extension Manager — to reach out to the farming community. Available in both English and Malayalam languages, it can be download for free on the Android platform. Users can access information on scientific cultivation practices of over 100 crops through the app. Once the language is selected, a user can proceed through the ten broad categories of information. The crop cultivation section will give information on planting, varieties, fertiliser use, aftercare and harvest. The plant protection section covers management of over 2,000 insects, diseases and deficiency disorders. It gives equal emphasis on organic and inorganic methods. The app contains detailed information on organic and inorganic inputs, chemical fertilisers, herbicides, fungicides and insecticides. The ‘expert support link’ helps users connect directly with research scientists. Videos, posters Besides, the app offers links to over 300 farm videos, 150 specially designed posters, and a farm quiz to enhance diagnostic capacity. Farm posters can be shared through WhatsApp. The directory of agricultural extension personnel also finds a place in the app. “The speciality of the mobile application is its extensive coverage in a simple, user-friendly manner. The well-structured navigation path of the app makes information retrieval smooth. Small sentences and paragraphs enhance the readability of the content material,” KAU Vice Chancellor Dr. R. Chandra Babu said. Developed by a team of multidisciplinary scientists from the KAU, under the auspices of the Communication Centre, Mannuthy, the app has tried to address the needs of small, medium and large farmers. The Agriculture Department and Farmers Welfare, and the State Planning Board gave funding support to the project. For further information and queries, please contact Dr Sunil V.G. on 9446058252, email: sunil.vg@kau.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-app-gets-a-facelift/article34601953.ece
20 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||TPR remains high in six local bodies in Thrissur||There were 2,888 fresh COVID cases in the district on Wednesday while 4,844 patients recovered from the disease. The test positivity rate stood at 24.03%. Six local bodies in the district reported TPR higher than 50% on Wednesday. They are Thiruvilwamala (50.68%); Venkidangu (58.77%); Muriyad (51.26%); Chovvannur (52.34%); Mullurkkara (54.32%); and Mullassery (57.58%). According to official data, 2,870 people, including nine health workers, contracted the disease through local contact. Of them, 408 people are above the age of 60 and 220 children are below the age of 10. In all, 28,730 people are under home care. As many as 12,018 samples were taken for test on Wednesday. The number of active cases in the district is 35,626 and 83 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 2,12,172 COVID-19 cases were reported from the district and 1,75,354 people have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-remains-high-in-six-local-bodies-in-thrissur/article34601642.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mother’s blessings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mothers-blessings/article34601636.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Food for all||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-for-all/article34601930.ece
20 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur Urban MLA tests positive for COVID-19||YSRCP’s Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy on Wednesday tested positive for COVID-19. He, however, showed no significant symptoms of the virus. As the Budget session of the Legislative Assembly is slated for Thursday, all the MLAs have been asked to get themselves tested for the virus. Mr. Venkatarami Reddy said he had given his sample on Tuesday afternoon for the RT-PCR test and got his result on Wednesday. “I have isolated myself in my own house. Except for mild cough, I am absolutely alright,” he told The Hindu . The MLA had asked all those who had come in contact with him to get themselves tested immediately. ‘No comorbidities’ “I do not have any comorbidities. So, the doctors have advised me to take some medication at home, and am following it,” he said. Mr. Venkatarami Reddy had visited the COVID-19 wards in all the three major government hospitals in the city several times since April 20 and met virus-affected patients to assess the medical care being provided at the ground level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-urban-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34601983.ece
20 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘2,220 patients received treatment under Aarogyasri scheme in Anantapur’||Private and government hospitals in Anantapur district empanelled under Aarograsri have so far treated 2,220 COVID-19 patients under the scheme in the second wave. As of Wednesday, over 5,000 patients in total have received treatment in all hospitals in non-oxygen-supported wards, oxygen-supported wards and ICU since the beginning of the the second wave. Out of them, 2,220 patients enrolled for Aarogyasri, the scheme district coordinator Kiran Kumar Reddy told The Hindu. “Out of the 2,220, 1,050 patients were treated in the private empanelled hospitals,” Dr. Kiran added. There were another 500 patients who could not be enrolled for various reasons as either they did not approach or biometric registration could not be done, but many of them got free treatment in the Government General Hospital, Super Speciality Hospital or the Cancer Hospital in Anantapur city. On Tuesday, out of the total 1,231 beds in 40 private designated COVID hospitals in the district, 941 were occupied and out of them, 719 beds had patients being treated under Aarogyasri accounting for 76.41%. Meanwhile, private hospitals, which were treating COVID patients under the non-Aarogyasri category also,.did not admit new patients under this category due to shortage of oxygen-supported beds. The District Oxygen Monitoring Committee was ensuring oxygen needs for all the patients admitted under the empanelled hospitals and keeping track of the supplies from the agencies with the help of nodal officers at each hospital. ‘Regular audits’ “We have ensured stringent implementation of oxygen-usage protocols in the hospitals by conducting an audit twice a day with the help of desiccated panels to plug all the leakages,” said District Forest Officer R. Jagannath Singh, who is a Oxygen Monitoring Committee member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2220-patients-received-treatment-under-aarogyasri-scheme-in-anantapur/article34601975.ece
20 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications open for Ph.D programmes at IIITDM||The Indian Institute of Information Technology Design and Manufacturing(IIITDM), Kurnool, on Wednesday began receiving online applications for the full-time/part-time Ph.D. programmes in the Departments of Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Sciences (Mathematics, Physics, and English). The management said the last date for receiving application forms was June 21. The notification of the short-listed candidates for the written test and/or interview will be put out on June 26. Tentative dates of written test and/or interview for the shortlisted candidates are between July 12 and 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-open-for-phd-programmes-at-iiitdm/article34601974.ece
27 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death of woman with symptoms of black fungus causes a scare||The death of a woman at a private hospital in the city reportedly with symptoms of mucormycosis, commonly known as ‘black fungus’, has created a scare among the people. District Collector V. Vinay Chand on Wednesday announced the creation of a 20-bed facility at the Dermatology Department of the KGH for treatment of mucormycosis. On the directions of the government, a Clinical Management Protocol Committee has been formed with experts from different specialities, under the aegis of P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College (AMC). Though this disease has been in existence for long, it assumed significance only after it started affecting COVID-19 patients. A good thing is that mucormycosis does not spread from one person to another. Medical experts attribute the rise in black fungus cases to the indiscriminate use of steroids and antibiotics, apart from contamination through the pipes and prongs used for the mechanical supply of oxygen to patients. “Black fungus can be identified through standard investigations like endoscopic examination of nose, which is an outpatient procedure to take nasal scrapings, biopsy to confirm the type of fungus, followed by contrast gadolinium-enhanced MRI. The symptoms include unilateral nasal obstruction, facial pain, swelling, numbness, blurring of vision, double vision or watery eyes,” S.K.E. Apparao, ENT surgeon and past president of the Indian Society of Otology, told The Hindu . He suggests opening of special wards for treatment of black fungus cases as it requires a team of specialist doctors, including ENT surgeon, ophthalmologist, neurosurgeon, dental surgeon, general physician and nephrologist. Guidelines should also be issued to all hospitals on the judicious use of steroids, observing correct timing, dosage and duration, use of antibiotics/antifungals judiciously, apart from use of clean sterile water for humidifiers during oxygen therapy and proper maintenance of pipes and nasal prongs, he says. “COVID Associated Mucormycosis (CAM) is an opportunistic infection caused by a group of fungi. It could be amongst many opportunistic infections of post COVID phase. Mucor fungal spores are ubiquitous in nature and found in soil and decaying vegetation,” says Veluri Gayathri, Professor of Microbiology, NRI Institute of Medical Sciences. “Mucor is a vasoinvasive fungus, which invades blood vessels, and spreads fast to adjacent areas, especially the eye and brain. The mortality rate can be reduced with early diagnosis and treatment, regular and proper oral and dental hygiene all through COVID and post-COVID phases, regular betadine/chlorhexidine gargles and good blood glucose control,” adds Dr. Gayathri.  The symptoms are unilateral nasal obstruction, facial pain, swelling, numbness, blurring of vision, double vision or watery eyes S.K.E. Apparao ENT surgeon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-with-symptoms-of-black-fungus-succumbs-in-vizag/article34601909.ece
20 May 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||It is humanity first for Bilal and friends||Humanity First foundation, a Bidar-based NGO, has been performing the last rites of COVID-19 patients ever since the epidemic broke out in 2020. Majeed Bilal, a small business owner who founded the NGO, says members have performed the last rites of over 700 bodies so far, irrespective of faith. The rituals of different religions are followed during the final rites . The services are free, though the NGO accepts donations. Mr. Bilal has spent a considerable amount of his own money on this service. “My family had two small plots in Bidar. I have sold them, to set up this NGO and conduct the final rites of COVID-19 victims with honour,” he told The Hindu . He feels the stigma attached to COVID-19 is discouraging some families from attending the funerals of their loved ones. “We mostly work around Bidar. But there haven been instances where our hearses have gone to places like Hyderabad, Kalaburagi, Humnabad, Bhalki, and Aurad to fetch the mortal remains,” he said. At first, he converted a van that he used for his business into an ambulance and hearse. He rushed patients to hospitals and carried bodies from hospitals to the graveyards. Later, some philanthropists donated two hearses to the NGO. “In some cases, the families pay us Rs. 1,000-2,000 per cremation. We use it to buy wood and kerosene. In case of burials, the city municipal corporation helps us by digging pits,” he said. He began the last rites after an incident near his house early in 2020. “An old woman had died and even her children were afraid to go near the body. CMC personnel carried the body in an earthmover and threw it in a pit. I decided to start volunteering at conducting the last rites and some of my friends joined me,” he said. Mr. Bilal is married with children. But for over a year he has been living in a boarding house, to avoid any chance of infecting his family members. His friends, business associates, and some family members who have been helping him have also been staying in lodges and boarding houses. Members of the foundation follow COVID-19 protocol while performing the last rites. “We have been routinely undergoing RT-PCR tests. I have tested myself 28 times and each time the result was negative. I would like to think that is the Almighty’s way of blessing me,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/it-is-humanity-first-for-bilal-and-friends/article34601387.ece
20 May 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1,111 cr. package for farmers, unorganised sector workers||The Karnataka government on Wednesday announced a package of Rs. 1,111.82 crore to provide relief to workers in unorganised sectors and farmers who are impacted by the month-long lockdown owing to the surge in COVID-19 cases. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues and said the government took this step “with the intention of making people hunger-free during this period”. Lockdown is in force in Karnataka till May 24, barring a window to buy essentials. A decision on extending the lockdown further would be taken on May 23, the Chief Minister said. Among the compensation announced is Rs. 10,000 per hectare to each farmer growing flowers, fruits, and vegetables. This would cost the State exchequer Rs. 82 crore. Compensation A compensation of Rs. 3,000 each would be given to drivers of autorickshaw, maxi-cab, and taxi, who are licensed and registered. Construction workers registered with the Karnataka Building and Other Constructions Workers Welfare Board would get Rs. 3,000 each and this would cost Rs. 494 crore. Workers such as barbers, dhobis, hamalis, rag pickers, potters, incense stick makers, goldsmiths, mechanics, blacksmiths, domestic workers, and cobblers would get a relief of Rs. 2,000 each and about 3.5 lakh workers would benefit, announced the Chief Minister. Street vendors selling fruits and vegetables would be paid Rs. 2,000 each and it would cost Rs. 45 crore to the State exchequer. Poor artists and their teams would be given compensation of Rs. 3,000. Loan benefit Besides compensation to specific groups, the government also extended the repayment of instalment of loans on small, medium and long terms availed of by farmers and SHGs from Primary Agricultural Credit Society and Land Development Banks beginning May 1, 2020 to July 31, 2021. With the support of the Centre, he said 10 kg of rice would be provided to each BPL beneficiary in May and June for free. Apart from this, the State government has extended the same benefit to about 30 lakh additional beneficiaries. For management of the pandemic, he said each gram panchayat would be given Rs. 50,000 each from the SDRF and about 6,000 GPs would benefit from this package. COVID-19 patients were given free treatment in hospitals, including private and those designated by the government. During the first and second wave, a total of 2.06 lakh infected people have been provided with treatment, incurring an expenditure of Rs. 956 crore. He said it was intended to provide vaccination for all citizens between 18 to 44 for free and three crore doses would be procured at Rs. 1,000 crore. The Chief Minister said 2,150 doctors would be appointed within three days to facilitate COVID-19 treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-1111-cr-package-for-farmers-unorganised-sector-workers/article34601375.ece
20 May 2021||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||My focus is COVID-19, not Jaggi: Minister||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan on Wednesday said he would focus on COVID-19 related work instead of commenting any further on Isha Foundation founder Jaggi Vasudev and the demand to “privatise” control of Hindu temples. Against the backdrop of his media interviews, where he answered questions that were brought up on the topics ‘Privatise HR&CE temples’ and Jaggi Vasudev “violations”, he said, “I must state neither of these is relevant to my portfolio, and therefore I have no intention of diluting my focus.” In a four-page statement to the media, Mr. Thiagarajan said the appropriate Ministers and departments would deal with the issues as they see fit. “As a colleague and teammate, I will of course offer inputs and support as requested by them,” he added. Mr. Thiagarajan said since most of the substantive things worth saying have already been covered in recent interactions, he had “decided to decline all press interactions till the end of the month, to better focus on my COVID-19 related work.” The Minister, whose ancestors were involved in construction and renovation of many temples currently under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department, said: “...people like us, who made significant contributions to these temples, are very clear that the government must retain administration, while most of the warriors for privatising the temples have negligible contribution, if any at all.” Mr. Thiagarajan said he first became aware of Jaggi Vasudev and Isha Foundation as a member of the 15th Legislative Assembly of Tamil Nadu’s Public Accounts Committee, where he came across an audit paragraph. “This spurred me to research the issue further, and I became aware of many other potential violations,” he explained. However, prosecuting the audit finding was not his highest personal priority among many other responsibilities in his public service, he said. “Though I may have mentioned the violations in public statements, I certainly do not have any personal agenda to take further action. It is not my official responsibility and hence not my intent, to focus on investigation and prosecution of Jaggi Vasudev,” he further said. “The evidence in my possession (some public and some not) which I will share with all relevant authorities (as just a dutiful citizen), convinces me beyond all probable doubt that Jaggi Vasudev has repeatedly, consistently and continuously violated multiple laws and statutes,” he claimed. Under the rule of law, he said, the relevant authorities in India and the United States must conduct their independent investigations, without interference from anyone, including himself. “I will make no comments related to Isha Foundation founder Jaggi Vasudev until any new information or further new development come to light,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/my-focus-is-covid-19-not-jaggi-minister/article34601390.ece
20 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Salaries of staff of key depts. stalled in Chittoor||Collector M. Hari Narayanan on Tuesday night issued orders halting the payment of salaries to the employees of revenue, panchayat raj, medical and health, secretariats and municipal administration for “neglecting COVID duties”. The employees from these departments were involved in the conduct of fever surveys in the mandals of Peddamanydam, Tavanampalle, Srikalahasti, Satyavedu and Madanapalle, all of which have been reporting a high number of infections in the second wave. The order was issued under the Disaster Management Act. The Collector said that action under the Act would be taken against any staffer found to be neglecting the COVID duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/salaries-of-staff-of-key-depts-stalled-in-chittoor/article34601976.ece
20 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sell minerals through e-auction’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday held a review meeting on Mining Department and approved major reforms. Reforms The reforms include decision to sell minor minerals through e-auction, to collect seigniorage fee through out sourcing, to fix seigniorage based on weight rather than size in granite mining. Seigniorage will be fixed based on tonnage of the material and it is estimated that 35 to 40% income would be increased. It was decided to conduct e-auction where leases were obtained and mines were not maintained and it was estimated that the government could earn a revenue of Rs. 1,000 crore through e-auction. The officials said the new reforms would come into force from September. The Chief Minister said Vigilance and Enforcement section in Mining Department should be effective and ensure no loss to the income of the government. He said to ensure 60 to 79 lakh metric tonnes of sand was made available before the beginning of the rainy season. He said reeches would be submerged due to rains and it would be a problem for availability of sand and added to stock up required quantity of sand. Panchayat Raj and Mines Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Panchayat Raj Principal Secretary Gopala Krishna Dwivedi, Mining Director V.G Venkat Reddy and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sell-minerals-through-e-auction/article34601435.ece
20 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||KIA donates Rs. 5 crore for COVID relief||KIA India Pvt Ltd has contributed Rs. 5 crore to the Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA) towards COVID containment measures. KIA India Pvt Ltd MD & CEO Kookhyun Shim handed over the documents related to the funds transferred through NEFT at the Chief Minister’s camp office here on Wednesday. Ministers Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, KIA India Pvt Ltd legal, corporate affairs Heald Jude Lee and principal advisor T Soma Shekar Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kia-donates-rs-5-crore-for-covid-relief/article34601434.ece
20 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Launch of ‘Jagananna Swacha Sankalpam’ on July 8: Minister||An innovative campaign to keep the villages clean will be launched on July 8, 2021, marking the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. The campaign called, ‘Jagananna Swacha Sankalpam’, would involve all the stakeholders, said Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, at a virtual training programme conducted for the village sarpanches and Panchayat Raj officials on Wednesday. “We are happy that 1,980 villages have come forward to be a part of the cleanliness campaign. They will also accord priority to separation of solid and wet waste, and setting up of waste-to-energy plants,” said Mr. Ramachandra Reddy. The Minister said that the training programme benefited the newly elected ZPTCs, MPTCs, and ward members. NREGS Stating that Andhra Pradesh stood third in ensuring 27 crore mandays under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the Minister asked the officials to set the benchmark high and achieve number one position in the country. Panchayat Raj Commissioner M. Girija Sankar said the newly elected sarpanches should ensure that the villages were transformed into places where cleanliness prevailed, and they should evolve strategies to make villages clean. The department had appointed personnel to collect garbage for every 200 houses and set up boards informing the villagers not to throw garbage on the road. Stating that the NREGS was a boon, he asked the sarpanches to ensure farmers get free pumpsets under the ‘YSR Jalakala’. NEEGS Director P. Chinatathiah said sarpanches should also ensure issuance of new job cards. Stating that the government had spent Rs. 11,000 crore under NREGS – Rs. 7,000 crore as wage component and Rs. 4,000 crore as material component, he asked the sarpanches to ensure that villagers were able to get more wages. Swachha Andhra Corporation Managing Director Sampath Kumar and watershed director Venkat Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/launch-of-jagananna-swacha-sankalpam-on-july-8-minister/article34601986.ece
20 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Probe will prove nexus between MP and Naidu’||Government Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy has said that investigation into cases registered against Narsapuram Member of Parliament K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju will prove that he is working under the direction of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu with an interior motive of destabilising a duly elected government. Addressing the media at the party central office on Wednesday, Mr. Srikanth Reddy said the CID had suo motu registered a case against Mr. Raju and presented him before the court. In the whole process, the government had no involvement, he said. “The TDP leaders are dragging the government into the issue,” he said. Mr. Raju began enacting a drama soon after his bail petition was rejected, he alleged. “It is strange that Mr. Naidu is making a hue and cry over filing cases under sedition charges. He had invoked the same IPC Section 124 A against the Telangana Chief Minister in the cash-for- vote case and against MLA Giddi Eswari over the bauxite issue,” he said. Budget session Referring to the TDP decision to boycott the Budget session. he said, “The government has been taking effective measures to control COVID-19, right from increasing testing centres to setting up COVID Care Centres. Are they not visible to Mr. Naidu?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-will-prove-nexus-between-mp-and-naidu/article34601984.ece
20 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remdesivir making unit to come up at Narasaraopet||Andhra Pradesh’s first and only unit to manufacture Remdesivir injections will come up at Narasaraopet in the district. The Union Ministry of Health has given the nod for Safe Parenterals Ltd. to manufacture 5,00,000 injections at the facility located at Gollapadu. The decision follows multiple representations by Narasaraopet MP Lavu Sri Krishnadevarayulu, seeking permission for the company to manufacture Remdesirvir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remdesivir-making-unit-to-be-set-up/article34601498.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gold loan glitter for Andhra Pradesh Grameena Vikas Bank in FY21||Regional rural bank Andhra Pradesh Grameena Vikas Bank (APGVB) has reported a 63.53% increase in net profit at Rs. 1,009 crore for the financial year ended March 31 on the back of a robust growth in gold loan business. Gold loan segment during the fiscal nearly doubled to Rs. 1,876 crore from Rs. 953 crore in FY-20, Chairman K. Praveen Kumar said in a release on the results approved by the bank’s board on Friday. Sources said with almost 65% of its branches in rural areas, APGVB was well positioned to cater to the higher demand for gold loan witnessed amid the pandemic and its impact on household finances, especially on account of the cost of COVID-19 treatment. Drop in income or loss of livelihood made matters worse for many, forcing them to turn to gold loan. Relatively lesser presence of organised gold loan companies in the hinterland as well as APGBV reducing the rate of interest on gold loan to 8.5% from 9.75% were also factors that drove more business to the bank, sources said. “Despite being a challenging year due to COVID-19 and lockdown, we were able to sustain our growth trajectory. We made necessary changes in our lending... lowered home loan interest to 6.95% to stay competitive and increase market share,” Mr. Kumar said. APGVB has become the first RRB to declare over Rs. 1,000 crore net in a fiscal. In the previous fiscal, it had reported a net profit of Rs. 617 crore, the release said. On other performance parameters, the release said net interest margin improved to 4.85% (4.73%). Net NPA was nil, while the Gross NPA was 1.06%. Capital Adequacy ratio was 19.27% (16.15%). The bank operates in 21 districts of Telangana through 502 branches and three districts of Andhra Pradesh with 273 branches. It also has over 2,500 business correspondents (BC). Deposits during the fiscal increased 18.07% to Rs. 21,838 crore (Rs. 18,495 crore), while advances at Rs. 22,160 crore (Rs. 19,323 crore) were higher by 14.68%. With accelerated digital initiatives, focus on improving transactions at BC points and diversification in lending, the bank is poised to consolidate its position, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gold-loan-glitter-for-ap-grameena-vikas-bank-in-fy21/article34601912.ece
20 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayurvedic medicines for Black Fungus||Director of AYUSH, Alagu Varshini, said that Auyrvedic medicines could help in quick recovery of Black Fungus cases, apart from reducing morbidity and mortality. She spoke to reporters at the Dr. BRKR Government Ayurveda College in Hyderabad and said that Black Fungus cases need special care and adding some ayurveda medicines to the treatment is likely to help strengthen the individual’s immunity. One of these is to get prophylactic care and another is to help the patients to reduce their hospital stay thus reducing mortality rate. She said an ayurveda expert team was constituted to study possibility of helping public at large to fight the disease. Principal of Dr. BRKR Government Ayurvedic College, Dr Srikanth Babu Perugu along with his team consisting of experts Dr. Sankarprasad, who is qualified in both ayurveda and allopathy systems, Dr Saxena, Dr Suresh Jakhotia, Dr Praveen Kumar and Dr Balakrishna are working out with relevant protocols. After obtaining necessary permissions, special ayurveda medicines will be set up at Gandhi Hospital and Government ENT Hospital under the supervision of two expert teams. Preventive ayurveda medicines will be distributed at the Ayurveda College and Hospital in Erragadda. Meanwhile, these medicines will be made available in all government ayurvedic dispensaries across the State for public reach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayurvedic-medicines-for-black-fungus/article34601917.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 held for selling medicine in black||The North Zone Task Force police arrested five persons, including two doctors, for allegedly indulging in black marketing of Amphotericin B injections used to treat black fungus. Five vials seized Police seized five vials from their possession. According to the police, the accused include Dr. Bachhu Ramacharan (25), who practices at Yashoda Hospitals, Malakpet, and Dr. Ghali Sainath, who works in Dr. Reddy’s Labs in Bachupally. Both are residents of Langar Houz. The other accused have been identified as Bhonsle Suresh (26), a resident of Gajularamaram, an X-Ray machine operator in Malla Reddy Hospital, Gannapuram Saivardhan (22), a resident of Kukatpally, and Kai Srikanth, a lab technician from Bala Nagar. A sixth accused, identified as Dr. Chellagolla Raviteja Chowdary, employed at the Neo Care Hospital, is absconding. Sold at Rs. 50,000 per vial Police said that the accused hatched a plan to make profits by illegally buying the medicine from their sources and selling them to those in need at much higher prices. While the price of each vial of the injection is Rs. 314.86, the accused sold it for as much as Rs. 50,000, police said. The absconding doctor was the main supplier of injections, police said. He along with Dr. Ramacharan and Dr. Sainath bought five injection vials of different companies and by means of the other accused, sold it for around Rs. 50,000. After police got a tip-off, a trap was laid near Maithri Hospital near Pillar Number 84 under the Langar Houz police station Limits to arrest them. A case has been booked and an investigation is in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-doctors-among-five-held-for-selling-medicine-in-black/article34601906.ece
20 May 2021||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID keeps mango farmers’ hopes dangling||Chittoor district has its own place in mango trade by virtue of high quality and size of the fruit, suiting the requirement of both the pulp and table varieties. After fighting the first wave of COVID-19 last year with low yield, delayed harvest and slump in exports, the mango growers are now caught in a dilemma, with the prospects of exports to northern States and foreign countries looking bleak owing to the raging second wave of the pandemic. Full-fledged harvesting of the predominant “Thotapuri” variety of mangoes in 80% of the acreage is all set to commence from the third week of May, projecting a two-week delay this year. The season touches its peak in June and the curve will flatten by mid-July. The crop of the table varieties such Benishan, Neelam, Rumania, Alphonso and Kalepadu are spread over 20,000 hectares, compared to the ‘Thotapuri’ crop in about one lakh hectares. Deputy Director (Horticulture) B. Srinivasulu told The Hindu that the mango yield was expected to be around 4.5 lakh tonnes this year, compared to 3.5 lakh tonnes last year. The official said that the COVID second wave had its impact on the exports to the northern States. “Due to fear of COVID, traders are not willing to come here to purchase the stocks, particularly the table varieties. In order to help the farmers, we had conducted a virtual meeting with the stakeholders, including the railway authorities. If all goes well, a Kisan Rail might be launched to transport the mango consignments to the northern States. We are also planning to provide subsidies on transport to the farmers. In the first phase, it would be planned with a single wagon and the number might go up based on the requirement,” he said. “Coming to the ‘Thothapuri’ variety, which forms 80% of the crop, we have already given permits to about 26 pulp industries in Chittoor for procurement of the stocks, mostly from May-end. We have information that the pulp units are willing to take the maximum stocks this year,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. A senior official of the marketing wing said that the mango season was much delayed this year. Generally, the first level of harvesting commences in the first week of May. This year, except for the market yard at Tirupati, no trading point elsewhere in the district was yet to see arrivals. The mango farmers in Chittoor division said that due to the pandemic, the prospects of exporting mangoes to foreign countries were not bright this year. They felt that the forecast of a good output was also missing this season. Moreover, the officials said that the yield in 2020 was 35%, while it was a meagre 20% in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-keeps-mango-farmers-hopes-dangling/article34601432.ece
20 May 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly woman rescued from deep well||Local police rescued an elderly woman from an open well at Duvvur in Kadapa district on Wednesday.  Acting in time The well is in a state of disuse, with water found at a depth of 30 feet. Ms. Venkatamma (65), a resident of Indiramma Colony abutting Duvvur town, accidentally fell into the water body. Acting on an alert sounded by a shepherd, the police department swung into action and rushed a team led by Sub-Inspector Kullayappa to the spot. Head constable Basha, constable Baba Fakruddin and community police officer Uday got into the water body with long ropes and brought the woman out of the well. Bringing the woman vertically upward involved a lot of risk, but the team exhibited a sense of calculation, apart from perseverance, officials said. The woman was handed over to her grandson Kiran and his wife, who profusely thanked the department for rushing to her rescue. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan appreciated the team for saving the woman’s life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elderly-woman-rescued-from-deep-well/article34601438.ece
20 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Divi’s Labs donates 100 oxygen concentrators||Divi’s Laboratories on Wednesday donated 100 oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 85 lakh in response to a call given by the district authorities for donations from the industries and Public Sector Units to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. In a meeting with East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy here, Divi’s Laboratories (Ontimaamidi-East Godavari) Administration Head R. Sudhakar handed over the oxygen concentrators. Mr. Muralidhar said that the oxygen concentrators would be sent to the COVID Care Centres at Bodasakkurru, Rajamahendravaram Rural, and JNTU-Kakinada,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/divis-labs-donates-100-oxygen-concentrators/article34601436.ece
20 May 2021||N. RahulHYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana floats global tender to buy 10 million vaccine doses||The State government has floated a global e-tender for procurement of ten million doses of vaccine for COVID-19 within a period of six months. The tender will be uploaded on the websitehttps://tender.telangana. gov.inat 6 p.m. on May 21 and close at the same time on June 4. A pre-bid meeting via Google meet will be held at 6 p.m. on May 26. The technical bids will be opened at 6.30 p.m. on June 4 but the date for opening of financial bids has not been finalised. The date of completion of examination of financial bids will also be announced later. The bidder will have to supply 1.5 million doses every month. The government proposed to vaccinate four criteria population in the State free of cost. Funds from budget According to the tender notification, the procurement will be single-dose vaccine against a bid security amount of Rs. 4 crore as a guarantee. The government will source the funds for procurement from its budget. The eligibility criteria for the bidding stated that manufacturing units and manufacturer’s authorised agents were only eligible to participate in the tender. They must have valid licence to manufacture/export the items quoted to India as per specifications mentioned in the tender from competent authority or Food and Drugs Administration. The goods must be as per the guidelines issued by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and approved by Drug Controller General of India. The bidder having own manufacturing licence should hold valid World Health Organisation good manufacturing practice certificate issued by licensing authorities. The contract will be awarded to the lowest bidder after an evaluation by a committee. It will be a quantity contract tender where the bidders were expected to quote their best rates and they remained the same till the procurement of tendered quantity was completed. By mutual agreement, the quantity could be increased by 50 per cent. The Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation will be the purchaser. Bidders that were government-owned enterprises or institutions in India may participate only if they could establish that they are legally and financially autonomous. But, they goods could have origin in any country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-floats-global-tender-to-buy-10-million-vaccine-doses/article34601377.ece
20 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayurvedic ‘cure’ for COVID draws large crowds in Nellore district||Hundreds of people line up well before daybreak outside a garden in the sleepy little village of Krishnapatnam in Nellore district every day, in the hopes of getting an Ayurvedic preparation that claims to offer a cure to COVID-19. Visuals of a serpentine queue outside the garden, belonging to an elderly Ayurveda practitioner named B. Anandaiah, went viral on social media recently, resulting in many people flocking here even from neighbouring States. The ‘medicine’ being prepared by Mr. Anandaiah is being compared to the ‘fish prasadam’ given by the Bathini brothers in Hyderabad for curing asthma every year. However, there is no scientific evidence as of now that Ayurvedic medicines can help cure COVID-19. Still, that has not deterred people from coming here in large numbers. “There is nothing wrong in giving it a try. Patients are gasping for breath, running from one hospital to another in the search of an oxygen bed, and many are losing their lives in the process,” said a man named Srinivasulu, adding that he hopes the medicine works.  ‘No adverse effects’ The man behind the Ayurvedic preparation — Mr. Anandaiah — is distributing it free of cost to the people. Those in a critical condition are given eyedrops. Ayurvedic balls with ingredients such as Giloy (Tinospora codifolio), neem, pepper, ginger and turmeric prepared by a large number of workers are distributed to those who test positive for COVID-19. The same preparation is also given as an immunity booster to people impatiently waiting for their turn to get vaccinated. “There have been no side-effects in those who have consumed the preparation,” said Kakani Govardhan Reddy, YSRCP MLA from Sarvepalli. Mr. Anandaiah has managed to secure the support of philanthropists who are funding the procurement of ingredients needed to prepare the Ayurvedic medicine in large quantities. Meanwhile, Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu who had constituted a committee comprising AYUSH doctors and officials, led by District Panchayat Officer Dhanalakshmi, in order to assess the efficacy of the preparation, said there were no adverse effects seen in patients who had taken the herbal preparation. Samples of the preparation were sent to an AYUSH laboratory in Hyderabad for testing, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayurvedic-cure-for-covid-draws-large-crowds-in-nellore-district/article34601430.ece
20 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Olive Ridley conservation efforts pay off||Efforts by the Forest Department to nurture the Olive Ridley turtle — the ocean’s most endangered species — are paying rich dividends in Vaakudu mandal of Nellore district. Officials are roping in the fishing community in the region to help in the conservation efforts. “We constantly monitor the turtle tracks on the sand at night as thousands of females visit the beach periodically to lay eggs,” said a fisherman called Jallel from Nawabpeta village along with his wife Zeenat Begum. Showing a notebook maintained by him with a list of hatchlings saved, he says with a sense of pride that they were able to hatch 7,000 hatchlings during this season and push them back into the sea without being attacked by predators. The turtles live with them for over five months every year, they said, gearing up for World Turtle Day on May 23 in their own way by letting into the sea a clutch of hatchlings. This is no mean achievement, as only one in 1,000 turtle hatchlings survive as many of them fall prey to predators and die after getting caught in trawler nets. “I hope that one day our beach will also be a mass nesting place for Olive Ridleys like Gahirmatha in Odisha,” Mr. Jallel said. Like him, fellow fishermen from other villages in Vaakadu mandal have also chipped in with their contributions for the cause. Olive Ridley turtles do synchronised nesting in large numbers in ‘arribadas’, coming to the shore between November and January. They lay their eggs in conical nests about 1.5 ft deep. After 45 to 50 days, the hatchlings return to the sea. “The persistent efforts of the Forest Department in collaboration with TREE Foundation, Chennai by roping in the local fishing community has paid dividends. They had been holding a series of meetings with the community members for over a decade improvement on socio-economic benefits for the local community including fish yields and selected a band of warriors for the cause. This has yielded results,” said Wildlife Divisional Forest Officer in Sullurpet D. Ravinder Reddy. Since 2013, the department has facilitated saving of 45,000 turtle hatchlings before letting them into the sea, added Forest Session Officer G. Srinivas. During this year alone, 16,500 eggs were hatched in the wildlife division and released into the sea, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishermen-turn-olive-ridley-saviours/article34601382.ece
20 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 persons die of COVID in Nellore, Prakasam||Coronavirus continued to cause havoc in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as 15 patients died and 2,800 patients contracted the infection in a span of 24 hours. Though there was a slight dip in fresh cases during the previous day, new cases rose again in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. The partial lockdown imposed to combat the disease seemed to have little effect either on the incidence of the disease or deaths during the period. As many as 11 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 4 in Prakasam district died during the period taking the toll to 1,458 in the region. This was the highest single day toll in the region during the second wave of coronavirus. So far, 734 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 724 in Prakasam district had succumbed to the disease. A journalist working with Vishalandhra , B. Venkateswarlu, was among the deceased in Prakasam District. The active caseload surpassed 40,000 as Prakasam district accounted for 1,590 fresh cases and SPSR Nellore district for 1,239.  Recoveries The relentless efforts of health professionals paid dividends as 1,557 patients-- 1,015 in SPSR Nellore district and 542 in Prakasam district-- posted recovery. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists State president I.V. Subba Rao urged the State government to treat journalists as frontline warriors and provide succour to them and their families during the trying times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-persons-die-of-covid-in-nellore-prakasam/article34601978.ece
20 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure dignity to the dead: Tirupati MLA||Terming the incidents of relatives abstaining from performing the last rites of a COVID victim disturbing, Tirupati MLA B. Karunakar Reddy emphasized the need to ensure a decent farewell to the people who die of COVID-19. The MLA, in a conversation with The Hindu , said he performed funeral rites of at least 29 unclaimed bodies last week to instil courage among the public, adding that his associates have performed the last rites of over 500 unclaimed bodies since the outbreak of the pandemic. “Adhering strictly to protocols, people should pay their last respects to their loved ones. This is time for caution, and not fear,” he added. In reply to a question regarding the measures adopted in combating the spread, he said a grant of Rs. 19 crore had been released for SVIMS super speciality hospital and a 13 KL oxygen plant was set up at BIRRD hospital for employees besides arranging 300 beds here. He also appreciated the role of ward volunteers in disseminating useful and genuine information to public with regard to the inoculation drive and availability of vaccines at various health centres. Mr. Reddy appealed to the public to stay indoors and venture out only under compelling circumstances and advised them not to fall prey to anxiety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-dignity-to-the-dead-tirupati-mla/article34601979.ece
20 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikalahasti gets COVID Care Centre||The pilgrim complex near the Srikalahasti tourist bus-stand is the latest to be converted into a COVID Care Centre in Chittoor district. Member of Parliament (Tirupati) M. Gurumoorthy and local legislator Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy inaugurated the 100-bed facility on Wednesday and instructed the municipal officials to take care of the precautionary measures to be adopted at the centre. Masks distributed They also distributed N95 masks and gloves to the nurses and medical staff. Mr. Gurumoorthy cautioned the public about the lurking danger in the form of second wave and urged them to stay home. Mr. Reddy thanked the district Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy for facilitating establishment of the centre in Srikalahasti, in view of the rising cases in the eastern mandals of Chittoor district. Joint Collector Rajasekhar, Srikalahastheeswara Swamy Devasthanam Executive Officer Peddi Raju, Superintendent Ramesh Chandra Mohan, Special Officer Balaji Naik and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikalahasti-gets-covid-care-centre/article34601980.ece
20 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||NHRC notice to State on Ruia incident||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued a notice to the State government, calling for a report on the recent incident at SVR Ruia Government General Hospital, in which 11 COVID-19 patients died reportedly owing to oxygen shortage. The directive was in response to a complaint filed by former MP Chinta Mohan and another one filed by Jestadi Sudhakar, All India Council of Human Rights Liberties and Social Justice, Guntur. “The allegations, if true, raise serious issue of violation of human rights,” observed its Chairman Justice P.C. Pant, while calling for an action taken report from State’s Principal Secretary (Health).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nhrc-notice-to-state-on-ruia-incident/article34601908.ece
20 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not a single school should be closed due to reforms: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday directed the officials of the Education Department to effectively implement the proposals made to usher in reforms in the education sector. “But not a single existing school should be shut down,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while reviewing the ‘Mana Badi - Nadu Nedu’ programme in YSR Pre-Primary schools. Teacher training Making it clear that every existing school should continue to function, he wanted the teachers of the Pre-Primary-1 and Pre-Primary-2 level to undergo proper training, which should reflect in their handling of the children. He also released a book on spoken English and CDs brought out by the Women Development and Child Welfare Department to train the anganwadi teachers, besides examining the pamphlets designed to train the Anganwadi Development Committee members. The Chief Minister said teachers had an important role to play in the changes that were being introduced, and wanted the officials to exercise patience and restraint while dealing with the fraternity. “Be tolerant towards them, and make them an active part of the new initiatives in an amicable way,” he advised. Calling for maintaining national standards in schools across the State, he said officials should rationalise student-teacher ratio and ensure adequate teaching staff. Every child should have access to school, he said, informing that infrastructure in schools and anganwadi centres was being improved under the Nadu-Nedu programme. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the training being imparted to the anganwadi teachers should be of high quality so as to enable them to transfer their knowledge effectively to the children. “There should be no difference between the teaching in corporate institutions and in the government schools. Every child should have access to quality education,” he said, adding that the funds released to develop school infra should be used for construction of new buildings and maintenance of the existing ones. The officials informed the Chief Minister that there were schools with very less number of students and, in a few of them, the number of teachers exceeded the students’ strength. Proposing rationalisation of such institutions in accordance with the national guidelines, they said the move would also contribute to strengthening the foundation-level education. Education Minister A. Suresh, Women Development and Child Welfare Minister T. Vanitha, Principal Secretary A.R. Anuradha, Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar, Commissioner, School Education, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan State Project Director Vetri Selvi, and Director of State Council of Educational Research and Training Pratap Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-have-vital-role-in-new-initiatives/article34601384.ece
20 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CT, MRI scan facilities opened at four teaching hospitals||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy virtually inaugurated CT scan and MRI facilities at the teaching hospitals in Kadapa, Nellore, Ongole and Srikakulam on Wednesday as part of the State government’s efforts to ramp up medical infrastructure to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that only seven out of the 11 teaching hospitals were providing CT scan and MRI services. Now, all 11 teaching hospitals would be able to render these diagnostic services. Besides, the government was setting up 16 new teaching hospitals and a nursing college in each constituency in order to brace for emergencies in the future. The Chief Minister said the daily count of new positive cases stood at over 20,000 but the State government managed to control the mortality rate despite not having the kind of medical facilities a Tier-1 State would be privileged to have. He asserted that A.P.’s mortality rate was much lower compared to many other States. This was made possible by the frontline warriors who dedicated themselves to waging the war against the pandemic, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ct-mri-scan-facilities-opened-at-four-teaching-hospitals/article34601991.ece
20 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concessions in respect of quota for BCs extended by 10 years||The government on Wednesday issued a G.O. extending the concessions with regard to reservation for the Backward Classes ( A, B, C, D and E) in respect of seats in educational institutions as well as in services, including the percentage of reservation of posts and age concession of five years for the purpose of recruitment, for a further period of 10 years with effect from June 1, 2021 till May 31, 2031. It will, however, be subject to review / revision of the list of BCs that may be suggested by the A.P. Commission for Backward Classes. The reservation in favour of BC-E group will be subject to the outcome of a civil appeal pending before the Supreme Court. It was stated in the G.O. (Ms No.3) issued by Special Chief Secretary (BC welfare) G. Anantha Ramu that the Commission for BCs had informed that the existing concessions regarding reservation for the BCs (other than Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) in employment and education were due to expire on May 31. The Commission examined the issue in detail and considered the need for extension of reservation for the BCs to facilitate their adequate representation, and to usher in their overall development on a par with other developed communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concessions-in-respect-of-quota-for-bcs-extended-by-10-years/article34601990.ece
20 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu to DGP: release TDP social media activists||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday condemned what he called “illegal detention” of his party’s social media wing leaders M. Mahesh and Kalyan by the Arundelpet police in Guntur district “without any prior notice”. In a letter addressed to Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, Mr. Naidu demanded their unconditional release and also stringent action against the erring police officers. He said on May 18, the Arundelpet police picked up Mr. Mahesh and Mr. Kalyan and detained them illegally without serving them 41-A notice, in gross violations of the High-Powered Committee proceedings based on the Supreme Court directions. He said the arrests were followed by a press meet conducted by the Guntur Urban SP Ammi Reddy, on the premises of the police station where the two “victims” were paraded with their faced covered in front of the media. He said the move was aimed at creating a fear psychosis and preventing people from raising their voices against injustice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-to-dgp-release-tdp-social-media-activists/article34601989.ece
20 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector asks AMC to recruit doctors, staff||Collector V. Vinay Chand has instructed the Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) to immediately recruit doctors and medical staff in district hospitals as per the orders issued by the government. The Collector held a review meeting with officials on the appointment of doctors, procurement of oxygen and its supply to hospitals on Wednesday. He said that there were 79 hospitals in the district. He asked the officials to ensure that there were no problems in the supply of oxygen. Oxygen supply The Collector asked Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam to provide adequate security to the tankers carrying medical oxygen to prevent their diversion. He also asked RDO Penchala Kishore and Assistant Director of Drugs Control Administration Rajitha to ensure smooth supply of oxygen to the hospitals. The officials were also instructed to ensure proper supply of oxygen to the 48 hospitals in the Health City. The Collector asked them to explore the possibility of increasing the beds at the hospitals and the set up German hangers to accommodate more patients. The Collector also directed the officials to immediately appoint students of medical and dental colleges, M. Sc Nursing students, MD (House Surgeons) to render their services at the hospitals. District Immunisation Officer Jeevan Rani was instructed to launch measures for setting up of vaccine centres at the industries in the district. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy, Joint Collector P. Arun Babu, General Manager of District Industries Centre Ramalinga Raju, APSMIDC EE Naidu were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-asks-amc-to-recruit-doctors-staff/article34601999.ece
20 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue 127 children during ‘Operation Muskaan’||Sixteen girls among 127 children were rescued from various parts of Visakhapatnam as part of the ‘Operation Muskaan’, a drive launched by the police to protect orphaned children and also re-unite missing children with their parents. The programme also aims to eradicate child labour. Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, Rural Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao spoke to the media to reveal the details here on Wednesday. COVID protocols Mr. Sinha said following instructions of Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, the city police has formed 23 rescue teams with the SHOs of respective police stations. The teams headed by ACP Prem Kajal as the Nodal Officer took part in the rescue operations from 5 a.m. to 12 p.m., in strict compliance with the partial curfew and COVID-19 protocols. The police rescued 71 children (10 girls and 61 boys) in the city limits and produced them before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC). Later, the children were handed over to child care institutions for their rehabilitation. Mr. Krishna Rao said that district police teams had rescued 56 children including six girls. Among the children 10 belong to other States —Odisha (7), Madhya Pradesh (2) and Bihar (1). The teams conducted raids at bus stands, railway stations, hotels, dhabhas, auto-garages and other places during the drive. The police also found that a nine-year-old boy from Anakapalle and a six-year-old girl from Narsingaraopeta have lost their parents due to COVID-19, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-rescue-127-children-during-operation-muskaan/article34602005.ece
20 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up multi-level car parking project: VMRDA Commisioner||Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao organised a virtual meet with the officials from the Andhra Pradesh Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Limited (APUIAML) to discuss the plan of action for multi-level car parking-cum-commercial project proposed at Siripuram. Mr. Koteswara Rao asked the APUIAML officials to utilise the partial curfew period by working virtually to finalise the Detailed Project Report (DPR), supervise of designs and drawings submitted by the third party. He also asked them to make arrangements for the procurement of work force (labourers) Mr. Koteswara Rao also wanted the officials to submit the progress of the works every week. A few days ago, the State government, after examining the proposal , accorded permission to the VMRDA to award the contract for the construction of multi-level car parking and commercial units to Vijay Nirman Company, the lowest bidder of about Rs. 67.57 crore. The project is estimated to be completed in 18 months from the date of signing agreement with the contractor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-up-multi-level-car-parking-project-vmrda-commisioner/article34602001.ece
20 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||17 crematoriums identified for bodies of COVID patients||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has identified 17 burial grounds and crematoriums in various zones for the performing the final rituals of COVID-19 patients. The move would ease the pressure on the crematorium at Gnanapuram, the officials said. The GVMC officials have attached burial grounds to various COVID-19 hospitals. The final rites of the COVID patients dying at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) and Pineapple Colony COVID Care Centre will be performed at the Krishnapuram burial ground. Similarly, the bodies of the patients from the King George Hospital (KGH) and 12 other hospitals in the city limites will be sent to the crematorium at Gnanapuram. The officials have appointed two in-charges who will work in two shifts—from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 10 p.m.—every day will taking steps to prevent in involvement of the middlemen who fleece the bereaved family members.  Burning platforms The civic body has also launched measures to increase the burning platforms at eight crematoriums in eight zones. For this, the GVMC has earmarked a budget of around Rs. 98 lakh. According to the officials, all these eight crematoriums have 27 burning platforms as of now. The GVMC has proposed to add 32 more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/17-crematoriums-identified-for-bodies-of-covid-patients/article34602006.ece
20 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCIL bags contract from Cochin Port||The Dredging Corporation of India Limited (DCIL) has been awarded the contract for dredging and maintenance of the channels and basins at Cochin Port Trust for the 2021-22 financial year through an open tender. The total cost of work is estimated to be around Rs. 122.50 crore for dredging of an area of around 24 million cubic metres. The DCIL has already commenced the works at the Cochin Port by deploying two dredgers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dcil-bags-contract-from-cochin-port/article34601995.ece
20 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Subhojanam’ launched at Victoria Govt. Hospital||In an attempt to provide food to the health workers amd patients’ attendants, the Touch Stone Charities, a unit of Hare Krishna Movement, Visakhapatnam, has launched the ‘subhojanam’ services at Victoria Government Hospital (VGH), with the help of Coastal Corporation Limited on Wednesday. As many as 300 food packets will be distributed at the VGH every day. The ‘Subhojanam’ counters are distributing food at the King George Hospital (KGH) and Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) Hospital. Nearly 1,000 persons are getting benefitted by the Subojanam counter at the KGH. Cooking and packing of food are done at a centralised kitchen in Madhavadara VUDA Colony. Niskinchana Bhaktha Dasa, president of Touch Stone Charities, appreciated the Coastal Corporation Limited for its contribution. The organisation has plans to extend the service with the help of donors who can dial 8184887108, 9010611108 for more information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subhojanam-launched-at-victoria-govt-hospital/article34601997.ece
20 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date for admission to model schools extended||The last date for submitting applications online for the admission to five model schools (Adarsh Paatasala) in Visakhapatnam district for the 2021-22 academic year has been extended to June 30, 2021, District Education Officer (DEO) B. Lingeswara Reddy has said. Five Andhra Pradesh Model Schools at Kasimkota, Ravikamatham, Narsipatnam, Munagapaka and Cheedikada mandals are receiving applications online for admission to sixth class. Earlier, the last date of submitting applications online was May 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-date-for-admission-to-model-schools-extended/article34602002.ece
20 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recoveries outnumber new cases||The district has reported 2,007 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending on Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,19,320. However, 2,246 persons who were infected with the virus recovered during the same period. The toll went up to 799 as 11 persons succumbed in the last 24 hours. The virus has claimed 188 lives this month so far. The total cases reported till date this month are 39,404. On an average, around 2,073 cases are being reported daily. The number of active cases went up to 20,567. The total recoveries went up to 97,954. It may be noted that 28,899 persons recovered this month so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recoveries-outnumber-new-cases/article34602003.ece
20 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Cong. leader joins YSRCP||Pedada Ramani Kumari, who had resigned as State Mahila Congress president recently, joined the YSRCP in the presence of its Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy here on Wednesday. Addressing the media later, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that Ms. Ramani Kumari joined the party as she was impressed by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s vision and welfare initiatives, and the priority being accorded by the party to the BCs, SCs, and Minorities. “Ms. Ramani Kumari has done a lot for women empowerment,” he said, and hoped that she would continue to serve the people through the YSRCP. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-cong-leader-joins-ysrcp/article34601992.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held, five vials of Remdesivir seized||The drugs control officials arrested a man and seized five Remdesivir injections in a decoy operation near Jagannadha temple on Wednesday. D. Suneeta, Drugs Inspector (Vigilance and Intelligence), along with Ch. Laxmoji, CI (V & E) conducted the operation. Ms. Suneeta contacted one Ashok over telephone, posing a relative of a COVID patient. He demanded Rs. 1.35 lakh (Rs. 27,000 per vial). He gave the number of one Durga Prasad who asked her to wait near Jagannadha temple. Another person R. Amarnadh delivered the vials. He was nabbed by the CI Vigilance and P. Kalyani, Drugs Inspector, Visakhapatnam (Sales). He confessed that the vials were sent by his friend N. Srinivasa Reddy from Hyderabad. A case has been registered under Section 18 (C ) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-five-vials-of-remdesivir-seized/article34602000.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains cancelled||The Railways authorities have decided to cancel some special trains temporarily owing to the poor patronisation in view of the rise in the COVID-19 cases. Train no. 08516 Visakhapatnam- Kirandul special express will be cancelled from May 22 to 31 and 08515 Kirandul- Visakhapatnam special express from May 23 to June 1. Train no. 08528 Visakhapatnam-Raipur special express will be cancelled from May 24 to 31 and 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam special express trains from May 24 to June 1, said A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of the Waltair Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-cancelled/article34601996.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bumper yield||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bumper-yield/article34601442.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Session time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/session-time/article34601994.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Giant loss||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/giant-loss/article34601392.ece
20 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM visits Gandhi Hospital to infuse confidence in patients||To reach out to COVID-19 patients and give confidence to the medical staff involved in the treatment, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao made his first visit to Gandhi Hospital on Wednesday and spent an hour interacting with the patients and doctors. The visit came amid growing criticism from the Opposition and the civil society that he directly monitor the situation on COVID treatment and get first-hand information on the facilities provided and the problems faced by the patients. Comforts patients He spent over an hour visiting the ICU, Emergency, Out Patient and General wards where the COVID patients were being treated. While enquiring about the facilities provided by visiting each bed, the Chief Minister comforted the patients saying they would get best treatment. He enquired with them about the treatment and the quality of food provided. Several patients got emotional while pouring out their woes and the CM gave them courage saying the virus would be conquered with good treatment and self-confidence. He said the patients were in good hands and they should not worry as the doctors were doing their best. He quickly responded to some of the problems raised by the patients and gave instructions to the medical officers there to address them. Pat for medical staff Mr. Rao also complimented the senior doctors, junior doctors and nurses for offering services to the patients by putting their own lives at risk. He assured the medical staff that the State government would solve their problems sincerely and requested them to stand by the people in these troubled and turbulent times. “In these difficult times, you are doing a great job. Continue the services and contact me with your problems and I will extend all cooperation,” he assured them. He also instructed the Medical and Health Officials to send proposals on the problems of the junior doctors and nurses for immediate redressal. In the backdrop of the State government’s decision to set up oxygen plants in all the government hospitals, the CM examined the one set up at Gandhi Hospital to supply 2,000 litres of oxygen per minute. Oxygen plant examined He examined the plant and asked Gandhi Hospital Superintendent M. Raja Rao about its functioning and oxygen generation. Finance Minister T Harish Rao, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) S.A.M. Rizvi, CM Secretary and Special Officer (COVID-19) P. Rajasekhar Reddy, Officer on Special Duty Gangadhar, DME Ramesh Reddy and Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar were among those present at the hospital.  In these difficult times, you are doing a great job. Continue the services and contact me with your problems and I will extend all cooperation. K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Chief Minister to doctors and nurses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-visits-gandhi-hospital-to-infuse-confidence-in-patients/article34601892.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC ‘missing in action’||Last year this time, when the COVID case load was low and the virus transmission was not widespread, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) was in the forefront in identifying micro-containment zones, tracing contacts and keeping up a general surveillance on the spread in every area. Provisions and food supply were also being arranged to the needy families with the help of other departments such as police, medical and health and voluntary bodies. But, during this second wave when everything has gone haywire with exponential rise in cases, patients besieging hospitals for beds and treatment, and attendants running frantically for essential medicines and oxygen, the giant civic body is missing in action. When the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is earning praise for bending the curve with proactive measures, GHMC seemed to have given up whatever it had done last year, content only with a mere household fever survey. “We have been instructed to take up fever surveys and pass on the COVID kits to those with symptoms by the government a few days ago,” said senior officials, unwilling to be identified, on Wednesday. It means the civic body with a health and sanitation wing of its own and having sufficient personnel and machinery to keep an effective tracing and surveillance plan on the vulnerable spots is not pressing all the levers at its command to bring the transmission under control despite highest cases being here. “GHMC should be in the forefront in any medical emergency and it is well geared to tackle communicable diseases. Its personnel are aware of every lane, every market and activity in the twin cities. We have presence in every slum and our vehicles move around everywhere. This can be used to convey COVID safety protocols and track health status in an area,” explained a former chief medical and health officer. “In case of dengue or malaria outbreak, the entire neighbourhood usually comes under our protective envelope, so it is not rocket science, we can do the same even now, if the work is decentralised,” the doctor added. Other officials, pleading anonymity, pointed out that GHMC could make use of its vast network of community halls and sports complexes to set up temporary testing and isolation centres after identifying those in need and this would go a long way in breaking the transmission chain. “Testing, tracking and isolation continue to be critical factors in containing the pandemic. It will also help curb serious cases flooding hospitals. Issuing medicines to those with symptoms without testing is not enough. Some of them could be spreading the infection,” testified a senior health official. Senior officials affirmed that with each circle having a medical and health officer, resources could be pooled with the neighbouring district medical and health officials to have a robust containment strategy instead of the current top down approach. Also, an elected body with ward-wise public representatives could help in controlling the community spread with more proactive approach on its own rather than await directions from above, is their contention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-missing-in-action/article34601901.ece
20 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||All requests lead to @KTRTRS||In the middle of the night, the phone buzzes with a tweet alert disturbing the sleep. A few moments later, it is passed onto the team already overstretched with work. Yet, it gets the attention of the sleepy eyes of the team workers who take up the issue with the concerned, and with all the concern. It is the not just the blaring sirens of ambulances that refuse to die down with Covid patients but also the Twitter account of Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao that buzzes day and night with requests for help to find a bed in any hospital or Remdesevir vials or a request for oxygen concentrators or Tocilizumab medicine gaining popularity for Covid treatment but is in extreme shortage. The Minister’s Twitter account seems to be the final destination for people after exhausting all their sources and resources for medical assistance in the second wave that gripped the State. With about 6,000 requests so far and growing by the day, and majority of them attended to in one form or the other, KTR’s team is on its toes. “It reflects the confidence people enjoy in him and the trust he has gained,” says a member of KTR’s Office. What surprises is the requests pouring in from across the State borders, including the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, who send requests for beds in Tirupati or Vizag. Odisha, Karnataka and Maharashtra are other States. In some cases, the Minister personally tags his friends in those States seeking help, or the assistance is extended by the local teams here. A eight-member team under the OSD, PS and Addl PS of the Minister plays a liasoning role constantly interacting with the help seekers and the providers, and connecting them, including NGOs, suppliers or hospitals. Remdesvir injections were the hot property due to the shortage in the market and the team ensured that providers were identified and medicine is given on cost-to-cost basis sparing them from fleecing by black-marketeers. Oxygen concentrators are also in huge demand and some well-wishers of the Minister have either donated or are arranging them for the needy. “Its all about accessibility of the Minister and his swift response,” says Dileep Konatham, Director, Digital Media, Telangana. Some may accuse the Minister of responding only on Twitter. But he is personally approachable on WhatsApp as well. Response through social media is an extension of the existing systems. “After all its easy for the common man to reach the Minister directly on Twitter,” he explains. The beneficiaries never forget to thank the Minister and it is the most satisfying factor for the both as a life could be saved. And it reflects in the response of Rambabu Yamallapally (@ramsapka77), who tweeted “Sir, All the words don't describe our thanks to you. Thank you so much for all what you're doing for us and thank for the hard work every day. We are so lucky to have such amazing leader.” And there is no shortage of such Rambabus on @KTRTRS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-requests-lead-to-ktrtrs/article34601919.ece
20 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Few coronavirus tests in rural hinterland||On April 10, as many as 2,932 tests were conducted in Adilabad district to detect the spread of SARS-CoV2 virus and 92 persons tested positive. A month later, on May 9, the number of tests conducted were 770 and 47 were positive. The number of tests fell about four times but the positive cases didn’t even get halved. On April 9, 5,493 COVID-19 tests were conducted in Nizamabad and 202 were positive. On May 10, the number of tests dipped to 1,788 with 78 positive reports. In Warangal Rural, even after the number of the tests were reduced, the positive cases have not shown a dip. On April 9, there were 1,302 tests in the district with 19 positive cases. The number of tests were cut to 416 (nearly 1/3) on May 9 but the positive cases were 56 (nearly three times). While dip in testing on Sundays has been the norm in Telangana since the beginning of the pandemic, there has been a steady drop in the number of tests between April 10 and now. “The number of tests have been played around even during the first wave of the pandemic. Even if the tests are reduced, the positivity rate is the key. A higher number of tests will give us a clear picture of the infections in society and help us fight it,” says K. Sujatha Rao, former union Health Secretary. “Reduced tests will lull people into a false sense of security. The affected people will infect others and may not be able to access healthcare when they need it,” says Ms. Rao, raising an alarm over the dip in number of tests. An analysis of reports with the number of tests conducted and the positivity rate in all the districts over the past one month revealed that the State has substantially cut down the number of tests though the positivity rate has kept an upward path.. “We are giving out tokens as there is a huge number of people who want to get tested. We are forced to send back a number of people who want to get tested,” said a staffer with an area hospital in Hyderabad. The situation has changed from an earlier period when ASHA workers were compelled by hospital staff to get citizens for getting tested. Even in the worst-affected GHMC precinct, the test have come down from 27,860 on April 20 to 19,466 on May 10. What’s alarming is that the tests have dropped from 1,15,311, though the test positivity rate rose from 2.5 on April 10 to 3.7 on May 10. Overall, the test positivity rate has jumped from 2.76 on April 10 to 7.32 on May 10. On Wednesday, India reported 2, 67,334 new coronavirus infections over the last 24 hours, while deaths rose by a record 4,529.  A higher number of tests will give us a clear picture of the infections in society and help us fight it. K. Sujatha Rao, Former Union health secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/few-coronavirus-tests-in-rural-hinterland/article34601894.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSSPDCL extends bill collection counter timings||Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd. (TSSPDCL) has decided to keep open all its bill collection counters, except the ones in electricity revenue offices (EROs), from 6 a.m. to 12 noon during the lockdown period. Earlier, they have been functioning only till 10 a.m. as the lockdown relaxation was given only for four hours. However, several consumers have complained to the authorities and expressed difficulties in paying bills as the counters were open only till 10 a.m. and they were also not in a position to pay the bill online. EROs to be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Discom authorities have also instructed all superintending engineers, and senior accounts officers to keep the bill collection counters in EROs open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. as the employees of the power utilities were allowed to attend duties even during the lockdown timings as power generation, transmission and distribution activities fall under essential services. The decision to extend the time of bill collection centres both in ERO offices and outside has been taken to improve the revenue collection rate. The field level officers have been instructed to get necessary permission from the police authorities concerned for operating the collection counters for the extended time during the lockdown period and also issue necessary identity cards and permission letters to personnel working for the counters, including private agencies. Meanwhile, the managements of all power utilities in the State have decided to enhance the age of superannuation of about 30,000 Aartisans working with them from the existing 58 to 61 years following the State government decision to increase the retirement age to 61 years to all its employees from April 1. The decision is also extended to the artisans who retired after March 30 and they have been told to report for duties within two days and the period of absence till the date of re-induction would be treated as compulsory waiting period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsspdcl-extends-bill-collection-counter-timings/article34601898.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC conducts fever tests on 2.54 lakh||GHMC announced on Wednesday that tests were conducted on 17,105 persons as part of the ongoing household fever survey with 1,667 teams visiting 1.97 lakh houses. So far, about 13.84 lakh houses have been contacted and 2.54 lakh persons were sent for medical examination with medical kits handed over to the affected families. The call centre with number 040 2111 1111 continues to function where doctors answer queries about the health. Mayor visit Earlier in the day, Mayor G. Vijaylakshmi along with MLA M. Gopinath and other senior officials inspected several divisions in the Jubilee Hills area like Shaikpet lake where she wanted the water hyacinth to be removed forthwith, remove the construction debris, and build a compound wall. At Kamalapuri Colony, Natrajnagar and Vengal Rao Nagar, she wanted garbage clearance to be more efficient and checked the ongoing desilting work at Somajiguda and Rahmatnagar. Zonal commissioners Pravenya Reddy and Ravi Kiran were present. Free food GHMC’s ‘Annapurna’ canteens decided to make it free in view of the raging pandemic and loss of livelihoods to the poor and the needy. Municipal Administration secretary Arvind Kumar informed that the decision was taken following instructions by Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The civic body had already increased the number of such canteens from 150 to 250, including starting mobile ones at bus stops, railway stations and hospitals. Trade licence Trade licences can be renewed at any Mee Seva centre, citizen service centre, and circle and head office of the municipal corporation till May 30 with a fine of 25%. Fines would be doubled from May 31 and those running businesses or offices sans renewal licences are liable to be imposed 100% fine and 10% fine every month till it is taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-conducts-fever-tests-on-254-lakh/article34601902.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-application for allotment of medicines introduced||The State government has introduced an online application system for the allotment of anti-fungal medicines — Liposomal Amphotericin B, Posaconazole and Isavuconazole. Application for the medicines should be sent in a prescribed proforma to ‘ent-mcrm@telangana.gov.in’. “The applications will be scrutinised by a committee consisting of Director of Medical Education, Superintendent of ENT Hospital, and HoD of Department of ENT, Gandhi Medical College,” as per the press note. Recommendation of the committee will be communicated to the approved applicant by e-mail or through SMS, indicating the name of the stockist from whom the medicine can be purchased. Details required The application asks for details of the patient, of the hospital offering treatment and of the treating doctor. Besides, the application has tables where details of history of the Mucormycosis patient, list of documents to be attached with the application, and request for drug in order of preference, are to be filled. The demand for the medicines has shot up after Black Fungus (Mucormycosis) cases started to increase. The online application system was introduced to judiciously utilise the available stock of the medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-application-for-allotment-of-medicines-introduced/article34601886.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGOs set up COVID help desk at TIMS||A COVID-19 help desk was set up at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) by city-based NGO Helping Hand Foundation, and Modern Architects for Rural India. The initiative is sponsored by Azim Premji Foundation. A team of five counsellors will be present at the hospital and two volunteers at the entry triage to check for reports of patients and to facilitate admissions. Two more counsellors will be at a triage within the hospital. They would get a list of all the in-patient cases from the hospital. The counsellors will inform family members or attendants about the health status of the patients. They will also facilitate movement of essential items to patients admitted in the hospital. “A counsellor will offer counselling services to deceased patients’ attendants and help them with the process, which is an area considered sensitive and important from the patient’s family perspective,” informed a press note. Mujtaba Hasan Askari from Helping Hand Foundation (HHF) said t with help desks across all COVID government centres in Hyderabad, intra hospital availability of beds and movement of patients is being streamlined. The help desk works from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. HHF runs help desk services at Gandhi Hospital, Osmania General Hospital, District Hospital in King Koti, and Government General and Chest Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngos-set-up-covid-help-desk-at-tims/article34601888.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Supply fertilizers to farmers on time’||Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy exhorted fertilizer companies to ensure timely supply of fertilizers to farmers during the upcoming Vaanakaalam (kharif season). The companies should draw the fertilizers allotted to the State on a monthly basis and ensure that they reach farmers without delays. The State is optimistic about the fertilizer stocks at present with more than 4 lakh metric tonne of buffer stock available with Markfed.  The Minister reviewed the availability of fertilizers with senior officials and representatives of the companies here on Wednesday. He wanted the officials concerned to take adequate care to ensure that assured quantum of fertilizers reaches primary agriculture cooperative societies in time and steps should be taken to utilise the storage space in the godowns available with the primary societies. Steps should be taken to transport fertilizers from the railway rake points to all districts before the onset of monsoon, he said. In view of the lockdown and restrictions in force due to COVID-19 pandemic, officials and companies should focus on measures to avoid shortage of labour for loading and unloading operations, the Agriculture Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/supply-fertilizers-to-farmers-on-time/article34601916.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banks likely to retain new branch timings||Banks in Telangana, that for a week now have been keeping open branches for customers from 8 a.m. to 12 noon, are likely to stick to the same timings beyond May 20. It looks imminent in the backdrop of the State government extending the lockdown till May 30. The State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) is expected to meet, virtually, in all likelihood on Thursday to discuss the further course since it had approved the new, four-hour schedule for the branches only up to May 20. The SLBC had in the advisory last week to Controller of all banks on the new timings had said if required the decision would be reviewed for further extension. The decision followed the State government announcing a 10-day lockdown from May 12. Sources said though the SLBC move was independent of the lockdown, the State government extending the restrictions is likely to play a major part in sticking to the new timings. Besides reduced working hours, the banks are likely to continue operating the branches as well as other offices with 50% staff. These were the two key measures bank unions had been demanding since the beginning of second COVID-19 wave. Though the SLBC had recommended reducing the working hours of the branches on April 21, it could not be implemented for want of government approval. While all bank branches have been working from 8 a.m to 12 noon, some banks continue to operate other facilities such as administrative offices to the usual, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. schedule, sources said. On customer footfall, sources said most branches hardly receive any customer after 10 a.m. since lockdown restrictions are in place from 10 a.m.to 6 a.m. (the next day).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banks-likely-to-retain-new-branch-timings/article34601915.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Positive report not mandatory for admission into coVID facility: policy||The National Policy for admission in hospitals regarding COVID-19 patients was communicated by Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao to the District Medical and Health Officers on Wednesday. The policy has guidelines on the grounds on which patient cannot be rejected admission, ensuring beds are not occupied by people who do not need hospitalisation. The policy states that coronavirus-positive report is not mandatory for admission to a COVID-19 health facility. “No patient will be refused services on any count. This includes medications such as oxygen or essential drugs even if the patient belongs to a different city. No patient shall be refused admission on the ground that he or she is not able to produce a valid identity card that does not belong to the city where the hospital is located,” the policy suggests, adding that admission to hospital must be based on need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/positive-report-not-mandatory-for-admission-into-covid-facility-policy/article34601887.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LCV driver claims assault by police||An LCV driver, Abdul Subhan, claimed that he was assaulted by the police who also hurled communal slurs at him.  While the incident took place on Sunday, it came to light on Wednesday when Hyderabad parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi intervened. He tweeted a video clip in which Mr. Subhan purportedly claimed that he was stopped by Cyberabad Traffic Police personnel at Shamshabad, who took a photo of his vehicle, assaulted him and later hurled communal slurs. Mr. Owaisi tweeted, “DCM driver Subhan was detained by traffic cops near Hyd airport & beaten. He was taken to police station where cops tortured him for 3 days. They used anti-Muslim insults & told him to go to Pak. Y’day I got to know about him & immediately spoke to CI who got him released ¼ (sic)” Mr. Sajjanar confirmed that an inquiry has been launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lcv-driver-claims-assault-by-police/article34601907.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 3,837 fresh cases, 25 deaths||Telangana recorded 3,837 coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 5,40,603. While 71,070 people were examined, results of 2,628 were awaited. Twenty-five more patients died, pushing up the death toll to 3,037. Of the 3,837 cases, the highest of 594 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 265 from Rangareddy, 239 from Medchal Malkajgiri and 227 from Khammam. The lowest of 17 were from Adilabad and 20 from Nirmal. So far, a total of 1,42,67,002 samples have been put to test and 5,40,603 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 46,946 people were still being treated or were in home isolation. A total 4,90,620 persons have recovered till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-records-3837-fresh-cases-25-deaths/article34601885.ece
20 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSIC & GITAM sign MoU for social innovation||Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC), Kautilya School of Public Policy (KSPP), and GITAM, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to help build a vibrant eco-system to make evidence-based recommendations as well as enable administrative and regulatory environment for social innovation to flourish in TS on Tuesday. The MoU signed by Chief Innovation Officer Ravi Narayan and GITAM Registrar Prof. D Gunasekaran and founding director of the institute Sridhar Pabbisetty aims to use the resources of both the parties to create a robust, world-class ‘Social Innovation’ (SI) ecosystem with Kautilya School as research partner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsic-gitam-sign-mou-for-social-innovation/article34601899.ece
20 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID patient goes missing||A 40-year-old man who had tested COVID positive went missing on Wednesday under the Keesara Police Station limits. He is a teacher and resident of Sathyanarayana Colony in Nagaram. He had got himself tested on May 16, and received the report on Tuesday. His brother approached Keesara police and informed them that he had left the house at 8 a.m. on Wednesday on the pretext of getting COVID medicines and had not returned since. Police booked a missing case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-patient-goes-missing/article34601904.ece
20 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Youth provide free meals to COVID patients||Instilling hope amid the COVID-19 despair, several town-based youths have turned to volunteering to deliver free food at the doorsteps of the needy COVID-19 patients in home quarantine during lockdown. Around 20 youngsters comprising college students and student activists launched the voluntary initiative a week ago under the aegis of the two local organisations — George Reddy Helping Hands and Ravanna Memorial Trust — to provide free cooked meals to those infected with COVID-19, bereft of any support, and in home isolation. A “We have assigned specific tasks for each member of our group, split into three teams, for hassle-free implementation of the free meal service,” says Ashok, convener, George Reddy Helping Hands organisation, and former State president of PDSU. One team prepares food, and other packages the cooked meals and another delivers the food packets at the doorsteps of the COVID-19 patients, Mr Ashok explained their daily schedule of free food supply. On an average we are delivering 120 to 130 food packets for lunch and distributing around 100 packets of evening snacks like “upma” every day. We draw inspiration from George Reddy, who laid down his life for the cause of progressive students’ movement in Osmania University in the early 70s, he says, adding that their voluntary efforts were aimed at alleviating feelings of despair among COVID-19 patients. The COVID-19 patients in the town in need of free meals can contact on the phone numbers 9490700078 or 7396695586.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-provide-free-meals-to-covid-patients/article34601922.ece
20 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||3 held for giving fake Remdesivir||Three persons, including a doctor and a compounder of a town-based private hospital, were arrested on Wednesday night on charges of causing the death of a COVID patient by allegedly administering a fake Remdesivir injection to the latter over a fortnight ago. The police identified the accused as Dr. G Shyam Kumar and Naveen Kumar of Sri Balaji Hospital, and medical representative Rambabu. The police slapped a case under sections 420, 276, 304 (ii) r/w 120 (B), 109 IPC against the trio. The case was registered based on a complaint filed by Sandeep of Gollagudem, who alleged that his father Bhadraiah died due to the fake Remdesivir injection given by the staff of Sri Balaji Hospital. He alleged that the private hospital staff charged Rs. 60,000 on the pretext of administering two vials of Remdesivir to his ailing father and claimed the latter’s life by giving a fake injection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-held-for-giving-fake-remdesivir/article34601903.ece
20 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Paddy ryots at receiving end||P. Jaipal Reddy is a farmer with about four acres of land near Shivampet. He cultivated paddy in his land and got a harvest of 100 quintals. He transported his produce to the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society (PACS) located at Shivampet about two weeks ago. Part of his produce kept at the PACS was covered with tarpaulin covers and coconut fronds. As there was rain, about 50 kilograms of paddy sprouted while the remaining was safe. After weighing of the paddy, it was shifted to the rice mill on Wednesday. When will Jaipal Reddy receive money for the paddy he sold at the PACS? “It may take two weeks. I am expecting payment in the first week of next month,” said Mr. Jaipal Reddy. The delay was attributed to unloading problems at mills, labour problem and transport. “We are not getting required number of lorries to load the paddy reaching in huge quantity at the procurement centre here. Besides, there is information from confirmed sources that lorries loaded with paddy are arriving here from Wanaparthy for milling there by occupying our space, thereby forcing delay on local farmers,” said Satyanarayana, another farmer from this village. On Tuesday, some farmers held dharna before the mandal revenue office demanding that the problem of transport be addressed. The officials pacified them by promising to address the issue at the earliest. “We are milling about 20,000 metric tonnes of paddy that was transported from Wanaparthy to our district. In addition, some labourers, mostly from Bihar, hired by rice mills tested corona positive and in isolation, impacting unloading. We are trying to arrange required number of lorries,” said L. Suguana Bai, District Manager, Civil Supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paddy-ryots-at-receiving-end/article34601921.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Safety blanket||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/safety-blanket/article34601897.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Response: Vaccination halls needed||People rushing to get vaccinated in view of the devastating second COVID-19 wave are forced to wait in the hot sun in open compounds surrounding the vaccination centres with no shelter or place to sit. I suggest to the government to favourably consider my suggestion to convert halls into vaccination centres where there is facility for proper seating and one can buy refreshments like water or fruit juices. Tokens can be issued based on the vaccine availability so that unnecessary rush can be avoided. Baru Rajendra Prasad    I had my first dose of Covaxin on March 16 at Chennai and returned to Secunderabad on March 21. I couldn’t travel again to Chennai due to a surge in COVID cases. I was trying to get my second dose since last month but in vain. I saw so many senior citizens aged above 80 years trying their luck daily and one hospital was seeking Rs. 1,500 for the dose. Is there any hope of getting the second dose near my house in Bowenpally? K. Bhuvaneswari    I want to congratulate the State government for the facility provided during my second dose of Covishield vaccination. I had taken the first shot at the Urban Primary Health Center at Mansoorabad-Nagole after standing in queue for four hours. The staff there provided drinking water to vaccine beneficiaries and were sanitising the premises frequently. Gangadhar    I had an excellent experience at the PHC in Indira Nagar, Asif Nagar, last month when I went for my second dose. It showed that the government healthcare facilities are functioning well. Ashok Shukla||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/response-vaccination-halls-needed/article34601884.ece
20 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Congress seeks compensation for families of virus victims||The Congress leaders in Haryana have hit out at the ruling BJP-JJP government in the State, accusing it of ‘mishandling’ the ongoing situation in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and demanded financial assistance to the families of those who have lost their family members. Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has sought financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh each to the families who lost their members during the pandemic. He demanded a detailed and transparent survey be carried out to identify the affected families.  ‘Conduct fair survey’ “Families, who have no surviving earning members, should be given a pension of Rs. 5,000 per month and children of such families should be provided free education. We also have to be mindful that this assistance will reach affected families only when the government conducts the survey in a fair and transparent manner. It is not hidden from anyone that there is a big difference between the government figures and the actual deaths,” he said. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said the virus is spreading rapidly among the people of Haryana, especially in rural areas, yet the government is not paying any attention towards increasing testing in the rural areas. “Coronavirus has been wreaking havoc in villages for more than a month. People in rural areas are neither getting medicines nor treatment. The actual number of deaths is many times more than official figures,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-seeks-compensation-for-families-of-virus-victims/article34601874.ece
20 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Haryana Deputy CM cautions against Tauktae||The Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday cautioned people to remain vigilant over the next 48 hours as the cyclonic storm Tauktae was approaching the State. Mr. Chautala said that according to the India Meteorological Department, the storm was moving towards Haryana via Gujarat and Rajasthan, and wind speed could reach 50 kms per hour in most districts of the State from Wednesday afternoon to Thursday evening. “The Deputy Commissioners of all the districts have been instructed to conduct regular monitoring in this matter. Instructions have been given to make arrangements in order to ensure that there is no loss of life and property in any district,” he said at a press conference here.  Crop procurement Mr. Chautala added that from June 1, the government procurement of sunflower crop will commence in the State, for which 7 mandis have been earmarked. He said that during the ongoing Rabi marketing season, the government agencies have so far procured 85,30,000 metric tonnes of wheat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-deputy-cm-cautions-against-tauktae/article34601873.ece
20 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Cyclone weakens over southern Rajasthan||Cyclone Tauktae weakened into a depression over Udaipur district in southern Rajasthan on Wednesday after causing heavy rain in several regions of the State. Incessant rain, accompanied by gusty winds, threw normal life out of gear in Dungarpur, Jalore, Sirohi and Banswara districts adjoining Gujarat. The rainfall also occurred in some parts of Jaipur division, bringing down the temperature and making the atmosphere pleasant for the people confined to their homes because of the COVID-19 related restrictions. The State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams were deployed in the areas where the cyclone was expected to make an impact. Several areas in Udaipur city faced power cuts during the night-long rains. Water was flowing from Swaroop Sagar lake into the town, while other lakes such as Pichhola, Fateh Sagar and Udai Sagar were full to the brim.  Trees uprooted A large number of trees fell under the impact of high-speed winds in Udaipur and Mount Abu. The Meteorological Office here said the cyclonic storm would weaken gradually into a well-marked low pressure area during its movement towards central and south-eastern Rajasthan during the next 12 hours. The State government has put the police force on alert to deal with any emergency situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cyclone-weakens-over-southern-rajasthan/article34601871.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||Take a relook into admission of medical students: HC to Centre||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Central government to take a relook into the admission process for medical students as many of them are denied admission in colleges across India and they are moving to other countries to pursue courses. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing a bunch of petitions pertaining to COVID-19 in Maharashtra and complaints of shortage of manpower in terms of medical staff and doctors. The Bench called upon additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh, appearing for the Centre, and asked him to reconsider the entire admission process for all medical courses. The HC referred to a case where a student scored 192 and managed a seat in a good medical college in the reserved category, but ones with marks as high as 520 did not get a seat. The Bench said that “there are lakhs of students who score between 250 and 450 and they don’t get admission. The system thinks they aren’t useful”. The HC further said that the COVID 19 pandemic had been an eye-opener to have a relook into medical infrastructure, education, and medical facilities among many other things. The Bench said that medical students who do not get admissions in colleges in India then head to “Russia, Germany and other countries and become good doctors and then they do not come back. We need our doctors here in our country at this hour”. The ASG acknowledged that the issue was important, and definitely it needed to be looked into but said that there were several sensitive issues connected to this issue. To this, the Bench said, “We are not on that. Don’t speak of sensitivity. We need our doctors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/take-a-relook-into-admission-of-medical-students-hc-to-centre/article34601592.ece
20 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Cong. threatens agitation if fertilizer price rise is not withdrawn in 2 days||A day after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar wrote to the Centre against exponential hike in fertilizer prices, the Maharashtra Congress on Wednesday announced a Statewide “bell ringing” (ghantanaad) agitation if the rise is not withdrawn within two days. “At first, three anti-farmer Acts were brought in by the Central government; it began the process of destroying farmers. Now, with almost one and half times increase in the fertilizer prices, the farmers will face yet another financial burden. Many will not be able to face this pressure and will be left with no option but to hand over their farms for contract farming,” State Congress president Nana Patole said. He said the hike will ultimately result in big industrialists grabbing agriculture from farmers. “This Modi government, which had promised to increase farmers’ income, is ensuring that farmers are destroyed,” he said, adding that 10.26.26 fertilizer cost was increased by Rs. 600, DAP by Rs. 715, DFA now costs Rs. 1,900 instead of Rs. 1,185. “On one hand, this Central government boasts about depositing Rs. 2,000 in farmers’ account and withdraws that money through such price hikes,” he said. Both the NCP and the Congress have questioned Mr. Modi’s decision to visit cyclone Tauktae-affected Gujarat and not Maharashtra. “This cyclone has brought huge destruction in Konkan. Can’t he see that? Is he the Prime Minister of Gujarat?” Mr. Patole asked. The NCP too has questioned the PM’s decision to not visit Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa which suffered due to the cyclone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-threatens-agitation-if-fertilizer-price-rise-is-not-withdrawn-in-2-days/article34601594.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||Following Cong. protest, State seeks report on reservation in promotions||Days after the Congress warned of a Statewide protest against the Maharashtra government’s decision to cancel reservation in promotions, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has decided to seek a report from the Law and Justice Department. A decision on cancellation of the decision will be taken thereafter. On Wednesday, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar held a meeting on the issue, joined by Congress Ministers Nitin Raut and Varsha Gaikwad, which reportedly witnessed heated exchanges. Mr. Raut questioned the move to issue a government resolution (GR) without consulting the cabinet sub-committee on the topic. “A similar reservation in Karnataka stands valid, and the cabinet sub-committee had decided to form a committee under the additional chief secretary on this topic. Despite this, the decision was taken all of sudden. We cannot let this happen,” Mr. Raut said. Following the aggressive stand taken by the Congress, Mr. Pawar directed the Law and Justice Department to present a review report on the GR issued on May 7. The decision to scrap 33% reservation in promotions has ignited a row between the alliance partners of the MVA government. The timing, however, of the new GR has raised eyebrows as it comes exactly two days after the Supreme Court’s verdict scrapping the Maratha reservation, with many believing the move is to appease the sulking Maratha community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/following-cong-protest-state-seeks-report-on-reservation-in-promotions/article34601595.ece
20 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Caretaker held for injuring newborn||The Vashi police have arrested a 49-year-old caretaker for allegedly mishandling a newborn boy and causing him injuries. A couple from Sector 8 in Vashi had hired the woman, identified as Irin Mazeem Vincent Lasardi (49) from Karnataka, for taking care of their newborn. In the last week of April, the couple noticed a swelling in the boy’s hand and after a check-up, it was found that he had suffered a fracture. Suspicious , the family installed CCTV cameras. Last week, the boy started crying profusely following which Ms. Lasardi took the baby from the mother away into another room. The woman there started shaking him strongly and tried to twist his body. “Based on the CCTV footage, we arrested the caretaker,” an officer from Vashi police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/caretaker-held-for-injuring-newborn/article34601590.ece
20 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Electricity yet to be restored in 24 villages||Two days after Cyclone Tuktae hit Raigad district, around 24,164 people from 24 villages are still in dark though Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) officials are working on war footing to restore power supply. The district has a total of 1960 villages and the MSEDCL had disconnected electricity. Alibaug, Srivardhan, Mhasla, and Poldapur talukas suffered the maximum damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/electricity-yet-to-be-restored-in-24-villages/article34601591.ece
20 May 2021||Pune,||Maratha quota: ‘We do not want BJP to stir the cauldron further’||With the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), sensing an opportunity to corner the ruling Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the Maratha reservation imbroglio, deciding to join the quota agitation, coordinators of Maratha outfits are wary of the saffron party’s participation. A number of community leaders are fretting that the BJP’s participation could give an unwarranted political twist to the quota drama and derail the community’s efforts to secure reservation. Maratha leader from Pimpri-Chinchwad, Maruti Bhapkar, has said instead of planning future agitations, the leaders must try to use their influence with the Centre to ensure that the community gets justice. “We do not want their protests against the ruling MVA at this stage…after the Supreme Court’s disappointing verdict, the onus now clearly is on the BJP-ruled Centre to convince the apex court and ensure that the Marathas get reservation. So, the State BJP leadership would do better to use their influence to get the Centre to throw its weight behind this problem,” Mr. Bhapkar said. He said that till now, the reservation issue had been sacrificed at the altar of regional power politics. “The problem is political parties are hungry to take credit…our agitations for the reservation have already cost the lives of 42 youths. They are extremely demoralised by the Supreme Court’s verdict. We do not want the BJP to stir the cauldron further,” said Mr. Bhapkar. He urged Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar to actively look into this issue. Vinod Patil, a coordinator of the Maratha Kranti Morcha, which has been spearheading the quota agitation, said a review petition had already been filed by him in the apex court challenging the majority view of the Constitution Bench that only the Centre, and not the State, had the power under the 102nd Constitution Amendment to identify and list Socially and Educationally Backward Classes. “Now that the Centre has come into the picture, it should not sit in the fence but take an active part in resolving this issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maratha-quota-we-do-not-want-bjp-to-stir-the-cauldron-further/article34601596.ece
20 May 2021||Gaza City,||Biden seeks ‘significant de-escalation’||U.S. President Joe Biden told Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that he expects “significant de-escalation” on Wednesday in the military confrontation with the Palestinians, amid intense efforts to reach a ceasefire. Deafening air strikes and rocket fire once more shook Gaza in the conflict that has, since May 10, claimed 219 Palestinian lives according to the Gaza Health Ministry and killed 12 people in Israel according to Israeli police. “The President conveyed to the Prime Minister that he expected a significant de-escalation today on the path to a ceasefire,” the White House said after a fourth phone call in a little over a week. The Russian Foreign Ministry said it warned the Israeli Ambassador on Wednesday that “actions that lead to a further increase in civilian casualties in Gaza were unacceptable”, according to Reuters. As diplomatic efforts intensified to stem the bloodshed, Germany said its top diplomat was heading to Israel for talks on Thursday. Mr. Netanyahu earlier on Wednesday issued a tough threat against the Gaza Strip’s Islamist rulers Hamas, who Israel says has fired around 3,700 rockets at Israel since May 10. “You can either conquer them, and that’s always an open possibility, or you can deter them, and we are engaged right now in forceful deterrence,” he told foreign envoys. “But I have to say we don’t rule out anything.” Ceasefire possibility But an Israeli military official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said in a separate briefing that Israel was assessing at what stage it may stop its military campaign. “We are looking at when is the right moment for a ceasefire,” said the source. Israel was evaluating whether its objective of degrading Hamas’ capabilities had been achieved, the military source said, and “whether Hamas understands the message” that its rocket barrages towards Israel cannot recur. Warplanes hit Gaza City again in the pre-dawn hours, as the Israeli military kept targeting militant leaders and infrastructure in the crowded enclave which has been under Israeli blockade for nearly 15 years. Meanwhile, Israel fired artillery at targets in Lebanon after four rockets were launched towards Israel from Lebanese territory on Wednesday, the Israeli military said, and a source said Hezbollah was not involved. It was the third incident of rocket fire from Lebanon since hostilities between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza flared up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-seeks-significant-de-escalation/article34601320.ece
20 May 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to shut its borders for 10 days||Sri Lanka’s borders will be closed for all arrivals for ten days beginning May 21, the Civil Aviation Authority said on Wednesday, while officials reported a record single-day high of 3,051 COVID 19 cases. Home to about 21 million people, Sri Lanka is witnessing a raging third wave of the pandemic, with health authorities reporting over 2,000 cases a day over the last week, prompting the government to impose travel restrictions, including lockdowns. The country’s death toll — which was among the lowest in the region during the first wave — has rapidly risen in the last few weeks, reaching 1,015 on Tuesday. More than 1,50,000 cases have been reported since the pandemic struck last year, of which nearly 30,000 are currently active, according to data published by the Health Promotion Bureau. The decision to bar entry to international travellers comes as a blow to the government’s efforts to revive the tourism industry from January this year, following a relative drop in case numbers. Tourism hit The Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority said over 4,000 tourists visited the country in April, with Indians topping the list of arrivals. However, early May, the government barred Indian tourists, citing the surge in cases in India. Meanwhile, Sri Lanka has been carrying out its vaccination drive in phases, beginning in January, with the India-donated 5,00,000 doses of Covishield vaccines. Sri Lanka placed an order for more vaccines with the Serum Institute, but its arrival has been delayed amid the significant rise in cases within India since. The Russian Sputnik and China’s Sinopharm vaccines are currently being administered by Sri Lankan health authorities and the military, who are tasked with managing the pandemic. China on Wednesday said it will donate a further 5,00,000 of Sinopharm vaccines to help Sri Lanka “build the Great Wall of vaccines”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-shut-its-borders-for-10-days/article34601309.ece
20 May 2021||Washington,||U.S. to work with COVAX to allocate 80 mn vaccine doses||The U.S. will work with the COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access (COVAX) programme as well as its partners to decide how to allocate the 80 million doses of vaccine it is sending to other countries over the next six weeks. India, which is currently the global epicentre of the pandemic, is expected to receive a significant share of these vaccines, but administration officials have not released actual numbers. “We’re looking at how we can get maximum coverage, because, I think, as all of you would agree, that demand exists everywhere,” Gayle Smith, the U.S.’s Coordinator for Global COVID Response and Health Security, said on a briefing call with reporters on Wednesday. “We’re consulting closely with COVAX, which, as you know, is the largest vaccine delivery platform in the world and that is focused on, in particular, low income and low-middle income countries and with our partners ,” she said. Ms. Smith referred to COVAX as “an absolutely critical and the central platform” for vaccine allocation. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki, on Tuesday, said vaccine allocation decisions would be made based on ‘equity’, in response to a question on whether India would be a recipient of the vaccines. The U.S. has deployed around $100 million in assistance to India during this current wave of the pandemic. Transparent manner “We, of course, will be making decisions based on equity, based on ensuring we are — we are providing these vaccines in a transparent manner with the global community through COVAX and also through direct relationships,” Ms. Psaki said. While India could theoretical use some of the vaccines it will produce as part of a Quad (India, the U.S., Australia and Japan) plan to supply at least 1 billion doses of to the Indo-Pacific by the end of 2022, the actual decisions will be taken based on ground conditions at the time, as per Ms. Smith. Biological E, a Telengana-based pharmaceutical company, is collaborating with Johnson & Johnson to produce the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine under the Quad plan. “Given the timeline for that production, I think its dispensation will depend to a great extent on the state of play around the world with vaccine coverage. That timeline is fairly extended. So, I think, while in principle those vaccine doses are available for internal use, but also for export to the rest of the world, the final allocation or plan for that will depend on what conditions we’re facing at the time they’re available, ” Ms. Smith said in response to a question from The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-work-with-covax-to-allocate-80-mn-vaccine-doses/article34601311.ece
20 May 2021||Moscow,||Putin, Xi hail ties at launch of work on nuclear plants in China||Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on Wednesday hailed close ties between their countries as they launched via videoconference work on Russian-built nuclear power plants in China. The heads of state initiated work on pouring concrete into new units of the Tianwan and Xudabao nuclear power plants. Built jointly with Russia, the Tianwan plant has been operating since 2007, while the Xudabao station is still under construction. “Russian and Chinese specialists are implementing a truly landmark flagship joint project,” the Kremlin cited Mr. Putin as saying. Describing the nuclear reactors as “powerful” and “modern”, the Russian leader said that they “meet all safety requirements and the highest environmental standards”. He said that the new units will be functional by 2026-2028 and that Russia and China are prepared to further develop nuclear power plants through joint construction. “We can say that Russian-Chinese relations have reached the highest level in history,” Mr. Putin said. Mr. Xi called nuclear energy a “strategic priority for cooperation” between the two countries, according to a readout published by the Chinese Foreign Ministry. Mr. Xi called for a “more equitable, balanced, inclusive, open and shared global energy governance system,” adding that Beijing and Moscow should “play a constructive role in achieving global sustainable development goals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-xi-hail-ties-at-launch-of-work-on-nuclear-plants-in-china/article34601317.ece
20 May 2021||New York,||Trump Organization faces criminal probe||The Trump Organization is being investigated in a “criminal capacity”, the New York state attorney general’s office said on Tuesday, as prosecutors advance their probe into former President Donald Trump’s business dealings. Mr. Trump denies wrongdoing, and has described a parallel criminal investigation by Manhattan’s district attorney as “a continuation of the greatest political witch hunt.” New York attorney general Letitia James has otherwise been investigating allegations of bank fraud and insurance fraud through civil proceedings. “We are now actively investigating the Trump Organization in a criminal capacity, along with the Manhattan DA,” said Fabien Levy, spokesman of New York A-G’s office. The district attorney’s investigation initially focused on hush payments made to two women who allege they had affairs with Mr. Trump, but had expanded to allegations of tax evasion, and insurance and bank fraud. The organization is the holding company for hundreds of Trump entities, ranging from hotels to golf courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-organization-faces-criminal-probe/article34601318.ece
20 May 2021||Beijing,||Israel accuses China state TV of ‘anti-Semitism’||The Israeli Embassy in Beijing has accused China’s state broadcaster of “blatant anti-Semitism”. A presenter on CGTN on Tuesday mentioned several elements of anti-Semitic conspiracy theories while discussing the U.S. support for Israel. The presenter said “powerful lobbies” of Jews in the U.S. were responsible for shaping U.S.’s position on the West Asia crisis and that “Jews dominate finance, media and Internet”. The Israeli Embassy said it was “appalled to see blatant anti-Semitism in an official Chinese media outlet”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-accuses-china-state-tv-of-anti-semitism/article34601312.ece
20 May 2021||Beijing,||China protests U.S. Navy passage via Taiwan Strait||China on Wednesday protested the latest passage by a U.S. Navy ship through the Taiwan Strait, calling it a provocation that undermined peace and stability in the region. The U.S. Navy’s 7th Fleet said that the guided missile destroyer USS Curtis Wilbur conducted a routine Taiwan Strait transit on Tuesday in accordance with international law. The passage “demonstrates the U.S. commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific.” “The United States military will continue to fly, sail, and operate anywhere international law allows,” the Navy said in a statement. While the strait is in international waters, China claims self-governing Taiwan as its own territory and regards the U.S. Navy’s presence in the area as a show of support for the island’s democratic government. In a statement, spokesperson for the Eastern Theater Command Col. Zhang Chunhui said the U.S. actions were “sending wrong signals to the ‘Taiwan independence’ forces, deliberately disrupting and sabotaging the regional situation and endangering peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-protests-us-navy-passage-via-taiwan-strait/article34601314.ece
20 May 2021||Brussels,||EU to reopen borders to fully vaccinat ed travellers||EU member states agreed on Wednesday to reopen the bloc’s borders to travellers who have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus, sources said. Meeting in Brussels, diplomats also agreed to increase the level of new cases a country can hit before being declared unsafe — a measure that would open up travel into the 27-member bloc from more places. The recommendations will be adopted by EU Ministers on Friday, they said. Since March 2020, non-essential travel into the EU has been banned, apart from a small number of countries deemed safe because of low COVID-19 cases. Diplomats said that, under the new rules, travellers who could demonstrate that they had received the required number of doses of an EU-approved vaccine could enter the bloc. In addition, the number of cases per 1,00,000 people that a country could register over two weeks and still be considered for the green list will rise from 25 to 75. This would still exclude non-vaccinated travellers from much of the world, but could allow travel from, for example, Britain, which is well-advanced in its vaccination campaign. The current green list has seven countries: Australia, Israel, New Zealand, Rwanda, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, plus China if Beijing agrees to reciprocate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-to-reopen-borders-to-fully-vaccinat-ed-travellers/article34601315.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Interpretations which impede a just social order||On May 5, the Supreme Court of India declared as unconstitutional a Maharashtra law which provided for reservation to the Maratha community in education and public employment in the State. Four judges of the five-judge Bench wrote separate opinions, from which three primary findings emanated. First, the Court held that the Maratha community did not constitute a socially and educationally backward class. Second, the judges discovered that the law was in breach of a rule previously set by the Court disallowing reservations made in excess of 50% of the total available positions. Third — and on this finding, two judges on the Bench dissented — the Court held that State governments had no independent power to declare a group as a backward class. The latter two findings run sharply athwart values of equality and federalism, which the Court has long regarded — in rhetoric if nothing else — as integral to India’s democracy. Not from the Constitution The idea that reservations ought to be restricted to 50% does not stem from the Constitution. The text of Articles 16(4) and 15(4) which confer power on the government to make reservations contains no such limitation. Originally, however, these clauses were seen by the Supreme Court as exceptions to a broad rule of formal equality that was thought to be envisioned by the Constitution. To that end, the Court held that to allow reservation in excess of 50% would lead to an exception overriding a rule. But a seven-judge Bench, in State of Kerala vs N.M. Thomas (1975), laid this theory to rest. There, the Court held that a programme of reservation was inherent in the Constitution’s basic guarantee of equal treatment, and that affirmative action by the state was compelled by an objective of attaining substantive equality. With that, the rule requiring that reservations stay under 50% ought to have been deemed incongruous. But when the Court sat as a nine-judge Bench in Indra Sawhney vs Union of India (1992) it sustained a paradox. The majority on the Bench ruled, on the one hand, that N.M. Thomas was correct in seeing reservations as embedded in a constitutional vision of substantive equality, and, on the other hand, that reservation made in excess of 50%, barring exceptional circumstances, was harmful to that very vision. As the lawyer Gautam Bhatia has pointed out, this is an incompatible position. Yet, efforts to have the verdict in Indra Sawhney reconsidered have failed. The upshot: a mathematical formula with no basis in the Constitution’s text is retained, even as the Court pays symbolic obeisance to the ideals of substantive equality. Court stand on listings These limitations are made worse by the Court’s present ruling on the power of State governments to declare groups as backward. Until now, the central government and each of the State governments produced separate lists declaring communities as socially and educationally backward. Following the Supreme Court’s judgment in Indra Sawhney , the determination of backward classes was made by the National Commission for the Backward Classes, at the level of the Centre, and by regional commissions at the level of the State governments. As a result, backward communities that were kept out of the central list were entitled to reservation at least for those posts and seats under the control of the State government. For example, 25 different groups categorised as backward in Tamil Nadu do not find place in the central list (https://bit.ly/3ot6x7c) . This division in power, which gave States autonomy to classify groups as backward, stood in contrast to the lists of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. In the case of those lists, right from the Constitution’s inception, the power to prepare them vested solely with the Union government. But the Supreme Court has now held that this distinction no longer holds good. The 102nd Amendment (2018), which forms the basis for the Court’s ruling, granted constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes. In addition, it introduced Article 342A, through which it stipulated that the President of India may, after consultation with the State government, notify groups of persons within such a State who are deemed to be socially and educationally backward. Any such “Central List”, the clause clarified, could only be altered by Parliament. Article 366(26C) was also added, and “socially and educationally backward classes” was defined as “such backward classes as are so deemed under Article 342A for the purposes of this Constitution”. Term and interpretations In interpreting these changes, a majority on the Bench concluded that the Constitution had now created a structure for determination of other backward classes identical to that in place for the preparation of the lists of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The verdict, which was controlled predominantly by Justice S. Ravindra Bhat’s opinion, relied on the plain meaning of Articles 342A and 366(26C). But it overlooked, at least, two essential factors: first, the term “Central List” — which is used in Article 342A — has always been understood in contradistinction to the term “state list”, in that it refers to the categorisation of groups as backward for the purposes of reservation to posts and seats under the Union government’s control. Second, when State governments objected to the 102nd Amendment on the ground that their power was being divested, the Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment, Thaawarchand Gehlot, assuaged their concerns and pointed out that the proposed changes did no such thing. The “right to include or remove in the States List…will remain as it is and it will not be violated in any manner,” he said in Parliament. It is an acceptable proposition of constitutional interpretation to hold that external aids, such as parliamentary debates, are useful only when the plain meaning of a provision is unclear. However, here, the term “Central List” in Article 342A (unlike Articles 341 and 342, which concern the preparation of a list of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes respectively) shows that, if anything, the Constitution recognises the power of State government to frame lists of their own. Any other interpretation of the term “Central List” would only impinge on the plain meaning of the term. On the other hand, if one were to concede that two interpretations to the amendments were plausible, then one would have thought that the Court would have adopted the interpretation that allows for a more equitable division of power between the central and State governments. If the majority’s interpretation of the 102nd Amendment is correct, then the changes altogether dispossess States from exercising a time-honoured authority. But yet the amendment, in the Court’s belief, did not violate the Constitution’s basic structure. This was because, according to the majority, the alterations neither took away “the very essence of federalism” nor denuded the States of their effective power to legislate. But it is hard to see how divesting states of a power this critical, to classify groups as backward, entitling many communities to protection under Articles 15(4) and 16(4), can be seen as anything but offensive to the “essence” of federalism. The changes, as interpreted by the Court, are by no means superficial; they directly impede the ability of States to secure a just social order. The Union government has already filed a petition to review the judgment insofar as it limits the power of State governments. Should the Court refuse the plea, it is imperative that Parliament amends the Constitution and grants to States an express power to determine backwardness. Any other result will offend the delicate balance at the heart of Indian federalism. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/interpretations-which-impede-a-just-social-order/article34601295.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The basics of an effective vaccine policy||Over a year after the SARS-CoV-2 struck the world, it is now clear that the virus is not going away any time soon and breaking the chain of transmission seems unlikely. The best policy against COVID-19, thus, appears to be to ensure that the infection is mild in most people, and that in those in whom the disease might be more severe, it can be pushed towards a milder form by vaccination. Therefore, it is important to vaccinate as many people as possible. Unfortunately, the number of vaccine doses available is limited at present. Technicalities of vaccine production make it likely that indigenous manufacturers will require three to six months from now to increase capacity significantly. The whole virion vaccine from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, currently being manufactured by Bharat Biotech, is produced in facilities where biological safety requirements are essential and will take time to be upscaled. The mRNA vaccine technology is new. Though the Moderna vaccine does not have intellectual property constraints and Gennova is making its own mRNA vaccine based on science from HDT in the United States, it is unrealistic to expect Indian manufacturers to be able to embrace this new technology without handholding through the process. Difficult choices Import of vaccines in quantities that can make a difference will be possible perhaps from August, when wealthy nations would have made substantial progress in the immunisation of their populations. India is thus faced with the unpleasant reality of having to decide the priority in which it is going to vaccinate its population, i.e., the order in which the different groups should be vaccinated. However, it can take comfort in the fact that all countries were forced to make this decision, and nowhere in the world has it been possible to vaccinate the entire population at one go. The experience of vaccine hesitancy should not distract us from the goal of inoculating as many people as quickly as possible. The speed with which the vaccines were developed, the introduction of new technology, reports of a few serious adverse events, the decision of certain wealthy countries to halt using the AstraZeneca shot due to concerns over blood clots and because they had other vaccines, contributed to doubts about the safety of vaccines in India.  But it is now clear that vaccines are highly effective and the risks are extremely low. Indeed, vaccines are the only way that we can stay ahead of the virus. It is, hence, important to draw in behavioural scientists to address vaccine hesitancy and ensure that the population is covered.  Careful planning Should we vaccinate the most vulnerable, i.e., those who are most likely to succumb to the disease if they get infected, or should we vaccinate the population which contributes the most to the economy? This is a stark and perhaps unpalatable way to delineate the choice, but it is a factual position. Should we first vaccinate the elderly who are at high risk of serious illness and death, or should we vaccinate the working population so that we can open workplaces and revive the economy? Wealthy countries with small populations went with the first option, but India must design a vaccine policy carefully because breaking the chain of transmission is not an option currently. Repeated lockdowns do not break the chain of transmission of the infection. They only slow the spread of the virus for a period, and when they are lifted, as they must be, the virus surfaces again. Transparent decision-making The ethical and humane choice would be to vaccinate the most vulnerable first. If this is impractical, then the choice would be to vaccinate some combination of the elderly vulnerable and the working population in every tranche. This should be worked out using data and the basis of the decision should be made public. Opaque decision-making leads to a loss of trust in governance and social discord. Access to all Leaving the vaccination policy to market forces is neither ethical nor practical. Allowing all adults to access the vaccine at the same time introduces ethical distortions, which no humane society should face. Those with the resources to get vaccinated early are the least vulnerable because they also have the ability to protect themselves. Attempts to make vaccination more accessible through technology, as is being done with the Co-WIN app, are failing at the moment. Many States have declared that they will bear the cost for all their citizens, but this is a decision that they should not have been forced to make; the approach also does not address the dilemma of who will get the vaccine and in which order, given the very limited supply. Governments are elected to represent the will of the people. In a civilised society, when a life-saving resource is in short supply, the government must take it upon itself to both enhance the supply and formulate a policy to allocate the resource. In India, the Centre should desist from being opaque in its decisions, abdicating its responsibility, transferring expenses to State governments, and allowing market forces to decide on vaccine access for a substantial part of the population. Given our current circumstances, the State governments are struggling to find a way forward amid the scramble for vaccines. There are many options for distribution, and as a society, we ought to make decisions that are based on science and fairness. The logical basis of the decision should be explained. Dr. George Thomas is the former editor of The Indian Journal of Medical Ethics; Dr. Gagandeep Kang is Professor Wellcome Trust Research Laboratory at the Christian Medical College, Vellore; Dr. Jayaprakash Muliyil is former Principal of the Christian Medical College, Vellore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-basics-of-an-effective-vaccine-policy/article34601307.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A collage of laws that leaves the worker out in the cold||As COVID-19 destroys lives and livelihoods, an unprepared government has rendered low-paid, informal workers, who constitute 91% of the workforce, totally hapless, pushing them further into poverty. Imagine if these same informal workers had social security (including free basic curative care in public clinics and hospitals, the elderly had old age pensions, the dying had death/disability insurance or life insurance). Imagine also that they had at least a minimum income guarantee, which prevented them from falling into debt; debt is currently exploding among the poor as their incomes collapsed. Gaps in the code India’s Parliament in September 2020 passed a Social Security Code (SS Code 2020; https://bit.ly/3bVsU0f). Does this law even attempt to provide these, let alone guarantee them? That is what we examine here. We shall set aside the issue of free basic curative health care, since the SS Code does not have that in its scope. Fair enough, but has the Government of India ensured that at least in a year of a nation-wide pandemic, the health Budget for FY 2021-22 is higher than the pathetic just over 1% of GDP that it has been for decades (making all past central/State governments complicit)? If we leave out the allocation for the COVID-19 vaccine (still mostly unused), then the FY22 health Budget is actually lower. The SS Code 2020 merges existing social security laws and attempts to include informal workers within the ambit of social security administration. However, an examination of the code reveals that universalisation of social security remains an unfulfilled aspiration. The SS Code 2020 amalgamates and rationalises the provisions of eight existing central labour laws. Of these acts, employees provident fund, employees state insurance (ESI), maternity benefit, gratuity are entirely for organised sector workers. This has remained so even in the new scheme of things. For employees’ state insurance, the existing employee threshold has been withdrawn and now the central government can extend ESI benefits to any organisation irrespective of the number of workers employed therein. However, there are areas of ambiguity and overlapping too. Hurdles for informal workers However, is the Code going to provide universal social security to the 91% workers in the informal sector? It proposes that both the central and State governments will formulate schemes for unorganised workers. The legal framework as proposed in the Code and Rules, implies that the basic onus lies on informal workers registering as beneficiaries. Registration is a prerequisite for universal coverage. To avail social security, an informal worker must register herself on the specified online portal to be developed by the central government. Similar provisions are already there in existing social security schemes run by State governments under the Unorganized Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008. Still, a large number of informal workers are outside the ambit of any social security even after 13 years. The absence of definite and unambiguous provisions in the present code would further complicate achievement of universal registration. Also, experience shows that there is an awful lack of awareness among informal workers regarding social security schemes. Online registration places a further challenge as most informal workers lack digital literacy and connectivity (already demonstrated by a similar registration requirement for COVID-19 vaccines under CoWIN, the government app). Informal workers also find it difficult to furnish all documentary papers required as part of the registration process. Most informal workers are footloose casual workers (26% of all workers) and self-employed (46% of all). They move from one place to another in search of livelihoods. Furnishing proof of livelihood and income details in the absence of tangible employer-employee relations is very difficult. Such requirements deter informal workers from completing the registration and they continue to remain outside the social security ambit. Inter-State cooperation must Further, as unorganised workers are spread across the length and breadth of India, inter-State arrangement and cooperation becomes imperative. The code does not provide for such eventualities. Ideally, the central government should conceptualise a basic structure, which if successful, should be adopted by States after necessary customisation. Without such a basic structure, implications of this code would be too varied across States to be administered. Providing holistic social security cover for the unorganised workforce in a simple and effective manner is something lost in the Centre-State labyrinth and jurisdictional or institutional overlap. The unorganised workforce is all encompassing, minus the minuscule regular workers of organised sectors. This identity should be primal and all unorganised workers should have basic social security coverage, irrespective of labour market classifications. The code fails to undertake such inclusion in a meaningful way. Key benefits Maternity benefit: Under the SS Code, the provision of maternity benefit has not been made universal. Maternity benefit is presently applicable for establishments employing 10 workers or more. The definition of ‘Establishment’ in the proposed code did not include the unorganised sector. Hence, women engaged in the unorganised sector would remain outside the purview of maternity benefit. This obsession with thresholds of the number of workers employed was the bane of earlier labour laws too. Employees Provident Fund: The SS Code maintains that the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme will remain applicable, as before, to every establishment in which 20 or more employees are employed. Thus, for informal sector workers, access to employees’ provident fund remains unfulfilled too in the new code. Payment of gratuity: Gratuity shall be payable to eligible employees by every shop or establishment in which 10 or more employees are employed, or were employed, on any day of the preceding 12 months. But although payment of gratuity was expanded in the new Code, it still remains inaccessible for a vast majority of informal workers. Lost opportunity The provision of social security could be used to formalise the workforce to a certain extent. Employers could have been made to own up to the responsibility of providing social security to their workers. The state has a responsibility but the primary responsibility still lies with employers since they are taking advantage of workers’ productivity. Financial constraints are there for the state too; but all the code does is to state that it will design schemes for informal workers as and when it deems fit. In the end, this code remains a collage of existing pieces of legislation without that interweaving thread of integration. It has promise but cannot meet those expectations. At a time when India chairs a BRICS meeting in Delhi (preparatory to a Summit) that is focused on issues of labour, especially informality, it fails to even recognise that India is ageing without social security, and the demographic dividend of the young workforce that could support the ageing ends in 15 years. This is a dreadful failure on the part of the state in a time of dire crisis for the nation. Santosh Mehrotra is the editor of ‘Reviving Jobs: An Agenda for Growth’ (2020) and Visiting Professor, Centre for Development, University of Bath, U.K. Kingshuk Sarkar is an independent researcher and labour administrator with the Government of West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-collage-of-laws-that-leaves-the-worker-out-in-the-cold/article34601299.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A thaw in India-Pakistan trade relations?||The rejection by the Pakistan government of the recent proposal made to it by the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) to import sugar, cotton and cotton yarn from India was disappointing, but at the same time indicative of a possibility of resumption of trade relations between the two countries. In 2019, India and Pakistan undertook trade-restrictive measures against each other, which were perhaps the most severe in several decades. After the Pulwama terror attack in Kashmir in February 2019 and cross-border air strikes, India withdrew the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status of Pakistan and imposed a customs duty hike of 200% on imports. Later, when India revoked the autonomy of Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan suspended bilateral trade. Despite the trade ban setback, the Indo-Pak history suggests that there are reasons for having cautious optimism towards reviving the trade dialogue. Even though trade curbs have been applied several times in the past, such measures have been reversed to create a trade enhancing environment. Most notable is the protocol on resumption of trade in 1974 after a hiatus of nine years following the India-Pakistan war in 1965. The two countries agreed to trade in a list of items, including essential agricultural commodities, which could stabilise domestic prices and take care of seasonal shortages and food security in the home country. Both countries worked on positive lists for some years, which expanded over the years. We can see parallels emerging in the current context. Within a month of suspending bilateral trade with India, the Pakistan government lifted the ban on the import of medicines and raw material from India to avert any crises and ensure that there is no shortage of essential drugs. A year and a half later, there is a demand for the inclusion of three more items, namely sugar, cotton and yarn. A deeper examination of the trade measures and data indicate that there is more concrete evidence of trade between the two countries even after the imposition of restrictions. A key difference between India and Pakistan is that while India imposed a 200% import duty and no ban on export, Pakistan banned both export and import. Hence, Indian trade data are likely to reflect trends better. Not only has trade been recorded in the first eleven months of the financial year 2020-21, but a sizeable number of items have been traded between the two countries. During 2020-21 (April-February), the recorded bilateral trade was $280 million, of which India’s exports to Pakistan were $278 million and imports were $2 million. Nearly 77% of India’s exports comprised vaccines, pharmaceutical products and products of chemical and allied industries. Interestingly, despite the trade ban, sugar was already being exported to Pakistan and was the second most important item, accounting for 15% of India’s total exports. Dates were the most important item being imported from Pakistan, accounting for 31% of total imports, followed by ethyl alcohol, which accounted for 17% of total imports. Significant costs While the overall value of trade with Pakistan may not be significant, the number of items traded certainly is. A closer look at the trade data reveals that India exported 357 products (at HS-6 digit level classification) to Pakistan and imported 25 products from the country. This is despite the complete ban on trade by Pakistan on both exports and imports. Thus, even under restrictive trade conditions, there are interdependencies between India and Pakistan. The trade measures impacted several important domestic and export industries, even though the volume of trade was small at $2.56 billion in 2018-19. Governments of both countries need to recognise that there are significant costs of non-cooperation. Restrictions also shift trade to informal channels, which have functioned for decades and are a ready option for traders from both countries. Initiating a positive list for trade is the right move towards normalisation. The recent data provide an indicative list of products that can be included. Business organisations and chambers of commerce can play an important role in creating a strong lobby that could build momentum in opening channels and influence the shaping of the India-Pakistan trade policy. Nisha Taneja is Professor at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, New Delhi. Samridhi Bimal is an Independent Consultant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-thaw-in-india-pakistan-trade-relations/article34601305.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Overstepping the norm||The recent order by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for providing security cover to 77 MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who were elected earlier this month after the West Bengal Assembly poll is not only unprecedented but appears politically motivated. It is rare for such a blanket order for deployment of forces to protect individuals to be issued. While 16 of these MLAs already have security cover of different levels, 61 of them will now be under the X-category umbrella. In practice, decisions to provide security to persons under threat is taken by a committee in the MHA, which comprises officials from the Ministry, the Intelligence Bureau, Delhi Police and senior officials of the Central Armed Police Forces, that is, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the National Security Guard (NSG). While the Intelligence Bureau prepares the list of persons under threat and the degree of threat, the committee decides on the force to be deployed depending upon the place where the person is located. The deployment is done after the recommendations of the committee are approved by the competent authority. In these meetings, the threat perception of each of the person to be secured is discussed one by one and not collectively for any group as such. A State subject That the decision to deploy CAPF personnel for the 77 MLAs might have stemmed from political motivation can be inferred from the fact that the threat perception for each of the persons was not discussed. In the past, such deployment of central forces for the protection of individuals was done in Punjab and in Jammu and Kashmir, when these regions were rocked by unrest. Since militants tried to sabotage the process of elections, poll candidates were generally targeted. The Central government, therefore, took blanket decisions to provide security to every candidate till the elections got over. Law and order being a State subject, West Bengal is duty-bound to protect every citizen of the State, more so the MLAs. In the absence of the Central government’s decision to deploy CAPFs, the West Bengal government should have shouldered the responsibility. But by deploying central forces, the Centre has sent a clear signal that it does not rely upon the State government to provide fool-proof security to the BJP MLAs. This is hardly a healthy sign for Centre-State relations. The Central government’s distrust of officers who are considered close to a State’s ruling dispensation does not bode well for police officers across the country. On the State governments devolves the onerous responsibility of maintaining law and order at all costs and it is their sacred duty to protect every MLA, irrespective of political affiliation. The number of protected persons has increased in recent years to such an extent that in 2019, as many as 66,043 police and CAPF personnel were deployed to protect 19,467 Ministers, Members of Parliament, judges and bureaucrats, against the sanctioned strength of 43,556 personnel, as per the Data on Police Organisations. The Prime Minister has a strength of over 3,000 CAPF personnel on deputation to Special Protection Group (SPG) under the SPG Act, protecting him round the clock. Constant deployment of CAPF personnel on protection duties impacts their training schedule. After the initial eight-week training for VIP protection, the personnel have to undergo a two-week refresher training periodically to hone their skills. To curb the tendency of demanding security personnel around themselves, leaders and prominent persons should be asked to bear the expenditure, as is being done for an industrialist who pays Rs. 16 lakh per month for the security cover provided to him. Similarly, Members of Parliament and leaders with criminal records should be charged a fee for the security personnel deployed to protect them. Having security cover has now become a status symbol and the growing clamour by people for personnel to escort them will be curbed to a large extent if they are made to pay for the security. M.P. Nathanael is a retired Inspector-General of Police, CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/overstepping-the-norm/article34601302.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Flashing lights||The RBI’s latest monthly bulletin has just confirmed what many economists and anecdotal evidence have been pointing to — a sharp backslide in economic momentum. In an article on the State of the Economy, RBI officials including Deputy Governor Michael Debabrata Patra have flagged the ‘demand shock’ inflicted by the ferocious second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Specifically, they have cited the loss of mobility, impact on discretionary spending and increase in unemployment as clear signs that demand is in the doldrums. Several high-frequency indicators for April have captured the reversal in momentum. GST e-way bills, an indicator of the health of domestic trade, contracted 17.5% month-on-month, while automobile fuel consumption, commercial vehicle sales and domestic air passenger traffic all shrank from the preceding month. And the previously relatively unscathed rural economy too saw demand begin to dry up as new infections spread wider and deeper into the countryside, a trend reflected in a 33.5% contraction in the dispatches of two wheelers and a palpable weakening in demand for tractors. Also, unemployment, which hit a four-month high of 8% in April as per a survey by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, was at 9.5% on May 18 based on a 30-day moving average. Crucially, rural unemployment captured by the moving average has risen to 8.6%, and this at a time when the pandemic’s grip and higher spending on health are likely to be pushing up precarity among households in the hinterland. Looking ahead, the critical risk to the economy even as it tries to recover from the last fiscal year’s crippling contraction is posed by the speed at which the virus continues to spread in the country. With the pace of vaccinations having slowed nationwide, more so in rural and semi-rural areas, the agriculture sector is likely to face challenges in the coming months when sowing for the kharif crop will need to be done. The reports on the infections and deaths linked to the disease from the villages and towns portray a grim picture and it is hard to see rural demand for anything other than the barest of essentials including food and medicines reviving any time soon. Add to this the rising cost of transport fuels, and the sharp increases in commodity prices, cutting across agricultural and industrial raw-materials segments and one sees ‘a worsening of domestic cost conditions’ as the RBI officials warn. Accelerating inflation threatens the economy’s overall consumptive capacity and policy makers need to be wary of the real danger of stagflation. The shrinking fiscal space notwithstanding, authorities need to spend more on an expedited nationwide vaccine roll-out and must seriously consider direct cash transfers to boost demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/flashing-lights/article34601290.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Fresh start||By choosing 17 fresh faces in the new Council of Ministers of 21, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala is trying to signal a continuing willingness to evolve as a responsive political organisation. Barring Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the CPI(M) has not nominated any of its Ministers from the previous term. All four Ministers of the CPI are new. Eight Ministers are first time MLAs, as is the Speaker nominee, M.B. Rajesh. The composition of the Council broadly reflects the State’s social diversity; and there are three women, the highest in history. The CPI(M) has reconfigured its social base in Kerala, at significant cost to the Congress, and it is reinforcing those trends through the selection of Ministers. Veena George and Saji Cherian are being rewarded for leading a shift of Christian voters in Central Travancore to the party. A judicious mix of youth and experience, the Council is an attempt at messaging to the electorate a fresh resolve of the LDF, particularly the CPI(M). But the exclusion of K.K. Shailaja, who has been in the spotlight for her role as Health Minister, has set off criticism against the CPI(M) from many quarters, including its own support base. After having won with a huge margin, she was expected to provide continuity to the State’s fight against the pandemic. Her exclusion does seem like changing horses midstream. K.N. Balagopal and P. Rajeev have proven their mettle as parliamentarians and in the organisation. P.A. Muhammad Riyas happens to be Mr. Vijayan’s son-in-law, and R. Bindu the wife of CPI(M) Acting State Secretary A. Vijayaraghavan. Both merit inclusion in their own right. The crowd of 500 expected at the swearing-in ceremony today is, however, bad optics, in the midst of a pandemic which remains untamed in the State that is in lockdown. The new government has more challenges — a cyclone rained misery in the coastal areas this week, and fears of floods loom along with the monsoon clouds. The State’s finances are in a shambles. The CPI(M) had replaced 22 sitting MLAs who had finished two terms with new candidates in the election. Several senior leaders were already benched by this criterion. The party subsequently decided to nominate only fresh faces to the Council by way of reiterating the primacy of the organisation over individuals. Ironically, the choices also raise valid concerns of the increasing concentration of power in the hands of Mr. Vijayan. In a Council packed with newcomers, the CM will command such authority that an open discussion on any topic could be difficult. Given his complete sway over the party and the government, the onus is on him to empower the Ministers. Officials whom he trusted put him and the party in a spot many times during the first term. By restoring political consultations, including within the CPI(M), and keeping the bureaucracy disciplined, Mr. Vijayan could make his second term better than the first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fresh-start/article34601291.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Cut in group premium insurance||[CHANDIGARH, May 19] The Life Insurance Corporation has decided to reduce the premium on group insurance by 25 to 30 per cent from June 1 this year, its Chairman, Mr. T.A. Pai, told a news conference here to-day. He said the idea was to make group insurance “as attractive as possible”. But he made it clear that premium on individual life policies would not be lowered. Mr. Pai said the L.I.C. was also studying the possibility of introducing a group war risk insurance scheme for the defence forces. The scheme would cover personnel of the three arms of the defence forces, the Army, Air Force and Navy. The Government would have to underwrite the scheme, he said. Cover for substandard lives Mr. Pai also said he was suggesting to the Government to create a development fund for L.I.C. to undertake insurance of substandard lives. He said it was a “social obligation” of the State, of which L.I.C. was an instrument, to insure people who were classified as “risks” in insurance parlance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cut-in-group-premium-insurance/article34601301.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Low confidence plus high fuel, health costs to hurt demand’||The pandemic’s second wave will dent consumer sentiment even as high healthcare expenses and retail fuel prices will squeeze disposable incomes and consumers, rating agency ICRA warned in a note on Wednesday. While the low base of April 2020, which saw very tepid economic activity, had propped up several economic indicators this April, ICRA said that there is a persistent slackening in activity due to the second wave that overshadows the base effect. “The optimism generated by this trend of high growth rates in several high-frequency indicators for April is limited, as eight of the 13 non-financial indicators in April 2021 remained below their pre-Covid (April 2019) levels,” Aditi Nayar, the rating agency’s chief economist, said. Many indicators such as GST e-way bills, fuel consumption and vehicle registrations displayed a slowing sequential momentum in April 2021, reflecting the rise in COVID-19 cases, and imposition of restrictions in various parts of the country, ICRA noted, adding that this trend has continued so far in May, with restrictions spreading to more States. “In our view, the sharply higher daily infections in the second wave of COVID-19 in India will have a prolonged negative impact on consumer sentiment. In addition, the substantial healthcare expenses related to the COVID-19 treatment, along with high retail prices of fuels, are likely to squeeze disposable incomes in the urban as well as rural areas,” Ms. Nayar said. With pent-up demand satiated during the festive season in 2020, demand for many varieties of consumer durables may be low, ICRA reckoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/low-confidence-plus-high-fuel-health-costs-to-hurt-demand/article34601276.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||FinMin grants ‘infrastructure’ status for convention centres||The Finance Ministry has granted ‘Infrastructure’ status for exhibition and convention centres, a move that is expected to ease bank financing for such projects. ‘Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre is included in the Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure sub-sectors by insertion of a new item in the category of Social and Commercial Infrastructure,’ the Department of Economic Affairs said. However, the benefits would only be available for projects with a minimum built-up floor area of 1,00,000 sq. m. of exclusive exhibition space or convention space or both combined. As of now, the major projects under way in the sector are backed by the government – the International Exhibition-cum-Convention Centres at Dwarka and Pragati Maidan in the capital. The infrastructure tag does not involve significant tax breaks but would help such projects get easier financing from banks, said experts. However, restrictions on size may be a dampener. “India doesn’t have large convention centres or single halls with capacities to hold 7,000 to 10,000 people, unlike countries like Thailand that is a major global MICE destination,” said Abhaya Agarwal, partner, infrastructure practice at EY India. Becoming a MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions) destination can generate significant revenue with several global firms active in India but it will take time to become a preferred destination. Last August, the government had granted infrastructure status to affordable rental housing projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/finmin-grants-infrastructure-status-for-convention-centres/article34601272.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||IOC turns a Q4 net of Rs. 8,781 cr.||Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the nation’s biggest oil firm, on Wednesday reported a better-than-expected net profit of Rs. 8,781.3 crore in the March quarter, helped by a surge in refining margins as higher crude prices boosted inventory value. Standalone net profit was Rs. 8,781.3 crore, or Rs. 9.56 a share, compared with a loss of Rs. 5,185.3 crore in the same period a year earlier, IOC Chairman S.M. Vaidya said. The rise in profitability was due to higher inventory gain and petrochemical margin in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 fiscal, he said. The company had reported a loss in January-March 2020 owing to inventory losses. Inventory gains are booked when raw material (crude) prices rise by the time a company processes oil into fuel. Losses are booked when the reverse happens. Brent crude prices jumped about 23% during the March quarter. IOC earned $10.6 on turning every barrel of crude oil into fuel compared with a negative gross refining margin (GRM), or loss, of $9.64 per barrel, he said. Without inventory gains, GRM for the January-March quarter stood at $2.51 per barrel. Mr. Vaidya said the company earned a record net profit of Rs. 21,836 crore in the fiscal ended March 31. The second wave of coronavirus infections has disrupted fuel demand but not to the extent seen in April-June last year, he said.   “Demand destruction is not to that extent,” he said, adding that petrol and diesel sales have fallen 15-20% while ATF demand continued to be half of the pre-COVID-19 levels. The board has declared a final dividend of Rs. 1.50 per equity share. Mr. Vaidya said IOC is targeting capital spending of Rs. 28,847 crore in FY22 compared with Rs. 27,194 crorethe previous year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ioc-turns-a-q4-net-of-rs-8781-cr/article34601282.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Assam tea gardens hit by COVID-19, bad weather||The double whammy of COVID-19 infection among plantation workers and drought-like conditions has rendered an estimated crop loss of 60 million kilograms to tea estates in Assam. “Spells of pre-monsoon showers have made planters heave a sigh of relief, but the damage has already been done,” the North Eastern Tea Association (NETA) and Bharatiya Cha Parishad (BCP) said following a survey across plantations. Second year of loss This is the second successive year of massive crop loss. The lockdown last year saw most of Assam’s 803 major estates and more than 1.70 lakh small tea gardens losing 78 million kg of tea leaves, Tea Board of India data showed. Tea estates have largely been exempted from severe curbs this time, but a few estates have been hamstrung by more than 500 employees out of action due to COVID-19 infection. “This has been an unusual year so far for the Assam tea industry in terms of productivity,” NETA advisor Bidyananda Barkakoty said. “Extreme weather fluctuations, both in terms of temperature and rainfall, have impacted the growth of tea leaves severely,” BCP advisor Mrigendra Jalan said.  More than 500 employees are out of action due to COVID infection||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/assam-tea-gardens-hit-by-covid-19-bad-weather/article34601267.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Taxpayers can withdraw GST refund applications’||The Department of Revenue has tweaked the Central GST rules to enable taxpayers withdraw refund applications and exclude the time period involved between filing of such applications and any deficiency found in the applications from the relevant deadlines. In a notification issued on Tuesday, the department also laid out specific formats for officers assessing refund requests to withhold the release of such claimed refunds, requiring them to place on record the personal hearing in the matter and detailed reasons for holding back refunds. “With this amendment, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs has rationalised the refund provisions,” said Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY. “A few changes such as the option to withdraw refund application filed by the assessee were awaited and advocated by the industry players for a long time,” Mr. Jain said, terming this a taxpayer-friendly measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/taxpayers-can-withdraw-gst-refund-applications/article34601274.ece
20 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Adani Green to acquire SB Energy in $3.5 bn deal||Adani Green Energy Ltd. (AGEL) has agreed to acquire 100% interest in SB Energy India from SoftBank Group (80%) and Bharti Group (20%) at an enterprise valuation of $3.5 billion for the renewables firm. “SB Energy India has a total renewable portfolio of 4,954 MW spread across four States in India,” said AGEL. “The transaction marks the largest acquisition in the renewable energy sector in India.” The portfolio comprises 84% solar capacity, 9% wind-solar hybrid and 7% wind. On completion, AGEL will achieve a total renewable capacity of 24.3 GW and an operating renewable capacity of 4.9 GW. “This acquisition is another step towards the vision we stated in January 2020... to become the world’s largest solar player by 2025 and the world’s largest renewable firm by 2030,” said Gautam Adani, chairman, Adani Group. “We believe now is the right time to bring in the Adani Group to help drive the next phase of SB Energy India’s growth,” said Masayoshi Son, chairman and CEO, SoftBank Group Corp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-green-to-acquire-sb-energy-in-35-bn-deal/article34601286.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Royal Enfield to recall about 2.37 lakh bikes||Royal Enfield said it will recall about 2.37 lakh Classic, Bullet and Meteor motorcycles following a defect in the ignition coil that can lead to misfiring, reduced performance and in rare cases, a short circuit. The move would impact Meteor units manufactured and sold between December 2020 and April 2021, and the Classic and Bullet bikes made and sold between January and April. “These motorcycles will undergo replacement of the defective part, if required,” it said. The recall would include bikes sold in India, Thailand, Indonesia, Australia, New Zealand and Malaysia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/royal-enfield-to-recall-about-237-lakh-bikes/article34601277.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||NCLAT rejects Thiru Arooran ex-CMD’s plea||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), Chennai has rejected a plea by R.V. Tyagarajan, former CMD of Thiru Arooran Sugars Ltd. against liquidation orders. In April, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai, had ordered liquidation after lenders did not find any viable plan for revival. In 2019, NCLT had ordered insolvency proceedings against the firm in a case filed by State Bank of India for alleged default of Rs. 149.36 crore. The NCLAT cited a Supreme Court verdict that stated commercial wisdom of the committee of creditors is not to be interfered with except in exceptional circumstances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclat-rejects-thiru-arooran-ex-cmds-plea/article34601278.ece
20 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Das tells PSBs to implement RBI measures||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday asked State-owned banks to quickly implement measures announced by the central bank recently in the ‘right earnest,’ and to continue focusing on steps to enhance the resilience of their balance sheets.  Earlier this month, the Governor had announced a slew of measures, includ ing term-liquidity facility of Rs. 50,000 crore to ease access to emergency health services, to further improve lending to MSME sector, restructuring of loans and rationalisation of compliance with KYC, in wake of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/das-tells-psbs-to-implement-rbi-measures/article34601279.ece
20 May 2021||MUMBAI,||‘DHFL lenders can mull offer by Wadhawan’||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Wednesday directed the administrator of DHFL to present the settlement offer of the non-banking financial company’s ousted promoter Kapil Wadhawan before the creditors for their consideration. The tribunal, in an oral order, has asked the RBI-appointed administrator of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) to present the settlement plan to the Committee of Creditors (CoC). In 2020, Mr. Wadhawan had made his settlement offer to the CoC that was rejected by the lenders. DHFL had gone bankrupt with more than Rs. 90,000 crore in debt to various lenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dhfl-lenders-can-mull-offer-by-wadhawan/article34601280.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Aknamed buys Vardhman Health Specialties for $40 mn||Akna Medical (Aknamed), a tech-enabled supply chain platform for the healthcare sector, has acquired Vardhman Health Specialties (Vardhman), a specialty products provider to hospitals in therapeutic areas of oncology, immunotherapy and virology for $40 million.  The acquisition of Vardhman is the third inorganic move by Aknamed Group in the last 12 months and with this, the firm will have an annualised revenue of $200 million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aknamed-buys-vardhman-health-specialties-for-40-mn/article34601268.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Rakesh Bhardwaj is Ola Group’s new CIO||Mobility player Ola appointed Rakesh Bhardwaj as group chief information officer (CIO). In this role, Mr. Bhardwaj would provide strategic direction to the group’s IT initiatives covering information systems, tools, security, IT infrastructure and assets across the company’s global operations and businesses, Ola said. Prior to this, he served as global CIO for Cognizant, CIO for GE Healthcare and CIO for GE Aviation and Transportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rakesh-bhardwaj-is-ola-groups-new-cio/article34601269.ece
20 May 2021||Hyderabad,||BDR Pharma ties up Eli Lilly for COVID-19 drug||BDR Pharma has entered into a royalty-free, limited and non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreement with Eli Lilly and Company for the production and distribution of Baricitinib, a repurposed drug to treat COVID-19. The pact would increase the availability of Baricitinib in India, BDR Pharma said. The company has applied for restricted emergency use approval with the Drugs Controller General of India for Baricitinib for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bdr-pharma-ties-up-eli-lilly-for-covid-19-drug/article34601270.ece
20 May 2021||Mumbai,||Kotak Mahindra Bk arm buys 74% stake in HKR Roadways for 715 cr||Kotak Special Situations Fund (KSSF) said it had acquired a 74% stake in HKR Roadways, a non-performing asset, for Rs. 715 crore. The consideration paid for HKR, an SPV owned by a consortium led by the Gayatri Group, includes one-time settlement for funding debt with all the lenders, KSSF said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kotak-mahindra-bk-arm-buys-74-stake-in-hkr-roadways-for-715-cr/article34601284.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Asian championship crucial: Mary Kom||It’s a tournament she has dominated for years but the Asian Boxing Championship this time is more than just a medal-winning opportunity for M.C. Mary Kom, who is “desperate for competition” before the Olympics. Mary Kom (51kg) has one silver and a staggering five gold medals from her seven appearances at the continental showpiece. The six-time world champion can’t wait to land in Dubai for the upcoming edition, which starts on May 24 because all she wants right now is a “good slugfest”. “I have been so eager to compete, there has hardly been any training because of the pandemic and I need this desperately to assess myself before the Olympics,” the 38-year-old said from Pune, where she has been training for the past few days. “It has not been easy. I was at home after coming back from the tournament in Spain (in March). My children were not well, we had to manage that and it comes with its own set of anxieties. Then, the camp in Delhi was called off because of COVID-19,” she said. “Something or the other kept affecting the training. The Asian Championship is important because I get to compete and there is nothing better than a good competition to help in preparations.” Beneficial The few days of training have been beneficial, according to the pugilist. “I feel confident about my body. I will give my best, whether it would be enough to get a medal is something that only time will tell," said Mary Kom. All four Tokyo-bound women boxers — Mary Kom, Simranjit Kaur (60kg), Lovlina Borgohain (69kg) and Pooja Rani (75kg) — will be in action. From the men’s Olympics-bound group, Amit Panghal (52kg), Vikas Krishan (69kg) and Ashish Chaudhary (75kg) will fight it out along with seven others.  I have been so eager to compete, there has hardly been any training because of the pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asian-championship-crucial-mary-kom/article34601446.ece
20 May 2021||Kolkata,||‘It is not only about skills but also mental toughness’||What does it take to play a Test match, and that too in England, after seven years? Ask Jhulan Goswami and she will stress on the importance of mindset. The veteran fast bowler is excited yet nervous to hold the red ball in the fickle English weather after such a long gap. The Indian women’s cricket team will start with a one-off Test in Bristol from June 16 followed by three ODIs and as many T20Is. In a chat with Sportstar , Jhulan shares her thoughts on the skills needed to excel against England, the return of Ramesh Powar as head coach and the lessons learnt from W.V. Raman. Excerpts:  How prepared are you to bowl longer spells? It seems very challenging with no Test cricket for the girls in the past seven years... Even in the domestic tournaments, there is no red-ball cricket as such. After a long time, the whole team will be switching from white-ball to red-ball. It all depends on how our bodies react after being on the field for 90 overs. It is not only about skills but also mental toughness. You have to stay strong in your mind because you need thinking powers to analyse the game situation in different sessions. The youngsters may lack that temperament... You may not get a wicket in a session but there will be sessions where you can bag three in one go. So you have to be alert, switch off and switch on accordingly as you won’t be able to concentrate for the whole span of the game. You have to take ball by ball and session by session. When we played the last Test match in 2014, there were many debuts. I am looking forward to more debuts this time as well. The players are glad that we are getting to play a Test match after a long time. And I want to thank the BCCI officials for this initiative. Your thoughts on Ramesh Powar’s return as head coach and W.V. Raman’s exit? I would like to congratulate Ramesh and we are looking forward to working with him. It was a great experience to work with Raman but I am not going to compare. He has worked hard on us and he taught us a lot of things from his coaching experience over the years. I want to wish him well for his future. How is the team going to prepare in the UK? Will there be warm-up games? Practice and preparation depends on the COVID protocols that one needs to follow today. We really don’t know where the pandemic is going to take us eventually. There are lots of restrictions but as professional athletes, we have to prepare mentally so that we can adapt under any circumstances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-is-not-only-about-skills-but-also-mental-toughness/article34601405.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Skipper Chhetri makes a return to the squad||Captain Sunil Chhetri made a return after recovering from COVID-19 as a 28-member Indian football squad leaves for Doha on Wednesday for the three matches of the joint 2022 World Cup and 2023 Asian Cup Qualifiers. The team will have a preparatory camp inside a bio-bubble in Doha before its first match on June 3 against host Qatar. After missing the two international friendlies against Oman and the UAE on March 25 and 29, Chhetri is set to feature in the forthcoming games. As per the health parameters required to travel to Qatar, all the players and staff will carry with them negative results from the RT-PCR COVID-19 tests conducted during the last 48 hours. Prior to their departure, all of them were serving quarantine in the national capital since May 15. Lone new face FC Goa midfielder Glan Martins is the lone face to make it to the squad for the first time, while the likes of winger Udanta Singh, Brandon Fernandes, Pronoy Halder and Abdul Sahal also return to the national team setup. Three goalkeepers Head coach Igor Stimac opted for three goalkeepers even as Subhasish Roy Chowdhury missed out. India, fourth in Group E with three points, is already out of contention for a World Cup berth but it is still in the reckoning for the 2023 Asian Cup in China.  The squad:   Goalkeepers: Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, Amrinder Singh, Dheeraj Singh.   Defenders: Pritam Kotal, Rahul Bheke, Narender Gehlot, Chinglensana Singh, Sandesh Jhingan, Adil Khan, Akash Mishra, Subhashish Bose.   Midfielders: Udanta Singh, Brandon Fernandes, Liston Colaco, Rowllin Borges, Glan Martins, Anirudh Thapa, Pronoy Halder, Suresh Singh, Lalengmawia Ralte, Abdul Sahal, Yasir Mohammad, Lallianzuala Chhangte, Bipin Singh, Ashique Kuruniyan.   Forwards: Ishan Pandita, Sunil Chhetri, Manvir Singh.   India’s fixtures:   June 3: Vs. Qatar (10.30 p.m. IST); June 7: Vs. Bangladesh (7.30 p.m.); June 15: Vs. Afghanistan (7.30 p.m.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/skipper-chhetri-makes-a-return-to-the-squad/article34601449.ece
20 May 2021||MUMBAI,||T20 World Cup and IPL on SGM agenda||In a bid to chart out contingency plans for the T20 World Cup and the Indian Premier League, the BCCI has convened a Special General Meeting (SGM) of its affiliates on May 29. The single-point agenda of the virtual meeting, as per the notice circulated among Board members on Tuesday night, is a “discussion on the upcoming cricket season in view of the pandemic situation”. India is scheduled to stage the T20 World Cup in October-November. But after the forced postponement of the IPL because of breaches in the biosecure bubbles amid a surge in cases in the country, the International Cricket Council (ICC) is likely to push the BCCI to move the tournament to the United Arab Emirates, already shortlisted as a back-up venue. With the ICC set to finalise the venue and fixtures for the marquee event during its annual conference in June, The Hindu understands that the BCCI hierarchy, with secretary Jay Shah leading from the front, feels members should be taken into confidence ahead of the conference. “Since there is no resolution listed in the agenda, something that is a convention for any SGM, in all likelihood, the office-bearers will be authorised to take last-minute decisions on behalf of the Board,” said a seasoned State association official. The SGM will likely formalise the back-up plan should ICC members decline to travel to India for the tournament. IPL conundrum The SGM may also authorise the office-bearers to decide the fate of IPL-14, suspended after 29 of the 60 matches were completed. With the international calendar hardly having any breathing room, the SGM is likely to be presented with options: staging IPL in the UAE in September, sandwiched between India’s tour of England and the T20 World Cup; hosting it in England in September after the conclusion of the Test series, a remote possibility; playing it in the UAE without England and Australia cricketers immediately after T20 World Cup final in November; abandoning the edition and revising the contract with the broadcaster and other stakeholders. It is also understood that the BCCI may propose bilateral T20I series against South Africa (as part of the FTP) and Sri Lanka in UAE in September as the last leg of preparation for the T20 World Cup, should the window for IPL be deemed unrealistic. With the focus on rescheduling the IPL, the domestic season may be left in limbo yet again. Some of the State associations may seek clarity, since the apex council in April had discussed the possibility of starting the domestic season in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/t20-world-cup-and-ipl-on-sgm-agenda/article34601397.ece
20 May 2021||Hobart,||Bowlers have ‘cleared the air’ with Bancroft, says Paine||Cameron Bancroft has “cleared the air” with the Australian bowlers after creating a flutter by hinting that all of them were aware of the 2018 ball-tampering plot in South Africa, Australia Test skipper Tim Paine said on Wednesday, “looking forward to moving on”. The 2018 scandal was once again in the spotlight after Bancroft recently stated that whether the Australian bowlers knew of the plan to use a sandpaper on the ball during the Cape Town Test against South Africa, was “self-explanatory.” “I think they’re frustrated that it keeps popping up but I think that’s part and parcel for everyone who played in that Test match,” the Test skipper was quoted as saying by Sydney Morning Herald . In fine mood “Their mood was fine, I think they’ve spoken to (Bancroft), cleared the air and I think everyone’s looking forward to moving on. We’re all grown men and those guys have made contact with each other and sorted it out,” Paine added. Bancroft has since then backtracked on his claim, informing CA’s integrity unit that he has no “significant new information” to share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowlers-have-cleared-the-air-with-bancroft-says-paine/article34601407.ece
20 May 2021||MUMBAI,||MCA goes ahead with procedure to appoint Mumbai coach||Despite the controversy surrounding the eligibility of the Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC), the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) has initiated the process of appointing head coach of Mumbai’s senior men’s team coach. The MCA on its website has invited applications, with May 24 as the deadline. At least 50 First Class appearances, National Cricket Academy certification, being a resident of Mumbai and prior coaching experience either with a state team or an Indian Premier League (IPL) franchise. Vital aspect The MCA advertisement specified that the criteria has been finalised by the CIC. While specifying IPL experience has raised a few eyebrows, CIC chairman Jatin Paranjape stressed that IPL coaching is a vital aspect in modern-day cricket. “Cross-learning is the need of the hour. That’s why we have included NCA experience also so that we can throw our arms around as many good candidates as possible. But we’ve also put a filter of 50 First Class matches since you need gravitas to command respect from the dressing room,” Paranjape told The Hindu . Ramesh Powar was the Mumbai coach for its triumphant Vijay Hazare Trophy campaign in February-March. While Powar’s appointment was only till March 31, the former India spinner has since taken charge of India women as the head coach. While the new CIC — with Vinod Kambli and Nilesh Kulkarni having joined Paranjape — has started planning for the next season in advance, a section of MCA members feel the office-bearers are rushing the procedure despite a complaint against reconstituting the CIC pending with the MCA ombudsman. After MCA unceremoniously dissolved the previous CIC, two of its three members — chairman Lalchand Rajput and former India pacer Raju Kulkarni — have approached Justice (retd.) Vijaya Tahilramani for reinstating their committee. Alleged irregularities Rajput and veteran MCA member Ravi Mandrekar have requested Tahilramani to take up the pending complaints at the earliest. While Rajput has reiterated his request for a stay on appointments till the Ombudsman passes a verdict, Mandrekar has specified alleged irregularities in awarding maintenance contracts. “The delay in the restraining order will make my complaint infructuous and will cause an extremely bad precedent and irreparable damage to the Association . I hope you will do needful,” Mandrekar requested the Ombudsman in an email on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mca-goes-ahead-with-procedure-to-appoint-mumbai-coach/article34601940.ece
20 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Prasanta Mohapatra passes away||Former Odisha Ranji Trophy player and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) match referee Prasanta Mohapatra passed away in Bhubaneswar on Wednesday, tweeted the Odisha Cricket Association (OCA). Mohapatra, 47, succumbed to COVID-19-related complications. Mohapatra had lost his father, eminent sculptor and Rajya Sabha member Raghunath Mohapatra, due to COVID-19 11 days ago. Mohapatra, who made his debut against Bihar in 1990, scored 2196 runs at 30.08 in 45 First-Class matches. He also played in the Duleep and Deodhar Trophy. As a match-referee, he regularly supervised BCCI matches at different venues in the last few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prasanta-mohapatra-passes-away/article34601447.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ramkumar training in Barcelona||It has been a season of fluctuating fortunes for Ramkumar Ramanthan, but he is determined to make the coming weeks count. “Am training in Barcelona for the French Open,” said the 26-year-old, ranked 215 in the world, as against his career best of 111 in 2018. Tough time Grounded by a COVIID-19 positive test in Portugal, as the season was hotting up, Ramkumar stayed away from the circuit for six weeks to recover from the virus. As if isolation was not bad enough in a foreign country, Ramkumar also had to endure the emotional crisis of his dad being treated for the virus in an hospital back home in Chennai. “Dad went through a tough time,” recalled Ramkumar, quite relieved that he was physically and mentally strong to beat the virus. “I have also totally recovered, by God’s grace. I had two good matches in Zagreb last week,” said Ramkumar, who did very well to qualify for the main event in the Croatian Challenger on return to the circuit. He and Sriram Balaji had nearly a dozen match points, but lost in the pre-quarterfinals of the doubles. “They just could not convert those match points,” said Ramkumar’s father, Ramanathan, who watched the match on ATP’s web streaming. He also felt Ramkumar’s opponent was too good in the singles main draw. Busy season Of course, it was a busy season for Ramkumar, as he had travelled for three Challengers in Turkey, apart from Doha, Singapore and Kazakhstan for many tournaments, including the qualifying event of the Australian Open. “I will give my best in the coming weeks,” said Ramkumar quite focused on his training rather than trying more events before the French Open. For sure, Ramkumar is hungry and ready to do well as the Grand Slams come around in Paris and Wimbledon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-training-in-barcelona/article34601458.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Olympics medal is our biggest goal: Satwiksairaj||India’s leading doubles shuttler R. Satwiksairaj was back for training on Tuesday with his partner Chirag Shetty, after a week-long break, as part of the preparations for the Tokyo Olympics later this year. “Our biggest and immediate target is to win an Olympics medal now. And, we are really working hard to realise this goal,” he said. Same intensity Despite the uncertainty about the Games being held on schedule now, Satwik and Chirag have decided to train with the same intensity as they have been doing this for the last three months under the guidance of doubles coach Mathias Boe. “We have had the best of training after a long time with no breaks and thanks to Boe’s emphasis on the importance of scoring points with strong defence and not just with an attacking game, we feel we are much better players now,” said Satwik in a chat with The Hindu . “It would have been great if we were to play in at least one of the three Super Series which were cancelled because of the pandemic to test our skills and how far we are good in adapting the new techniques being taught by Boe,” he said. “Well, we want to avoid the kind of confusion we have had in the European circuit, including the Swiss and the All England championship, where we were in a dilemma whether to adapt the new strategy or not and were a confused lot in the crucial phases of the matches,” he said. Useful sessions “It takes time to get used to it and this is where the last three months training is so helpful to us,” he said, adding that the sessions with sports psychologist Divya Jain have been very useful. “Glad that we made it to the Olympics before the second wave of the pandemic disrupted the BWF calendar. “But, I feel sorry for those who could have made the cut even if only they had taken part in one of the three Majors which were cancelled,” the Arjuna Awardee said.  Glad we made it to the Olympics before the second wave disrupted the BWF calendar Satwik||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-medal-is-our-biggest-goal-satwiksairaj/article34601394.ece
20 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Four players, including Veda, lose contracts||Veda Krishnamurthy is among four players who have been omitted from the list of centrally contracted players for 2020-21. While announcing the women cricketers’ annual contracts on Wednesday, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) informed that the list has been pruned from 22 to 19. Besides Veda, who was in Grade C last year, Ekta Bisht (Grade B), Anuja Patil and D. Hemlatha (both Grade C) have also been excluded from the list of contracted cricketers. The only addition to the list is teenager Richa Ghosh, who impressed during last year’s World Twenty20, in Grade C. Promoted Three players — the spin duo of Rajeshwari Gayakwad and Radha Yadav, along with swashbuckling opener Shafali Verma — have been rewarded for their excellent show with a promotion from Grade C to B.  The contracts list:   Grade A (Rs. 50 lakh): Harmanpreet Kaur, Smriti Mandhana, Poonam Yadav.   Grade B (Rs. 30 lakh): Mithali Raj, Jhulan Goswami, Deepti Sharma, Punam Raut, Rajeshwari Gayakwad, Shafali Verma, Radha Yadav, Shikha Pandey, Taniya Bhatia, Jemimah Rodrigues.   Grade C (Rs. 10 lakh): Mansi Joshi, Arundhati Reddy, Pooja Vastrakar, Harleen Deol, Priya Punia, Richa Ghosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-players-including-veda-lose-contracts/article34601396.ece
20 May 2021||Sydney,||Australia to host Afghanistan||Australia’s cricketers will play their first-ever Test against Afghanistan in Hobart later this year ahead of hosting the Ashes against England, officials announced on Wednesday. “We are also incredibly excited to welcome Afghanistan to our shores for a historic first Test match against Australia,” said Cricket Australia’s interim CEO Nick Hockley. The Test will be played at Hobart’s Blundstone Arena from November 27, with Australia then facing England at Brisbane’s Gabba ground in the first Test of the five-match Ashes series beginning on December 8. “The story of the Afghanistan cricket team is one of the most uplifting in international sport,” added Hockley. Earlier, CA said it was hopeful England’s band of vociferous travelling fans would be allowed to travel for the Ashes series, which concludes in Perth in January, but that depended on government COVID-19 restrictions over arrivals and quarantine.  Australia’s fixtures (2021/22):   One-off Test vs Afghanistan: Nov. 27-Dec. 1: Blundstone Arena, Hobart   The Ashes vs England: Dec. 8-12: 1st Test: Brisbane; Dec. 16-20: 2nd Test: Adelaide (day/night); Dec. 26-30: 3rd Test: Melbourne; Jan. 5-9, 2022: 4th Test: Sydney; Jan. 14-18: 5th Test: Perth .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-to-host-afghanistan/article34601399.ece
20 May 2021||London,||Blues exact revenge over the Foxes||Chelsea avenged its FA Cup final defeat by Leicester to move above the Foxes into third in the Premier League with a 2-1 win in front of 8,000 fans at Stamford Bridge on Tuesday. Antonio Rudiger and Jorginho, from the penalty spot, scored the goals for Thomas Tuchel’s men to keep a place in next season’s Champions League in their own hands. Kante injured However, victory came at a cost for the Blues as N’Golo Kante limped off injured in the first half just 11 days before they face Manchester City in the Champions League final. Victory away to Aston Villa on Sunday will guarantee Chelsea a top-four finish. There was little doubt about the outcome once Rudiger bundled home a corner two minutes into the second half. Wesley Fofana’s foul on Timo Werner was initially given as a free-kick outside the box, but on review Dean was told to point to the penalty spot. Jorginho coolly sent Kasper Schmeichel the wrong way and for 10 minutes, Chelsea looked to be cruising. However, Leicester set up a nervy finale when Wilfred Ndidi robbed Mateo Kovacic and teed up Iheanacho to slot home his 19th goal of the season.  The results:   Premier League: Brighton 3 (Trossard 50, Webster 72, Burn 76) bt Manchester City 2 (Gundogan 2, Foden 48); Chelsea 2 (Rudiger 47, Jorginho 66-pen) bt Leicester 1 (Iheanacho 76); Manchester United 1 (Cavani 15) drew with Fulham 1 (Bryan 76); Southampton 0 lost to Leeds 2 (Bamford 73, Roberts 90).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blues-exact-revenge-over-the-foxes/article34601402.ece
20 May 2021||Los Angeles,||Tatum on fire as Celtics stun Wizards||Jayson Tatum erupted for 50 points, including a perfect 17 of 17 from the free-throw line, as Boston Celtics booked its place in the playoffs on Tuesday with a 118-100 win over the Washington Wizards as the NBA’s play-in tournament got under way. Tatum produced a virtuoso performance to outshine Wizards triple-double king Russell Westbrook as the Celtics advanced to a first round playoff series against the second seeded Brooklyn Nets. The Wizards will now host the Indiana Pacers on Thursday, with the winner of that game facing a first round playoff series against the Philadelphia 76ers, the top seed from the Eastern Conference. Bradley Beal led the Wizards’ scoring with 22 points while Westbrook finished with 20 points. In another match, Indiana looked red hot in a 144-117 blowout to eliminate the Charlotte Hornets in Tuesday’s early play-in game. Dominant Oshae Brissett scored 23 points and Doug McDermott added 21 as the Pacers got off to a fast start and never eased up in a comprehensive wire-to-wire victory in Indianapolis. Only one win had separated the ninth-placed Pacers from the 10th-ranked Hornets during the regular season which wrapped up on Sunday. However a gulf in class soon became apparent on Tuesday as the Pacers sprinted into a 40-24 lead by the end of the first quarter. By halftime the Pacers had opened up a 24-point cushion to effectively kill the contest against a strangely subdued Hornets line-up. The NBA used a play-in tournament for the playoffs this season after deploying the format last year when the pandemic-disrupted campaign was completed in the Orlando bubble in Florida.  The results: Boston Celtics bt Washington Wizards 118-100; Indiana Pacers bt Charlotte Hornets 144-117 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tatum-on-fire-as-celtics-stun-wizards/article34601444.ece
20 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Akhil Rabindra inches closer to contract||GT4 racer Akhil Rabindra on Wednesday made it to the coveted list of the Aston Martin Racing Driver Academy for the third time in a row for the 2021 class. Akhil, who is currently competing for AGS Events Racing team at the European GT4 Championships, is the only Asian to have made it to the prestigious AMR driving academy along with 14 others from across the world. The British luxury sportscar manufacturer made the announcement on Wednesday.  Akhil currently drives an Aston Martin Vantage GT4 for AGS Events Racing team. He will be racing the second round of the 2021 season at the European GT4 Championships from May 28-30. The race will be hosted at the Paul Ricard circuit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akhil-rabindra-inches-closer-to-contract/article34601455.ece
20 May 2021||Platja D’Aro (Spain),||Annika Kannan loses tamely in doubles||Annika Kannan and Nora Ayala Serra of Spain were beaten 6-0, 6-2 by Isabelle Haverlag and Suzan Lamens in the pre-quarterfinals of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here. In the third and final qualifying round of singles, Karman Kaur fough back from being down 3-5 in the second set to force the decider, but failed to capitalise on a 7-5 lead in the super tie-break to lose five points in a row and the match.  The results:   Singles (qualifying third and final round): Andreea Amalia Rosca (Rou) bt Riya Bhatia 7-5, 6-2; Andreea Priscariu (Rou) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 6-3, 5-7, [10-7].   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Isabelle Haverlag & Suzan Lamens (Ned) bt Nora Ayala Serra (Esp) & Annika Kannan 6-0, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/annika-loses-in-doubles/article34601456.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Aim is to become a World champ: Arjun||India's latest Grandmaster Arjun Kalyan was felicitated by the Rotary Club of Madras Industrial City at a virtual function on Wednesday. The 18-year-old from Chennai became India’s 68th GM last month during the round-robin Rujna Zora-3 tournament in Serbia where he emerged champion. Speaking at the function, an elated Arjun said, “I feel becoming a GM will be a small step in my chess career as the ultimate aim is to become a World champion.” Anand’s tips India chess legend V. Anand, who spoke at the event, had words of advice for the youngster. "After getting the GM title, you can sometimes drift easily but it doesn't have to happen that way. You mentioned you want to try to be a World champion in 2025. So you can start working towards it." said Anand. Different openings "I would also encourage you to experiment a lot. Try a lot of different openings and styles because now is the time to do it. “As you go along, you will have the experience built in to take it further," Anand added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aim-is-to-become-a-world-champ-arjun/article34601512.ece
20 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Gokulam’s Ubaid to auction jersey||Gokulam Kerala FC’s goalkeeper C.K. Ubaid has donated his jersey for auction to raise funds for Kerala government’s Vaccine Challenge. The 31-year-old, who hails from Kuthuparamba town in Kannur district, has given his consent to the local unit of Students’ Federation of India (SFI) to auction his jersey. The online auction will take place on the facebook page of SFI Kuthuparamba Area unit at 8 p.m. on Thursday. The base price has been fixed at Rs. 15,000 and proceeds from the auction would be donated to Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). To take place today “During the COVID-19 pandemic I had read that quite a few players from around the world had given their team jerseys for auction to raise funds. I was also thinking of doing something similar. The SFI Area unit of Kuthuparamaba was running a ‘Vaccine Challenge’ and they approached me for help. When I suggested the idea of auctioning my goalkeeper jersey, they quickly accepted it. The auction will be held tomorrow on their facebook page and I hope it will fetch a good price. I am happy that I am able to contribute something in the fight against this pandemic,” he said. Ubaid said, winning the I league title was easily the high point of his career and he was happy that he could play a big role in his team’s win in the tournament. “As a footballer you set goals and for me playing in the I league was a realistic target when I started my professional career. I achieved it when I represented East Bengal in the I-League and my dreams started getting bigger. I dreamt of winning the I-eague title and I have done it playing for Gokulam FC. It is still the biggest moment in my career,’’ said Ubaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulams-ubaid-to-auction-jersey/article34601925.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Visa sought for Sania’s son during UK tour||The Union Sports Ministry has approached the UK Government, through the Ministry of External Affairs, to allow tennis star Sania Mirza’s two-year-old son to accompany her during the UK tour. Sania will be participating in the Nottingham Open from June 6 followed by the Birmingham Open on June 14, the Eastbourne Open on June 20 and Wimbledon from June 28. Though the Indian tennis star has been granted a visa to travel to Nottingham, her son and his caretaker have not received UK visas owing to the travel restrictions on Indian travellers. Sania, who is a part of the Sports Ministry's Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS), approached the Ministry requesting help, stating that she cannot leave a two-year-old child behind as she travels for a month. “The Sports Ministry officials have initiated the process with the MEA,” Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/visa-sought-for-sanias-son-during-uk-tour/article34601875.ece
20 May 2021||LONDON,||Bergkamp and Lampard in PL Hall of Fame||Arsenal’s iconic Dutchman Dennis Bergkamp and Chelsea great Frank Lampard have become the latest players to be inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame. The duo joins Thierry Henry, Alan Shearer, Eric Cantona, and Roy Keane in the elite list. Bergkamp, who won three league titles, scored 87 goals in 315 appearances for the Gunners. The forward’s direct involvement in 181 Premier League goals for Arsenal is second only to the 249 of Henry. Lampard, also a three-time champion with Chelsea, scored 177 goals during his time at West Ham United, Chelsea and Manchester City, the most by any midfielder in the competition’s history. Long-range goals Renowned for his stunning long-range goals, Lampard holds the PL record for the most scored from outside the penalty area, with 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bergkamp-and-lampard-in-pl-hall-of-fame/article34601443.ece
20 May 2021||Colombo,||Asia Cup T20 tournament called off||The Asia Cup Twenty20 cricket tournament due to be held in Sri Lanka in June has been called off because of the worsening coronavirus crisis in the region, a top organiser said on Wednesday. The tournament was already held over from last year in Pakistan “Due to the prevailing situation, it will not be possible to play the tournament in June this year,” Sri Lanka Cricket chief executive Ashley de Silva said. He said the Asian Cricket Council would soon make a formal announcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asia-cup-t20-tournament-called-off/article34601398.ece
20 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Kohli’s contribution for Sravanthi||Virat Kohli donated Rs. 6.77 lakhs to former India women’s cricketer K.S. Sravanthi Naidu, who is struggling to raise funds to get her mother K.S. Suman treated for COVID-19. Kohli’s gesture was in response to the tweet tagged to him by N. Vidya Yadav, former BCCI South Zone convenor (women’s cricket) and sister of N. Shivlal Yadav, seeking help to Sravanthi. “I was amazed. Such a great gesture from such a great cricketer,” Vidya told The Sportstar . “I am also grateful to India fielding coach R. Sridhar who mentioned it to Kohli.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohlis-contribution-for-sravanthi/article34601400.ece
20 May 2021||TOKYO,||Bach offers extra medical help during the Games||Confronted in Japan with some of the strongest medical-community opposition yet to the Tokyo Olympics, IOC president Thomas Bach on Wednesday offered to have added medical personnel available to help out when the games open in just over nine weeks. Bach, speaking remotely at the opening of three days of meetings between the International Olympic Committee and local organisers, said the help would come from various national Olympic committees and be available in the Olympic village and sports venues. In his 12-minute address, Bach attempted to assure the Japanese public and athletes coming to Tokyo that the IOC will hold “safe and secure” Olympics in the midst of the pandemic. Bach appeared to be responding to one of the strongest demands so far to call off the postponed Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bach-offers-extra-medical-help-during-the-games/article34601403.ece
20 May 2021||GENEVA,||Ruud meets Koepfer in last eight||Casper Ruud believes he has the weapons to reach the second week of Roland Garros and maybe help transform him into a “rock star” in his native Norway. Ruud is the third seed at the Geneva Open and has a good shot at winning his second-ever title, with top seed and 20-time Grand Slam champion Roger Federer already eliminated. Ruud beat Tennys Sandgren 7-5, 6-2 on Wednesday to set up a quarterfinal with Germany's Dominik Koepfer, who first knocked out seventh seed Benoit Paire and veteran Feliciano Lopez in the round-of-16.  The results (round-of-16): Casper Ruud bt Tennys Sandgren 7-5, 6-2; Dominik Koepfer bt Feliciano Lopez 7-5, 6-7(1), 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ruud-meets-koepfer-in-last-eight/article34601408.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||...and the journey starts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/and-the-journey-starts/article34601410.ece
20 May 2021||MUMBAI,||ITTF ropes in Indian firm for performance analysis||Stupa Sports Analytics, a table tennis performance analysis start-up, has been appointed as the analytics partner of the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF). According to Polona Cehovin, ITTF high performance director, Stupa — co-founded by Megha Gambhir and table tennis coach Deepak Malik — will be involved in ITTF’s efforts to introduce artificial intelligence in grooming talent across the table tennis globe. “We live in a digital World therefore it doesn’t come as a surprise that artificial intelligence has made it to Table Tennis as well, and thanks to our cooperation with Stupa Analytics soon also to all the 226 ITTF members,” Cehovin said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ittf-ropes-in-indian-firm-for-performance-analysis/article34601926.ece
20 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Former CAB official Naskar passes away||Surajit Naskar, who served as an assistant secretary of the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) between 2010 and 2012, passed away on Tuesday, according to a CAB statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-cab-official-naskar-passes-away/article34601849.ece
20 May 2021||CHENNAI,||TNBSL postponed||The second Tamil Nadu Badminton Super League (TNBSL), scheduled to be held in Coimbatore from June 6 to 13, has been postponed due to the COVID-19 surge in the country, according to a press release on Wednesday. New dates will be announced when the current scenario improves, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnbsl-postponed/article34601510.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||History in a suitcase||We made Dalgona coffee, baked banana bread, played board games, and even picked up the old habit of reading again. But for 46-year-old Chennai resident Vijay Shekhar, the lockdown meant something different — it presented an opportunity to add more structure to his three-decade long hobby of collecting newspaper clippings of important events across the world. While bigger libraries and institutions devote a large space for this kind of archival exercise, Vijay is doing it at a much smaller scale: his entire collection fits into a big suitcase. “The past year gave me a chance to revisit many old news items. Looking at such clippings, which I have collected over the years, and reminiscing about ‘Oh-so-this-is-how-it-happened’ gave me the ultimate kick,” says the communications professional. Past perfect It all began in 1991 when Vijay, then a 16-year-old, was jogging in Jamshedpur. “It was a normal day in May but people seemed unusually quiet. I overheard someone saying, in Bengali, ‘Rajiv Gandhi has been ‘shot’ in Madras’. There was a newspaper vendor around the corner and I quickly bought a copy. I felt it was important to preserve that.” Since then, Vijay took it upon himself to cut and keep aside reports of many important world events. So far he has culled over 300 clippings, apart from entire special newspaper copies and magazines, but the one he treasures the most is the original full newspaper of The Statesman of August 15, 1947, which he got after making several visits to the newspaper’s office in Kolkata.  In search of cheer Vijay has kept aside clippings from the COVID-19 coverage in various newspapers: He subscribes to four. “For most people, they become scrap after a few days. I derive value from that scrap.” The 46-year-old prefers clippings from newspapers that are accessible to him; the only exception to that was when India won the cricket World Cup in 2011. He then asked many of his friends across the country to send him coverage of the triumph in the newspapers. Whenever he gets free time, he opens up his collection to either recall old incidents or add newer insertions. “However, there is one small problem in that: 60% of my collection is primarily sad news, while 40% is what can be termed as happy ones,” says Vijay. Despite the rush of COVID-19-related updates coming his way, Vijay is looking forward to seeing his big suitcase being filled with more cheerful entries. “My collection depends on how the world shapes up. I hope to see a happier world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/history-in-a-suitcase/article34601237.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||All set to shine||A post on Aishwarya Lekshmi’s Instagram sees her holding a poster in a charming curio store, with the caption, “Portkey.. I need a Portkey! Somebody, anybody... now would be great.” For non-Potter fans, a Portkey is a magical object bewitched to instantly transport anyone touching it to other locations. “That was the state of my mind during these lockdowns. Having a Portkey right now would be so great, no?” she sighs. “But I’m actually a much calmer person now. I have spent almost a year with my parents and dog at home; it has not happened since I was a student. I am happier now and more at peace,” smiles Aishwarya, as we begin to talk about the Karthik Subbaraj-directorial Jagame Thandhiram , slated to première on June 18 on Netflix. The doctor-turned-actor has emerged as a breath of fresh air since her debut in the Malayalam film Njandukalude Nattil Oridavela (2017). She followed that up with lead roles alongside the likes of Fahadh Faasil and Tovino Thomas in Varathan and Mayanidhi respectively; the latter catapulted her to fame and established her as a true-blue talent to look out for. Though just three years old in the industry, Aishwarya boasts of an impressive repertoire of upcoming films that includes Mani Ratnam’s Ponniyin Selvan . Connecting from Kerala, the actor talks about Tamil film industry and learning multiple aspects of filmmaking, and how her bucket list came full circle after interacting with Mani Ratnam. Excerpts: How did you get to be a part ofJagame Thandhiram? Even though I only played a small role in my Tamil debut, Action , it gave me the confidence to act in other industries as well. So I auditioned for Jagame… and then was told the project was put on hold as Karthik [Subbaraj] had Petta with Rajinikanth sir. I thought they were just letting me down easy, and had chosen somebody else. I moved on, and changed my phone number without informing them. After a year, they resumed Jagame… and they spent two weeks trying to reach me! Thankfully, it worked out.  What can you tell us about the film?  The crew was absolutely brilliant. They are a bunch of committed youngsters. It was also my first time visiting London, and I was like, “Yes, now I have really made it as a movie star!” I can’t reveal much except that it is a gangster drama, as you already know from the trailer. I don’t have any action scenes as such, but I did have a lot of running to do. I didn’t interact with Dhanush too much, but my favourite memory was when we all went to watch Asuran in Canterbury. It was this really classy place but we were all cheering and clapping, giving it a whole FDFS-vibe! When Manju (Warrier) chechi came on screen, I screamed and Dhanush was like, “Oh, you will shout for her intro and not for me, no?” I had so much fun that day. You are also part of the epic Ponniyin Selvan . How has it been working with someone like Mani Ratnam?  It has been just magical. I spent around a month and half on the sets of Ponniyin... in 2019, and we were shooting in Krabi, Thailand, early 2020 when the first lockdown was announced. When Mani sir called me for the meeting, I started reading the books beforehand to prepare. I am proud that now I have finally reached the fifth and last part ( laughs ). It was a hectic two months and I had to lose weight, so I took up swimming and Bharatanatyam, but I loved it. During the shoot, when I couldn’t deliver what he expected, Mani sir would understand and not push too hard. That really helped me as an actor. Because if a scene goes for multiple takes, I get very robotic. He recognised that and knew how to extract the best out of me. We did a bit of filming this year, if not for the second wave and it is currently on hold. For me, working with Mani sir is right on top of the bucket list... I could stop acting after this and be happy forever.   We watchedAsuran[Dhanush’s previous film} in Canterbury. It was a classy place but we were all cheering, giving it a whole FDFS-vibe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-set-to-shine/article34601217.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to the roots||Cinema Bandi , streaming on Netflix, is the new Telugu film to have endeared movie buffs. With a tinge of surprise, debut director Praveen Kandregula acknowledges the appreciation the film has been getting from viewers in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, apart from Telangana (TS) and Andhra Pradesh (AP). In this indie film produced by Raj and DK, villagers in Gollapally village try to make a feature film when one of them chances upon a high-end camera. The village folks become the cast and crew and use indigenous props for filmmaking. Imagine a pushcart in place of a crane, and you get the drift. Their motive — to make a film that will fetch them enough money to solve power, water and infrastructure issues in the hamlet. There has been a spurt in Telugu films set in semi-urban or rural backgrounds, written and directed by new storytellers and starring actors who represent native cultures and dialects. Colour Photo (Machilipatnam and nearby villages of Krishna district, AP), Middle Class Melodies (Tenali and Guntur, AP), Mail (Kambalapally, Warangal district, TS), Jathi Ratnalu (Jogipet Sangareddy district, TS), Uma Maheshwara Ugra Roopasya (Araku valley, AP), Raja Vaaru Rani Gaaru (Kapileswarapuram, East Godavari, AP), Palasa 1978 (Palasa, Srikakulam district, AP) and the much-appreciated Care of Kancharapalem (Kancharapalem, Vizag, AP). These films have been made by emerging writers and directors who either grew up in the regions where the stories are set, or have been acquainted with the regions through close friends. For many of these projects, theatre actors and locals from the respective regions have been roped in to play significant parts. Telugu cinema is considered larger than life, more so in the post- Baahubali  era, but alongside, there is a steadily-growing audience for indie-spirited projects. Uday, whose Mail has been selected for the New York Indian Film Festival, attributes this change to Internet penetration and blurring of language barriers: “Until there are a couple of hits, producers hesitate to back offbeat projects. Initially, when I pitched Mail to a few producers, there were suggestions to include an item number. Later, I got lucky to find Swapna Dutt, who understood what this story needed.”  Mail is the story of Kambalapally in Telangana warming up to email in the mid-2000s, and Uday says the narrative style was inspired by Iranian cinema he watched during college days: “I liked how Iranian films with simple storylines were narrated in a realistic manner.” Contemporary Malayalam cinema often hogs the limelight for its hard-hitting storylines representing different regions, cultures and social strata, followed by Tamil cinema. Emerging Telugu filmmakers have taken a cue from this. In addition to this unmistakable inspiration, there is also a throwback to fuss-free and endearing Telugu cinema of the 1980s — films of Bapu, Jandhyala and those starring Rajendra Prasad, for example. “We have always had good small films in Telugu. Even a decade ago, films like Anand and Aithe fared well in theatres. What’s happening now is a resurgence and the quick appreciation is thanks to digital platforms,” says Praveen. Venkatesh Maha, whose Care of Kancharapalem (2018) was a trendsetter for the hyper-local setting of a story, points out that the diversity in these semi-urban/ rural stories makes them appealing to viewers: “ Mail, Middle Class Melodies, UMUR and Cinema Bandi are different from each other in the stories and cultural milieu. Filmmakers with new voices have so far evaded the trap of predictability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/back-to-the-roots/article34601228.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Doctor, your lunch is ready||The influential World Central Kitchen (WCK) has joined forces with Chef Sanjeev Kapoor in India to serve freshly prepared meals to hospital staff working around the clock in seven cities across the country. Activating initially in Mumbai, a local team of chefs prepared vegetable makhanwala with coriander rice for their first day of service. A statement from WCK says “Meals were delivered to several hospitals in two shifts, one for the day staff and another for the night crew. We also provided frontline medical staff with juice — the area is sweltering and workers are wearing full PPE, so dehydration is a major concern.” An organisation founded in 2010 by the Spanish-American Chef José Andrés and his wife Patricia, the World Central Kitchen aims to use food to empower communities and strengthen economies. Over time, they also learned that food can be a powerful tool to heal communities in times of crisis. WCK teams are currently preparing more than 10,000 nourishing meals every day. Across the seven Indian cities they are currently working with (Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Chicalim), WCK states that they have served more than 50,000 meals to frontline healthcare workers so far. How it began in India During the 2020 lockdowns, Chef Sanjeev Kapoor realised he needed to find ways to keep his kitchen and staff motivated, despite the challenges of the pandemic. He was also determined to find a way to serve the medical fraternity. “Chefs I spoke to were more than willing to help,” he says over a call from Mumbai. They started with 250 meals per day at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, serving roti, rice, dal, vegetables, fruits, juice and a sweet. “As word spread, we started getting calls from other smaller hospitals to provide food for their staff. Soon, we were providing healthy and balanced meals to most of the hospital, for free.” Chef Kapoor says the hotels and team of chefs were thankful for the initiative as it made them feel helpful in the crisis. This year he joined hands with Indian Hotels Company Limited (IHCL), which is the Taj Hotels group and Taj flight kitchen. Ian Dubier, area director, Hyderabad and Taj Santacruz Mumbai says the company started serving meals and hosting the medical fraternity last year, at the beginning of this pandemic. He adds, “Since then we have been expanding our outreach.” Buoyed by the project in Mumbai, Chef Kapoor says “José Andrés is a friend and when I told him we want to extend the meals to other cities, he brought in WCK.” Although restaurants, home chefs and volunteers have been working towards helping feed the staff and patients at hospitals, continuity is a challenge at Government hospitals where the numbers are large. WCK, with its sheer manpower, infrastructure and expertise at high volume cooking, helps local teams ramp up. Its relief team will soon start work in Chennai. IHCL’s airline catering brand — TajSats has the manpower and the resources to hygienically cook and pack a huge number of meals everyday, says Dubier. He adds, “In Hyderabad, we are delivering around 1,400 meals everyday (lunch and dinner) from Taj Falaknuma Palace and are very grateful to be associated with Chef Sanjeev Kapoor and the WCK.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/doctor-your-lunch-is-ready/article34601247.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Canvassing support||A couple of weeks ago, as Arshmeen Baveja was rewatching Rang De Basanti , the 2006 Hindi film by Rakesh Omprakash Mehra, she struck upon a wild idea. She let AR Rahman’s soundtrack wash over her, as she painted away her feelings — 10 songs, 10 digital artworks. Put up for sale on her Instagram, the prints have brought in around Rs. 36,000 so far, all of which she is diverting to the Migrant Workers Solidarity Network. “ Rang De Basanti resonated with me, given the scale of the crisis we have at hand right now, and the mismanagement by the Government. We are stuck in a situation where we only have each other to help,” says the 25-year-old from Delhi. Arshmeen’s contribution to COVID-19 relief is a drop in the ocean of fundraising campaigns being led by Indian artists at an individual level. Prints — both digital and physical — of visual art are being used as incentive for buyers, who can obtain them after showing proof of donation to a charity. Alternatively, they can send money directly to artists, who then pass it on to the organisations they have partnered with. In just three days since the launch of Photo Solidarity, Chennai Photo Biennale has raised Rs. 3.6 lakh to be split equally between Khalsa Aid, providing medical resources, and Protsahan India Foundation, which takes care of children who have lost their parents to the pandemic. It was made possible, believes director of education at CPB, Gayatri Nair, because works by photographers such as Raghu Rai, Ronny Sen, Kannagi Khanna and Suresh Punjabi sold out immediately. “A Raghu Rai photo could sell for a minimum of Rs. 50,000 to up to Rs. 2 lakh depending on the print size and the work. But here, you are getting it for just Rs. 5,000, plus your money is going towards a good cause. That is the main attraction, I think,” says Gayatri. The other draw is the limited nature of the prints. “When the artistes donate their work to the CPB, we are allowed to print only three of them. This is generally work that has not been a part of a sale before, so the value of the work goes up because it is limited,” she says. Big names aside, CPB is also partnering with many young and upcoming photographers, to offer a variety of prints. While the funds go completely towards the charities and the printing cost, there may be another incentive for the young artistes. “I have noticed that many of the people interested are art buyers, gallerists and collectors. When they buy a young artist’s work, that increases its value, which will help them next time they professionally approach a gallery with their work.” So far, Photo Solidarity has over 60 photographers on board. Young guns blazing It was a collaboration of a similar scale that artist Devangana Dash pulled together in the beginning of May. “If the world wasn’t burning right now, I would truly call it the collaboration of my dreams!” quips Devangana. Within the first 24 hours of her fundraiser, she found support from 26 of her artist friends; the colourful mix of styles, voices and palettes raised Rs. 11 lakh in five days. “I started the campaign by uploading one of my own artworks to sense the engagement on Instagram, which turned out to be decent. I knew I won’t be able to gather concrete funds sufficient to make any difference, alone. This needs community work to be done well, and compassion brings people together,” says Devangana. Most of the artists, including Devangana, had no prior experience in fundraising. Finding a verified campaign or organisation to donate to, while at the same time amplifying the call for donations, and keeping a regular account of the money flowing in, can be challenging for a first timer. Platforms such as Mutual Aid India help. The website curates a list of urgent COVID-19 relief campaigns, verified in-house. “They were highlighting organisations/individuals doing on-ground relief work with the affected groups and communities at the grassroots areas that often get overshadowed. Their research was a key force, as their team of volunteers is constantly vetting the campaigns and identifying under-funded spaces,” says Devangana. Happy themes in a sad world In Jaipur, Shreya Parasrampuria, along with five other artists, is also encouraging others to donate a minimum of Rs. 1,500 to any of Mutual Aid’s featured campaigns, to get a set of six postcards. The theme for these postcards is ‘solitude’, interpreted by each of them in their own styles. “All of us find catharsis in drawing alone, and have done so a lot over the past year,” says Shreya. From a girl staring at a fish bowl in the warm yellow glow of her room, to one leaning against a fortress of mattresses — there is serenity to the postcards. Meanwhile Anjali Chandrashekar and Nidhi Singh Rathore from the US, aiming to get the Indian diaspora around the world to contribute to Mission Oxygen, say their theme revolved around an Ode to India. They write, “it is a collection that represented what artists outside India were missing — the small moments of joy, calm, and strength of their motherland, India.” Artist MS, who goes by the name The Big Fat Bao, says, “There is a lot of artwork out there focussing on the pandemic, the lack of governance and so on, but I wanted to give people things they could remember other than this chaos.” She is donating her sales to the Swabhiman Society and The Blue Dawn, both working towards supporting the Dalit community in accessing healthcare. Her artwork then, features icons such as BR Ambedkar, Savitribai Phule and tribal activist Kuni Sikaka. “Savitri mai was one of the key figures in handling the 1897 plague in Pune,” she says, adding “It is a reminder for us to stay strong and help each other out.”  Ongoing campaigns Diversify Photos:By a team of BIPOC visual artistes. Rs. 4,500 for one print. Funds go to Adivasi Lives Matter, Hemkunt Foundation, Indian Red Cross Society, Khaana Chahiye, Last Wildernness Foundation, Goonj and Creative Dignity. Chennai Photo Biennale:Limited edition work by over 60 photographers. Rs. 5,000 for one print. Funds go to Khalsa Aid and Protsahan. Ode to India:Homage to the country by India-born artists. Funds go to Mission Oxygen. The Big Fat Bao:A3 size portraits of Dalit icons. Rs. 1,350 for one. Funds go to Swabhiman Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/canvassing-support/article34601263.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The diaspora taste test||Fluffy white paniyarams , steamingbiryani,grated coconut and an incomplete recipe chart with instructions to grind rice, flit between the scenes to a foot-tapping folk rhythm. A woman is at the centre of it all, meticulously chopping, grinding and frying. The 40-second, animated short gives a glimpse into the day-to-day of a family of three — a couple and their child. Food is almost a character, here. The short, which has already grabbed eyeballs on social media, is the teaser of a narrative cooking game, Venba, that has South Indian cuisine at its centre. Revolving around an Indian family based in Toronto, it weaves a tale of love, loss and identity. The two to three hours-long gameplay takes one through incomplete or damaged recipes that need to be solved like a puzzle, where the player is expected to guess the steps. Originally from Chennai, 27-year-old Abhi, the creator of Venba, moved to Toronto when he was 12. Despite migrating as a child, he never felt assimilated to the Canadian culture, and often feels his Chennai roots are stronger. “I very much see myself more rooted in Chennai. I grew up strongly connected to that culture and would visit often. I can also speak in Tamil very easily,” he says over a Zoom call. But having said that, he adds that Venba is not entirely autobiographical. “The story we see here was more inspired by the families that I see around me, that came here [Toronto] much earlier, in the 1980s,” says Abhi, adding, “There is a lot of media about immigrants: the line most of them pursue is about kids and how hard it is for them to handle two cultures. But I always thought the more interesting story is that of parents. As they come to this country and grow, they grow farther apart from their kids. I have seen some parents who find it really difficult to interact with their own children due to the level of cultural differences.” Which, sometimes, he states, even makes them regret their decision to move. Abhi wanted to focus on this aspect of immigration in Venba. This sentiment was also shared by Sam Elakana, his colleague from Indonesia. Together, they developed the concept in January 2020. While Abhi is the designer and programmer, Sam is responsible for the visual character of the game, as art director. “In a game, you can’t just tell a story, you need something to play with. The game has a series of days and each day happens at different points in their lifetime. So, I thought it would be interesting if we tell the story of what happened each day, through food. No matter what happens, whether there is a fight or not in the family, the kitchen is still on,” adds Abhi. But focussing on food, especially South Indian cuisine, does come with its own set of challenges. “For any given recipe, there are thousands of variations. So I need to do a lot of research, pre-production almost, before I finalise on a recipe,” says Abhi. The recipes concentrate on making everything from scratch; for instance, the game talks about how rice flour is prepared for different dishes. “When I communicate these dishes to people who are not of Indian origin — like Sam to draw it — a lot more references are needed,” he adds. However, the biggest challenge is the realisation that people of Indian origin are likely to find the gameplay easy, because the ingredients and recipes are familiar. Venba is now at its “polishing stage” and is expected to reach the market by the winter of 2021 or early 2022. However, those who wish to pre-order the game can do so by wishlisting it on the gaming platform, Steam. “It was supposed to be a hobby game. We did not expect the level of reception we are getting!” says Abhi. After the trailer was released, patrons from across the world, especially North America, seem to have taken note. The duo wants to bring Venba to PC and all three major consoles. “But bringing it to those platforms (Like PS5 or Nintendo Switch) requires deals and partnerships with those companies which we are in the midst of right now,” Abhi says. A career in games has always been Abhi’s plan. After graduating from the University of Toronto, he started working in a mobile games studio as a programmer, in downtown Toronto. “We make Venba on the weekend and the nights after my day job,” he adds. For Sam and Abhi, Venba will always remain as something they created for themselves. “But, we do hope that people would come for the cooking and stay for the story!” concludes Abhi.  For details, visit venbagame.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-diaspora-taste-test/article34601266.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Mango Point||Mango Point, Chennai, is an export company but due to the pandemic they have paused export and instead started retailing locally. The company used to export 150 metric tonnes of mangoes to Singapore, West Asia, North America and Europe. Prasanna Venkatrathnam, partner, Mango Point, says that they offer 15 varieties of mangoes beginning from March till August. The mangoes are sourced from 100 farmers across Tamil Nadu and also from Andhra and Karnataka. “Our mangoes are naturally ripened, carbide free, chemical free and of export quality. We have an integrated packhouse at Athipattu village in Thiruvallur district, where the mangoes are packed as per international standards and directly sent to customers who place the order via the app or on our website,” says Prasanna. Mangoes are sold in three types of boxes, 1 kg, 3 kg or 5 kg. Mango Point is popular foralphonso(Badami and Ratnagiri),jawari,kalapadi, pether, malgova, swarnarekha, imam pasandand Banganapalli. Mangoes such as pedda rasalu and chinna rasalu anddasheriwill be available in mid-June.  @Mango Point, Pallavaram. Log on towww.mangopoint.inor call 66205755.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mango-point/article34601235.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Obama read me my bedtime story||Every morning, Paroma Verma fills the heavy silence of lockdown with voices from audiobooks. Last week it was Meryl Streep narrating Charlotte’s Web , today it is Pene Herman Smith reading out A Cosy Christmas in Cornwall — stirring up festive winter feels bang in the middle of the Delhi summer. On Monday it will probably be Benedict Cumberbatch reading Sherlock Holmes. “I am used to having breakfast with my parents. But because of the pandemic we are stuck in different cities. Having these voices for company takes away the misery of starting the day in an empty house and eating by myself,” says the 36-year-old. There are many like her. Ever since the pandemic-induced lockdown came into effect last March, the concentrated listening of audiobooks that usually took place during morning and evening commutes began to spread across the day. People now listen to them while cooking, exercising or simply relaxing, says Shailesh Sawlani, country head, Audible India. “Night time in particular remains popular, with people wanting to listen to a book before they turn in for the day,” he observes. (Audible’s subscription is priced at Rs. 199 where the member gets one credit to tune into a book.) Rahul Dixit, sales director of Harper Collins India, says he finished listening to Like a Monk by Jay Shetty while washing vessels. “I didn’t realise I was doing chores,” he says. Harper Collins, a US-based publishing house got into audiobook territory around seven years back. In 2018, the trend caught on in India, says Rahul adding that India has always been a promising market. “Look at our history, a panditji would preach and everybody would sit around and listen. So India was a natural market for audio,” he adds. Even though print sales are way ahead, he says digital sales amount to 5% of the overall consumption. “In terms of audio, the global revenue of publishers has significantly gone up. In India, the revenue has doubled.” Readers too have grown three times in number and India is not an exception. Harper Collins India, which publishes 250 print books in a year, has so far brought out 50 in audiobook format and, in the future, plans to make more new titles available simultaneously in audio, ebook and print format. Yogesh Dashrath, country manager Storytel India, provides additional figures. (Headquartered in Sweden, this northern Europe-based entity launched in India in 2017). “Globally it is estimated that the audiobook market is approximately $4 billion in 2020. And it is expected to grow to $20 billion in the next 10 years,” he says. Yogesh is bullish about the future. “At present, the trade book market (exclusive educational titles) in India is estimated to be anywhere from $500 million to $750 million. And if we imagine that even if 10% of the users also get used to audiobooks, we are looking for audio to add 10%-20% to the industry,” he explains. Powerful voices The idea is to also delight the customer with the story format, says Rahul. The voice, style, intonation of the person reading out the book adds to the experience. Stories with diverse characters may also have as many people reading them out. There are big names such as Barack Obama who reads aloud his own memoir A Promised Land on Audible. A host of celebrities such as Anupam Kher, Konkona Sen Sharma, Prakash Raj, Rahul Bose, Soha Ali Khan, and Annu Aggarwal have also lent their voice to recording, using their skills to make the story come alive. This novelty factor of having a well-known personality reading out bedtime stories, or a daily dose of inspiration, is a bonus for this segment. “The hands-free nature adds to the appeal as one does not have to set aside time for it. You can discover a new story on the go,” adds Yogesh, who has noticed more people signing up for trials with them. “Storytel has seen a doubling of subscriptions,” he says. With people stuck within the confines of four walls and with more time in hand, the last year has been about catching up on books that they missed out on over the years. “Listening to books has become a good way to relax and reduce anxiety,” says Yogesh. Additionally, with screen time at an all-time high, screen fatigue has become common and people are proactively exploring audio content and turning to audiobooks, offers Shailesh. Plus, it is more inclusive as it makes it easier on those with dyslexia or reading difficulties to enjoy literature. Regional reigns While Shailesh sees an increase in the Hindi-speaking audience lapping up their growing selection of Hindi content that features top authors such as Devdutt Patnaik, Amish Tripathi; chefs such as Sanjeev Kapur; and television personalities like Neelesh Mishra, Yogesh notices a sharp rise in consumption of regional content especially in Marathi, Tamil and Malayalam. “There is a sizeable number of young adults who consume regional content via OTT or television but still struggle when it comes to reading a book in a regional language. That’s where audiobooks come into the picture,” he says. Spiralling demands for regional language content has led Storytel to come up with Select, a new subscription plan starting today (May 20). “Customers can access unlimited audiobooks and e-books in 11 regional languages including Hindi, Marathi, Urdu, Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam, Telugu, Assamese, Gujarati, Odia and Kannada at Rs. 149 per month,” he says. In terms of what rules consumption across genres, Yogesh says, in English personal development, business and biographies rule the roost. In regional languages, classics and thrillers are most popular, while there is an increasing consumption of crime and romance across all languages. To match the voracious listener’s appetite, platforms are constantly creating original content, across languages and categories. “These are written exclusively to be made into audio, unlike the books, which makes the narration much more interesting and gripping,” says Yogesh. A recent and positive trend to this effect is the interest shown by authors in writing exclusive audio content. The progressive list includes Anita Nair, Shobha De, Ravinder Singh and Nikita Singh. Ravinder Singh, sees a demand for audio and short content that is around 45 minutes to an hour. Keeping that in mind, over the last year, he worked on half a dozen stories for Stoytel that were released in the audio format first and then were adapted into ebooks. Around the same time, he too started listening to books, more of non fiction. As an author, Ravinder wants readers to consume his books in every available form. “I can adapt,” he says, adding, “I think of myself as a content curator. It’s a good thing that more formats are coming up for my content.” He believes that in the audio format, the writer has the narrator’s voice to play with and convey to the reader. “[In the future] I imagine there will be books with theatrical music and drama in the background,” says Ravinder adding, “The only negative from a reader’s perspective is I cannot mark a brilliant line (as one would in a physical book).”  Trending now Tamil: Ponniyin Selvan , Mogamul    English: The Power of Your Subconscious Mind ; How to Talk to Anybody, Anytime, Anywhere ; Ikigai    Hindi: Mrtyunjay , Sudha Murthy (Storytel original)  Marathi- Yugandhar , Chhava Prakaran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/obama-read-me-my-bedtime-story/article34601254.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The commune that built a forest||“It began with the process of thinking about our lifestyle: How we live, how we raise our children, what we eat…,” says Aviram Rozin. He is talking about the Sadhana Forest in Auroville, which he has been developing along with his wife, Yorit Rozin for 18 years. Spread over 70 acres, the forest attracts over 1,000 volunteers annually from across the globe; they come not only to help maintain it but also to learn to live a life that causes the least damage to the Earth. Aviram and Yorit are both from Israel and were in their 30s when they arrived at Auroville, a multi-cultural confluence founded in 1968. People from across the globe congregate here to live in the spirit of universal brotherhood, forming communes that work on diverse projects. “Eighteen years ago we embarked on this novel idea of reforestation. The land in 2003 was dry and white from a mixture of clay and pebbles. We did not require a torch in the night,” recalls Aviram, explaining that it reflected light even in the dark. “There were no animals. When it rained the water drained away quickly and left no puddles behind. It was a lunar landscape.” The duo consulted various units at Auroville and began to plant species that belonged to the native Tropical Dry Evergreen Forest (TDEF). They also undertook water conservation. Yorit recalls how a green canopy slowly grew over the heads and filled the air with the aroma of a humid tropical forest. “It’s not linear growth. For years it looked as if nothing was happening and then, boom, it was there,” she says, recalling their seven-year wait. Bird and animal sounds became frequent and the temperature too began to drop. She adds, “There is a perceptible difference in temperature because of a totally different environment inside the forest.” The animals and birds gave them a sense of a growing community. More than 100 species of birds fill the space. There are porcupines, monitor lizards, snakes, civets and other animals. Along with the growing number of inhabitants, the volunteers also began to increase. Aviram describes it as “a community of people living together, eating vegan food, doing reforestation, living in huts, and open to the local people besides volunteers.” As this template of being one with Nature and service began to prove successful, Yorit and Aviram began to think of taking the idea to other places. In 2010, they set up a Sadhana Forest in the Anse-a-Pitres area of Haiti on 4.7 acres and also did large-scale planting of the Maya Nut trees ( Brosimum alicastrum ), a super food, on land belonging to members of the local community. “It’s a food forest,” says Aviram, “the fresh nuts can be eaten raw, and the dried nuts are then milled using solar energy.” In 2014, Sadhana Forest came to Samburu County in Kenya and planted a variety of trees including tamarind and moringa. A year ago, the Government of Meghalaya and the World Bank invited the duo to participate in the Meghalaya Community Led Landscape Management Project (CLLMP). Currently a team of volunteers is camped in different villages of East and West Khasi, and Jaintia Hills in solar-powered buses and “works with the villagers to understand their natural resource management needs and support them with environmental planning”. As the COVID-19 pandemic rages on, it has seen people connect with Nature like never before. “We feel there’s an increased interest in environmental issues during this period and hope the interest will continue,” says the duo. As the 60 volunteers who tended to the trees at the start of the pandemic in March 2020 slowly returned to their homes, Aviram, Yorit and a few others watered and mulched the trees to keep the forest going. Yorit says the forest has been their most profound teacher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-commune-that-built-a-forest/article34601244.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A cocktail of genres and films||“Are we going back to cinemas?” was the question on everyone’s mind during the recent virtual press conference of the 50th edition of the International Film Festival Rotterdam (IFFR) 2021. Given the circumstances and regulations in the Netherlands, festival director Vanja Kaludjercic had a more rational response. “It is hard to predict, now that things are changing every day. But if cinemas are open, then IFFR will be there. Even otherwise, we have made the festival available online with a 72-hour window,” she said, while announcing the plan for the closing portion of this year’s festival, slated from June 2-6 both online and physical screenings in Netherlands. The June programme will open with The World to Come , an intimate period drama about two women directed by Norwegian filmmaker and actress Mona Fastvold. With a spread of 139 features including short, mid-length and VR films, movies will be screened under four main categories: Harbour, Bright Future, Cinema Regained and Short & Mid-length. “From the rediscovery of arthouse classics to celebrate IFFR’s history to the latest futuristic genre-bending TV series, there will be a wide range to choose from. All this in a way that captures the energy and excitement that has long been at the heart of IFFR, while adhering to the latest governmental regulations,” said Kaludjercic, adding that the closing film will be the European premiere of animated Japanese feature Poupelle of Chimney Town by Hirota Yusuke. The 50th edition of Rotterdam Film Festival was split into two parts with the festival’s opening portion taking place in February. It must be noted that the Tamil indie feature, Koozhangal , directed by PS Vinothraj won the Tiger Award, which is the top prize.  For details about screenings, visit www.iffr.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-cocktail-of-genres-and-films/article34601219.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Begone stalkers||In 2015, Nivetha Sakthivel was volunteering to send relief material from Coimbatore for the flood victims in Chennai. One night, she got a call from an unknown number when supervising boxes getting loaded into a vehicle. “Hey, how are you?” the man at the other end asked. Half a minute into the conversation, Nivetha realised he was trying to flirt with her. “It was so frustrating. You are already stressed, managing all the work and calls for help and you have to deal with such people,” she says. The call was not a one-off. She received over 200 such calls and numerous messages asking her “for friendship” — many of them even months after her volunteering stint. These started after the volunteering group shared Nivetha’s number along with the other volunteers’ on social media. However, sharing one’s phone number in such circumstances becomes inevitable. Even in other daily situations — like at the supermarket counter — we reluctantly share our numbers and later get infested with spam calls. An app made in Hyderabad, Doosra (which, in Hindi, means second), aims to solve this issue by providing users with a secondary phone number and blocking unwanted calls. You can share the virtual mobile number with others without compromising your privacy. “We have been seeing a lot of data breaches and issues in cybersecurity of late. So, we felt it was important to protect your identity from the phone number you end up sharing,” says founder Aditya Vuchi, who also heads MediaMint, a marketing and advertising firm, and Zippr, an Information Technology service company. This is how it works: you get a Doosra number upon signing up. All calls to your Doosra number, except those in your ‘trusted contacts’ list, will be blocked. The caller can send you a voicemail. You, however, get to know the caller’s number. So, you can call them back using the app’s “intermediate number” so that the other person sees neither your phone number nor your Doosra number. You can also disable the call blocker on the app for a specific time or location. Free for volunteers Ever since the pandemic began, many volunteers across the country have complained of stalking after sharing their numbers. So, Doosra is providing a free six-month plan for them. “There are people with nefarious intentions everywhere. And, it also gets difficult if your phone is ringing 100 to 200 times in the middle of the night. Volunteers have a life of their own and need to look out for themselves. This is why we felt it was important to give them this option of a free plan.”  Volunteers can email the team at covid19@doosra.io||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/begone-stalkers/article34601249.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Mr Potter heads to the e-market||Twenty two-year-old Ghanshyam Prajapati from Moliya, Alwar in Rajasthan, laid his hands on clay for the first time when he was all of eight. His elder brother, father and grandfather are all traditional terracotta potters. Day after day, while the women in the family prepare the sand for each pot, Ghanshyam and crew lend it shape and girth. When public exhibitions, which were steady sources of income, came to a sudden halt owing to the pandemic, Ghanshyam and his family were hit by a slump. But now, everything from water pots to decorative tea sets that adorn his collection are shipped across the globe thanks to three 19-year-olds and their start up, Rivaayat. It all began with a social entrepreneurship project that three friends had to lead, as part of their curriculum at Sri Ram College of Commerce in Delhi. “When we were in the first year, we came across a lot of artisans near our college who used to sell pots on the road. Later, in an article we read more about Kumar Colony in Uttam Nagar and tried to understand the craft better. There are about 600 potter families in Uttam Nagar and that is where we started,” says Tania Agarwal, one of the co-directors of Rivaayat, which kicked off as an initiative in November, 2019. Along with Tania, Rohan Kohli and Akshit Gupta lead the team. After many surveys, visits and trials to understand the artisans’ challenges, they decided to move forward with a platform that could bridge the gap between these potters and potential markets. The team first identifies crafts and art forms that are struggling, then reaches out to clusters that practise those art forms. “Generally, in India, artforms are practised in clusters. We go on on-ground surveys to these communities to identify and map their problems,” explains Rohan. He adds, “The basic framework we identified was to create a direct market linkage, be it through websites like Amazon or our own website. The next step was to introduce them to logistics and good packaging.” Terracotta’s fragility makes packaging a major component of a successful business model. So far, Rivaayat is working with 17 terracotta artisans in Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi. Products have been listed in over 20 online platforms, apart from their own website. The trio and its team of 20 have now expanded to baskets woven using water hyacinth. The little known craft uses water reeds that aggravate water pollution to make utility baskets. “By employing a cluster of 35 women in Uttarakhand, and keeping in mind the environmental hazards the raw material poses, we are promoting this art form,” adds Tania.   The works can be purchased from rivaayathome.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mr-potter-heads-to-the-e-market/article34601257.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A new voice||Tamil film music is winning hearts at Twitter Spaces, a new audio-only platform that is seeing a lot of patronage among social media users. The last week or so had popular musicians dish out their hit numbers, providing comfort to those at home buffeted by relentless COVID-19 updates. Leading the pack was singer Chinmayi, who enthralled fans in two different sessions by performing more than 100 songs. Thrilled listeners trended the hashtag #WeWantChinmayiBack, in a bid to communicate to the film industry that they wanted to hear more songs from her. Meanwhile, singer Pradeep Kumar also got fans excited as he dished out many of his superhit and independent songs in one session. Composers Santhosh Narayanan and Vijay Antony interacted with music fans through this platform. Music is certainly abalm in these troubled times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-new-voice/article34601225.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Momo’ Mia||Meatigo, the Gurugram-based online meat delivery paltform known for its fresh meats and delicatessen products, has arrived in Chennai. “Currently we offer sausages, cold cuts and ready-to-eat delicatessen items,” says Siddanth Wangdi, founder, Meatigo. The ready-to-eat section has Thai chilli and basil king prawns, Amritsari fish, Korean pork bulgogi slices, Balinese BBQ chicken, Santorini fish with capers, chicken wings and more. Meatigo’s popular momos will also be available, including a vegetarian option. “We import four types of cheese which are also available to our Chennai customers,” Siddant says.  For details, visit www.meatigo.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/momo-mia/article34601230.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||History in a suitcase||We made Dalgona coffee, baked banana bread, played board games, and even picked up the old habit of reading again. But for 46-year-old Chennai resident Vijay Shekhar, the lockdown meant something different — it presented an opportunity to add more structure to his three-decade long hobby of collecting newspaper clippings of important events across the world. While bigger libraries and institutions devote a large space for this kind of archival exercise, Vijay is doing it at a much smaller scale: his entire collection fits into a big suitcase. “The past year gave me a chance to revisit many old news items. Looking at such clippings, which I have collected over the years, and reminiscing about ‘Oh-so-this-is-how-it-happened’ gave me the ultimate kick,” says the communications professional. Past perfect It all began in 1991 when Vijay, then a 16-year-old, was jogging in Jamshedpur. “It was a normal day in May but people seemed unusually quiet. I overheard someone saying, in Bengali, ‘Rajiv Gandhi has been ‘shot’ in Madras’. There was a newspaper vendor around the corner and I quickly bought a copy. I felt it was important to preserve that.” Since then, Vijay took it upon himself to cut and keep aside reports of many important world events. So far he has culled over 300 clippings, apart from entire special newspaper copies and magazines, but the one he treasures the most is the original full newspaper of The Statesman of August 15, 1947, which he got after making several visits to the newspaper’s office in Kolkata.  In search of cheer Vijay has kept aside clippings from the COVID-19 coverage in various newspapers: He subscribes to four. “For most people, they become scrap after a few days. I derive value from that scrap.” The 46-year-old prefers clippings from newspapers that are accessible to him; the only exception to that was when India won the cricket World Cup in 2011. He then asked many of his friends across the country to send him coverage of the triumph in the newspapers. Whenever he gets free time, he opens up his collection to either recall old incidents or add newer insertions. “However, there is one small problem in that: 60% of my collection is primarily sad news, while 40% is what can be termed as happy ones,” says Vijay. Despite the rush of COVID-19-related updates coming his way, Vijay is looking forward to seeing his big suitcase being filled with more cheerful entries. “My collection depends on how the world shapes up. I hope to see a happier world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/history-in-a-suitcase/article34601855.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Canvassing support||A couple of weeks ago, as Arshmeen Baveja was rewatching Rang De Basanti , the 2006 Hindi film by Rakesh Omprakash Mehra, she struck upon a wild idea. She let AR Rahman’s soundtrack wash over her, as she painted away her feelings — 10 songs, 10 digital artworks. Put up for sale on her Instagram, the prints have brought in around Rs. 36,000 so far, all of which she is diverting to the Migrant Workers Solidarity Network. “ Rang De Basanti resonated with me, given the scale of the crisis we have at hand right now, and the mismanagement by the Government. We are stuck in a situation where we only have each other to help,” says the 25-year-old from Delhi. Arshmeen’s contribution to COVID-19 relief is a drop in the ocean of fundraising campaigns being led by Indian artists at an individual level. Prints — both digital and physical — of visual art are being used as incentive for buyers, who can obtain them after showing proof of donation to a charity. Alternatively, they can send money directly to artists, who then pass it on to the organisations they have partnered with. In just three days since the launch of Photo Solidarity, Chennai Photo Biennale has raised Rs. 3.6 lakh to be split equally between Khalsa Aid, providing medical resources, and Protsahan India Foundation, which takes care of children who have lost their parents to the pandemic. It was made possible, believes director of education at CPB, Gayatri Nair, because works by photographers such as Raghu Rai, Ronny Sen, Kannagi Khanna and Suresh Punjabi sold out immediately. “A Raghu Rai photo could sell for a minimum of Rs. 50,000 to up to Rs. 2 lakh depending on the print size and the work. But here, you are getting it for just Rs. 5,000, plus your money is going towards a good cause. That is the main attraction, I think,” says Gayatri. The other draw is the limited nature of the prints. “When the artistes donate their work to the CPB, we are allowed to print only three of them. This is generally work that has not been a part of a sale before, so the value of the work goes up because it is limited,” she says. Big names aside, CPB is also partnering with many young and upcoming photographers, to offer a variety of prints. While the funds go completely towards the charities and the printing cost, there may be another incentive for the young artistes. “I have noticed that many of the people interested are art buyers, gallerists and collectors. When they buy a young artist’s work, that increases its value, which will help them next time they professionally approach a gallery with their work.” So far, Photo Solidarity has over 60 photographers on board. Young guns blazing It was a collaboration of a similar scale that artist Devangana Dash pulled together in the beginning of May. “If the world wasn’t burning right now, I would truly call it the collaboration of my dreams!” quips Devangana. Within the first 24 hours of her fundraiser, she found support from 26 of her artist friends; the colourful mix of styles, voices and palettes raised Rs. 11 lakh in five days. “I started the campaign by uploading one of my own artworks to sense the engagement on Instagram, which turned out to be decent. I knew I won’t be able to gather concrete funds sufficient to make any difference, alone. This needs community work to be done well, and compassion brings people together,” says Devangana. Most of the artists, including Devangana, had no prior experience in fundraising. Finding a verified campaign or organisation to donate to, while at the same time amplifying the call for donations, and keeping a regular account of the money flowing in, can be challenging for a first timer. Platforms such as Mutual Aid India help. The website curates a list of urgent COVID-19 relief campaigns, verified in-house. “They were highlighting organisations/individuals doing on-ground relief work with the affected groups and communities at the grassroots areas that often get overshadowed. Their research was a key force, as their team of volunteers is constantly vetting the campaigns and identifying under-funded spaces,” says Devangana. Happy themes in a sad world In Jaipur, Shreya Parasrampuria, along with five other artists, is also encouraging others to donate a minimum of Rs. 1,500 to any of Mutual Aid’s featured campaigns, to get a set of six postcards. The theme for these postcards is ‘solitude’, interpreted by each of them in their own styles. “All of us find catharsis in drawing alone, and have done so a lot over the past year,” says Shreya. From a girl staring at a fish bowl in the warm yellow glow of her room, to one leaning against a fortress of mattresses — there is serenity to the postcards. Meanwhile Anjali Chandrashekar and Nidhi Singh Rathore from the US, aiming to get the Indian diaspora around the world to contribute to Mission Oxygen, say their theme revolved around an Ode to India. They write, “it is a collection that represented what artists outside India were missing — the small moments of joy, calm, and strength of their motherland, India.” Artist MS, who goes by the name The Big Fat Bao, says, “There is a lot of artwork out there focussing on the pandemic, the lack of governance and so on, but I wanted to give people things they could remember other than this chaos.” She is donating her sales to the Swabhiman Society and The Blue Dawn, both working towards supporting the Dalit community in accessing healthcare. Her artwork then, features icons such as BR Ambedkar, Savitribai Phule and tribal activist Kuni Sikaka. “Savitri mai was one of the key figures in handling the 1897 plague in Pune,” she says, adding “It is a reminder for us to stay strong and help each other out.”  Ongoing campaigns Diversify Photos:By a team of BIPOC visual artistes. Rs. 4,500 for one print. Funds go to Adivasi Lives Matter, Hemkunt Foundation, Indian Red Cross Society, Khaana Chahiye, Last Wildernness Foundation, Goonj and Creative Dignity. Chennai Photo Biennale:Limited edition work by over 60 photographers. Rs. 5,000 for one print. Funds go to Khalsa Aid and Protsahan. Ode to India:Homage to the country by India-born artists. Funds go to Mission Oxygen. The Big Fat Bao:A3 size portraits of Dalit icons. Rs. 1,350 for one. Funds go to Swabhiman Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/canvassing-support/article34601852.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The diaspora taste test||Fluffy white paniyarams , steamingbiryani,grated coconut and an incomplete recipe chart with instructions to grind rice, flit between the scenes to a foot-tapping folk rhythm. A woman is at the centre of it all, meticulously chopping, grinding and frying. The 40-second, animated short gives a glimpse into the day-to-day of a family of three — a couple and their child. Food is almost a character, here. The short, which has already grabbed eyeballs on social media, is the teaser of a narrative cooking game, Venba, that has South Indian cuisine at its centre. Revolving around an Indian family based in Toronto, it weaves a tale of love, loss and identity. The two to three hours-long gameplay takes one through incomplete or damaged recipes that need to be solved like a puzzle, where the player is expected to guess the steps. Originally from Chennai, 27-year-old Abhi, the creator of Venba, moved to Toronto when he was 12. Despite migrating as a child, he never felt assimilated to the Canadian culture, and often feels his Chennai roots are stronger. “I very much see myself more rooted in Chennai. I grew up strongly connected to that culture and would visit often. I can also speak in Tamil very easily,” he says over a Zoom call. But having said that, he adds that Venba is not entirely autobiographical. “The story we see here was more inspired by the families that I see around me, that came here [Toronto] much earlier, in the 1980s,” says Abhi, adding, “There is a lot of media about immigrants: the line most of them pursue is about kids and how hard it is for them to handle two cultures. But I always thought the more interesting story is that of parents. As they come to this country and grow, they grow farther apart from their kids. I have seen some parents who find it really difficult to interact with their own children due to the level of cultural differences.” Which, sometimes, he states, even makes them regret their decision to move. Abhi wanted to focus on this aspect of immigration in Venba. This sentiment was also shared by Sam Elakana, his colleague from Indonesia. Together, they developed the concept in January 2020. While Abhi is the designer and programmer, Sam is responsible for the visual character of the game, as art director. “In a game, you can’t just tell a story, you need something to play with. The game has a series of days and each day happens at different points in their lifetime. So, I thought it would be interesting if we tell the story of what happened each day, through food. No matter what happens, whether there is a fight or not in the family, the kitchen is still on,” adds Abhi. But focussing on food, especially South Indian cuisine, does come with its own set of challenges. “For any given recipe, there are thousands of variations. So I need to do a lot of research, pre-production almost, before I finalise on a recipe,” says Abhi. The recipes concentrate on making everything from scratch; for instance, the game talks about how rice flour is prepared for different dishes. “When I communicate these dishes to people who are not of Indian origin — like Sam to draw it — a lot more references are needed,” he adds. However, the biggest challenge is the realisation that people of Indian origin are likely to find the gameplay easy, because the ingredients and recipes are familiar. Venba is now at its “polishing stage” and is expected to reach the market by the winter of 2021 or early 2022. However, those who wish to pre-order the game can do so by wishlisting it on the gaming platform, Steam. “It was supposed to be a hobby game. We did not expect the level of reception we are getting!” says Abhi. After the trailer was released, patrons from across the world, especially North America, seem to have taken note. The duo wants to bring Venba to PC and all three major consoles. “But bringing it to those platforms (Like PS5 or Nintendo Switch) requires deals and partnerships with those companies which we are in the midst of right now,” Abhi says. A career in games has always been Abhi’s plan. After graduating from the University of Toronto, he started working in a mobile games studio as a programmer, in downtown Toronto. “We make Venba on the weekend and the nights after my day job,” he adds. For Sam and Abhi, Venba will always remain as something they created for themselves. “But, we do hope that people would come for the cooking and stay for the story!” concludes Abhi.  For details, visit venbagame.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-diaspora-taste-test/article34601853.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Obama read me my bedtime story||Every morning, Paroma Verma fills the heavy silence of lockdown with voices from audiobooks. Last week it was Meryl Streep narrating Charlotte’s Web , today it is Pene Herman Smith reading out A Cosy Christmas in Cornwall — stirring up festive winter feels bang in the middle of the Delhi summer. On Monday it will probably be Benedict Cumberbatch reading Sherlock Holmes. “I am used to having breakfast with my parents. But because of the pandemic we are stuck in different cities. Having these voices for company takes away the misery of starting the day in an empty house and eating by myself,” says the 36-year-old. There are many like her. Ever since the pandemic-induced lockdown came into effect last March, the concentrated listening of audiobooks that usually took place during morning and evening commutes began to spread across the day. People now listen to them while cooking, exercising or simply relaxing, says Shailesh Sawlani, country head, Audible India. “Night time in particular remains popular, with people wanting to listen to a book before they turn in for the day,” he observes. (Audible’s subscription is priced at Rs. 199 where the member gets one credit to tune into a book.) Rahul Dixit, sales director of Harper Collins India, says he finished listening to Like a Monk by Jay Shetty while washing vessels. “I didn’t realise I was doing chores,” he says. Harper Collins, a US-based publishing house got into audiobook territory around seven years back. In 2018, the trend caught on in India, says Rahul adding that India has always been a promising market. “Look at our history, a panditji would preach and everybody would sit around and listen. So India was a natural market for audio,” he adds. Even though print sales are way ahead, he says digital sales amount to 5% of the overall consumption. “In terms of audio, the global revenue of publishers has significantly gone up. In India, the revenue has doubled.” Readers too have grown three times in number and India is not an exception. Harper Collins India, which publishes 250 print books in a year, has so far brought out 50 in audiobook format and, in the future, plans to make more new titles available simultaneously in audio, ebook and print format. Yogesh Dashrath, country manager Storytel India, provides additional figures. (Headquartered in Sweden, this northern Europe-based entity launched in India in 2017). “Globally it is estimated that the audiobook market is approximately $4 billion in 2020. And it is expected to grow to $20 billion in the next 10 years,” he says. Yogesh is bullish about the future. “At present, the trade book market (exclusive educational titles) in India is estimated to be anywhere from $500 million to $750 million. And if we imagine that even if 10% of the users also get used to audiobooks, we are looking for audio to add 10%-20% to the industry,” he explains. Powerful voices The idea is to also delight the customer with the story format, says Rahul. The voice, style, intonation of the person reading out the book adds to the experience. Stories with diverse characters may also have as many people reading them out. There are big names such as Barack Obama who reads aloud his own memoir A Promised Land on Audible. A host of celebrities such as Anupam Kher, Konkona Sen Sharma, Prakash Raj, Rahul Bose, Soha Ali Khan, and Annu Aggarwal have also lent their voice to recording, using their skills to make the story come alive. This novelty factor of having a well-known personality reading out bedtime stories, or a daily dose of inspiration, is a bonus for this segment. “The hands-free nature adds to the appeal as one does not have to set aside time for it. You can discover a new story on the go,” adds Yogesh, who has noticed more people signing up for trials with them. “Storytel has seen a doubling of subscriptions,” he says. With people stuck within the confines of four walls and with more time in hand, the last year has been about catching up on books that they missed out on over the years. “Listening to books has become a good way to relax and reduce anxiety,” says Yogesh. Additionally, with screen time at an all-time high, screen fatigue has become common and people are proactively exploring audio content and turning to audiobooks, offers Shailesh. Plus, it is more inclusive as it makes it easier on those with dyslexia or reading difficulties to enjoy literature. Regional reigns While Shailesh sees an increase in the Hindi-speaking audience lapping up their growing selection of Hindi content that features top authors such as Devdutt Patnaik, Amish Tripathi; chefs such as Sanjeev Kapur; and television personalities like Neelesh Mishra, Yogesh notices a sharp rise in consumption of regional content especially in Marathi, Tamil and Malayalam. “There is a sizeable number of young adults who consume regional content via OTT or television but still struggle when it comes to reading a book in a regional language. That’s where audiobooks come into the picture,” he says. Spiralling demands for regional language content has led Storytel to come up with Select, a new subscription plan starting today (May 20). “Customers can access unlimited audiobooks and e-books in 11 regional languages including Hindi, Marathi, Urdu, Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam, Telugu, Assamese, Gujarati, Odia and Kannada at Rs. 149 per month,” he says. In terms of what rules consumption across genres, Yogesh says, in English personal development, business and biographies rule the roost. In regional languages, classics and thrillers are most popular, while there is an increasing consumption of crime and romance across all languages. To match the voracious listener’s appetite, platforms are constantly creating original content, across languages and categories. “These are written exclusively to be made into audio, unlike the books, which makes the narration much more interesting and gripping,” says Yogesh. A recent and positive trend to this effect is the interest shown by authors in writing exclusive audio content. The progressive list includes Anita Nair, Shobha De, Ravinder Singh and Nikita Singh. Ravinder Singh, sees a demand for audio and short content that is around 45 minutes to an hour. Keeping that in mind, over the last year, he worked on half a dozen stories for Stoytel that were released in the audio format first and then were adapted into ebooks. Around the same time, he too started listening to books, more of non fiction. As an author, Ravinder wants readers to consume his books in every available form. “I can adapt,” he says, adding, “I think of myself as a content curator. It’s a good thing that more formats are coming up for my content.” He believes that in the audio format, the writer has the narrator’s voice to play with and convey to the reader. “[In the future] I imagine there will be books with theatrical music and drama in the background,” says Ravinder adding, “The only negative from a reader’s perspective is I cannot mark a brilliant line (as one would in a physical book).”  Trending now Tamil: Ponniyin Selvan , Mogamul    English: The Power of Your Subconscious Mind ; How to Talk to Anybody, Anytime, Anywhere ; Ikigai    Hindi: Mrtyunjay , Sudha Murthy (Storytel original)  Marathi- Yugandhar , Chhava Prakaran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/obama-read-me-my-bedtime-story/article34601857.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Doctor, your lunch is ready||The influential World Central Kitchen (WCK) has joined forces with chef Sanjeev Kapoor in India to serve freshly prepared meals to hospital staff working around the clock in seven cities across the country. Activating initially in Mumbai, a local team of chefs prepared vegetable makhanwala with coriander rice for their first day of service. A statement from WCK says, “Meals were delivered to several hospitals in two shifts, one for the day staff and another for the night crew. We also provided frontline medical staff with juice — the area is sweltering and workers are wearing full PPE, so dehydration is a major concern.” An organisation founded in 2010 by the Spanish-American Chef José Andrés and his wife Patricia, the World Central Kitchen aims to use food to empower communities and strengthen economies. Over time, they also learned that food can be a powerful tool to heal communities in times of crisis. WCK teams are currently preparing more than 10,000 nourishing meals every day. Across the seven Indian cities they are currently working with (Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Chicalim), WCK states that they have served more than 50,000 meals to frontline healthcare workers so far. How it began in India During the 2020 lockdowns, chef Sanjeev Kapoor realised he needed to find ways to keep his kitchen and staff motivated, despite the challenges of the pandemic. He was also determined to find a way to serve the medical fraternity. “Chefs I spoke to were more than willing to help,” he says over a call from Mumbai. They started with 250 meals per day at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, serving roti, rice, dal, vegetables, fruits, juice and a sweet. “As word spread, we started getting calls from other smaller hospitals to provide food for their staff. Soon, we were providing healthy and balanced meals to most of the hospital, for free.” Chef Kapoor says the hotels and team of chefs were thankful for the initiative as it made them feel helpful in the crisis. This year he joined hands with Indian Hotels Company Limited (IHCL), which is the Taj Hotels group and Taj flight kitchen. Ian Dubier, area director, Hyderabad and Taj Santacruz Mumbai says the company started serving meals and hosting the medical fraternity last year, at the beginning of this pandemic. He adds, “Since then we have been expanding our outreach.” Buoyed by the project in Mumbai, Chef Kapoor says, “José Andrés is a friend and when I told him we want to extend the meals to other cities, he brought in WCK.” Although restaurants, home chefs and volunteers have been working towards helping feed the staff and patients at hospitals, continuity is a challenge at Government hospitals where the numbers are large. WCK, with its sheer manpower, infrastructure and expertise at high volume cooking, helps local teams ramp up. Its relief team will soon start work in Chennai. IHCL’s airline catering brand — TajSats has the manpower and the resources to hygienically cook and pack a huge number of meals everyday, says Dubier. He adds, “In Hyderabad, we are delivering around 1,400 meals everyday (lunch and dinner) from Taj Falaknuma Palace and are very grateful to be associated with Chef Sanjeev Kapoor and the WCK.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/doctor-your-lunch-is-ready/article34601854.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Mr Potter heads to the e-market||Twenty two-year-old Ghanshyam Prajapati from Moliya, Alwar in Rajasthan, laid his hands on clay for the first time when he was all of eight. His elder brother, father and grandfather are all traditional terracotta potters. Day after day, while the women in the family prepare the sand for each pot, Ghanshyam and crew lend it shape and girth. When public exhibitions, which were steady sources of income, came to a sudden halt owing to the pandemic, Ghanshyam and his family were hit by a slump. But now, everything from water pots to decorative tea sets that adorn his collection are shipped across the globe thanks to three 19-year-olds and their start up, Rivaayat. It all began with a social entrepreneurship project that three friends had to lead, as part of their curriculum at Sri Ram College of Commerce in Delhi. “When we were in the first year, we came across a lot of artisans near our college who used to sell pots on the road. Later, in an article we read more about Kumar Colony in Uttam Nagar and tried to understand the craft better. There are about 600 potter families in Uttam Nagar and that is where we started,” says Tania Agarwal, one of the co-directors of Rivaayat, which kicked off as an initiative in November, 2019. Along with Tania, Rohan Kohli and Akshit Gupta lead the team. After many surveys, visits and trials to understand the artisans’ challenges, they decided to move forward with a platform that could bridge the gap between these potters and potential markets. The team first identifies crafts and art forms that are struggling, then reaches out to clusters that practise those art forms. “Generally, in India, artforms are practised in clusters. We go on on-ground surveys to these communities to identify and map their problems,” explains Rohan. He adds, “The basic framework we identified was to create a direct market linkage, be it through websites like Amazon or our own website. The next step was to introduce them to logistics and good packaging.” Terracotta’s fragility makes packaging a major component of a successful business model. So far, Rivaayat is working with 17 terracotta artisans in Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi. Products have been listed in over 20 online platforms, apart from their own website. The trio and its team of 20 have now expanded to baskets woven using water hyacinth. The little known craft uses water reeds that aggravate water pollution to make utility baskets. “By employing a cluster of 35 women in Uttarakhand, and keeping in mind the environmental hazards the raw material poses, we are promoting this art form,” adds Tania.   The works can be purchased from rivaayathome.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mr-potter-heads-to-the-e-market/article34601851.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||Politicians, bureaucrats find it difficult to accept failure: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said politicians and bureaucrats find it very difficult to accept their failure and inability as it is not in their veins, while expressing concerns over the condition of District Court’s judicial officers who are at risk of contracting COVID-19 owing to the nature of duties. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said that three judicial officers have already died after contracting the virus in the Capital. The Bench asked the government whether the judicial officers in the subordinate courts could be treated akin to front-line workers. “In Supreme Court and High Court, we hold constitutional positions. Our protocols are different but that is not the case of subordinate judiciary...You should take steps for good reason. We don’t have to thrust... If administration is satisfied that judicial officers are discharging front-line duties, you can record in your order and provide facilities,” the High Court told the city government. The court was hearing a plea filed by the Delhi Judicial Officers Association with respect to the health facilities in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Facilities an eyewash Senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, representing the association, said that the facilities on ground for judicial officers are an eyewash. The association asked for creation of a district-wise attachment of hospitals for judicial officers and appointment of a centralised nodal officer to assist the judicial officer when help is sought. The association said that 852 judicial officers and staff have already been infected with the virus. During the hearing, Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi submitted the facilities for judicial officers have been put in place as per the court’s direction. To this, the Bench reacted, “That has not delivered. They are here because it didn’t bring about any satisfactory results. It is very difficult for bureaucracy and political leaders to accept their failure or inability”. Front-line workers The High Court has ordered the Delhi government to come up with a status report on the issue by May 26, the next date of hearing. The court also noted the submissions of senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing Delhi government, that the government will decide on declaring judicial officers as “front-line workers”. Mr. Mehra also said that the association may also submit their representation to the Delhi Chief Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/politicians-bureaucrats-find-it-difficult-to-accept-failure-hc/article34601575.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||Surge weakening, but getting a free COVID-19 test still difficult||The COVID-19 situation in Delhi is improving, but getting a free COVID-19 test is still a difficult task for many as some government testing centres are not conducting tests. Hence, people are queuing up at some functional centres as early as 5 a.m. to get a test. The window for testing too is small — from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. At Gautampuri Awas in Sarita Vihar, 30 people lined up outside the government-run testing centre at around 8 a.m. on Wednesday. Less crowd “We came here around 5 a.m. Earlier, there was testing in Badarpur, but now it is not functioning. I had tested positive and now I have come to get tested again after my recovery. Compared to the last time, the crowd is less,” said Chetram Singh (48), a CISF personnel, who was the first person in the queue. Soti Paswan, who works as a cook at a restaurant, said he had gone to his village in Bihar and needed test result before joining work. “Others who work with me and got tested here said I will have to come at 5 a.m. to get the token. I walked from the place where I am staying with a friend, who also wants to take a test. It is drizzling and we have been sitting outside the gate. There is no tent or any other facility,” said Mr. Soti, who earns Rs. 15,000 a month. Around 9 a.m., there were nine people waiting outside the gate of Nehru Homoeopathic Medical College in Defence Colony, which has a COVID-19 testing centre. Some were waiting for more than half an hour and the testing has yet to start. At Old Delhi, government dispensaries in Gali Guliyan and Dujana House were not conducting tests, though their names are on the list of testing centres. At Kasturba Hospital near Jama Masjid, healthcare workers at the testing counter said they do only 15 RT-PCR tests a day. “We conduct only 15 RT-PCR a day, but we do rapid antigen testing. We sit here till noon. So far, five people have been tested,” a health worker at the counter said. “Yesterday [Tuesday] I came here and filled the form. After that, I reached the testing window around 12.30 p.m., but they said testing slots were over and asked me to come the next day,” said Bahadur Paswan, who lives in Chandni Chowk. Inderpal Singh, who is in-charge of the government dispensary at Suiwalan in Old Delhi, said: “We are doing tests, but there is no crowd here. Due to the lockdown and Ramzan, a few people have been coming for tests also. But still, we are testing around 30-40 people a day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/surge-weakening-but-getting-a-free-covid-19-test-still-difficult/article34601571.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rain lashes city under ‘weak’ Tauktae impact||Incessant showers lashed the Capital on Wednesday under the influence of the remnant of the extremely severe cyclonic Storm “Tauktae” which is over east Rajasthan interacting with a western disturbance that lies as a cyclonic circulation over Jammu & Kashmir. The meteorological department, in its bulletin, said moderate rainfall/ thundershower that Delhi is experiencing is “very likely” to decrease from May 20. The IMD said that Delhi received moderate rainfall on Wednesday with Safdarjung, which is the official weather station of the Capital, receiving 31.3 mm of rainfall till 5.30 p.m. Weather stations at Palam, Ayanagar and Lodhi Road received 27.8, 25.1 and 30.4 mm respectively.  The rain reduced temperatures drastically, with the maximum settling at 23.8 degrees Celsius, which is 16 degrees cooler than normal for this time of the season. The minimum temperature was 21.4 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. While the city received the entire average rainfall for the season in a day, the lockdown ensured that there were no major waterlogging complaints or jams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rain-lash-delhi-under-weak-tauktae-impact/article34601586.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kalra quizzed about faulty oxygen concentrators||The Delhi police on Wednesday took Navneet Kalra, arrested for alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators, to the farmhouse in Gurugram where he was hiding while evading arrest. The police also questioned him about the poor quality of oxygen concentrators that was supplied to customers by him. “We asked them what action he had taken when buyers raised questions over the quality of oxygen concentrators, did he initiated any refund. He remained reluctant to answers these questions,” said a police officer. The Crime Branch has seized two mobile phones from the businessman, sources said on Wednesday. Mr. Kalra was nabbed from Gurugram on Sunday night and was formally arrested on Monday. He was on the run for over a week since the seizure of more than 500 oxygen concentrators from Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nega & Ju restaurants owned by him. “The Crime Branch team probing the case has seized two cell phones from Kalra which have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for further examination. He has used these phone to approach customers while selling oxygen concentrators,” the sources said. As part of the investigation, the Crime Branch took Mr. Kalra to three restaurants in Delhi in connection with the case on Tuesday. An officer said Mr. Kalra was taken to Khan Chacha, Townhall, and Nege Ju restaurants from where the concentrators were recovered. He was also taken for the mandatory medical examination, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kalra-quizzed-about-faulty-oxygen-concentrators/article34601583.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||CM discusses measures to prevent third wave||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday convened a meeting with officials to review the current COVID situation in Delhi and to deliberate on measures to prevent the third wave of the pandemic. The government stated that Mr. Kejriwal prioritised the increase in the number of beds and oxygen allocation as well as the creation of a Special Task Force to protect children from the third wave. He also directed the officials to work on the advance preparation of sufficient oxygen tankers and ensure the proper functioning of oxygen plants for an optimum supply of oxygen to hospitals. Nodal Minister Manish Sisodia and Health Minister Satyendar Jain were also present in the meeting along with officials of the Delhi government. The third wave, the government stated, may require Delhi to be prepared with 40,000 oxygen beds, and the government is preparing to install 10,000 ICU beds. Along with beds and oxygen management, management of medicine was also discussed. A committee comprising officials will be formed to overlook the availability of medicines, oxygen and beds, the government stated. A Special Task Force comprising pediatricians, experts and senior IAS officers will also be constituted as a part of government’s efforts to protect children from the third wave, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-discusses-measures-to-prevent-third-wave/article34601564.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||FIR against restaurant after customers fall ill||An FIR was registered against a restuarant in north Delhi’s Sadar Bazar after complaints were received that many people who had food at the eatery allegedly suffered stomach infection. The eatery joint also violated curfew guidelines, the police said on Wednesday. On May 16, the police received a call from a woman who alleged that she suffered a stomach infection after eating momos from “AL Chand Food” situated in Sadar Bazar. When a police team reached the spot, they found that “AL Chand foods” at Nawab Road was open and people were getting fast food items, including momos and chowmein violating social distancing, a senior police officer said. When the woman was contacted over phone, she did not wish to file a complaint despite request to make a written complaint so as to act against the restaurant, but she did not want any action, he said. According to police, on Monday, a few more complainants came forward with allegations that they had suffered stomach problem after having food items from AL Chand Foods. “The restaurant has been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC for violating curfew guidelines,” the senior officer said. No MLC report Action has also been taken against the restaurant under relevant sections of the Delhi Police Act for violation of licence. Till now, four complaints have been received without any (MLC) medico legal case report, the police said, adding further inquiry is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-against-restaurant-after-customers-fall-ill/article34601578.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||4 held for duping people on pretext of giving aid||The Delhi police have arrested four members of a Nalanda-based gang in Bihar for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing oxygen cylinders, concentrators etc. across the country, officials said on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Deepak (21), Pankaj (26), Sarvan (35) and Mithlesh (36). The accused have cheated more than 300 people in the name of COVID aid. The police have seized three bank accounts where transaction of over Rs. 1.30 crore was done. Over 500 cheating cases have been registered and investigation is being done by district Cyber units, CyPAD and Crime Branch. On one such case, the complainant, who was in need of oxygen cylinder, contacted one Sachin after getting his number from social media. Sachin offered him two cylinders for Rs. 23,950. The complainant did not receive the cylinders even after transferring money through e-wallet, officials said. “During investigation, it was found that the money was transferred to a bank account in Mumbai. Later, the accused were zeroed in Nalanda. A raid was conducted and Mithlesh was apprehended. On his instance, three other accused were then arrested,” Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Shibesh Singh said. Probe revealed that they are the members of Chhote Chaudhary gang operating from Nalanda in Bihar. Chaudhary has been operating the gang for 2-3 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/4-held-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-giving-aid/article34601579.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU seeks alumni help to set up COVID care centre||Jawaharlal Nehru University Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar on Wednesday asked its alumni to donate one day’s salary or larger amounts to the university for upgradation of its health centre to a COVID care centre. The Delhi High Court had asked the university to start a COVID care centre with availability of oxygen after the JNUSU and JNUTA approached it saying that the administration had not responded to proposals sent by them to start a facility after a number of students, teachers fell ill and needed such facilities. The Vice-Chancellor said that JNU makes an appeal to the alumni to contribute to “JNU Alumni Endowment Fund” and help their alma mater to achieve its objective to provide good healthcare to its students, staffers and faculty members during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter to the alumni, he said, “As scientists have warned that this pandemic is going to continue for some time to come, there is an urgent need to upgrade the existing health infrastructure of the campus. JNU plans to upgrade the current infrastructure of our health centre and develop a well-equipped COVID heath centre which requires a considerable amount of financial support.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-seeks-alumni-help-to-set-up-covid-care-centre/article34601582.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||6th sero survey stopped due to virus surge: official||The sixth serological survey, which was started in April, has not yet been completed and was stopped due to the surge in COVID-19 cases, a Delhi government official said. The survey, which is done to understand how much percentage of the population has developed antibodies against the virus, was started by the Delhi government on April 12. The government has not officially commented on the survey not being completed. Stopped after 6-7 days The sample collection was scheduled to go on till April 25 and 28,000 samples were to be collected. “The government collected about 11,000 samples and it was stopped after six-seven days as the COVID situation was really bad. A decision has to be taken on whether to continue the survey or to declare the results of the collected samples,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/6th-sero-survey-stopped-due-to-virus-surge-official/article34601569.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||Court notice to Centre on plea against clinical trials||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a petition challenging the permission given by the Drugs Controller General of India to Bharat Biotech for conducting the phase II/III clinical trial of its Covaxin COVID-19 vaccine on the 2-18 age group. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh gave the order on a petition filed by advocate Sanjeev Kumar against the May 13 order of the Centre granting permission to conduct the phase II/III clinical trial of Covaxin on 525 healthy volunteers in the age group of 2-18 years. The plea argued that the clinical trial on Covaxin on minors will in all likelihood have adverse affect on their health, both mental and physical. “These children might even lose their life,” the plea said. It pointed out that the term ‘volunteer’ cannot be used for these minor children between the age of 2 to 18 as they cannot comprehend the consequences of such clinical trials. In order for a person to become a subject matter of clinical trial, his or her consent is a pre-requisite. The volunteer is also required to enter into a contract with the institute carrying the clinical trial on various issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-clinical-trials/article34601576.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||Plea to treat ration dealers as front-line workers||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the AAP government on a plea seeking to consider ration dealers under the public distribution system as front-line workers. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the Delhi government’s response to the plea which has contended that since ration dealers have public dealing on a day-to-day basis, they should be considered as front-line essential workers. The petition moved by the Delhi Ration Dealers’ Union and some fair price shop owners said, “All the benefits of front-line workers should also be given to them [ration dealers], including but not limited to insurance in case of death and coverage of medical expenses.” “In addition, the supply of essential items like masks and sanitisers should also be provided to them to perform their duties properly,” the petition has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-to-treat-ration-dealers-as-front-line-workers/article34601562.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||BJP doing cheap politics over Kejriwal’s statement on ‘Singapore strain’: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday alleged that the BJP is doing “cheap politics” over Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s statement on COVID-19 situation in Singapore. Mr. Sisodia said that the actual issue is the danger to children. “But the BJP is worried about its image in Singapore and not worried about our children,” he said. “The new form of novel coronavirus in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children. It could reach India in the form of a third wave,” Mr. Kejriwal had said in a tweet on Tuesday. “Today, our doctors and scientists are warning the nation against the new strain that has emerged in Singapore. Even the Supreme Court has mentioned that the next wave will adversely impact children. But our Central government is least concerned about the chances of a third wave or how our children will have to face the brunt of it,” he said. Mr. Sisodia said that the Centre needs to prioritise children first, instead of playing politics and fixing its image abroad. Health Minister Satyendar Jain told reporters that there is a “different strain” of the virus in Singapore, when asked about the Chief Minister’s statement on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-doing-cheap-politics-over-kejriwals-statement-on-singapore-strain-sisodia/article34601566.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||Black fungus: HC asks Delhi, Centre about drug stock||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the Centre and Delhi government to respond to the issue of shortage of medicine used for treating black fungus, which is affecting people recovering from COVID-19. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh asked the government to explain by Thursday the details of the stock of the medicine and if there was any bottleneck in its distribution. Advocate Rakesh Malhotra, who has filed a petition on the management of COVID-19 pandemic in the Capital, raised the issue of shortage of medicine Amphotericin B which is used for treating Mucormycosis (black fungus). Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, admitted that there is a shortage of the medicine and the State has requisitioned the drug from the Centre. The court asked both the governments to get details by Thursday, when the court hears the case again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/black-fungus-hc-asks-delhi-centre-about-drug-stock/article34601573.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anti-Modi posters: AAP leader joins investigation||Aam Aadmi Party Sitapuri Councillor Praveen Kumar has joined the investigation into posters that were pasted across the city critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the COVID-19 vaccination drive. The development comes days after Delhi Police arrested 25 people for allegedly pasting them on walls during the lockdown. “While patrolling and enforcing the lockdown, the police noticed walls in several areas defaced by posters. On questioning, the accused said AAP president of ward 47, Arvind Gautam was behind it in Mangolpuri. He is absconding,” the police tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/anti-modi-posters-aap-leader-joins-investigation/article34601577.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for selling donated O 2 concentrators||A 47-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly selling oxygen concentrators, which his Indian friends in China had sent as charity, at high prices. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said that the accused has been identified as Harminder Singh, resident of Tilak Nagar. The police said that an information was received about a person indulging in selling of oxygen concentrators which were actually meant for charity. According to the information, he was to come near a hotel in Paschim Vihar. The police said that a trap was laid. A head constable posed as customer to whom the accused asked for Rs. 1 lakh for the machine. The accused was then arrested. During interrogation, the accused allegedly told the police that he is in the business of fabrics and has friends in China who had sent oxygen concentrators to him to donate them to needy individuals and organisations. However, he gave only 16 in charity and kept six for selling purposes. “He wanted to make up for losses incurred by him in his own business,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-selling-donated-o-2-concentrators/article34601584.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Restaurants appeal to stakeholders||The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) has written to all prominent mall owners, and an open letter to other landlords, suggesting immediate measures to be taken in order to prevent ‘instant death’ of businesses. The association said that collective efforts of all stakeholders are once again required to prevent fresh round of business mortalities and job losses in the sector. NRAI president Anurag Katriar stressed on the importance of moving to a revenue share model with landlords. While resource crunch was at the core of our problems during phase one and forced significant mortalities, the second wave may actually hurt us more in the long term due to low and subdued consumer sentiments, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/restaurants-appeal-to-stakeholders/article34601587.ece
20 May 2021||May 20 2021 00:00 IST,||One last rite||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-last-rite/article34601866.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Compensation announced is paltry: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday said it was a travesty of justice that the Delhi government has offered a “paltry” sum of Rs. 50,000 as ex-gratia to families in which a member had died of COVID. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar and former DPCC president Subhash Chopra demanded that a sum of Rs. 4 lakh should be paid as ex-gratia to every COVID death along with Rs. 10,000 monthly pension to families who lost their breadwinners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/compensation-announced-is-paltry-cong/article34601589.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘CM is the sole reason for oxygen crisis’||The Delhi BJP on Wednesday accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of being the sole reason for the oxygen crisis in the Capital. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged that the oxygen distribution policy of the Delhi government was faulty right from the beginning, which led to people losing their dear ones. North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari alleged that the Centre allocated oxygen in line with the Delhi government’s demand but it neither had tankers nor other arrangements to store it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-is-the-sole-reason-for-oxygen-crisis/article34601563.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||Don’t reduce RT-PCR testing: L-G||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday stressed that RT-PCR testing in the Capital should not be reduced like rapid antigen testing, which had decreased as a result of lockdown. He also emphasised that the guard should not be lowered in the fight against the pandemic and measures and preparedness to deal with any eventuality should be undertaken. The L-G reviewed the management of COVID-19 situation in the Capital with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, municipal corporation Commissioners and senior officers of Delhi Police, where he expressed satisfaction at the improvement in the overall situation. According to sources, Mr. Baijal told to ensure that distributors and retailers of drugs and equipment related to COVID are made to mandatorily display their stocks and prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dont-reduce-rt-pcr-testing-l-g/article34601565.ece
20 May 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccine stock low, says govt.; new cases dip below 4,000||Delhi reported 3,846 new COVID-19 cases over the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 14,06,719, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. This is the lowest number of daily new cases in nearly 45 days. The last time new cases were less than this was on April 5, when 3,548 cases were reported. A total of 235 deaths were also reported in a single day, pushing the toll to 22,346. Also, 66,573 tests were done in the same period and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 5.78%. The last time the TPR was less than this was on April 6, when it was 4.93%. The TPR was 36.2% on April 22, but since then, it has stayed below it. A decrease in positivity is a good sign, as per experts. TPR should be ideally below 5%. Of the total cases, 13,39,326 people have recovered and there are now 45,047 active cases. Out of the total 24,305 beds, 44.9% were free as on Wednesday evening. Treatment expense In a related development, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the Delhi government will bear all treatment-related expenses of Amit Gupta, a doctor who works at a Delhi government hospital and has been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital. Centres may close Vaccination for 18-44 age group will be halted two days from now as Covishield stock will last only for two days and Covaxin stock is already over, said AAP leader Atishi. “Will have to temporarily shut down nearly 350 centres administering Covishield to 18-44 age group after two days from now. For those above 45 and healthcare, frontline workers, Covaxin stock is left for one day and Covishield stock for 3 days,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccine-stock-low-says-govt-new-cases-dip-below-4000/article34601567.ece
20 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Call for walk-in registrations for non-ration cardholders||Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan (DRRAA) wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday demanding the setting up of help desks and facilitating walk-in registrations for non-ration cardholders, who require foodgrains. It also said that there should be decentralised distribution points across the city so that people can reach easily. Highlighting issues to be taken into consideration while formulating the scheme to distribute grains among non-ration cardholders, the DRRAA in its letter said: “The government must set up help desks in low income areas and at distribution points to facilitate registration. To prevent delay in providing ration, walk-in registration must be allowed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/call-for-walk-in-registrations-for-non-ration-cardholders/article34601572.ece
