21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aerosols can travel up to 10 m; ventilation is the key, says govt.||Aerosols can be carried in the air for up to 10 m and improving the ventilation of indoor spaces will reduce transmission, a government advisory on stopping the spread of COVID-19 said on Thursday. The advisory, issued by the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, said there was a need to remember the simple measures that could reduce the transmission of SARS-CoV-2. Transmission risk “Ventilation can decrease the risk of transmission from one infected person to the other. Just as smells can be diluted from the air through opening windows and doors and using exhaust systems, ventilating spaces with improved directional air flow decreases the accumulated viral load in the air, reducing the risk of transmission. Ventilation is a community defence that protects all of us at home or at work,” it stated. It recommended adding outdoor air in offices, homes and public spaces. Droplets and aerosols were the key transmission modes of the virus. While droplets fell up to 2 m from an infected person, aerosols could travel up to 10 m. Ventilation in hutments could be improved by adding “ jaali or other simple air outlets”, apart from installing exhaust fans, the advisory said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aerosols-can-travel-up-to-10-m-ventilation-is-the-key-says-govt/article34610478.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Buggana presents a Budget of Rs. 2.29 lakh cr.||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy presented the State Budget for the financial year 2021-22 in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday with an expenditure of Rs. 2,29,779.27 crore and a revenue expenditure estimated at Rs. 1,82,196.54 crore. The capital expenditure, including loan repayments and other capital disbursements, were pegged around Rs. 47,582.73 crore. The estimated revenue and fiscal deficits were Rs. 5,000.05 crore and Rs. 37,029.79 crore, accounting for 0.47% and 3.49% of the GSDP respectively. Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said Andhra Pradesh was ranked the third in achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and they continued to be the government’s foremost priority. He observed that the SDG agenda assumed greater importance in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic as nations and sub-national governments strived to emerge stronger and provide healthier environments to people.  Women and child development has got a massive allocation of Rs. 64,031.68 crore (Rs. 47,283.21 crore for women and Rs. 16,748.47 crore for children) while the BC Sub-plan got Rs. 28,237.65 crore. The health, medical and family welfare sector has been given Rs. 13,830.44 crore. A sum of Rs. 24,624 crore has been allocated for school and Intermediate education, Rs. 17,403.14 crore for SC Sub-plan, Rs. 6,131.24 crore for ST Sub-plan, Rs. 3,840.72 crore for the welfare of minorities, Rs. 3,306 crore for the uplift of Kapu community and Rs. 1,973.16 crore for higher education. The government has allocated Rs. 13,237.78 crore for the Department of Water Resources. The Panchayat Raj and Rural Development and Municipal Administration Departments were provided Rs. 18,580.70 crore and Rs. 8,727.08 crore. A sum of Rs. 7,200 crore was earmarked for Dr. YSR Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan scheme. The other allocations are Rs. 7,594.06 crore for Transport, Roads & Buildings Department, Rs. 6,637.24 crore for energy, Rs. 5,661.57 crore for housing and infrastructure, Rs. 3,673.34 crore for industrial and infrastructure development, Rs. 3,500 crore for infrastructure in government schools under Nadu-Nedu, Rs. 1,802.82 crore for Dr. YSR Free Crop Insurance scheme, Rs. 806.47 crore for Environment, Forest, Science and Technology Department, Rs. 739.46 crore for farm mechanisation, Rs. 500 crore for YSR Sunna Vaddi Panta Runalu, Rs. 500 crore for agriculture price stabilisation fund and Rs. 329.48 crore for fisheries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/women-children-key-focus-of-rs-229-lakh-crore-ap-budget/article34610436.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Surge in Black Fungus cases in Telangana||The beds in Government ENT Hospital at Koti are fast getting filled by Mucormycosis patients. Till Thursday night, 160 out of the 200 beds were occupied by patients suffering from the fungal infection also known as Black Fungus. Only 40 beds were left, which doctors at the hospital expect to be occupied on Friday. When asked what would be done in case all the 200 beds are occupied, the government hospital’s superintendent Dr T Shankar said they will make use of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) building on their premises and set up 40 more beds. Out of the 200 beds, 10 are reserved for non-Mucormycosis ENT cases. Dr Shankar said that 10 out of the 160 patients got admitted after undergoing surgeries at private hospitals. Availability of Liposomal Amphotericin B at the government hospital is one of the reasons why patients got discharged from private hospitals, and opted admission at the ENT Hospital. The hospital shot into prominence after the State Health department officials on May 15 declared it as a nodal centre for admitting and treating Black Fungus cases. Patients from various districts, and a few from other States too got admitted at the hospital. Since the hospital currently does not have CT Scan and MRI facilities, patients who consult the hospital are forced to take diagnosis tests at private labs, paying huge money. “Besides, we had to buy Posaconazole from outside where it costs around Rs. 20,000. It becomes difficult for poor patients,” said a family member of a patient. Sources in the hospital confirmed that Posaconazole was not available at the government hospital. After senior officials from the State Health department issued a press release on Wednesday stating that an online application system for allotment of Liposomal Amphotericin B, Posaconazole and Isavuconazole was introduced, people asked where can they download the application along with the proforma to fill the details. The application is uploaded in thehttps://dme.telangana.gov.in/ Corporate hospitals have started to send applications and some have received approval to procure the medicines from stockists to patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/surge-in-black-fungus-cases-in-telangana/article34610980.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||23 more bodies recovered from barge off Mumbai||Twenty-three more bodies were recovered from barge P-305, which sank off the Mumbai coast, taking the death toll to 49, while 26 persons are still missing as search and rescue efforts continued for the fourth day on Thursday. 186 rescued “So far, 186 survivors have been rescued and 49 bodies recovered. INS Beas is at Mumbai harbour, disembarking the remains,” a Navy spokesperson said. Accommodation barge P-305 sank 35 nautical miles off Mumbai on May 17 due to Cyclone Tauktae. Three construction barges of Afcons Infrastructure, working on a project of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, and one drilling rig of ONGC deployed for exploration off Mumbai coast were impacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/23-more-bodies-recovered-from-barge-off-mumbai/article34610511.ece
21 May 2021||Kolkata,||CMs humiliated at meeting with PM Modi, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday took strong exception to Chief Ministers allegedly not being allowed to speak at a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “It was just a casual, super flop meeting. We, the CMs, felt insulted and humiliated,” she told journalists at the State Secretariat after the meeting that the Prime Minister held with 54 District Magistrates (DMs) from across 10 States in the presence of the Chief Ministers. Ms. Banerjee said she thought she would be allowed to raise issues relating to COVID-19, but was shocked at not being allowed to speak. She said she had listed down points to raise with Mr. Modi. “It was one-way insulation, one-way humiliation... No Chief Minister was allowed to speak. Only a few DMs from the BJP-ruled States were allowed to speak,” she alleged. The Chief Minister said that vaccines, oxygen and medicines, including Remdesivir, were not being provided by the Centre and States could not procure them from markets because of their unavailability. “The country is passing through a critical juncture and the Prime Minister’s approach is casual. They have demolished the federal structure... If Chief Ministers were not allowed to speak why were they invited,” she asked. Referring to the slow pace of vaccination, Ms. Banerjee said, “If States were to accept his [PM’s] formula of vaccination, it will take 10 years to vaccinate people”. Ms. Banerjee asked how many Central teams were sent to Uttar Pradesh when bodies of suspected COVID-19 patients were found floating in the Ganga. Speaking on the COVID-19 situation in the State, she said that the infection had reached rural areas because of the eight-phase elections. ‘Need 20 lakh doses’  Later in the day, the Chief Minister wrote to the Prime Minister on the vaccination of State and Central government employees. “ In Bengal, while we have taken steps to complete vaccination of a large section of frontline and electorally engaged employees across several sectors, we still need minimally 20 lakh doses to cover all the employees,” Ms. Banerjee wrote in the letter. The Chief Minister also raised problems being faced by the Central government employees like those working with the railways, airports, ports, banks, and coal, post and telegraph and several other sectors having wide-scale public interface in getting vaccinated on a priority basis. ‘Vendetta politics’ She also accused the Centre of indulging in “vendetta politics” amid a pandemic. “I will not speak on a matter relating to the court. But it is political vendetta. Three to four days have passed, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim [State Ministers] are not able to contribute to deal with the pandemic, “ Ms. Banerjee said, referring to the arrest of the two Ministers in Narada case. The Central Bureau of Investigation on Monday had arrested four people, including the two Ministers of the Trinamool Congress government, in the Narada sting video case. The petition to review the stay on granting anticipatory bail to four leaders in the State could not be heard at Calcutta High Court on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cms-humiliated-at-meeting-with-pm-modi-says-mamata/article34610598.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Mucormycosis declared notifiable disease||The Telangana government has declared Mucormycosis as a notifiable disease under Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. The State’s Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao, who announced this through a notification dated May 19, has directed all government and private health facilities to report all suspected and confirmed cases to Health department. “Medical superintendents of all government and private hospitals shall ensure strict compliance and send report on daily basis attached in the form of annexure to idsp@telangana.gov.in,” Dr Srinivasa said. Name and location of the hospitals, name and address of the patient, and a few more details have to be filled in the annexure. Further, the hospital authorities were directed to follow guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in screening, diagnosis and management of Mucormycosis. Generating awareness Initially, over two weeks ago, it was ENT surgeons and consultants from corporate hospitals in the city who spoke about the Black Fungus (Mucormycosis) cases. They tried to generate awareness about its symptoms, and risk groups who have to be on alert. They also pointed out possible shortage of the medicines used in treatment of the fungal infection. On May 15, Dr Srinivasa Rao issued a circular on ‘Urgent precautionary measures to prevent Mucormycosis during COVID’ to all private hospitals in the State. The State’s Director of Medical Education Dr K Ramesh Reddy too stated, on the same day, that the Government ENT Hospital, Koti, will be the nodal centre for admitting and treating patients suffering from fungal infection. The fungal infection patients who are still COVID positive or may need multidisciplinary treatment, such as those with pulmonary involvement, will be admitted at Gandhi Hospital, Musheerabad. He has mentioned that advisories were issued to all government and private hospitals to minimise the infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mucormycosis-declared-notifiable-disease/article34610978.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Stalin urges President to release Rajiv case convicts||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind requesting him to accept the State government’s recommendation in September 2018 and pass orders to remit the life sentences of all the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Mr. Stalin said the convicts — S. Nalini, Murugan, Santhan, A.G. Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas and P. Ravichandran — be released immediately. DMK Member of Parliament T.R. Baalu handed over the letter from Mr. Stalin to the President’s Office on Thursday. In his letter, copies of which were released by the government to the media, Mr. Stalin pointed out that the convicts had spent three decades in prison. ‘Prison decongestion’ “These seven persons have already suffered untold hardship and agony in the past three decades and have paid a heavy price. There has already been an inordinate delay in the consideration of their pleas for remission. In the present circumstances of the COVID-19 pandemic, courts are also recognising the need to decongest prisons,” he said. He recalled that Nalini’s original death sentence was commuted under Article 161 of the Constitution, while the Supreme Court commuted the death sentence of three other convicts to that of life imprisonment. “The majority of the political parties in Tamil Nadu have been requesting for the remission of the remainder of their sentence and for immediate release of all the seven convicts as they have been incarcerated for about three decades. It is also the will of the people of Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Stalin said. State’s plea to Governor On September 9, 2018, the State government had recommended to the Governor for the remission of the rest of the sentence for all seven convicts and their early release. The purported obstacle for exercise of the power of remission was the pendency of the investigation by the Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency of the CBI. “It has been clarified by the respective stands of the Union government and CBI before the Supreme Court that there is no connection between the remission of the sentence and investigation,” the Chief Minister pointed out. The Governor had decided that the President was the competent authority to decide on the plea of remission of sentence of these seven persons and had forwarded the State government’s recommendation to the President’s Office, the Chief Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-urges-president-to-release-rajiv-case-convicts/article34610948.ece
21 May 2021||Pune,||State’s active cases dip below 4 lakh; rural areas report surge||Recoveries continued to rise in Maharashtra, with 47,371 patients being discharged on Thursday as opposed to 29,911 new COVID-19 cases, pushing the active case tally further down to 3,83,253. Even as cases in the urban pockets of Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik continued to decline, rural areas reported a surge, especially in the districts in the ‘sugar heartland’ as well as Amravati, where the new strains had supposedly originated. Nearly 1,000 deaths were added to the toll, of which 738 had occurred during the last week. Of these, 429 had been recorded over the last 48 hours, as per the State Health Department figures. The total death toll has now risen to 85,355. The State’s total case tally has reached 54,97,448, while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 50,26,308, with the recovery rate rising to 91.43%. “Of a total of 3,18,74,364 laboratory samples tested thus far, 54,97,448 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 17.09%) have returned positive, with over 2.86 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stood at 1.55%. Pune reported more than 3,600 new cases to take its total case tally to 9,88,611. As per the State Health Department figures, 91 deaths were reported as the total death toll rose to 10,728. As per district authorities, the active case tally has dipped to 65,000, while the total toll has crossed 15,700.  1,433 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 1,433 new cases to take its total case tally to 6,92,785, while the active case count has declined further to 28,987. As many as 59 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 14,410. Nagpur district reported more than 1,000 cases as its total case tally reached 4,83,377, of whom 19,615 are active. With 36 deaths, the death toll has risen to 6,318. Satara reported 1,720 cases and 15 deaths, taking its total cases to 1,42,362, of whom 18,942 are active. Its death toll has risen to 2,666. Kolhapur continued to witness high fatality spikes, with 52 deaths and more than 1,000 cases being reported as its total death toll rose to 3,010 and its total cases reached 95,226, of whom 14,232 are active. Solapur reported 28 deaths and more than 1,600 cases as its total death toll rose to 3,596 and the total cases reached 1,49,896, of whom 19,783 are active. Amravati in Vidarbha reported 22 deaths and more than 1,400 new cases, taking its total cases to 82,955, of whom 10,685 are active while its total death toll has risen to 1,263. Nashik in north Maharashtra reported nearly 1,600 new cases, taking its total tally to 3,74,903, of whom 18,152 are active, while 20 deaths pushed its total death toll to 4,188.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-active-cases-dip-below-4-lakh-rural-areas-report-surge/article34611050.ece
21 May 2021||Mumbai,||HC questions State govt. over cancellation of Class X exams||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government if exams for 14 lakh students in Class XII can be held then on what basis were Class X exams cancelled. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawall and S.P. Tavade was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Professor Dhananjay Kulkarni challenging the decision of cancelling board exams for Class X by the Secondary School Certificate (SSC). The PIL sought for a direction from the court to hold the exams and not mark students without assessment. Public Prosecutor P.P. Kakade, representing the State, said, “We are waiting for the State Council of Educational Research and Training [SCERT], they are working on overall control on the marking system, and we will have it in one week.” Justice Kathawalla asked, “If you’ve decided to cancel, when will you hold the exam?” In reply, Mr. Kakade said, “We will hold the exam. We are only waiting for the SCERT suggestion.” The court then said, “The suggestion about the marking system is irrelevant. We are asking when you will hold the exam. Are you thinking of promoting them without exams? This is the main exam, and the only main exam that’s held in the last year of schooling. If you are waiting for suggestions from SCERT, whose suggestion is it to promote the students without exams? Are we making a mockery of our education system?” Mr. Kakade said that he would file a detailed affidavit on this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-questions-state-govt-over-cancellation-of-class-x-exams/article34611051.ece
21 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||Decision today on continuing lockdown in Dharwad||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that a decision regarding continuation of lockdown in Dharwad district will be taken on Friday after consulting district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar and the Deputy Commissioner. Speaking to presspersons after a meeting on the issue of lockdown at Circuit House in Hubballi on Thursday, Mr. Joshi said that during the meeting chaired by Mr. Shettar, opinions and suggestions of representatives of various trade bodies, industrialists and other stakeholders were sought. The final decision will be taken on Friday. He said that in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 cases and positivity rate, there was panic among the public, especially after more positive cases were reported in market areas. “Most of the participants in the meeting were for stricter lockdown to break the COVID-19 chain. A decision will be taken after consultation with Mr. Shettar and the Deputy Commissioner,” he said. Black fungus On black fungus, Mr. Joshi said that it was an alarming development. But already the issue has been discussed with the concerned and remedial measures are being taken. He said that as the number of black fungus cases is increasing at a fast pace, there was scarcity of medicine because pharmaceutical companies too did not expect such a sudden rise of cases. Efforts are on to expedite production of medicine and facilitate import from other countries and very soon, medicine for black fungus will be available, he said. Earlier, during the meeting after giving suggestions on the lockdown, members of Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) urged the Ministers to take steps for timely distribution of seeds and fertilizer to farmers during the lockdown. Apart from Mr. Shettar, MLAs Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and Arvind Bellad, MLC Pradeep Shettar, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil , Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B. Susheela and others were present. Mr. Joshi and Mr. Shettar subsequently handed over to the district administration 51 oxygen concentrators of 10 litre capacity donated by MICL under CSR initiative and 100 empty cylinders for refilling oxygen. Mr. Nitesh Patil, who received them, said that they would be allocated to different taluks based on demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-today-on-continuing-lockdown-in-dharwad/article34610555.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Declare mucormycosis an epidemic, Centre tells States||The Union government has asked the States to declare mucormycosis, the fungal infection being reported in COVID-19 patients, an epidemic. Health facilities In a letter to the States, Health and Family Welfare Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said declaring the black fungus infection seen in COVID-19 patients an epidemic would lead to health facilities screening for it and reporting all such cases to the government. “In recent times, a new challenge in the form of a fungal infection, namely mucormycosis, has emerged and is reported from many States amongst COVID-19 patients, especially those on steroid therapy and deranged sugar control. This infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality amongst COVID-19 patients,” he stated. Rajasthan, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have declared it an epidemic. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope informed the Centre that black fungus had claimed 90 lives in the State so far. Eight people had died of the infection in Haryana, which has reported 316 cases. Rajasthan has 100 black fungus patients at present, while Tamil Nadu has reported nine cases.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/declare-mucormycosis-an-epidemic-centre-tells-states/article34610468.ece
21 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Puducherry begins vaccination for persons in 18-44 age group||The Union Territory on Thursday launched COVID-19 vaccination for the 18-44 age segment across seven session sites in the four regions of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam. Launching the drive at the ESI Hospital, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said the enthusiastic response to the programme from the target segment, especially young adults, was praiseworthy. “An estimated 1,600 people, including 400 beneficiaries at the ESI session site, had booked slots for their first shot on the launch day,” the Lt. Governor said. Ms. Soundararajan urged the youth to set an example for elders and turn into “coronavirus vaccination ambassadors” in their families and neighbourhoods. Noting that there still seemed to be some amount of vaccine hesitancy in the 45-plus age segment, she appealed for the support of the youth in motivating elders to take the jab. “I see them (youth) readily volunteering for vaccination as a sign of their social awareness. I would like to see this sense of social obligation also extend to adoption of safety protocols, such as wearing masks and not venturing out without a valid cause,” she said. She reiterated that while there had been not a single death linked to vaccination in India or anywhere in the world, only 0.000543% of those who took the jab reported adverse reaction. Future waves “The importance of vaccination cannot be understated, given the warnings by experts of more waves of the pandemic. Through vaccination, we can get a critical level of protection against the future waves of coronavirus,” she said. Health Secretary T. Arun and other officials participated. The drive was launched with a stock of 30,000 vaccines and replenishments would be drawn on the basis of off-take, health officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-starts-for-persons-in-18-44-age-group-in-puducherry/article34610701.ece
21 May 2021||Chennai,||Doctors felled by the virus they fight for their patients||It is on the shoulders of these frontline workers that the bulk of the burden of fighting this pandemic falls. Doctors put themselves in harm’s way to help their patients. The Indian Medical Association released its latest list on Thursday, stating that 329 doctors succumbed to the COVID-19 infection. This is probably a conservative figure, but an occasion to record the lives and work of these people, sometimes until the very last breath they drew. Gone too soon Anas Mujahid, 26, died on May 9 within hours of being admitted to the very hospital he was serving in. The young doctor, a junior resident at Delhi’s Guru Tegh Bahadur (GBT) Hospital, a designated COVID-19 hospital, lost his battle to the disease. The doctor was reporting to duty till Saturday (a day before he passed away). “A rapid antigen test showed that he was positive. He collapsed while still in the fever clinic and died by 2.30 a.m.,” said Dr. Mohammad Anas, the deceased doctor’s junior at the college and hospital. He added they were told it was a rare case of rapid progression of COVID-19. Hospital records show he suffered from “intracranial haemorrhage” (bleeding within the skull, including the brain). Officials from the hospital administration said Dr. Mujahid, who completed his internship after MBBS in January, was working at the hospital as a junior resident and is survived by his parents, two brothers, and a younger sister. “The thought that we lost a young solider does hit even the bravest among us. There is a sadness that we can’t ignore. But we serve because it is our only motivation, it is our purpose in life that we opted for,” said Dr. Mohammad. “What happened to my akka (elder sister) should not happen to any other woman,” said P. Prabu, brother of P. Shanmugapriya, who was eight months pregnant when she succumbed to COVID-19. A medical officer of the Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Anuppanadi in Madurai, 32-year-old Dr. Shanmugapriya continued to work in the midst of the raging pandemic. “She sought maternity leave when she was seven months pregnant but it was not sanctioned, citing the increase in the number of patients with COVID-19. She texted me that there was a regular flow of patients with COVID-19 symptoms to the PHC,” he said. Two years ago, she was posted at the Anuppanadi PHC. “She loved her job. But being the only doctor at the PHC, she had a heavy workload. During her pregnancy, she had to go on street visits too,” he said. Dr. Shanmugapriya had contacted her brother on May 1 saying that she had developed symptoms of COVID-19 and would be getting admitted for treatment. “She sounded very weak. She told me to text and not call as it was difficult to speak. She was treated in a private hospital for four days, and was told to shift to the Government Rajaji Hospital as the foetal heartbeat was poor,” he said. The doctor advised his fraternity to wear goggles in view of the greater probability of the virus entering through the eyes, suggested to them to remain clean shaven as facial hair could become “transmitters”, and even tonsured his hair. That he succumbed to COVID-19 after all these precautions is what disturbs his family and colleagues. B.V. Raja Rao, a renowned neuropsychiatrist of Tirupati, fell victim to the second wave. It was a common sight for the residents of Tirupati to watch him wield a microphone and deliver messages from his four-wheeler, dwelling on mental fitness, suicidal tendency and depression. “He was a source of inspiration for us,” recalls P. Krishna Prasanthi, Vice-President (Andhra Pradesh chapter) of the Association of Physicians of India (API). After being diagnosed with COVID-19, he remained bedridden in a private hospital for almost a month. The signs of brain haemorrhage slowed down his recovery rate and finally took a toll. All of Telangana was shaken to hear of the death of a 31-year-old paediatrician who had COVID-19 on May 12, a week after giving birth to a baby girl. Dr. Farah Niloufer was in the frontline of COVID-19 management at the Government Area Hospital, Gajwel, despite being in the third trimester of pregnancy, till she tested positive in the first week of May. Her husband Syed Abdul Majid, too, consults at the ESI Hospital in Nacharam. He is consumed by his grief.  59-year-old Chief Medical Officer Dr. G. N. Ganesh Kumar, who was in home isolation in Mysuru after contracting COVID-19 and was shifted to a hospital in Mysuru after he developed complications, did not respond to treatment. It was in September last that COVID-19 claimed its first victim among healthcare workers in Kerala. M.S. Abdeen, a 73-year-old retired general practitioner, who was running a clinic at Attakulangara in the capital, was the first doctor in the State to have fallen victim to COVID-19. He had been seeing patients in his extremely busy clinic till the day he developed symptoms. Popular doctors “He was one of those popular doctors, quiet, affable and very caring about his patients. He ran a full and active practice and most of his clients were people from the near by slums, Karimadam colony and Chala. For all of them, he was their first point of medical care . He took good care of them, often not taking any fee from them,” said Mohammed Yusuf, a doctor himself and a friend. Dr. Yusuf said that Dr. Abdeen had kept away from the clinic, confining himself to his residence for a while in those initial days of COVID-19. But then, every day, he would get hundreds of calls from his patients, all begging him to come back to the clinic. “He thus resumed his practice saying that during COVID-19 time, people with other illnesses will find it difficult to get care in big hospitals,” said Dr. Yusuf. Ajith Bhasker, a functionary of IMA’s Kerala north zone, said that healthcare workers now seem to be more at risk from the high level of disease transmission in the community rather than their high-risk work environment. “Most of those who are getting infected now are getting it from their family members at home. If healthcare workers continue to fall sick, no amount of capacity building will be enough to save people’s lives,” he said. ( Reported by Bindu Shajan Perappadan in New Delhi, Serena Josephine M. in Madurai, A.D. Rangarajan in Tirupati, K. Shiva Shanker in Hyderabad, Shankar Bennur in Mysuru, C. Maya and Abhinaya H. in Thiruvananthapuram )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-felled-by-the-virus-they-fight-for-their-patients/article34610471.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Assembly passes resolution against RINL privatisation||The State government on Thursday passed a resolution in the Legislative Assembly opposing the decision of Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs to disinvest the entire stake of the Union government in Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. (Visakhapatnam Steel Plant) along with management control through privatisation, and seeking the Government of India’s support to the RINL for making a turnaround. It was mentioned in the resolution moved by Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy, that keeping the sensitivity of the issue in view, the State government acknowledged the need for supporting the cause of RINL. Accordingly, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had written a letter to the Prime Minister with a request to reconsider the proposal of disinvestment and also suggested alternative solutions that might be helpful to RINL in becoming a profitable venture. The government pointed out that the British American Steel Works for India Consortium (BASIC) had recommended setting up of the steel plant at Visakhapatnam in the 1960s. However, the plant could be set up only after violent agitations triggered by the fast unto death of T. Amruta Rao of Gandhi Mission from Guntur, which claimed 32 lives leading up to the announcement of the sanction for it (plant)'s establishment by the then Prime Minister in 1970.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assembly-passes-resolution-against-rinl-privatisation/article34610476.ece
21 May 2021||Kolkata,||WB govt. gears up to face possible cyclone||With a likely formation of a low-pressure area over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal that can intensify into a cyclonic storm and approach the coast in the next few days, the West Bengal government on Thursday took several steps, including readying a cyclone shelter. In a communication issued by the Principal secretary, State Disaster Management Department, District Magistrates have been advised to cancel leaves and set up control rooms at districts and subdivisions. The order directed teams of civil defence and quick response teams to be kept ready. ‘Likely to hit on May 26’ A press statement shared by the Regional Meteorological Centre, said a low-pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal on Saturday. It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24. “It would move northwestwards and reach Odisha-West Bengal coast around May 26 morning,” the statement said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern over the situation and said that she was holding meetings to take preparatory steps. The Chief Minister pointed out that last year’s Cyclone Amphan had battered coastal regions of the State. It had made a landfall on May 20, 2020, killing nearly 100 people. Most parts of Kolkata were without power for almost a week after Cyclone Amphan. As the State administration is making preparations to tackle the cyclone, the COVID-19 pandemic continues to rage in the State. 19,091 new cases in State The number of new cases on Thursday dipped to 19,091, while the active case tally stands at 1,31,529. With 162 more deaths, the State’s total death toll has risen to 14,057. The State tested 70,638 samples in the past 24 hours. According to the government, there are 234 COVID-19 hospitals, of which about 184 are State-run facilities. The bed occupancy rate is about 38.49%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wb-govt-gears-up-to-face-possible-cyclone/article34610596.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Only a fraction of unorganised workers will benefit from sop||The COVID-19 relief package announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa offering unorganised sector workers in 12 professions a one-time payment of Rs. 2,000 will benefit only 3.04 lakh labourers registered with the Karnataka State Unorganised Workers Social Security Board. This is a tiny fraction of the actual workforce in these sectors. Several unions plan to hold protests against this “woefully inadequate” package and have demanded that it be extended to all workers in the unorganised sector. Labour Commissioner Akram Pasha said the government had only approved relief packages for those registered with the board and any expansion was a call to be taken by the government. He also appealed for workers to register with the board online. However, he said new registrations would not be covered under the relief package. “A one-time payment of Rs. 2,000 amounts to very little. Workers say they feel cheated and insulted by this relief package. We demand a provision of foodgrains and Rs. 10,000 for at least three months,” said K. Mahantesh, president of Karnataka State Hamali Workers Federation. Geeta Menon, joint secretary of the Domestic Workers Rights Union, said the estimation is that there are nearly four lakh domestic workers in the city, whereas the board has 50,699 registered across the State. “We had ourselves collected and given applications of 7,000 workers from our union to be registered last year. Of these, only about 500 have been registered. The board has been dysfunctional for a long time. They blamed it [non-registration] on the server being down,” Ms. Menon said. Nalini Shekhar of Hasiru Dala, which works with ragpickers, said that while there were at least 50,000 ragpickers across the State, the board had 4,902 registered. Meanwhile, there are complaints that the board hasn’t paid even those registered with it and who were entitled to the relief granted by the State government last year. Sources in the board said barbers and washermen, who were given relief packages during the lockdown in 2020 as well, were yet to be paid fully. “Nearly 16,000 of them have had issues pertaining to the linking of Aadhaar card. Once that is done, they will be paid,” a senior officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-a-fraction-of-unorganised-workers-will-benefit-from-sop/article34610518.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,||HC seeks report from Centre on its plan to handle exigencies||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Centre to file a detailed report by Monday indicating the preparations it had made to address exigencies that may arise in the future and the plan in place to allocate COVID-19 vaccines and drugs for the future use of the States and union territories. Though the situation at present appeared to be better in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the court insisted on not letting the guard down. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan to ensure that a centralised plan of action was placed before the court by Monday. The court also impressed upon the need to augment the supply of oxygen both to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and said the silver lining was the proposed oxygen production at Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL). Though Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram brought it to the notice of the court that the State had begun vaccinating those in the 18 to 44 years age group too from Thursday, the judges said the State did not appear to be in possession of sufficient doses of vaccine. They referred to suggestions made by a few lawyers, across the Bar, regarding the use of the single dose version of Russian-made Sputnik vaccine. They pointed out that a few lawyers had highlighted that the two domestic vaccines being administered now had an efficacy of only eight months after which they would have to be administered again. “There has to be some clarity in this regard, particularly by the Centre on the basis of any scientific study, as to when those already vaccinated would require another round of vaccination,” the Bench wrote. The court also said that every endeavour must be made to issue the COVID-19 test results as soon as possible so that the asymptomatic patients do not end up being super spreaders between the day when they had given swab samples for testing and the day when the results come out. The court took note of complaints that some test results were announced after several days. The first Division Bench also directed the State government to instruct the civic bodies to come down heavily on those who demand exorbitant amount of money to cremate or bury bodies of COVID-19 patients. “The several reports of unlawful demands in crematoria must be addressed. The State government should instruct authorities to ensure that there is an element of dignity when the last rites are performed,” it ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-seeks-report-from-centre-on-its-plan-to-handle-exigencies/article34610694.ece
21 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Eminent sculptor, 2 sons succumb to COVID-19 in a span of 12 days||The second wave of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic continues to wreak havoc, destroying families. Days after eminent sculptor and Rajya Sabha member Raghunath Mohapatra, 77, died of COVID-19, his two sons lost the battle against the virus too. The sculptor, a Padma Vibhushan awardee, had three sons and two daughters. He passed away while undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, on May 9. His second son Prasanta Mohapatra, 48, who had represented the Odisha Ranji Trophy team and was a match referee for the Board of Control for Cricket in India, succumbed to COVID-19 on Wednesday. He, too, was admitted to AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. The sculptor’s eldest son Jashobanta Mohapatra, 52, who was carrying forward the family lineage in stone carving, died of COVID-19 at a private hospital here on Thursday. According to SUM COVID Hospital sources, Jashobanta was shifted from AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, to SUM in a critical condition on Wednesday. Four years ago, Susanta Mohapatra, the youngest of the three brothers, had died of a heart attack.  Raghunath Mohapatra’s mortal remains were cremated with full State honours at his Girala village in Puri district. Prasanta’s death coincided with the 11th day rituals of his late father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eminent-sculptor-2-sons-succumb-to-covid-19-in-a-span-of-12-days/article34610950.ece
21 May 2021||Pune,||Fungal infection prime concern for Maharashtra, Rajesh Tope tells PM||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that mucormycosis was of prime concern for the State and it needed more supply of medicines to treat the fungal infection, which has so far claimed 90 lives. Mr. Tope made the demand during a virtual meeting held by the Prime Minister to interact with Chief Ministers from States hit severely by COVID-19. Over 50 district collectors, including 17 from Maharashtra, also participated in the meeting. Mr. Tope said, “I have informed the Centre that mucormycosis is the chief concern of the State government at present. I have also insisted that we need more stocks of Amphotericin-B as the number of such cases in Maharashtra is higher as compared with others.” In a list of requirements presented to the Centre, Mr. Tope said the demand for oxygen and Remdesivir-like anti-viral drugs had stabilised and was no longer a matter of immediate concern owing to a drop in COVID-19 cases in the State. The State Health Minister had earlier flagged a shortage in Amphotericin-B, a key medicine required to treat mucormycosis. Shortage in supply According to Mr. Tope, the State government needed around 1.50 lakh to 2 lakh vials of the drug, but had received only 16,000 doses from the Centre. Of the 1,500-odd cases of mucormycosis detected so far in the State, around 850 were undergoing treatment, while 90 of them, who had recovered from COVID-19, succumbed to the fungal infection, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fungal-infection-prime-concern-for-maharashtra-rajesh-tope-tells-pm/article34611048.ece
21 May 2021||Kolkata,||CMs humiliated at Modi’s meet: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday took strong exception to Chief Ministers allegedly not being allowed to speak at a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “It was just a casual, super flop meeting. We, the CMs, felt insulted and humiliated,” she told journalists at the Secretariat after the conclusion of Mr. Modi’s meeting with 54 District Magistrates from 10 States in the presence of their Chief Ministers, including Ms. Banerjee. She said she thought she would be allowed to raise issues relating to the pandemic, but was shocked at not being allowed to speak. She said she had listed several points she wanted to raise. “It was one-way humiliation... No Chief Minister was allowed to speak. Only a few District Magistrates from the BJP-ruled States were allowed to speak.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cms-humiliated-at-modis-meet-mamata/article34610481.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 cases may peak in T.N. by May-end: Health Secretary||The COVID-19 cases may peak in Tamil Nadu by May-end, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Thursday. “Tamil Nadu has been recording 35,000 cases [a day] on an average. A number of States such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Delhi have already reached the peak... The population of Kerala and Karnataka is less than Tamil Nadu’s. As per our inferences... the cases may peak on May 29 or May 30 as Tamil Nadu is two weeks behind these States,” he told reporters here. He pointed out that the pace of increase in the cases had slowed. “In particular, we are noticing static cases in Chennai and its surrounding districts. However, the situation in districts such as Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Tiruchi, Thoothukudi and Madurai is worrying,” he said. This was why the lockdown should be utilised well to break the chain of transmission. “The benefit of the lockdown will be felt only in the second half. Public cooperation is essential. Avoid visiting crowded shops and adhere to the restrictions in the containment areas. There should be no movement into and out of the containment areas...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-may-peak-in-tn-by-may-end-health-secretary/article34610685.ece
21 May 2021||bengaluru,||No data on cobblers||Only 11 professions are registered with the Karnataka State Unorganised Workers Social Security Board. However, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced relief for people in 12 professions, including cobblers — a category not registered with the board. “We do not have data on cobblers. While the CM has announced relief for workers in 12 professions, the total beneficiaries he said would be 3.04 lakh — those registered with the board under 11 professions. There is confusion on cobblers,” said a senior labour officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-data-on-cobblers/article34610512.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC asks hospitals to install oxygen plants||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked big hospitals in the capital, with 100 or more beds, to install Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, noting that the recent surge in COVID-19 cases had left a “bitter experience” for everyone due to the acute shortage of medical oxygen. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said a lesson had to be learnt, particularly by hospitals, to be prepared for future eventualities. “Considering that the pandemic is once in a century and, hopefully, we will see the end of it sooner or later, we are of the view that large hospitals and nursing homes with more than 100 beds should install PSA plants having twice the capacity of normal requirements. Smaller nursing homes and hospitals having at least 50 beds and not more than 100 beds should install PSA plants/refilling to meet their normal requirements,” the court said. It directed the Delhi government to take it up with the hospital owners and submit a status report by May 27. The court was of the view that since the installation of PSA plants would need some space, it would be appropriate for the Municipal Corporation and Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to bring about some relaxations in building by-laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-asks-hospitals-to-install-oxygen-plants/article34610469.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||23 more bodies recovered from barge off Mumbai coast||Twenty-three more bodies were recovered from barge P-305, which sank off the Mumbai coast, taking the death toll to 49, while 26 persons are still missing as search and rescue efforts continued for the fourth day on Thursday. “So far, 186 survivors have been rescued and 49 bodies recovered. INS Beas is at Mumbai harbour, disembarking the remains,” a Navy spokesperson said. Accommodation barge P-305 sank 35 nautical miles off Mumbai on May 17 due to Cyclone Tauktae. Three construction barges of Afcons Infrastructure, working on a project of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC), and one drilling rig of ONGC deployed for exploration off the coast of Mumbai were impacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/23-more-bodies-recovered-from-barge-off-mumbai-coast/article34610479.ece
21 May 2021||GUNTUR,||‘Focussed on well-being of every person in State’||“Our government has been marching ahead responsibly for the last two years keeping in view the well-being of every family, every region and every community and every human being,” Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said during the Budget session of the Andhra Pradesh Legislature held on Thursday. Speaking before passing the resolution thanking the Governor, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that he knew the value of a life as he had seen from close quarters, the agony and suffering families undergo after losing their breadwinner. “It is for this reason that we have made changes in the Aarogyasri scheme and extended its coverage to all those whose annual earnings are below Rs. 5 lakh and increased ailments covered under the scheme to 2,400 from 1,000,” the Chief Minister said.  I know the value of a life as I have seen from close quarters, the agony and suffering families undergo after losing their breadwinner. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focussed-on-well-being-of-every-person-in-state/article34610472.ece
21 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||U.T. reports 28 more deaths||The COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory rose to 1,269 with 28 more deaths reported in the last 24 hours even as 1,957 new cases were added to the caseload on Thursday. Puducherry recorded 25 deaths, Yanam two and Karaikal one. The patients, including 12 women, were in the 38 to 79 years age bracket, and 19 of them had no underlying co-morbid condition. The region-wise cumulative toll was 1,038 in Puducherry, followed by Karaikal (132), Yanam (73) and Mahe (26). The test positivity rate was 20.93%, case fatality rate 1.39% and recovery rate 78.63%. The total number of cases to date aggregated to 91,465 while 71,919 patients have recovered. With 1,304 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 18,277. Of this, 2,107 were in hospitals and 16,170 in home isolation. In Puducherry, the bed occupancy status was JIPMER (519), IGMCRI (440) and Covid Care Centres (668). Of an estimated 9.53 lakh tests carried out by the Health Department so far, over 8.37 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 82 healthcare workers, 118 frontline personnel and 747 members of the public got vaccinated across the Union Territory in the last 24 hours. 567 cases in Vellore The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 37,216 with 567 new cases reported on Thursday. The district's death toll is 575. In Ranipet district, 719 cases were reported positive, and the total stood at 28,949. In Tirupattur district, 565 new cases were reported on Thursday and the total number of positive cases stood at 17328. In Tiruvannamalai district, 674 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 32,964.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ut-reports-28-more-deaths/article34610699.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS records 3,660 positive cases and 23 COVID deaths||COVID positive cases in Telangana continued to vary between 3,500 and 4,000 for the fifth day on Thursday when their number touched 3,660. Twenty-three patients died. Samples tested daily did not cross 72,000 in the five days. While 69,252 samples were examined on Thursday, results of 2,435 were awaited. Around 1 lakh to 1.3 lakh samples were tested in a day from April 8 to 24. According to the data in the daily media bulletin issued by the State Health department, the daily deaths of COVID-19 patients is on the decline. The highest of 59 patients’ deaths were recorded on May 3. The deaths started to drop gradually thereafter. Of the 3,660 new cases, the highest of 574 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 247 from Rangareddy, 218 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 217 from Khammam. And 13 more districts have recorded over 100 cases. The lowest of 16 cases were in Adilabad, followed by 18 in Nirmal. From March 2, 2020 to May 20 of this year, a total of 1,43,36,254 samples were put to test and 5,44,263 were detected with coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 45,757 were active cases, 4,95,446 have recovered, and 3,060 have died. The total number of deaths crossed 3,000 on May 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-records-3660-positive-cases-and-23-covid-deaths/article34610979.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,||EPS urges PM to rescue nine fishermen||The former Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on Thursday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take steps for immediate rescue of nine fishermen, hailing from Nagapattinam district, who were feared to have been hit by Cyclone Tauktae. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Palaniswami said the nine fishermen ventured into the Arabian Sea on April 29. Pointing out that their families were worried about the safety of the fishermen, he wanted Mr. Modi to order an immediate search operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eps-urges-pm-to-rescue-nine-fishermen/article34610692.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. extends I-T filing deadline||The government has extended deadlines for various Income Tax law compliances citing the hardships being faced amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The due date for furnishing income tax returns for the Assessment Year 2021-22 has been extended from July 31 to September 30. Employers have also been granted a month’s extension for furnishing Form 16 that reflects tax deductions at source from employees’ salaries, from June 15 to July 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-extends-i-t-filing-deadline/article34610949.ece
21 May 2021||BENGALURU,||No data on cobblers||Only 11 professions are registered with the Karnataka State Unorganised Workers Social Security Board. However, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced relief for people in 12 professions, including cobblers — a category not registered with the board. “We do not have data on cobblers. While the Chief Minister has announced relief for workers in 12 professions, the total beneficiaries he said would be 3.04 lakh — those registered with the board under 11 professions. There is confusion on cobblers and we are also at a loss as to how to identify the beneficiaries,” said a senior labour officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-data-on-cobblers/article34610557.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Rs. 68,000 crore agri budget presented||Minister for Agriculture K. Kanna Babu tabled the Agriculture Budget in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday with a total outlay of Rs. 68,000 crore. A substantial chunk of it (Rs. 23,104 crore) goes to the procurement of paddy and other crops. YSR Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan was provided Rs. 17,030 crore and Rs. 1,038 crore has been allocated to pay compensation for crops lost during natural calamities. The government set aside Rs. 17,430 crore for supplying free power to the agriculture sector and Rs. 1,700 crore for increasing the capacity of agriculture feeders. The micro-irrigation sector got Rs. 1,224 crore and Rs. 300 crore was earmarked for cash subvention facility given to Bengal gram crop. A sum of Rs. 1,520 crore was allocated for supplying power to the aquaculture sector at the rate of Rs. 1.50. Other major allocations include Rs. 688 crore for waiving interest-free loans and Pavala Vaddi loans and Rs. 960 crore for paddy procurement dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-68000-crore-agri-budget-presented/article34610475.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Help comes knocking||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/help-comes-knocking/article34610521.ece
21 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Virus adds to Mizoram’s Myanmar refugee crisis||The death of a Myanmar national in Aizawl, the State capital, and the COVID-19 infection among scores of others in a few districts has added to the refugee crisis in Mizoram. Almost a third of more than 15,500 Myanmar nationals, who fled a military crackdown since the coup on February 1, are in Aizawl. One of them died at a COVID-19 centre in Aizawl on Wednesday, the 30th in the State due to COVID-19 since May 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/virus-adds-to-mizorams-myanmar-refugee-crisis/article34610599.ece
21 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Bring back Assam scholar caught in Israel conflict’||Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi has asked the External Affairs Ministry to help bring back an Assam scholar caught in the Israel-Palestine conflict. In a letter to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Mr. Gogoi sought “appropriate action” to ensure she returns safely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bring-back-assam-scholar-caught-in-israel-conflict/article34610600.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Cases dip in Bengaluru, but rise in districts||The jury is still out on whether the dip in COVID-19 cases is the impact of the lockdown or reduced testing. But, figures indicate a fall in the number of cases reported in Bengaluru in the last few days, even as other districts are witnessing an increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-dip-in-bengaluru-but-rise-in-districts/article34610515.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Students give the dead a dignified farewell||Seven students and alumni of St. Joseph’s College in Bengaluru have taken it upon themselves to give a dignified farewell to victims of COVID-19. Over the last month and a half, they have buried more than 170 people at the Christian Cemetery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-give-the-dead-a-dignified-farewell/article34610516.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Highest-ever 24-hour rainfall in May in Delhi||The Capital received a record 119.3 mm of rainfall for May in 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday due to the impact of cyclonic storm Tauktae and a western disturbance, the IMD said. It added that this was double the previous record rainfall of 60 mm on May 24 in 1976. The IMD has said that the sky would remain clear and the temperature will slowly rise to normal again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-ever-24-hour-rainfall-in-may-in-delhi/article34610952.ece
21 May 2021||Pune,||First nearby||Stating that the Centre would give aid to all eight States, including Maharashtra, which had been hit by Cyclone Tauktae, Bharatiya Janata Party Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday accused the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government of needlessly and deliberately politicising the relief issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-nearby/article34611052.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Second nearby||A Mumbai Police inspector on Thursday accused the city’s former top officer, Param Bir Singh, in the Supreme Court of trying to “silence” him by framing fake cases against him. Mr. Singh, who was shunted out from the post of the Mumbai Police Commissioner following his corruption complaint against then Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, had recently approached the SC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-nearby/article34611053.ece
21 May 2021||Chennai,||35,579 people test COVID-19 positive in T.N.||A total of 35,579 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, taking the overall tally of cases to 17,34,804 on Thursday. The toll crossed 19,000 with the death of 397 persons. In Chennai, 6,073 new cases of COVID-19 were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/35579-people-test-covid-19-positive-in-tn/article34610687.ece
21 May 2021||Chennai,||Stalin urges President to free 7 Rajiv case convicts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind, requesting him to accept the State's 2018 recommendation and pass orders to remit the life sentences of all the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-urges-president-to-free-7-rajiv-case-convicts/article34610688.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||National Archives will be safe: Minister||The government is responsible for the records at the National Archives and will store them safely during the Central Vista redevelopment project, Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Thursday. Mr. Patel told The Hindu that the historic National Archives building, housing all the “important” records, would not be touched during the revamp, in which the annexe building had been proposed to be demolished and replaced with a new one. “Talk of this project is premature. There will be no change to the old building. All the important records are kept in the old building. Besides, it is the government’s responsibility to maintain the archives and it will continue to keep the records safely,” he said, when asked about the public outcry against the proposal. The National Archives was shifted from Kolkata to the present building in 1926 and the annexe was added post-Independence. As a part of the Central Vista redevelopment project, the National Archives annexe building was proposed to be replaced with a new building meant for use by researchers, according to the draft master plan prepared by the Centre’s consultant for the project, HCP Design, Planning and Management Ltd. in 2019. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) was on April 13 granted environment clearance for the project that includes the demolition of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), Shastri Bhavan, Krishi Bhavan, Vigyan Bhavan, the Vice-President’s house, National Museum, Jawahar Bhavan, Nirman Bhavan, Udyog Bhavan, Raksha Bhavan and hutments in the area and construction of new secretariat buildings at the sites. The CPWD then floated a tender on April 20 for the construction of three of the secretariat buildings at the IGNCA plot. The National Archives annexe building was not mentioned in the environment clearance. A Culture Ministry official said the project was proposed in the “latter stages” of the redevelopment, which is expected to take until 2026 to complete, and the plan could change. The construction of a new Parliament building and the revamp of the Central Vista Avenue has continued during the lockdown imposed in Delhi due to the second wave of the pandemic and has been challenged in court. The Delhi High Court has reserved its judgment in the matter. ‘Yet to be taken up’ In response to the Congress’s criticism of the government for continuing with the project in the pandemic, Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri said in a series of tweets on Wednesday that other components of the project were yet to be taken up, apart from the Parliament and Central Vista Avenue. “Currently, 2,800 workers are toiling to ensure that Central Vista Avenue is ready for Republic Day 2022 & new Parliament building for winter session 2022 — the 75th year of India’s Independence. Those weaving a web of deceit are doing great disservice to their own reputation,” Mr. Puri wrote in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/national-archives-will-be-safe-minister/article34610394.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||China completes Tibet highway||China has completed the construction of a strategically significant highway through the world’s deepest canyon in Tibet along the Brahmaputra river, enabling greater access to remote areas along the disputed border with Arunachal Pradesh in India. The highway, official media in China reported this week, took seven years to complete and passes through the Grand Canyon of the Yarlung Zangbo river, as the Brahmaputra is called in Tibet. This is the “second significant passageway” to Medog county that borders Arunachal, the official Xinhua news agency reported, directly connecting the Pad township in Nyingchi to Baibung in Medog county. The highway will reduce the distance between Nyingchi city and Medog from 346 km to 180 km and will cut the travel time by eight hours. The project, undertaken by the China Huaneng Group, required an estimated investment of over 2 billion yuan (around $310 million), Xinhua reported. The construction, which began in 2014, is part of a wider infrastructure push in border areas in Tibet. In November, China began work on a strategically important railway line — its second major rail link to Tibet after the Qinghai-Tibet railway that opened in 2006 — that will link Sichuan province with Nyingchi. That project was considered important enough for President Xi Jinping to officially launch it, as he called it “a major step in safeguarding national unity and a significant move in promoting economic and social development of the western region”. Zhu Weiqun, a senior Party official formerly in charge of Tibet policy, was quoted as saying by state media that the railway will help “transport advanced equipment and technologies from the rest of China to Tibet and bring local products out”. He said, “If a scenario of a crisis happens at the border, the railway can act as a ‘fast track’ for the delivery of strategic materials.” The first segment of the line within the Sichuan province, from Chengdu to Yaan, was completed in December 2018. Work on the 1,011-km section from Yaan to Nyingchi will be finished in 2030. Civilian settlements Another part of the border infrastructure push is the construction of new civilian settlements, along with the expansion of existing smaller hamlets, along border areas, some of which lie in disputed territories claimed by India and Bhutan, to strengthen China’s control over the land. In 2017, the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) government launched a plan to build “moderately well-off villages” in border areas, under which 628 “first line and second line villages”, referring to those right on the border and others in remote areas slightly further within, would be developed in the prefectures of Ngari, Shigatse, Shannan and Nyingchi, along China’s borders with India, Bhutan and Nepal. An investment of 30.1 billion yuan (about Rs. 30,000 crore) was announced for the project, covering 62,160 households and 2.4 lakh people, and includes plans to resettle residents to live in the new settlements. Last year, satellite images emerged showing a new village called Pangda built 2-3 km into what Bhutan sees as its land. On January 18 this year, another village built 4-5 km into what India sees as its territory in Arunachal was seen via satellite images. Indian officials said this land has been under China’s effective control since 1959 and there were military barracks there earlier. The civilian settlements, along with the new infrastructure connectivity, are seen as aimed at bolstering China’s control over the areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-completes-tibet-highway/article34610406.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Modi flags COVID-19 risks for children||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told officials on Thursday that empathy and resoluteness in the face of COVID-19 was essential while also flagging that mutations of the novel coronavirus had raised concerns for youth and children. Addressing a video conference of District Magistrates from 54 districts across 10 States in the presence of their Chief Ministers, Mr. Modi said intensive presence of the administration and empathetic dialogue with people in rural areas would go a long way in addressing the spread of the disease in those areas. “My experience of rural areas is that they need clear information about standard operating procedures. If informed correctly of the SOPs they follow it religiously. Clarity is required with regard to rural population; they are disciplined in carrying forward what is required and this presence and clarity of the administration will boost the courage in these areas to face this situation. Make a team, hold a dialogue, offer clarity in terms of SOPs and resources. The second wave mutations have raised alarm bells for youth and children too. We need to prepare for what lies ahead. The first thing to do is to collect data on contagion rates among young people and children. Analyse it, this will help you in planning for the future,” he said. He said field experience was invaluable in coming up with practical and dynamic policy interventions. Both in the case of dealing with the pandemic and for vaccination campaigns, the Prime Minister said, extensive records should be maintained that would give direction to where the policy should be tweaked and what went right or wrong. “This pandemic has occurred after a gap of 100 years. You are facing situations that no one has faced in a century; you need to keep extensive records, so that future generations may know what happened and how it was dealt with. The records for the previous pandemic were not extensive, and we must not repeat that,” he said. Staying vigilant He said while it “is true that active cases may be coming down”, experience had shown that one could not let the guard down. “Masking and distancing should be emphasised. Government bodies, people’s representatives, civil society groups, a collective responsibility needs to be fostered,” he said. “Vaccination calendar should be publicised via media platforms to reduce problems. Every pandemic has taught us, innovation and upgrade is key to dealing with them. The virus mutates – it is ‘ bahurupia ’ [deceptive] and ‘ dhoort ’ [malevolent],” he said. Mr. Modi laid special emphasis on reducing vaccine wastage. “Wasting even one shot is to deprive one person of the shield it provides. When you review the figures in your districts, that should also be an area of focus. Tier 2 and 3 cities especially should analyse this,” he said. The meeting with top district authorities was the second part of a similar interaction with district officials held on Tuesday, with 46 DMs from eight States. NITI Aayog and Health Ministry officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-flags-covid-19-risks-for-children/article34610423.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination and the downfall of LTTE||In retrospect, everyone is wise. One will, however, be never sure what destiny would have had in store for Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) chief Velupillai Prabhakaran had he not ordered the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. May 21, 2021, will mark the 30th anniversary of a well-planned and well-executed grotesque killing that snuffed out the life of an Indian leader believed to be on a comeback trail to power. Though the LTTE and Prabhakaran kept denying its role in the suicide bombing, the killing sealed his fate. It was Dharmalingam Siddharthan, a former Sri Lankan Tamil MP, who was among the first to realise the heavy cost Prabhakaran would pay for the killing. “ Ezharai Sani [a bad phase of life, according to astrology] will go away for everyone after seven-and-a-half years,” Siddharthan told me a long ago. “I can say without hesitation that Ezharai Sani gripped Prabhakaran on May 21, 1991, and it will not leave him until he dies.” Looking back, Siddharthan turned out to be on the dot. None of this would have been evident to the LTTE chief when he, along with his intelligence boss Pottu Amman, decided to do away with Rajiv Gandhi, fearing that he might again dispatch Indian troops to Sri Lanka. Sivarasan gets the task Once the task of killing Gandhi was handed over to the LTTE intelligence operative known by his nom de guerre Sivarasan, the Tigers decided that the latter should not get mixed up with the existing LTTE network in Tamil Nadu. The LTTE knew that Indian security agencies were aware of almost all its activists in the State, including those working for the intelligence wing. Accordingly, one day in September 1990, a boat packed with Tamil civilians fleeing the war in Sri Lanka’s northeast reached the Tamil Nadu coastal town of Rameshwaram. Two men and a woman from the group met Indian officials and registered themselves as refugees but moved on to Chennai, saying they had friends in the city. A few days later, another boat of Tamil refugees also reached the Tamil Nadu coast. As in the first instance, two men and a woman registered themselves as refugees and said they, too, would prefer to live with friends in Chennai. The two groups rented out separate houses in Chennai, telling those who cared to ask that they were lucky to be away from the war. The six Sri Lankans did not know themselves but their arrival in Tamil Nadu marked the unleashing of a deadly plot Prabhakaran had drawn up to assassinate Rajiv Gandhi. Sivarasan, known as “One-Eyed Jack” because of a glass prosthesis he wore in place of an eye he lost in a battle, realised soon that the men sent in advance as “refugees” were not enough for the tough job he had on hand. By then, two LTTE intelligence operatives, Nixon and Kanthan, also reached Tamil Nadu. After a brief stay in the State, Sivarasan went back to Sri Lanka and returned to Chennai in January 1991. Sacking of the DMK government It was the month the Indian government sacked the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government in Tamil Nadu for turning a blind eye to LTTE activities and placed the State under direct federal rule. After taking permission from Pottu Amman, Sivarasan telephoned Sathasivan Krishnakumar, alias Kittu, the London-based LTTE representative, and sought introduction to a reliable Indian contact in Chennai. Sivarasan did not realise that this was a blunder. Since the June 1990 assassination of Eelam People’s Revolutionary Liberation Front (EPRLF) chief K. Pathmanabha and his associates in Chennai and the easy escape of the killers, Indian security agencies had stepped up surveillance on LTTE activists in Tamil Nadu. Kittu telephoned an Indian national, Muthuraja, who was close to the Tigers, and asked him to help out a new group of LTTE members from Sri Lanka. Kittu cautioned Muthuraja against speaking to anyone about the new arrivals. Unknown to Kittu and Muthuraja, the latter was under the watch of the Intelligence Bureau. The intelligence officers were surprised by Kittu’s instruction and surmised that something sinister was afoot. Even as a crackdown on the LTTE followed the sacking of the DMK government, Muthuraja introduced Nixon to some Indians who ended up playing a key role in the assassination. Muthuraja also introduced another LTTE intelligence operative, Murugan, to an Indian family. This is when Muthuraja suddenly disappeared one day. He was being shadowed in Chennai by Indian security agencies but gave the slip one evening at Egmore. It was later learnt that he had left for Sri Lanka, ostensibly on the request of Pottu Amman. Muthuraja, however, never reached Sri Lanka. His boat sank in the sea after being hit by a Sri Lankan naval vessel. Believing he died, the LTTE honoured him. But Indian security agencies believe that Muthuraja did not die. The Sri Lankan Navy took him into custody after his boat collapsed. Prabhakaran, meanwhile, asked an LTTE member, Kasi Anandan, to meet Rajiv Gandhi to convey his best wishes for the upcoming general election in India. The meeting took place in New Delhi on March 5, 1991. Some days later, a Sri Lankan Tamil banker based in London also called on Rajiv Gandhi with a message that the Tigers were eager to make up with the Indian leader. Both meetings were meant to make the Indian security brass believe that Prabhakaran was willing to bury the past and start a new chapter with New Delhi. Arrival of Dhanu Sivarasan, who had again gone back to Sri Lanka, returned to Tamil Nadu by sea early in May 1991 with Dhanu, the suicide bomber. They landed in the coastal town of Vedaranyam and left for Chennai by bus. Within 10 days of their arrival, Dhanu and a companion, Shuba, wrote to the LTTE leadership: “We are determined to attain our objective.” By now, the Intelligence Bureau had intercepted a couple of complex, coded radio messages from Tamil Nadu to Jaffna. The IB headquarters in Delhi was pressed to break the code. One of the LTTE messages, decoded after Rajiv Gandhi was killed, was a revealing one-liner from Sivarasan to Pottu Amman: “Nobody [in India] knows about our operation.” Another explicit message, intercepted on May 7 but again deciphered after Rajiv Gandhi had been killed, was a vow by Sivarasan: “If I return to Jaffna, it will be as Pottu Amman’s man, having achieved the incredible feat of assassinating a world leader.” Sivarasan, who pretended to be a journalist when it suited him, found out from some Congress party functionaries about Rajiv Gandhi’s election rally in the small town of Sriperumbudur, near Chennai, on May 21, 1991. A rehearsal To ensure that everything went well, the LTTE had carried out a rehearsal at an election rally of former Prime Minister V.P. Singh in Chennai. As Singh was leaving, Dhanu walked up to him and touched his feet as a mark of respect for an elder. The whole exercise was recorded on video and viewed by the LTTE many times to check if there were any flaws. Clearly, there were none. On May 20, 1991, the LTTE killer squad watched a Tamil movie at a cinema hall in Chennai. The next evening, the group proceeded to Sriperumbudur and was met by a young Indian photographer, Hari Babu, who had no clue about the planned assassination. At the rally, Dhanu was armed with a sandalwood garland — and a deadly suicide vest which was hidden by a loose-fitting bright orange salwar-kameez. When a policewoman tried to question Dhanu after seeing her near the VIP enclosure, Hari Babu intervened to say she would garland Rajiv Gandhi. Sivarasan, dressed in a white kurta-pyjama, stood near the dais. Eventually, when Rajiv Gandhi made his way towards a waiting crowd, Dhanu moved close to him. The same policewoman tried to push her back. But he stopped her and remarked: “Let everybody get a chance!” Dhanu put the garland around him and bent down as if to touch his feet. But she never got up. She switched on the toggle switch attached to her suicide vest, triggering a terrible blast that ripped through her, Rajiv Gandhi and 16 others.   The author is a Sri Lanka watcher and has written a biography of LTTE chief Velupillai Prabhakaran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajiv-gandhis-assassination-and-the-downfall-of-ltte/article34610404.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘One person can spread virus to 406 others’||A COVID-19 infected person not following any social distancing measure can spread it to as many as 406 people in 30 days, Health Ministry spokesperson said Lav Agarwal on Thursday. He was quoting a study conducted at a stem cell research laboratory in the University of California, San Diego. The projections have been made by a team led by scientist Robert A.J. Signer, according to which a 75% reduction in social exposure could restrict the spread to just 2.5 people in 30 days. Quoting a media report on a survey involving 2,000 respondents across 25 cities, Mr. Agarwal said 50% of the people did not wear a mask and of them, 64% covered the mouth but not the nose, while 20% wore the mask on the chin and 2% on the neck. Only 14% wore the mask correctly, covering nose, mouth and chin and with a clip on the nose, he said urging the people to follow social distancing guidelines diligently. Mr. Agarwal said even a single case had the potential of triggering further spread of infection if necessary precautions were not taken. At the Health Ministry briefing, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava said one company had already submitted the application for COVID-19 home testing kit and those of three others were in the pipeline. The kit, priced at about Rs. 250 a unit, would soon be available in the market. Home testing kits Dr. Bhargava said any person could buy a test kit, download the required mobile application and register, carefully read the user manual, conduct the test oneself, click a mobile image and upload it in the system. The test result would be given on the mobile phone. In order to ensure patient confidentiality, the data would be saved in a secured server. The country’s weekly test positivity rate stood at 15%. On May 18 and 19, more than two million tests were conducted across the country. Despite the increase in testing, positivity had declined from 23% a few weeks ago to 13% on Thursday, Dr. Bhargava said. By June 30, the country would have achieved the capacity of 18 lakh RTPCR and 27 lakh rapid antigen tests a day. Earlier, Mr. Agarwal said a decline in active cases had been registered in the past 15 days. On May 3, the active cases were 17.13% of the overall cases, while now they were 12.1%. The recovered cases had also gone up from 81.7% to 86.7%. He said 69% of the active cases were limited to only eight States. However, in 21 States, recoveries were more than the daily reported active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-person-can-spread-virus-to-406-others/article34610417.ece
21 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Wrong call led to tragedy: Afcons||The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) contractor Afcons Infrastructure Ltd., a Shapoorji Pallonji Group company, said on Thursday that it was unpredictable bad weather and the decision of the master of the Barge-P305 to stay put in high sea that led to the tragedy in the Arabian Sea. “On May 14, 2021 itself, all our vessels were advised to secure their respective work locations and move to a safe location at the earliest. Accordingly, all vessels and barges, including P305, commenced moving out of their work locations on May 14 and 15, 2021,” Afcons said on Thursday. It said while other barges moved to the Mumbai Port, the Mumbai outer anchorage or the anchorage close to Revandanda, the master of P305 chose to move 200 metres from the HT platform where the Barge-P305 was working. The master had decided this as a safe location since the maximum predicted wind speed was only 40 knots and his location was 120 nautical miles from the eye of the tropical storm, Afcons said. “Unfortunately, the weather conditions deteriorated rapidly from the evening of May 16, 2021, reaching levels far worse than predicted on May 17, 2021. The sudden deterioration of weather left no time at all for any further action to be taken by the master of the vessel,” the company said. Putting the blame on the owners of the vessel, it said, “As per the normal marine protocol as well as the specific charter agreement for P305, matters concerning vessel safety lie under the responsibility of the Owner/Barge Master, who is in the best position to decide on the appropriate course of action regarding vessel safety, as he has the necessary skill sets as well as the understanding of his vessel and its equipment, under the prevailing local conditions”. It said to secure the vessels and bring the people onboard to the shore, Afcons had chartered the vessel from Durmast. “Charting is not same as subcontracting. Durmast is the owner and the responsibility for marine operations rests with the vessel owner and his marine crew stationed on the vessel. Afcons, as charterer, deploys its construction workmen and supervisors, who stay on the barge and carry out construction/revamp work on the platform,” it said. As per the international standard vessel chartering terms, which was adopted for the charter of P305, the responsibility for the marine side of the operations, namely safe vessel operation, navigation and vessel management, came under the scope of work of the vessel owners, carried out through the master, officers and the crew appointed by the owner. On not evacuating those on the barges, it said evacuation was an extreme step resorted to in case the vessel was in distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wrong-call-led-to-tragedy-barge-owner/article34610389.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia for free education to those orphaned in pandemic||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free education in Navodaya Vidyalayas to the children whose parents died of COVID-19. In a letter to Mr. Modi on Thursday, she highlighted the plight of the children who either lost both the parents or an earning parent during the pandemic. They were left with “the trauma of loss and no support towards a stable education or future”, she pointed out. “Amid the devastation caused by the pandemic and the heart-wrenching tragedies being faced by affected families, news of young children losing one or both parents to COVID-19 are the most poignant,” she said. “I am writing to request you to consider providing free education at the Navodaya Vidyalayas to the children who have lost either both parents or an earning parent on account the Covid-19 pandemic. Feel that as a nation, we owe it to them to give them hope for a robust future after the unimaginable tragedy that has befallen them,” she wrote. The Navodaya Vidyalayas are CBSE-affiliated co-educational residential schools in which talented students of Class VI to XII, after clearing a selection test, are offered free education, including text books, school uniforms and hostel facilities. Ms. Gandhi described the Navodaya Vidyalayas among the most significant legacies of her husband, Rajiv Gandhi, and noted that there weree as many as 661 such schools across the country. “It was his dream [Rajiv Gandhi] to make high-quality modern education accessible and affordable to talented youth, predominantly from rural areas,” she stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-for-free-education-to-those-orphaned-in-pandemic/article34610425.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on cloud computing technology to be organised||A webinar on the ‘Future World with Cloud Computing Technology’ will be held as part of the SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021 on May 23 at 11 a.m. The 15-part webinar series organised by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu Group, spotlights science, engineering and technology courses and their relevance to the 2020s workplace. Abhishek Gupta, Founder and CEO, Hex N Bit; Narayan Subramaniam, Senior Director of Engineering and Principal Architect, Hybrid Cloud Management, Nutanix; and Dr. Meenakshi S Arya, Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, will speak at the webinar. The discussion will be moderated by Shubashree Desikan, Senior Assistant Editor, The Hindu , and will end with a Q&A session. To register for the free webinar, visit http://bit.ly/ SRM THE9 or scan the QR Code given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-cloud-computing-technology-to-be-organised/article34610391.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Ease building bylaws to set up oxygen plants, says Delhi HC||While ordering larger hospitals in the capital to install pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, the Delhi High Court on Thursday said the direction should be complied with by all hospitals in the capital. The court reminded the government and authorities of their responsibility to create a buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and that they were not caught unprepared. “If you have not taken steps, we will come and chase you again. We are telling you, we mean business. Please don’t take it lightly, we are again warning you,” the HC told the Centre. The High Court was informed by the Delhi government that it had created a buffer stock of 419 metric tonnes of medical oxygen at different locations here, and that arrangements were being made for creating additional stock The HC noted that despite its directions, hospitals and nursing homes were not updating the number of beds and occupancy position. “We make it clear that if we find there is deliberate disregard to our orders and directions, we would not hesitate to take action,” it said, cautioning all hospitals and nursing homes not complying with the directions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ease-building-bylaws-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-says-delhi-hc/article34610396.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,||2.5 lakh cases and 3,700 deaths recorded||India recorded 2,50,267 new COVID-19 cases and 3,708 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Thursday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,60,21,806 cases and 2,90,865 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 35,579 new infections, followed by Kerala (30,491) and Maharashtra (29,911). Maharashtra recorded 738 new casualties on the day, followed by Karnataka (548) and Tamil Nadu (397). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Punjab, Jharkhand, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh, and Lakshadweep. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. As many as 20,55,010 samples were tested in the country on Wednesday (the results for which were made available on Thursday). This is the second instance when daily tests in India have crossed the 20 lakh-mark. On May 18, 20.08 lakh tests were conducted in the country. India’s average daily test positivity rate (TPR, positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 22.7% on May 9 and reduced to 16.2% as on May 19. However, not all States are following this trend. Among major States, in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the average daily tests have reduced even as the average daily TPR continues to increase. As on May 18, Karnataka’s average daily TPR stood at 32.2% while that of Andhra Pradesh was 24.4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-lakh-cases-and-3700-deaths-recorded/article34610409.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Will act within 7 days of request, says MHA on FCRA accounts||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday that it would release authorisation certificates to operationalise the FCRA (Foreign Contribution [Regulation] Act) bank accounts of non-government organisations (NGOs) within seven days of receiving a request. The court was hearing a petition moved by 10 NGOs that their foreign contribution account in the State Bank of India’s main branch in Delhi be operationalised.  Even if an NGO had applied before the earlier deadline of March 31, the accounts were not operational for want of an FC6C certificate. After NGOs moved court, the deadline was extended to June 30. The SBI said on May 17 that “out of the total 22,598 active FCRA associations, 17,611 entities (NGOs and Associations) approached SBI for opening of FCRA accounts”. It claimed that it had opened accounts of 78% of the applicants. “There is a difference between opening an account and operationalising it. The SBI opened the account but it cannot function till the bank receives an authorisation certificate from the ministry,” said NGOs’ lawyer Abishek Jebaraj. The Ministry also gave a relief to NGOs whose registration was expiring between September 29, 2020 and May 31,2021. They had to apply for renewal of certificates or registration by May 31, which has now been extended to September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-act-within-7-days-of-request-says-mha-on-fcra-accounts/article34610407.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar may meet U.S. vaccine makers||As the government gears up to tackle the growing vaccine shortage, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar is expected to travel to the U.S. next week to discuss procurement with American companies. Mr. Jaishankar is expected to meet U.S. officials and executives from Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson in Washington and New York, sources told The Hindu . The Minister’s discussions with the vaccine manufacturers are expected to focus on the availability of doses in India at the earliest. The External Affairs Ministry did not confirm Mr. Jaishankar’s dates for travel to the U.S., which would be his first such visit since U.S. President Joseph Biden assumed office.. “We remain engaged with U.S. entities on the prospects of procuring vaccines from the U.S. and also perhaps manufacturing them in India subsequently. This would augment our vaccine availability,” Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a press briefing on Thursday. “I would like to emphasise that all vaccines that may be procured from abroad would need to be as per our regulatory guidelines. I understand that the U.S. has also indicated that any vaccine that it sends abroad would be after obtaining FDA [Food and Drug Agency] clearance for product quality,” Mr. Bagchi said, referring to possible delays in the release of AstraZeneca doses given that the FDA is still carrying out what the U.S. State Department called a review of “all doses made at the plant where AstraZeneca doses were produced”. According to the sources, India continues to worry about the U.S. strictures on the export of vaccine ingredients or raw materials needed for manufacturing in India under its “Defence Production Act”, that is still an issue despite the Biden administration’s decision last month to divert some of its orders towards India. In a tweet on May 5, U.S. Charge D’Affaires Daniel Smith had announced the arrival of vaccine components that would enable the manufacturing of 20 million doses of the Covishield vaccine at the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. However, according to officials, the DPA-driven restrictions will still pose a problem for future production of vaccines in India. The EAM and his team will also discuss plans for the production of Johnson and Johnson’s single-shot ‘Janssen’” vaccines at Hyderabad-based Biological E.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-may-meet-us-vaccine-makers/article34610419.ece
21 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Virus adds to Mizoram’s Myanmar refugee crisis||The death of a Myanmar national in Aizawl, the State capital, and the COVID-19 infection among scores of others in a few districts has added to the refugee crisis in Mizoram. Almost a third of more than 15,500 Myanmar nationals, who fled a military crackdown since the coup on February 1, are in Aizawl. One of them died at a COVID-19 centre in Aizawl on Wednesday, the 30th in the State due to COVID-19 since May 2020. The Mizoram government has been caught in a Catch-22 situation. It can neither ignore a March 10 order from the Union Home Ministry to not let the refugees in nor prevent locals from assisting the Myanmar nationals. “Taking care of infected refugees in the districts is necessary for containment, but the hands of the government are tied because of the Centre’s orders,” H. Rammawi, Vice-Chairman of the State Planning Board in Mizoram, said. “COVID-19 cases have complicated the situation as more people are coming in to escape the escalating conflict in Myanmar. Local NGOs and individuals are providing assistance to the refugees out of humanitarian concern,” he said. Some of those who crossed over are deserters from the Myanmar Army and members of their families. The others include police and fire service personnel, government officials, lawmakers and political leaders, engineers and activists of a few NGOs. The refugees belong to the Chin community, ethnically related to the dominant Mizos of Mizoram and the Kuki-Zomi people in Manipur. Officials in Mizoram said they had been asked to coordinate with the External Affairs Ministry, which was yet to get back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-adds-to-mizorams-myanmar-refugee-crisis/article34610601.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Doctors felled by the virus they fight||“What happened to my akka (elder sister) should not happen to any other woman,” said P. Prabu, brother of P. Shanmugapriya, who was eight months pregnant when she succumbed to COVID-19. A medical officer of the Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Anuppanadi in Madurai, 32-year-old Dr. Shanmugapriya continued to work in the midst of the raging pandemic. “She sought maternity leave when she was seven months pregnant but it was not sanctioned, citing the increase in the number of patients with COVID-19. She texted me that there was a regular flow of patients with COVID-19 symptoms to the PHC,” he said. Two years ago, she was posted at the Anuppanadi PHC. “She loved her job. But being the only doctor at the PHC, she had a heavy workload. During her pregnancy, she had to go on street visits too,” he said. Dr. Shanmugapriya contacted her brother on May 1, saying that she had developed symptoms of COVID-19 and would be getting admitted for treatment. “She sounded very weak. She told me to text and not call as it was difficult to speak. She was treated in a private hospital for four days, and was told to shift to the Government Rajaji Hospital as the foetal heartbeat was poor,” he said. Her foetus could not be saved and she succumbed to COVID-19 on May 8. Her death was a shock to her colleagues at the PHC. “She was quick to make friends, and that is how she treated those working at the PHC too,” he noted.  Source of inspiration The doctor advised his fraternity to wear goggles in view of the greater probability of the virus entering through the eyes, suggested to them to remain clean shaven as facial hair could become “transmitters”, and even tonsured his hair. That he succumbed to COVID-19 after all these precautions is what disturbs his family and colleagues. B.V. Raja Rao, a renowned neuropsychiatrist of Tirupati, fell victim to the second wave. It was a common sight for the residents of Tirupati to watch him wield a microphone and deliver messages from his four-wheeler, dwelling on mental fitness, suicidal tendency and depression. “He was a source of inspiration for us,” recalls P. Krishna Prasanthi, Vice-President (Andhra Pradesh chapter) of the Association of Physicians of India (API). After being diagnosed with COVID-19, he remained bedridden in a private hospital for almost a month. The signs of brain haemorrhage slowed down his recovery rate and finally took a toll. All of Telangana was shaken to hear of the death of a 31-year-old paediatrician who had COVID-19 on May 12, a week after giving birth to a baby girl. Dr. Farah Niloufer was in the frontline of COVID-19 management at the Government Area Hospital, Gajwel, despite being in the third trimester of pregnancy, till she tested positive in the first week of May. Her husband Syed Abdul Majid, too, consults at the ESI Hospital in Nacharam. He is consumed by his grief. Her close friend Dr. Nazia Tabassum said that though they had urged Dr. Farah to take leave from work, the paediatrician wanted to fulfil her duty and that she would anyway have to stay away from work for some months after her delivery. 59-year-old Chief Medical Officer Dr. G. N. Ganesh Kumar, who was in home isolation in Mysuru after contracting COVID-19 and was shifted to a hospital in Mysuru after he developed complications, did not respond to treatment. Dr. Chidambar, Mysuru District Vector Borne Disease Control Officer, said, “The deaths of doctors are fewer this year when compared to the last wave since doctors and other healthcare workers are vaccinated.” Mysuru IMA president Dr. Anand Ravi said there had been no reports of private practitioners succumbing to COVID-19 in the district but the number of doctors becoming infected was higher this time. Affable, very caring It was in September last that COVID-19 claimed its first victim among healthcare workers in Kerala. M.S. Abdeen, a 73-year-old retired general practitioner, who was running a clinic at Attakulangara in the capital, was the first doctor in the State to have fallen victim to COVID-19. He had been seeing patients in his extremely busy clinic till the day he developed symptoms. “He was one of those popular doctors, quiet, affable and very caring about his patients. He ran a full and active practice and most of his clients were people from the near by slums. He took good care of them, often not taking any fee from them,” said Mohammed Yusuf, a doctor himself and a friend. Dr. Yusuf said that Dr. Abdeen had kept away from the clinic, confining himself to his residence for a while in those initial days of COVID-19. But then, every day, he would get hundreds of calls from his patients. “He thus resumed his practice saying that during COVID-19 time, people with other illnesses will find it difficult to get care in big hospitals,” said Dr. Yusuf. Ajith Bhasker, a functionary of IMA’s Kerala north zone, said that healthcare workers now seem to be more at risk from the high level of disease transmission in the community rather than their high-risk work environment. “Most of those who are getting infected now are getting it from their family members at home. If healthcare workers continue to fall sick, no amount of capacity building will be enough to save people’s lives,” Mr. Bhasker said. ( With inputs from Bindu Shajan Perappadan in New Delhi, Serena Josephine M. in Madurai, A.D. Rangarajan in Tirupati, K. Shiva Shanker in Hyderabad, Shankar Bennur in Mysuru, C. Maya and Abhinaya H. in Thiruvananthapuram )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctors-felled-by-the-virus-they-fight/article34610397.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Aerosols can travel up to 10 m, says govt.||“It is advised that jaali /air outlets with exhaust fans are installed by gram panchayats in homes where there is no cross-ventilation,” the advisory said. For workplaces, it recommended keeping doors and windows open while air-conditioners were on. Hospitals should ensure that vaccinations were carried out in well-ventilated areas and public transport like buses should keep windows open and use exhaust fans. Advisory For rural or semi-urban areas, the advisory said every person entering the area should undergo a Rapid Antigen Test before entry for which ASHA and Anganwadi workers should be trained and protected. These workers should be given N95 masks even if they are vaccinated, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aerosols-can-travel-up-to-10-m-says-govt/article34610398.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Multi-disciplinary steps to fight mucormyosis||Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, has told the States that the treatment of mucormyosis required a multi-disciplinary approach that involved eye surgeons, ENT specialists, general surgeons, neurosurgeons and dental maxilo facial surgeons and the use of Amphotericin B as an anti-fungal medicine. “You are requested to make mucormycosis a notifiable disease under Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, wherein all government and private health facilities, medical colleges will follow guidelines for screening, diagnosis, management of mucormycosis, issued by MoHFW and ICMR and make it mandatory for all facilities to report suspected and confirmed cases to Health Department through district level Chief Medical Officer and subsequently to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme surveillance system,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/multi-disciplinary-steps-to-fight-mucormyosis/article34610399.ece
21 May 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Vaccines, oxygen not being given by Centre’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said vaccines, oxygen and medicines, including Remedesevir, were not being provided by the Centre and the States could not procure them from markets because of their unavailability. “The country is passing through a critical juncture and the Prime Minister’s approach is very casual. They have demolished the federal structure... If Chief Ministers were not allowed to speak why were they invited,” she told journalists at the Secretariat after the conclusion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with 54 District Magistrates from States in the presence of their Chief Ministers. Talking about the slow pace of vaccination, Ms. Banerjee said, “If States were to accept his [PM’s] formula of vaccination, it will take 10 years to vaccinate people.” Ms. Banerjee asked how many Central teams were sent to Uttar Pradesh when bodies of suspected COVID-19 patients were found floating in the Ganga. Speaking on the COVID-19 situation in the State, she said the infection had reached rural areas because of the eight-phase elections. ‘20 lakh doses’ Later in the day, the Chief Minister wrote to the Prime Minister on vaccination of State and Central government employees. “In Bengal, while we have taken steps to complete vaccination of a large section of frontline and electorally engaged employees across several sectors, we still need minimally 20 lakh doses to cover all the employees,” she wrote in the letter. Referring to the arrests in the Narada sting video case, she accused the Centre of indulging in “vendetta politics” during the time of a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccines-oxygen-not-being-given-by-centre/article34610400.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. seeks suspension of 4 BJP leaders’ Twitter accounts||Days after filing a police complaint against BJP party chief J.P. Nadda, Union Minister Smriti Irani, party spokesperson Sambit Patra and functionary B.L. Santosh for spreading an alleged “fake” toolkit, the Congress on Thursday wrote to Twitter to remove their tweets and permanently suspend their accounts. The parties have been engaged in a spat after Mr. Patra accused the Congress of preparing a “toolkit” to destroy Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image during the COVID-19 crisis.  “As Twitter’s own policy and rules seek to discourage deceptive/synthetic/manipulated media that are likely to cause harm, we humbly request you to immediately remove the tweets contained in Annexure 1, or any other such material on the Twitter platform. Also, you are requested to kindly carry out a detailed probe on the subject-matter and permanently suspend the Twitter accounts of the above named individuals,” read the complaint. The Congress said the “toolkit” was prepared “with the clear intent to cause social unrest, communal disharmony to fuel hate and escalate violence in various parts of India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-seeks-suspension-of-4-bjp-leaders-twitter-accounts/article34610401.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||India in touch with Iran over Farzad B, says govt.||The Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday said there is a possibility of India becoming a part of the projects unfolding in the Farzad B gas field in Iran at a later stage. The statement from the Ministry’s official spokesperson, Arindam Bagchi, came days after Iran announced that it will develop the gas field domestically and signed a deal with Petropars. “Iran wanted to involve us at a later stage. Our consortium is in touch with the Iranian authorities,” Mr. Bagchi replied to a question during the weekly virtual news briefing. The comment shows that India continues to consider itself a player in the gas rich Farzad B region discovered by ONGC Videsh Ltd. The National Iranian Oil Company signed a deal with the Petropars Group last Monday, where Minister of Petroleum Bijan Zanganeh announced that the gas field would be developed with domestic support. It came as a setback to the Indian efforts in Farzad B, which has spanned more than a decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-in-touch-with-iran-over-farzad-b-says-govt/article34610387.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Qualities acquire merit||In his Varadaraja Stavam, Kooratazhvan talks of the qualities of Lord Varadaraja, said Valayapet Ramachariar in a discourse. Usually, we classify people as good or bad depending on their qualities. Some qualities are universally accepted as good, like sympathy, humility, patience etc. One with daya helps those in difficulty. He who feels no sympathy for a fellow human being is bound to be called a wicked person. At the same time, a good man does not expect anything in return for his help. A person may be brilliant, but his brilliance is of no use if he is arrogant. The Lord in His Rama avatara demonstrated the importance of humility. But while these are the yardsticks to judge a person’s goodness or badness, can this yardstick be applied to the Lord? Can Lord Varadaraja be evaluated like this? He cannot, and should not, for He embodies innumerable auspicious qualities. Is He great because of these qualities? Do these qualities add to His greatness? The answer would be that such qualities do not add greatness to Him, but these qualities acquire merit by being part of Him. Satya, jnana and ananta are attributes that characterise Paramatma. The Supreme One is not limited by geographical boundaries or by time or by any object. The fact that He is in archa form in many temples does not mean that He is not present in Sri Vaikuntha. Vedanta Desika says that while Narasimha emerged from one pillar, He is present in every pillar, so that He can come quickly when we call out to Him for help. A diamond’s value increases with its brightness. So the diamond’s value comes from a certain property. Usually certain qualities add to a person’s goodness. But in the case of the Lord, it is the Lord who enhances the value of the qualities that reside in Him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/qualities-acquire-merit/article34610411.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea against Param Bir Singh in SC||A Mumbai police inspector on Thursday accused the city’s former top officer, Param Bir Singh, in the Supreme Court of trying to “silence” him by framing fake cases against him. Mr. Singh, who was shunted out from the post of the Mumbai Police Commissioner following his corruption complaint against then Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, had recently approached the Supreme Court. He wanted the apex court to transfer the pending internal inquiries against him to another State. Inspector Bhimraj Rohidas Ghadge, represented by advocate Vipin Nair, has accused Mr. Singh of being corrupt during his tenure as Mumbai police chief. Mr. Ghadge said the investigation against Mr. Singh should not be transferred. He said his former chief had “used his position and uniform to implicate the intervenor in several false and frivolous cases”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-against-param-bir-singh-in-sc/article34610392.ece
21 May 2021||Srinagar,||Two siblings held with six grenades||Two siblings, carrying six grenades, were arrested from the Kupwara market in north Kashmir on Thursday. “The Kupwara police arrested two terrorist associates in the main market of Kupwara. Six live grenades were recovered from their possession,” the police said. The duo was arrested at a checkpoint following a tip-off about the movement of anti-national elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-siblings-held-with-six-grenades/article34610395.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Revise vaccine policy, urge ex-officials||A group of 116 former officials wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urging the government to centralise procurement of vaccines and supply them to all State governments. The retired All India and Central services officers, under the banner of Constitutional Conduct Group, wrote: “No advance planning was done to secure adequate stocks of vaccines, despite India being one of the major vaccine suppliers to the world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/revise-vaccine-policy-urge-ex-officials/article34610410.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||77.08 lakh net subscribers in 2020-21: EPFO||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Thursday said it had added around 11.22 lakh net subscribers in March 2021, taking the total net additions in financial year 2020-2021 to 77.08 lakh. “Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, cumulative net payroll addition for FY 2021 is almost at par with last year, with 77.08 lakh net additions to the subscriber base,” the EPFO said. Of the 11.22 lakh net additions in March, about 7.16 lakh were new members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7708-lakh-net-subscribers-in-2020-21-epfo/article34610386.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||NCPCR seeks guidelines for treatment of children in next COVID-19 wave||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has written to the Indian Council of Medical seeking guidelines for treatment of children ahead of the potential third wave of COVID-19. In a separate letter to Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the child rights body sought that directions be issued to States for emergency ambulance services for children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncpcr-seeks-guidelines-for-treatment-of-children-in-next-covid-19-wave/article34610412.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. demands White Paper on Centre’s vaccination policy||The Congress on Thursday demanded a White Paper on the Centre’s vaccination policy and asserted that ‘accelerated vaccination’ was the only way to prevent a third wave of coronavirus. Addressing an online press conference, former union minister Rajeev Shukla said citizens needed to know how many vaccines had been procured and how many were in the pipeline to vaccinate all Indians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-demands-white-paper-on-centres-vaccination-policy/article34610415.ece
21 May 2021||B. Tilak ChandarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Criminal jurisprudence is for reforming an offender, says HC||“Criminal jurisprudence is aimed at reforming an offender,” the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed while directing the Superintendent of Police of Thoothukudi district to remove the name of a petitioner from the record of history sheet. The court was hearing the petition filed by Ahamed Al Ameen of Thoothukudi, a Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi functionary. He said that he was not involved in any criminal case and was leading a peaceful life since 2007. However, a history sheet that was opened in 2007 was renewed periodically. The State submitted that the petitioner was a habitual offender and was associated with fundamentalist Imam Ali who was killed in a police encounter. So surveillance was necessary, the State said. Expired in 2018 It was brought to the notice of the court that the history sheet expired in 2018. It could not be ascertained as to whether it was extended or not. There was absence of clear instructions or record in this regard. Justice G. Ilangovan observed that the main allegation against the petitioner was that he had been associated with Iman Ali. But the Iman Ali saga was long over. The petitioner was leading a peaceful life and was a functionary of a political party. It was also seen that he had not been involved in any criminal activities for almost 14 years. It was highly unbelievable that he was still carrying the legacy of criminality left by Iman Ali, the judge observed, adding continuing the history sheet would amount to abusing the process of law. The court directed the Superintendent of Police to remove the petitioner’s name from the record of the history sheet on the police file within a month. The petition was disposed of accordingly.  The main allegation is that he was associated with Iman Ali, but that saga is long over Justice G. Ilangovan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/criminal-jurisprudence-is-for-reforming-an-offender-says-hc/article34610640.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. ropes in RWAs for vaccine drive||The Greater Chennai Corporation is taking the vaccination programme to the doorsteps of residents by tying up with resident welfare associations (RWAs), multi-storey apartments, Rotary Clubs and big companies. The civic body has instructed local officials in all 200 divisions of the 15 zones to give full support by organising campaigns in apartments and community halls of RWAs. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the civic body’s focus was on organising special camps as the success of any vaccination programme depended on community support. Mr. Bedi said now that the lockdown was in force, the residents would be hesitant to go to the urban primary health centres (UPHCs). But when camps were organised in neighbourhoods, more people were coming out to take the vaccine. He said the special camps were in addition to the vaccination done in the UPHCs. Mr. Bedi said since the civic body initiated the special camps, the number of those getting vaccinated had started increasing and now stood at 30,000 daily. The civic body proposes to increase this number to 40,000 after those above 18 years are also brought under the drive in a few days. The Corporation has organised a total of 2,800 camps throughout the city, and has vaccinated nearly 2 lakh people till Thursday. Adyar zone, comprising Besant Nagar, Velachery, Adyar and Taramani, has been proactive in the campaign as it organised over 100 camps. Similarly, the civic body has organised 91 camps in Ambattur zone and 71 camps in Royapuram zone. An official of Adyar zone said zonal officials had directed them to vaccinate a minimum of 200 persons per day in each ward. Mukund Ramesh, an office-bearer of the Defence Colony Residents’ Welfare Association at Ekkatuthangal, organised a camp recently in which more than 100 residents took the jab. A senior official said only Covishield was being administered to residents. Covaxin was restricted to those taking the second dose, for which they would have to visit the UPHCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-ropes-in-rwas-for-vaccine-drive/article34610705.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily tally exceeds 35,000, toll now 19,131||Tamil Nadu’s daily tally of COVID-19 cases exceeded 35,000 on Thursday while the toll crossed 19,000 to touch 19,131 with the death of 397 persons. A total of 35,579 people tested positive for SARS CoV-2 in the State, taking the overall tally to 17,34,804. Among the dead were two teenagers, a 13-year-old girl from Theni and 19-year-old boy from Villupuram. Both had no co-morbidities. The active cases continued to rise in the State with 2,63,390 people under treatment. However, in Chennai, the number of people discharged exceeded the fresh cases after several weeks. While the city recorded 6,073 new cases, 6,537 people were discharged after treatment. There was a marginal drop in the active case load from 48,326 on Wednesday to 47,667 on Thursday. Coimbatore reported 3,335 new cases, Chengalpattu 2,092, Erode 1,505, Kanniyakumari 1,096, Madurai 1,269, Tiruvallur 1,791, Thoothukudi 1,004, Erode 1,505 Tiruppur 1,581 and Tiruchi 1,375 cases. Chennai continued to account for the most number of deaths. Of the 397 fatalities, 73 were in Chennai followed by Chengalpattu (44). Vellore recorded 36 deaths. There were 27 deaths in Kancheepuram, 20 each in Coimbatore and Tiruvallur, 19 in Dindigul, 18 in Kanniyakumari and 15 in Ranipet. The 13-year-old girl was admitted to the Theni Medical College Hospital on May 16, and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The 19-year-old youth was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on May 16 with fever for seven days and died on May 19 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of five persons aged in their 20s died of the infection. This included a 22-year-old woman from Chengalpattu, who was admitted to the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine, Tambaram, on May 10. She died on May 13 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 25,368 people were discharged after treatment across the State. On Thursday, 1,71,094 samples were tested. Till date, 2,57,75,405 samples have been tested. 46,301 vaccinated On Thursday, 46,301 people were vaccinated across the State. This included 24,549 people aged 45 to 59 and 9,846 senior citizens. This took the overall coverage to 71,05,791.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-tally-exceeds-35000-toll-now-19131/article34610920.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transpersons, farmers pitch in to raise COVID-19 awareness||Transgender rights groups in Chennai and Farmers Producer Groups (FPG) from Tiruvallur have started pitching in to create awareness about COVID-19 vaccination and precautions that needs to be taken to curb the spread of COVID-19. They have started conducting awareness drives to educate their members. There are over 1,000 members who are part of the Ponneri Farmers’ Producers Company (FPC), which comprises 10 FPGs. “We have been conducting an awareness programme on precautions to be taken to prevent COVID-19 infection. We have also distributed masks to farmers,” said N. Vijayakumar, president of the company. He said now they had started creating awareness about vaccination. “With the help of the Agricultural Department in Tiruvallur, we will be conducting a vaccination camp for all members and ensure all farmers are vaccinated,” he added. G. Pandian, Joint Director (in-charge), Agriculture, Tiruvallur, said there were 150 FPGs and eight FPCs in the district. “We are planing to conduct vaccination awareness campaigns in all these groups and get them vaccinated. People have become aware of the danger and started wearing masks and are not stepping out unnecessarily,” he added. Meanwhile, Sahodaran (an organisation for the rights of sexual minorities) along with Solidarity and Action Against The HIV Infection In India (SAATHI) and PeriFerry, an organisation that provides employment and training for transpersons, have been creating awareness about vaccination among their communities. On Thursday, 28 transpersons got vaccinated. “There is fear in the transgender community about vaccination. They fear they will get a heart attack or die. With the help of doctors from SAATHI, we educated them and cleared all their misconceptions. Then we asked them to get vaccinated,” said Jaya, who along with her friend Sudha organised the awareness drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transpersons-farmers-pitch-in-to-raise-covid-19-awareness/article34610932.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More newborns show symptoms||COVID-19 cases among the paediatric population has been on the rise in Tamil Nadu. Doctors have been noticing that more newborns are presenting with symptoms during the second wave of the contagion than in the first wave. At least 1,000-1,300 children, aged 0-12, are testing positive daily over the past few days. “The number of children testing positive is quite high. When parents test positive, the children, too, are infected,” said S. Srinivasan, State Nodal Officer-Child Health. Though children were affected, there was no progression to severe disease, said J. Kumutha, expert adviser-child health, National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu. “We are seeing mild to moderate disease in children. Nevertheless, children with co-morbidities, such as malignancies, chronic diseases and other immune-compromised conditions, should be protected as they run the risk of getting infected, and mortality is high,” she said. Babies born to COVID-19 mothers seemed to be asymptomatic, she added. There have been a few noticeable changes in the second wave. As Dr. Srinivasan said, “A number of newborns are admitted to the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children on the 12th, 13th and 14th day of birth. So far, there have been no problems. In some newborns, there is a history of fever that is unusual. We have noticed some pneumonic changes in X-rays in a few of them.” N. Chandrakumar, head of the Department of Neonatology, Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital (KKCTH), said, “We had a lot of newborns testing positive in the first wave, but most of them were asymptomatic. Now, we are seeing more newborns presenting with symptoms. We have a newborn who presented with COVID-19 pneumonia and was put on ventilator. Now, we have also seen in a newborn the multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), which was only reported in older children.” Among all infected newborns, about 20% develop symptoms and the rest are normal. Of them, 1%-2% develop significant symptoms of cough and require admission. About 1%-2% have pneumonia and MIS-C, he said. What precautions are needed? “Pregnant women who develop any symptom or fever should tell clearly before delivery as any mild infection can have implications for the baby. All mothers should be tested prior to delivery so that we can ascertain if the baby is at risk of infection. We recommend testing the baby in 48 hours,” Dr. Chandrakumar said. He said parents should watch for symptoms of MIS-C in newborns — re-appearance of fever, rash, diarrhoea and irritability. “We are seeing more children with pneumonia in the second wave, and we continue to see cases of MIS-C,” said Janani Sankar, senior consultant, KKCTH. While a number of children are triaged through tele-consultation, doctors ask the parents to bring the children to hospital in case of any warning symptoms, such as persistent fever, any high grade fever, reduced oral intake, extreme fatigue/lethargy, vomiting, abdominal pain and any new rash, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-newborns-show-symptoms/article34610925.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sudden rain lashes Chennai||Chennai experienced thunderstorms on Thursday evening. After a sunny day, the skyscape was enveloped by dark clouds around 4 p.m. and sudden thundershowers lashed several parts of the city and its neighbouring districts. Weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded day temperature of around 37 degrees Celsius. The sharp spell of rain helped cool the city in the evening. While the station in Nungambakkam recorded only trace amounts of rainfall, Meenambakkam, Chembarambakkam and Villivakkam recorded 2 cm till 5.30 p.m. Automatic rain gauges in West Tambaram and Satyabama University recorded 3 cm of rain within a few hours, followed by YMCA Nandanam with 1 cm. Some of the other districts that experienced thunderstorms were Vellore, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. Other parts of the State also experienced thunderstorms with lightning. During the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, Kachirayapalayam in Kallakurichi district registered 10 cm, which was the day’s highest in the State. Officials of the Meteorological Department cited convective activity that followed an intense period of heat during the day as the reason behind Thursday’s rainfall. The department forecast that a weather system brewing over the north Andaman sea and east-central Bay of Bengal also influenced thunderstorms. The coastal areas and Puducherry are likely to get light rain till the weekend. Chennai may also experience a partly cloudy sky and light showers in some areas till Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudden-rain-lashes-chennai/article34610691.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mucormycosis declared a notified disease in the State||The State government on Thursday declared mucormycosis a notified disease under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. An order to this effect was issued by the Health Department. “If patients are diagnosed with mucormycosis in a government or private hospital, they should immediately notify the Directorate of Public Health,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan told reporters on Thursday. Nine persons have been diagnosed with mucormycosis in Tamil Nadu so far, he said. Of the nine, six were old cases. “Seven of them have diabetes, while two others are non-diabetics. Eyes were affected in seven patients. All are under treatment and their condition is stable. No person has died of mucormycosis in the State,” he said. Committee formed The State has set up a separate 10-member committee to monitor mucormycosis. It comprises the Directors of Medical Education, Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Dean of the Madras Medical College, Director of the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology, and doctors from departments including ENT, diabetology, microbiology and medicine, the Health Secretary said. Mr. Radhakrishnan said there was no need to panic on mucormycosis. “It is an opportunistic infection, and has been prevalent for several years. It mainly affects immune-compromised individuals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mucormycosis-declared-a-notified-disease-in-the-state/article34610914.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Controlling blood sugar level is crucial to avoid mucormycosis’||The Institute of Diabetology at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), which was involved in the treatment of thousands of COVID-19 patients, said its experience had shown that controlling blood sugar levels during treatment was crucial to avoiding mucormycosis. As cases of the serious fungal infection are on the rise, mainly due to uncontrolled sugar levels during post-COVID-19 recovery, the institute said constant monitoring and control of sugar levels were of paramount importance as the use of steroids that push up sugar levels had become unavoidable for many COVID-19 patients. Stressing on the need to avoid indiscriminate and unnecessary use of steroids, P. Dharmarajan, head, Institute of Diabetology, RGGGH, said steroids had, however, become effective and life-saving drugs for many moderate and severe COVID-19 cases. “Hence, more than the use of steroids, what becomes critical is the control of sugar levels of the patients,” he said. He said administration of insulin and other drugs to control blood sugar was done in parallel to the standard COVID-19 treatment at the hospital. “When we say uncontrolled sugar levels are a major risk factor for mucormycosis, we are talking about extremely high sugar levels, leading to conditions like ketoacidosis,” Dr. Dharmarajan said. “While we cannot bring the sugar level to fully normal levels, even managing fasting sugar levels at the range of around 200 mg/DL during and post-COVID-19 can considerably reduce the risk of mucormycosis,” he said. Dr. Dharmarajan said no cases of mucormycosis had been reported among those who were treated until recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/controlling-blood-sugar-level-is-crucial-to-avoid-mucormycosis/article34610709.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. reduces rates for RT-PCR tests||The Health Department has reduced the cost of RT-PCR test for COVID-19 diagnosis. As per an order issued on May 19, the rate for testing samples sent and recommended by the government in private laboratories had been reduced from Rs. 800 to Rs. 550 under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS) while the cost for testing pooled samples has been reduced from Rs. 600 to Rs. 400. For persons not covered under CMCHIS, the rate for RT-PCR tests in private laboratories has been slashed from Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 900. The cost for home collection of samples, an additional amount of Rs. 300 has not been revised. For RT-PCR tests done in private hospitals, which are not empanelled under CMCHIS, the amount would be given after a review by the United India Insurance Company. The decision to reduce the rates came after the Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project submitted a proposal to the State government to reduce the cost of testing after holding consultations with officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-reduces-rates-for-rt-pcr-tests/article34610918.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tumour removed from elderly woman using complex procedure||A 63-year-old woman came to Kauvery hospital recently with a bloated stomach. An examination revealed that she had a cancerous tumour in her abdomen and required immediate treatment. She had visited several healthcare facilities but the tumour was not diagnosed. U.P. Srinivasan, consultant gastrointestinal surgeon, said, “She was denied surgery owing to the complexity of the condition as she had undergone multiple surgeries, including a hysterectomy.” A PET scan revealed that the tumour had not spread to other nearby organs. “Hence, we recommended debulking surgery and the hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) procedure,” he said. The procedure involves pumping a heated chemotherapy drug into the abdominal cavity. “In this method, first the visible tumour cells are removed through surgery. Thereafter, a few tubes are inserted and a device pumps the chemotherapy drug into the abdominal cavity at a temperature of 42 degrees Celsius,” he said. The procedure took around nine hours. HIPEC treatment improves the longevity of life for the patient in advanced stages of cancer. Hospital co-founder and executive director Aravindan Selvaraj said, “This technology is a boon for patients in the advanced stages of cancer.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tumour-removed-from-elderly-woman-using-complex-procedure/article34610706.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Unable to draw oxygen from eastern corridor’||The State government on Thursday told the Madras High Court that the Centre had allocated 519 tonnes of oxygen to Tamil Nadu every day under the National Oxygen Plan and it included 100 tonnes, from the eastern corridor (Odisha), which could not be drawn regularly due to transportation issues. Nevertheless, the State is able to manage the oxygen requirement at present through other sources, the government said. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram said the oxygen containers received from Kalinga Nagar and Rourkela had to be sent back immediately for refilling. Stating that officers had been deputed to ensure smooth logistics, he hoped the assured supply from the eastern corridor would stabilise this week. The A-G also submitted a status report filed by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, who stated that the State had procured 500 oxygen cylinders from Singapore through air cargo and that another 1,650 cylinders were being brought to Chennai from Singapore through the sea route. The National Highways Authority of India, along with the Defence Research and Development Organisation, was also establishing 142 mini oxygen plants in the State. After submitting the report, the A-G told the court that there appeared to be a ray of hope in the fight against COVID-19 since the number of positive cases being reported in Chennai on a daily basis had decreased from 6,991 on May 13 to 6,297 on May 19. He said the oxygen requirement was also manageable, and the government had begun distributing Remdesivir directly to private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unable-to-draw-oxygen-from-eastern-corridor/article34610911.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 25 lakh solatium for policemen’s kin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has sanctioned a solatium of Rs. 25 lakh to the families of each of the 36 police personnel who died of COVID-19 while in the line of duty. Of the 84 police personnel who died due to COVID-19 while in the line of duty, solatium of Rs. 25 lakh had already been granted to each of the 13 personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-25-lakh-solatium-for-policemens-kin/article34610917.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations sought for oxygen plant||Rajan Eye Care Hospital and the Rotary Club of Madras T. Nagar have proposed to donate an oxygen generator plant worth Rs. 90 lakh to the Tamil Nadu Government Multi-Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Government Estate. They have launched Project O2, and in the first phase, provided 300 oxygen cylinders, concentrators and flow meters. They are also planning to donate to other government hospitals. Those interested may send cheques or demand drafts in favour of Rotary Club of Madras T. Nagar Charitable Trust. Donations can be sent to: Canara Bank, Mowbrays Road branch, A/C: 1281101034735, IFSC: CNRBOOO1281.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-sought-for-oxygen-plant/article34610707.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 21,000 vehicles seized in last 6 days||The police booked 17,602 cases for lockdown violations, and 21,004 vehicles were impounded in the last six days. As the lockdown was enforced from May 14, personnel established vehicle checking points at more than 150 spots. The Law and Order and Traffic police have been preventing unnecessary movement on roads. Since Tuesday, they have also been insisting on e-registration to move between police station limits. On Wednesday, the police booked 3,502 cases for lockdown violations and impounded 4,772 vehicles due to lack of e-registration or other documents substantiating the reasons for being outside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-21000-vehicles-seized-in-last-6-days/article34610710.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves verdict on nomination of MLAs in U.T.||The Madras High Court on Thursday reserved its judgment on a public interest litigation petition to declare illegal a notification issued by the Union Home Ministry on May 10 nominating three MLAs to the Puducherry Assembly. Justices Anita Sumanth and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy deferred their verdict after hearing Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta for the Union Home Ministry, advocate M. Gnanasekar for petitioner G.A. Jagaannathan and advocate V. Raghavachari for two of the nominated MLAs. Mr. Gnanasekar had contended that the credentials of the three individuals were questionable, though the nominated MLAs should be men of eminence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reserves-verdict-on-nomination-of-mlas-in-ut/article34610702.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM writes to President on Rajiv case convicts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind, requesting him to accept the State government’s recommendation in September 2018 and pass orders to remit the life sentences of all the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Mr. Stalin said the convicts — S. Nalini, Murugan, Santhan, A.G. Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas and P. Ravichandran — should be released immediately. DMK MP T.R. Baalu handed over the letter to the President’s Office on Thursday. In the letter, copies of which were released by the government to the media, Mr. Stalin pointed out that the convicts had spent three decades in prison. “These seven persons have already suffered untold hardship and agony in the past three decades and have paid a heavy price. There has already been an inordinate delay in the consideration of their pleas for remission,” he said. He recalled that Nalini's original death sentence was commuted under Article 161 of the Constitution, while the Supreme Court commuted the death sentence of other three convicts to that of life imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-writes-to-president-on-rajiv-case-convicts/article34610922.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi writes to Centre||DMK MP Kanimozhi has urged the Centre to take steps to increase the production of drugs needed for the treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus disease. In a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Chemicals and Fertilizers Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda, she said the supply of anti-fungal drugs was declining and [was becoming] increasingly difficult to obtain all over the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mps-plea/article34610648.ece
21 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries, institutions contribute to CM’s fund||Several industries, industry associations, voluntary organisations, hospitals, educational institutions, and individuals in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts handed over cheque to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund during his visit to the two districts on Thursday. According to an official press release, the total contribution in Coimbatore on Thursday was Rs. 32 crore and in Tiruppur it was Rs. 2.7 crore. The Southern India Mills’ Association gave Rs. 2.25 crore in Coimbatore and CRI group Rs. 3 crore. KNR Construction gave Rs. 2 crore. M. Manickam of Sakthi Group, Ms. Vanitha Mohan of Pricol, GKNM Hospital, Mr. Rangaswamy of PSG Group, Mr. Ramaswamy of Roots Group, Mr. Lakshmi Narayanawami of Ramakrishna Hospital and educational institutions and SNR Sons, Shanthi Feeds, GVG Paper group, Coimbatore Corporation Contractors Association, Highways Contractors Association, Smart City Contractors Association, Mr. Narendar of Aquasub and Tamil Nadu Rice Mill Owners Association handed over cheques for Rs. 1 crore each. Dr. Madeshwaran of Royal Care Hospital, Dr. Rajasekar of Ganga Hospital, Coonoor Tea Estates, Maruthamalai Senathipathi, Contractors of Rural Development Agency, Mr. Kannaiyan and Ms. Saraswathi of Hindusthan College, Anitha Texcoit, KG Denim, Ambika Cotton Mills, Dhanapal of Coimbatore Corporation west and Karpagam Medical College and Hospital gave cheques for Rs. 50 lakh each. Mr. Rajkumar of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, CREDAI, Mines and Minerals Operators, Mr. Kannappan of Kiscol, TWAD contractors, Mr. Anish of Suguna Industries, Mr. KV Karthik of Deccan Pumps,Sumangali Jewellers, LGB Group, and Dr. Palanivel of Gem Hospital gave Rs. 25 lakh each. Lakshmi Ceramics, Vinod-Sonali textiles, Eppinger Tools Asia gave Rs. 15 lakh each. Dr. Karthikeyan Raju of Kongunadu Hospital, Dr. Hariprasad and Dr. Gokul of Kumaran Hospital, Dr. Thangavel of PPG Hospital, Dr. Manoharan of NH Hospital, Dr. Senthil of Abirami Hospital, Coimbatore and Tiruppur Tiny and Micro Entrepreneurs Association, Arthi Associates Muthuraman, Velcro Foundation, Mr. Muruganantham of Arthi Filters, Open end Spinning Mills, RPK Rajamannar of Kandaswamy Arts Centre, Danukodi Adithya Auto stores Masilamani, Mr. Sreenivasan of Annapoorna group, Mr. Krishnan of Krishna Sweets, SIMS Hospital gave cheques for Rs. 10 lakh each. Rajasthani Sangh gave Rs. 11 lakh, Oshima - Rs. 12 lakh, RSK Constructions (Rs. 20 lakh) were the other contributors. The SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association gave Rs. 12.5 lakh. Mr. Krishnan (Paiya Gounder) gave Rs. 75.25 lakh and Minister K. Ramachandran gave Rs. 29 lakh on behalf of the Nilgiris district. Osma Industries and association of employees of Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board gave cheques for Rs. 16 lakh each. Children silambu champion Pragathi gave Rs. 25,000 and Dwarakesh Rs. 1,250. K.R. Nagarajan of Ramraj Cotton handed over cheque for Rs. 1 crore in Tiruppur. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association handed over a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh. The other contributions in Tiruppur included Rs. 15 lakh each from V. Palaniswami of JV Tapes and AC Easwaran of South India Hosiery Manufacturers Associations. And, Rs. 10 lakh each from A. Sakthivel of Poppys Exports, S. Murugasamy of Tiruppur Dyers Association, V. Raghupathi of Tiruppur West Rotary, Sigamani of KRC Housing and Infrastructure company, Moorthy of Tiruppur West Rotary, Murugesan of Jagathguru Textiles, Dr. Thangavel from Coimbatore, and Arumugham of Vigneshwara Agencies. Rathinasamy and Rajamani of Knit Cloth Manufacturers Association each gave Rs. 5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-institutions-contribute-to-cms-fund/article34610934.ece
21 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||A sweep that causes concern among Coimbatore voters||As voters in the 10 Assembly constituencies in Coimbatore, chose AIADMK candidates to represent them in the next five years and voters elsewhere giving DMK a majority, the results have become a cause for concern. A section of voters The Hindu spoke to wondered whether the district would get the infrastructure growth and development it needed when all the 10 MLAs it voted would be sitting only in the Opposition. The district could go the way the Singanallur MLA from the DMK, N. Karthik, had been complaining about his constituency from 2016 to 2021 – that the then ruling AIADMK government was ignoring his constituency because he was from the Opposition. Similarly, there could be the possibility that the district could get very little from the incoming DMK dispensation because voters here had not elected even one of its party candidates, including Mr. Karthik who lost his seat. Schemes Though the DMK government would not slowdown or stop the on-going infrastructure projects for fear of earning a bad name, it might not reward Coimbatore with schemes and projects as expected, said an industry captain, adding, “I fear it will be a step-motherly treatment.” A civic activist said Coimbatore going all out to vote for the AIADMK would not have a big impact because no government had gone out of the way to address Coimbatore’s needs in the past few decades. Only in the last few years, Coimbatore had seen some development in a few flyovers, but other than that there was very little to speak of. Therefore, there was nothing to be worried about, he added. Shadow MLAs Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said the defeated DMK candidates should work as shadow MLAs to work for the district’s development. This would not help the district grow, but help the party strengthen itself in Coimbatore. The DMK candidates had lost not by a huge margin in many of the constituencies and therefore, they should work keeping in mind their support base. In fact, the DMK candidates could take a cue out of BJP’s Vanathi Srinivasan, who, after defeat in the 2016 election, made Coimbatore South her base and worked hard to finally win in 2021, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-sweep-that-causes-concern-among-coimbatore-voters/article34610945.ece
21 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Isha founder welcomes govt. decision on temples||Isha Foundation founder Jaggi Vasudev on Thursday commended the State government and its Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department for its decision to furnish information related to the administration of temples online. Terming it a “historic step in the right direction”, he tweeted, “We appreciate your swift action, responding to citizens’ call. Transparency is the first step towards good governance.” An Isha Foundation release said Mr. Vasudev had launched the ‘#FreeTNTemples’ campaign earlier this year and urged the State government to publish data on the affairs of temples along with authorising “third-party audits to determine the quality of temple management.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-founder-welcomes-govt-decision-on-temples/article34610946.ece
21 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Uncharacteristic lack of fanfare for CM’s visit||While the visit of a Chief Minister to a district would usually prompt the party cadre to decorate the streets with flags and banners, the visit of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to Salem, Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts on Thursday was marked by an uncharacteristic lack of fanfare following his instructions to not organise receptions amid the second COVID-19 wave. On Wednesday, Mr. Stalin requested DMK members to not attempt to meet him during his visits and to abstain from putting up party flags and banners at any of the locations, to prevent overcrowding and avoid the spread of COVID-19. The Chief Minister spent less than two hours in Salem district, during which he stopped to meet the public near the Salem Steel Plant to receive petitions and even made an impromptu visit to a primary health centre in Magudanchavadi. However, there were no meetings with party functionaries or any decorations along the route. In Tiruppur district, Mr. Stalin spent less than 30 minutes at the Netaji Apparel Park in Ettiveerampalayam, where he launched the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group. The Perumanallur Bypass Road that led to the venue did not sport any decorations on behalf of the DMK. The situation was similar in Coimbatore, where he inspected the COVID-19 care centres at CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex and Kumaraguru Institutions on Thursday evening. Tiruppur South MLA K. Selvaraj, who is also the DMK’s Tiruppur central district in-charge, said that the party cadre were initially keen to provide a grand reception to Mr. Stalin in Tiruppur district, but refrained from doing so in adherence to his instructions. “Although they were a little disappointed, [Mr. Stalin’s visit] was still like the Deepavali festival for them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uncharacteristic-lack-of-fanfare-for-cms-visit/article34610577.ece
21 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Isha founder welcomes govt. decision on temples||Isha Foundation founder Jaggi Vasudev on Thursday commended the State government and its Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department for its decision to furnish information related to the administration of temples online. Terming it a “historic step in the right direction”, he tweeted, “We appreciate your swift action, responding to citizens’ call. Transparency is the first step towards good governance.” An Isha Foundation release said Mr. Vasudev had launched the ‘#FreeTNTemples’ campaign earlier this year and urged the State government to publish data on the affairs of temples along with authorising “third-party audits to determine the quality of temple management”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-founder-welcomes-govt-decision-on-temples/article34610695.ece
21 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Isha founder hails govt. decision on temples||Isha Foundation founder Jaggi Vasudev on Thursday commended the State government and the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department for the decision to furnish information related to administration of temples online. Terming it a “historic step in the right direction”, he tweeted, “We appreciate your swift action, responding to citizens’ call. Transparency is the first step towards good governance.” An Isha Foundation release said Mr. Vasudev had launched ‘#FreeTNTemples’ campaign earlier this year and urged the State government to publish data on the affairs of temples along with authorising “third-party audits to determine the quality of temple management.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-founder-hails-govt-decision-on-temples/article34611065.ece
21 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CM reviews COVID-19 management||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday reviewed the measures being taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district. Maiden visit On his maiden visit to Coimbatore after becoming the Chief Minister, Mr. Stalin inaugurated new beds added to the Covid Care Centre (CCC) at the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex and a new 360-bedded CCC at Kumaraguru College of Technology (KCT). The CCC at the trade fair complex was functioning with 676 beds, and 820 beds were added by Mr. Stalin on Thursday. The facility also includes Siddha treatment for patients, said a release issued by the district administration. The Chief Minister interacted with office-bearers of CODISSIA, medical professionals and the management of KCT during the visits. At CODISSIA, a few post-graduate medical students of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital submitted a petition to the Chief Minister, seeking a raise in the stipend for all post-graduate medical students across the State. S. Muthusamy, Minister for Housing and Urban Development; M.P. Saminathan, Minister for Information and Publicity; R. Sakkarapani, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies; Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare; V. Senthil Balaji, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise; K. Ramachandran, Minister for Forests; N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare, Coimbatore District Collector S. Nagarajan, MPs, MLAs, former ministers and senior officials from different departments accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-reviews-covid-19-management-in-coimbatore-district/article34610582.ece
21 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Powerloom Council appeals to Centre to suspend GST on fabrics for three months||The Powerloom Development and Export Promotion Council (PDEXCIL) has appealed to the Union Government to suspend Goods and Services Tax (GST) on fabrics for three months, from May to July. Council chairman M.A. Ramasamy said in a press release that the powerloom sector, which employs nearly 6.3 million workers, largely has MSME units. With the spread of COVID-19, several countries are facing a slump in trade, thus impacting Indian exports and imports too. With closure of retail outlets and shopping malls, domestic trade had also taken a hit. The small and medium textile entrepreneurs, specifically those in the powerloom sector face huge problems of cancellation of orders, outstanding payments for long, payment of wages to labourers and working capital crunch. Interest waiver The sector, hence, seeks interest waiver for working capital, waiver of the GST on fabrics and made ups for three months from May. The council also sought releasing the pending subsidy under Amended Technology Upgradation Scheme (ATUFS) immediately or extend soft loans equivalent to government dues pending in the books of individual textile units. This can be adjusted soon as the government clears the dues. All raw material such as yarn, spares, and accessories should not have anti-dumping duty and basic custom duty. The duty drawback rates for fabrics and made-ups should be increased, he said. “Considering the growing competition and adverse impact of COVID-19 pandemic on powerloom sector, a higher rate of duty drawback upto 8 % - 10 % for fabrics and made ups should be announced,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/powerloom-council-appeals-to-centre-to-suspend-gst-on-fabrics-for-three-months/article34610591.ece
21 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen Express arrives at Madukkarai near Coimbatore||The tenth Oxygen Express service with three tankers for the State operated by Southern Railway with a load of 29.24 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) arrived at Madukkarai near Coimbatore in the early hours of Thursday. Upon arrival, the tankers were unloaded using ramps and the Coimbatore district administration arranged for the transportation of the tankers for distribution. This is the first Oxygen Express to arrive in Coimbatore district, railway officials said. The ninth Oxygen Express for the State arrived at the Inland Container Depot in Tondiarpet, Chennai on Wednesday evening. In total, the State has received 505.87 MT of LMO through 10 Oxygen Express services as of Thursday, according to the railway officials. Sources in the district administration said that the 29.24 MT of LMO would be distributed judiciously among the various government and private hospitals in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts as per requirement for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Indian Railways has operated Oxygen Express services transporting around 11,800 MT of LMO to 12 States namely Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-express-arrives-at-madukkarai-near-coimbatore/article34610593.ece
21 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Skull found on road||A human skull was found on Vellalore – Singanallur road here on Thursday. The police suspect that the skull would have been dragged to the road by stray dogs from a burial ground. According to the police, the skull was found near a bridge on the road. People who spotted the skull informed the Singanallur police. It is learnt that pits were dug in the graveyard using an excavator on Wednesday. According to the police, the skull could have been dug out and left unnoticed. Later, stray dogs could have dragged it to the road. The police, however, have decided to conduct a detailed investigation into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skull-found-on-road/article34610935.ece
21 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMPRF gets Rs. 34.7 cr. in Coimbatore, Tiruppur||A cumulative sum of Rs. 32 crore was donated to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for COVID-19 work in Coimbatore district on Thursday while Tiruppur donated Rs. 2.7 crore. While the CRI group donated Rs. 3 crore, the Southern India Mills’ Association gave Rs. 2.25 crore and KNR Construction Rs. 2 crore. The following organisations/individuals contributed Rs. 1 crore each: M. Manickam of Sakthi Group, Vanitha Mohan of Pricol, GKNM Hospital, Rangaswamy of PSG Group, Ramaswamy of Roots Group, Lakshmi Narayanawami of Ramakrishna Hospital and educational institutions and SNR Sons, Shanthi Feeds, GVG Paper group, Coimbatore Corporation Contractors Association, Highways Contractors Association, Smart City Contractors Association, Narendar of Aquasub, Tamil Nadu Rice Mill Owners Association and K.R. Nagarajan of Ramraj Cotton. Krishnan alias Paiya Gounder donated Rs. 75.25 lakh. The contributors who gave Rs. 50 lakh each were Madeshwaran of Royal Care Hospital, Rajasekar of Ganga Hospital, Coonoor Tea Estates, Maruthamalai Senathipathi, contractors of the Rural Development Agency, Kannaiyan and Saraswathi of Hindusthan College, Anitha Texcoit, KG Denim, Ambika Cotton Mills, Dhanapal of Coimbatore Corporation West, Karpagam Medical College and Hospital, and Raja M. Shanmugham of the Tiruppur Exporters’ Association. Minister K. Ramachandran donated Rs. 29 lakh on behalf of the Nilgiris. Rajkumar of the Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, CREDAI, Mines and Minerals Operators, Kannappan of Kiscol, TWAD contractors, Anish of Suguna Industries, K.V. Karthik of Deccan Pumps, Sumangali Jewellers, LGB Group, and Palanivel of Gem Hospital gave Rs. 25 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmprf-gets-rs-347-cr-in-coimbatore-tiruppur/article34610916.ece
21 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman, daughter found dead||A 58-year-old woman and her 38-year-old daughter were found dead in their house near Annur on Wednesday. The police said P. Sundari and her daughter P. Chellammal were found hanging in their house at Kemmanaickenpalayam. According to the police, Sundari had complained to others that she was unable to take care of her daughter who was mentally challenged. Sundari had undergone an eye surgery six months ago, after which she found it difficult to look after her daughter, the police said. Sundari’s husband A. Palanisamy found them dead on Wednesday morning.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050).  Man arrested The Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of the police, Periyanaickenpalayam, on Thursday arrested a man on charge of possessing 1,750 bottles of liquor for illegal sales. The arrested has been identified as A. Murugesan (42) of K.K. Nagar at Edayarpalayam. The PEW officials got specific information about the sale of liquor and apprehended him with the liquor stock, all quarter bottles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-daughter-found-dead/article34610936.ece
21 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries appeal to CM||Representatives of the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) had a brief interaction with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin here on Thursday. M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of the Association, said that when the Chief Minister visited the Codissia Trade Fair Complex to inspect the facilities at the COVID Care Centre there, they sought measures to ensure better coverage of the vaccination drive and also stringent lockdown here to control the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-appeal-to-cm/article34610576.ece
21 May 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Man, daughter drown in well||A man and his daughter were found drowned in a farm well in Harur panchayat on Thursday. The incident occurred in Kailapuram village. The incident occurred when Murugesan, a government school teacher, and his four-year-old daughter Saipranitha went to the field in the morning. According to the police, the girl had slipped into the well. Seeing this, Murugesan jumped into the well to rescue his daughter. However, the two did not surface for long forcing the neighbours, who had come for help to call the Fire and Rescue Services. The girl’s body was recovered soon after, while Murugesan’s body was retrieved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-daughter-drown-in-well/article34610930.ece
21 May 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Makeshift vegetable markets to come up at four places||Inspector General of Police (south zone) T.S. Anbu said that vegetable markets would function at four places in the town from Friday. Inspecting the proposed locations with Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya and other officials, he said Lorry Pettai grounds on Dindigul-Palani Road, Kamarajar Bus Stand, ITI premises on Natham Road and Nagal Nagar weekly shandy had been identified for the makeshift vegetable markets. The police would be strict in enforcing the lockdown restrictions as the number of COVID-19 positive cases were rising steeply. Already, the police had started seizing vehicles and imposing fines. During the last week, the police had given sufficient advise and warning to people to stay indoors. Only those who were exempt by the government shall be permitted to move. All others shall be treated as violators and cases booked agaisnt them, Mr. Anbu said. The police had been using drones for effective surveillance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/makeshift-vegetable-markets-to-come-up-at-four-places/article34610635.ece
21 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corpn. undertakes desilting works in residential areas||With people staying indoors due to total lockdown, the Erode Corporation has expedited desilting works in residential areas here. There are about 1.30 lakh houses in the 60 wards coming under four zones in the civic body limits. Though desilting of drainage and sewage channels was carried out regularly, dumping of municipal solid waste and plastic items by residents in the channels led to water logging. Also, due to construction activities, debris was also dumped in the channels at many places, causing inconvenience to residents. During the first wave of COVID-19 in April and May last year, the civic body de-silted major channels in market areas and on R.K.V. Road in the city. Since the residents stay indoors, workers carry out desilting in residential areas regularly. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that conservancy workers were carrying out the works regularly during the lockdown and added that all the areas would be covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-corpn-undertakes-desilting-works-in-residential-areas/article34610938.ece
21 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two COVID-19 positive persons found dead in Erode||A 55-year-old man under treatment at a COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) in Anthiyur was found dead outside the centre and a 58-year-old woman, who tested positive after losing her husband, ended her life here on Thursday. The deceased P. Parameswaran of Keelvani village in Anthiyur taluk was admitted to the CCC in Anthiyur on Wednesday. Missing His wife Palaniammal, who also tested positive, is under home isolation. A t 11 p.m. on Wednesday, he was found missing from the centre and Anthiyur police were alerted. On Thursday morning, his body was found outside the centre and road users alerted the police. The body was shifted to the Government Hospital at Anthiyur. In another incident, S. Samdavadi of Appakudal ended her life at her residence on Wednesday night. Police said that her husband Sengottaiyan, who runs a cycle shop, tested positive and was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, but he died on May 14. Returned home She returned to her house on May 18. She also tested positive on Wednesday and reportedly ended her life on Wednesday night. Appakudal police sent the body to Anthiyur Government Hospital. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-covid-19-positive-persons-found-dead-in-erode/article34610944.ece
21 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Industrial assns. want closure of industries from May 21 to 23||All the trade and industrial associations in the district have urged traders, commercial establishments and industries to voluntarily halt their operations for three days from May 21 to 23 to support the State government’s effort to contain the virus. In a joint release from the Confederation of Indian Industry, Erode District Small Industries’ Association, Federation of All Traders and Industry Association of Erode District and All Traders Association to all its members, they said that industrial activities are taking place following the government’s norms to ensure safety for all. The release said that the district had reported over 1,500 COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, followed by over 1,300 cases on Wednesday. “With spike in cases, the demand for oxygen beds had gone up causing hardship to the patients,” the release said. “Realising our social responsibility, all the industries, except industries involved in essential and food services should voluntarily stop functioning from Friday to Sunday,” the release urged. Since the government’s action alone cannot contain the spread of the virus, it is essential that we extend our support to the fullest by taking the necessary step, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-assns-want-closure-of-industries-from-may-21-to-23/article34610583.ece
21 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Kisan Sabha calls for setting up COVID-19 care infrastructure at panchayat level||The All India Kisan Maha Sabha (AIKMS) has called for decentralising COVID-19 care, by creating ad hoc infrastructure at the panchayat level to ease the burden on the primary health centres upwards to the headquarters hospitals that are currently overworked and understaffed. According to the organisation, with the rising cases and unrecorded mortalities in the villages, the primary health centres (PHCs) that are flocked by symptomatic patients are struggling to manage the load of the disease. In its wake, the AIKMS has called for setting up “COVID Control and Welfare Centres” in each panchayat as outreach centres to handle the preliminary load of symptomatic patients. According to the statement by A. Chandra Mohan, State general secretary, All India Kisan Maha Sabha, the centres at the panchayats should be equipped to screen, vaccinate, isolate and be provided with medicines and support infrastructure, including ambulances. Panchayats should be summoned to designate educated youth as “COVID-19 care support workers” to take up administrative works and function as support staff for the health workers, The primary health centres that are currently providing rudimentary intervention should be upgraded to provide the medical intervention currently being provided by the taluk hospital. The PHCs should be upgraded to meet the challenge of COVID-19 care - with additional beds with oxygen support; appointment of additional doctors and nurses, the statement said. The AIKMS has also called for setting up additional infrastructure in taluk hospitals in the form of “community health centres with ICU care” as upgraded medical care facility to treat those admitted with virulent symptoms. The statement has called for immediate health expenditure tailored to the panchayat level health infrastructure to meet the COVID-19 challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kisan-sabha-calls-for-setting-up-covid-19-care-infrastructure-at-panchayat-level/article34610929.ece
21 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||People happy with Siddha treatment, says official||Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, who inspected the Siddha COVID-19 Care Centre at The American College here on Thursday, said that people were happy with the Siddha treatment. In a press release, he said that EMG Yadava Women’s College had 110 beds, and The American College 200 beds - the two Siddha COVID-19 Centres functioning in Madurai. Works were under way to convert Nehru Vidyalaya in Anaiyur into a Siddha Centre. In the two existing centres, patients with mild COVID-19 symptoms were undergoing treatment. Siddha doctors were working in both the centres round the clock on shifts. A patient had to undergo treatment at these centres for 10 to 14 days. Yoga was also taught for the patients. Twenty-three patients have been discharged after complete recovery from Yadava College, and 75 were undergoing treatment. Similarly, 45 patients were undergoing treatment at The American College. Hence, those who have mild symptoms could get treatment at these centres, said the Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-happy-with-siddha-treatment-says-official/article34610644.ece
21 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospital in Madurai sees a rise in mucormycosis cases||There has been an increase in the number of mucormycosis or black fungus infection cases treated at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in the recent days. Dean A. Rathinavel said the hospital treated a few patients for mucormycosis in the last 45 days. All of them had completely recovered and there were no instances of death or blindness. The Ophthalmology department treated five patients, ENT department nine cases and General Medicine department six cases. Many were referred to more than one of these three departments for treatment. N. Dinakaran, Head, ENT Department, said that the black fungus usually affected the immuno-compromised persons like cancer patients, and those who underwent transplantation. However, mucormycosis was now reported among COVID-19 positive patients and those who recovered from the infection. It was reported more among those who had high blood sugar level. The treatment for COVID-19 involved a lot of medications which could bring down the immune system, and the high blood sugar levels increased the risk of the black fungus infection. Through nose Dr. Dinakaran said that the virus entered the body through the nose and then affected the eyes. If left untreated, it could reach the brain, which would be life threatening. U. Vijayashanmugam, Head, Department of Ophthalmology, said that pain or redness in and around the eyes, facial or hemi-facial pain, discolouration around the eye, sudden loss of vision, swelling in the eye, forward protrusion of eyeball, absence of eye ball movement, paralysis to the nerves supplying to muscles of the eye, and nasal stuffiness, discharge or bleeding from the nose were the major symptoms of the black fungus infection. Exercise, diet The doctors urge the diabetics to regularly exercise and follow a healthy diet to maintain blood sugar levels. The patients must immediately approach a doctor if they develop any of the symptoms of mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grh-sees-a-rise-in-mucormycosis-cases/article34610642.ece
21 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CM arrives in Madurai||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin arrived in Madurai on Thursday night by a special aircraft from Coimbatore. He will review COVID-19-related works here on Friday. He was welcomed at the airport by Ministers K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (Revenue), I. Periasamy (Cooperation), K.R. Periakaruppan (Rural Development), P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan (Finance) and P. Moorthy (Commercial Taxes and Registration). Collector Aneesh Sekar and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were also present. Mr. Stalin went straight to the Circuit House from the airport. The CM will chair a meeting at Madurai Collectorate around 9 a.m. on Friday. Then, he will visit the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur, where he is expected to inaugurate 200 additional oxygen-supported beds. He is scheduled to proceed to Tiruchi in the afternoon. In a press release, Mr. Stalin had instructed DMK functionaries and cadre not to accord reception or gather anywhere during his tour in view of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-arrives-in-madurai/article34610636.ece
21 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses criminal revision petition||The Madurai Bench of adras High Court dismissed a criminal revision petition filed by Duraisamy of Thanjavur district who challenged the sentence awarded by a trial court, after taking note of the fact that he was trying to prolong the proceedings instead of cooperating. The petitioner sought setting aside of the judgment delivered by Thanjavur Principal Sessions Court in 2016. The court confirmed the judgment of the Judicial Magistrate, Thanjavur, delivered in 2013. The petitioner was sentenced for the offences under Section 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. He filed the revision petition in 2017, challenging the trial court judgement. Justice Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup took into account the fact that in at least four hearings before the High Court there was no representation for the petitioner. The revision petition was filed in 2017 and by now the case ought to have been disposed of, the judge said. The Constitution guaranteed its citizens the Right to Speedy Trial. Having got convicted, the petitioner was indulging in activities against the principles of speedy trial. The petitioner wanted to protract the proceedings, which could not be encouraged, the court said. The court directed the Judicial Magistrate, Thanjavur, to execute the warrant of conviction and remand the petitioner to undergo the sentence awarded to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-criminal-revision-petition/article34610641.ece
21 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||204 vehicles seized||Continuing with the action against violators of lockdown rules, Madurai City Police on Thursday seized 204 vehicles. The police had booked 486 vehicles under Motor Vehicles Act on Wednesday and had imposed a fine of Rs. 2.43 lakh. They booked 45,991 cases against those who were not wearing face masks and collected Rs. 91.91 lakh till Wednesday from April 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/204-vehicles-seized/article34610645.ece
21 May 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Madurai reports 1,269 new cases, 11 deaths||A total of 1,269 new COVID-19 positive cases were recorded in Madurai district on Thursday. While 628 patients were discharged from different hospitals, 11 persons died of the viral infection and related complications. With this, the district’s overall toll has risen to 730. Virudhunagar reported 795 fresh cases - the highest number of cases reported in 24 hours in the district since the outbreak of COVID-19 in 2020. The day also marked 410 discharges four deaths, which took the district’s toll to 304. Two men – aged 43 and 60 – and two women – aged 80 and 60 – died in different hospitals in the district between May 17 and 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-reports-1269-new-cases-11-deaths/article34610637.ece
21 May 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Concerted drive against COVID-19 reviewed||Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Atulya Misra on Thursday reviewed anti-COVID-19 operations and the treatment being given to patients in Kanniyakumari District Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam and at the COVID Care Centres in the district. Accompanied by Collector M. Aravind, Additional Collector (Development) Mercy Ramya and Superintendent of Police V. Badri Narayanan, he inspected a few containment zones and vegetable market and primary health centres to ascertain the measures put in place to check further spread of the viral infection. As the district administration has created COVID Care Centres at Government Engineering College in Konam and Concordia High School, he visited both places to check medical and other facilities established for the patients there. After visiting the Primary Health Centre at Thollavilai, he went to the Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam where he inquired about the number of patients undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit, in the oxygen-supported beds, testing of samples, analysis and results etc. Mr. Misra told the hospital authorities to ensure the quality of food being given to the COVID-19 patients, nurses and doctors. During his visit to Dr. Jayasekaran Hospital, a designated hospital for COVID-19 treatment, Mr. Misra interacted with the doctors to understand practical difficulties, if any, in treating patients, availability of medical-grade oxygen and medicines for treating patients with the viral infection. When he visited the temporary vegetable market at Vadaserry bus stand, he asked public and traders to wear masks and ensure physical distancing and directed officials to ensure uninterrupted supply of medicines and other essentials to the people living in the containment zones. Later, chairing a review meeting at the Collectorate, Mr. Misra said the district administration had ensured 700 beds in the medical college hospital, 244 beds in the government hospital in Padmanabhapuram, 200 beds in the Government Ayurveda Medical College Hospital, 242 beds in Scott Christian College, 251 beds in Pioneer Kumarasamy College and 275 beds in Konam Government Engineering College, all COVID Care Centres, for treating the patients. “Moreover, steps have been taken to create 850 more beds in Konam Government Engineering College. Total sanitation should be ensured in every part of the district, where 6.18 lakh persons have been tested so far for the viral infection,” Mr. Misra said. Later, he conducted similar exercise in Thoothukudi district along with Collector K. Senthil Raj. He inspected the containment zone at Meenakshipuram, Siddha treatment centre at Government Engineering College, vaccination centre at St. Mary’s Boys’ Higher Secondary School at Millerpuram and at the Government Medical College Hospital. Dr. Senthil Raj explained oxygen availability, number of beds dedicated for the COVID-19 patients in hospitals and in COVID Care Centres, mobile vaccination centres, special vaccination drives being held in rural areas, post-COVID tele-counselling for the patients etc. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, Sub-Collector, Thoothukudi, Simranjeet Singh, Corporation Commissioner Sharanya Ari, Joint Director of Health Services Muthuvel participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concerted-drive-against-covid-19-reviewed/article34611039.ece
21 May 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Siddha-based COVID-19 Care Centre opened in Tiruchengode||A siddha-based COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) was opened in Tiruchengode on Thursday. District Collector K. Megraj along with Tiruchengode MLA E.R. Eswaran and District Siddha Officer K.Selvamoorthy inaugurated the functioning of the 50-bed facility. According to officials, the centre would have a seven-member health team, including two Siddha doctors, one pharmacist, two nurses, a monitoring officer and an assistant here. Dr. Selvamoorthy said that patients admitted at the centre would be provided with an entry kit of medicines and their oxygen saturation level was being monitored. Mr. Megraj said that lockdown is strictly enforced in the district and stern action is being taken against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siddha-based-covid-19-care-centre-opened-in-tiruchengode/article34610941.ece
21 May 2021||P. A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||These volunteers ensure that nobody goes hungry||Those who pass by Vasantha Nagar here can notice a small table with a few food packets and water bottles. On top of it is a banner which reads ‘Pasikkiradha? Eduthu Kollungal’ (Hungry? Take it). Padikkatuggal, a non-governmental organisation comprising students and staff of various colleges, has been distributing free food packets and water bottles to the public since Monday. S. Malaisamy, one of its coordinators, said a volunteer would be present near the table to guide those who come to pick up the food packets. “Some people feel ashamed to seek alms or food from others. So, by placing the food on the table, people can take as many packets and bottles as they need without any embarrassment. Also, it helps in preventing human contact, thereby preventing COVID-19 infection of our volunteers,” he said. Since Monday, the team has been preparing 150 to 200 food packets, mostly containing tomato rice, curd rice and other varieties of rice. “The homeless, relatives of COVID-19 positive patients who are admitted to hospitals, and others who are in need of food are benefited by these food packets,” said Mr. Malaisamy. The NGO, which was formed in 2012, has helped underprivileged sections of the society during the first wave of the pandemic. “We update our needs on social media platforms and donors support us by giving commodities,” said Mr. Malaisamy. The group also plans to increase the number of places in Madurai where the free food packets can be accessed by the public.  Food for all It is meant for those who are ashamed to seek alms or food  150 to 200 variety rice food packets are placed every day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/these-volunteers-ensure-that-nobody-goes-hungry/article34610639.ece
21 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vendors to operate from Goubert Market||Vegetable vendors have been allowed to operate on the Goubert Market premises, instead of relocating to the new bus stand. The decision follows talks the trader representatives had with Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and on an assurance that they would adhere to all safety protocols. The District Collector had ordered the relocation of traders from Goubert Market on May 17. However, traders shut shops and protested against the decision on Tuesday, contending that there were no facilities on the new bus stand premises, including securing vegetable bundles and water or toilet facility. The Lt. Governor, after hearing out the vendors, led by V. Sivagurunathan, Municipal Pavement Vegetable Vendors’ Association, directed the authorities to revisit the original order and permit vendors to resume operations under strict COVID-19 guidelines. In a revised order, the Collector said the vegetable/fruit shops would be spread out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vendors-to-operate-from-goubert-market/article34610689.ece
21 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Journalist succumbs to COVID-19||A 43-year-old reporter with a vernacular newspaper succumbed to COVID-19 on Thursday. L. Ramesh, a resident of Saminathapillai Street in Muthaliyarpet, died while undergoing treatment for novel coronavirus at JIPMER. He was the U.T. correspondent for Maalai Tamizhagam . He is survived by his wife. He is the second reporter to succumb to the virus in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/journalist-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34610696.ece
21 May 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Official dies of COVID-19||A tahsildar-rank official in the district who was executing measures to curb the spread of COVID-19 has died of the viral infection. The official, Suresh Kannan had been working as the Personal Assistant to the Sub Collector, Aranthangi. The district administration officials led by Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari paid floral tributes to the portrait of Suresh Kannan at the District Collectorate here on Thursday. Ms. Uma Maheswari, in an official press release, said Suresh Kannan had been working actively as a frontline warrior in COVID-19 prevention measures. He contracted the viral infection following which he was admitted to a hospital for treatment. Despite intensive treatment, Suresh Kannan succumbed to the infection, the Collector said while extending her condolences to his family. Ms. Uma Maheswari called upon the frontline warriors to strictly adhere to safety measures such as wearing masks, ensuring personal distancing and washing hands frequently while discharging their duties.The Collector assured all necessary help to the family of Suresh Kannan. Sub Collector, Aranthangi, Anand Mohan, District Revenue Officer P. V. Saravanan and officials from various departments offered floral tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-dies-of-covid-19/article34611083.ece
21 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM opens 500-bed facility in Salem||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin dedicated a 500-bed COVID-19 treatment centre near the Salem Steel Plant on Thursday. Mr. Stalin, along with Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji and District Collector S. Karmegam, inspected the centre and reviewed arrangements. The Chief Minister advised officials to set up an additional 500 beds at the facility and complete the work within 10 days. DMK MPs and MLAs from the region were present. Mr. Stalin also interacted with healthcare workers. He spoke with Health Department officials and took stock of the COVID-19 situation in the district. He also accepted contributions for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund here. On his way, Mr. Stalin stopped and received petitions from the public and distributed masks and sanitisers among them. The 500-bed facility has been set up jointly by the district administration, Salem Steel Plant, JSW industries and other service organisations. According to officials, the medical oxygen supply for all the beds would be drawn through a pipeline from the Steel Plant. The Chief Minister dedicated an extended 100-bed Siddha COVID-19 treatment facility near Gorimedu here. Earlier, at the airport, Mr. Stalin presented a book to S. Ilayarani from Selanaikenpatti, who recently helped an elderly woman who fainted on the road to reach hospital. Mr. Stalin made an unscheduled visit to an Upgraded Primary Health Centre at Magudanchavadi and interacted with healthcare workers and patients there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-500-bed-facility-in-salem/article34610921.ece
21 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Plea to increase oxygen bed strength in Salem||PMK MLA R. Arul on Thursday appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to increase the strength of oxygen beds for COVID-19 treatment here. In a petition, Mr.Arul requested the Chief Minister to increase oxygen bed strength to 2,000 and set up COVID-19 treatment centres and health centres at the panchayat union level. The MLA also requested continuous supply of medical oxygen to the district. He urged the government ensure that the bodies of COVID-19 patients were disposed properly. He also wanted the government to provide death data transparently. He urged the government to make temporary appointments to increase the strength of healthcare workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-increase-oxygen-bed-strength-in-salem/article34610586.ece
21 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corporation to take COVID-19 patients in its vehicles||The Salem Corporation will provide emergency vehicles to take of COVID-19 patients from various zones. Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran inaugurated the functioning of the vehicles on Wednesday in the presence of City Health Officer K. Parthibhan. Mr. Ravichandran said in a release that a vehicle each has been provided to each of its four zones to take patients who have tested positive from their place to triage centres. The Corporation has also arranged two buses for transporting patients from the COVID-19 care centres at Gandhi Stadium and Hanging Garden to hospitals following doctors’ recommendation. The vehicle service could be availed by contacting the COVID-19 control room in Salem Corporation office 0427-2212963.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corporation-to-take-covid-19-patients-in-its-vehicles/article34610588.ece
21 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Prison inmate escapes from CCC||An inmate of Salem Central Prison, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, escaped from COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC). According to the police, Venkateshan (43) from Krishnagiri was arrested by the Uthukulli police in 2004 for stealing temple jewellery worth Rs. 50,000 after murdering the security guard. The accused was recently shifted to the CCC near Maniyanoor after he tested positive. During the late hours of Wednesday, after dinner, Venkateshan managed to escape from the centre. The police are on the lookout for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prison-inmate-escapes-from-ccc/article34610587.ece
21 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Assistance to police officer||The Salem district police on Wednesday provided cash relief for the treatment of a police officer affected with COVID-19. S.Balan, a Special Sub-Inspector with Highway patrol, had kidney ailments and he had to undergo transplant of both kidneys a few years ago. He recently tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Balan, who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Coimbatore, requested the force for financial assistance. Considering the request, Superintendent of Police S.Deepa Ganiger handed over a sum of Rs. 51,000 contributed by the personnel in the force to the officer’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-to-police-officer/article34610589.ece
21 May 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Two fireworks units found violating lockdown norms||Two fireworks units were found to have been functioning illegally here on Thursday. Three teams led by Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar conducted simultaneous raids at three factories here. However, one remained locked and the officials found workers in two units. “In both the units, the workers fled upon seeing us,” he said. The officials found that fancy goods, for which highly inflammable chemicals are used, were being made at Sri Renga Fireworks at Podureddiyapatti. Crackers were being made at Neerathulingam Fireworks in Anaiyur. The officials caught hold of some workers and made them to safely dispose of the mixed chemicals before sealing the units. Both the units were owned by one Ramesh. Police complaints have been lodged for violating the lockdown norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-fireworks-units-found-violating-lockdown-norms/article34611036.ece
21 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown enforcement has a telling impact on farm activities||Reports of workers in agriculture sector being booked for violating COVID-19 lockdown restrictions are a bitter pill to swallow for paddy cultivators. The recent instance of a paddy harvester machine operator being booked for travelling on a motorcycle to fetch diesel for the machine after 10 a.m. on Wednesday in Papanadu area has not gone down well with the farming community. A fine of Rs. 200 was imposed for not wearing a face mask. Police personnel have been deployed at important places in the district to check public movement during the current second wave of novel coronavirus. While farmer labourers complain of obstruction, police say many two-wheeler riders claim to be proceeding on agriculture-related work that cannot be verified. More often, this generalised response cannot be substantiated with documentary evidence and, hence, action have to be initiated against such motorists for not adhering to the standard operating procedure laid down to prevent spread of COVID-19, a senior official said. Meanwhile, a section of farmers has suggested that agriculture should be included by the government in the list of activities permitted for e-registration. Stating that the police have no intention to penalise the public who have extended their full cooperation to the government in controlling the outbreak of COVID-19 last year, a senior police official says that if such stringent action is not taken, the very purpose of imposing lockdown during the current deadly second wave will be defeated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-enforcement-has-a-telling-impact-on-farm-activities/article34611071.ece
21 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI for intensified initiatives in Budalur||The Communist Party of India, Budalur Unit, has urged the State government to initiate steps on a war-footing to prevent the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the block. In a statement issued here on Thursday, CPI(M) Budalur South Union secretary C.Basker said residents of several villages in Budalur Union had been affected by the viral infection. The government should conduct screening camps in the villages and identify the infected people at the earliest for provision of prompt medical care. He also demanded that infrastructure facilities such as oxygen-support beds, separate wards, COVID Care Centre and screening centre be created at Government Taluk Headquarters Hospital at Budalur so that the affected people were not made to run from pillar to post to get admitted in oxygen-support wards at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital or other government hospitals. The people in the block were suffering since beds in all private hospitals were also filling up fast, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-for-intensified-initiatives-in-budalur/article34611072.ece
21 May 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for preventing government servant from performing duty||Three persons were arrested and 18 others booked on charges of preventing government servants from executing their duty in Vallam limits. Two police personnel had gone to Alakudi village on Tuesday to investigate a complaint of illegal arrack sales by Thamizhan, a resident, and took him into custody. But, a group of people surrounded them and forcibly released Thamizhan. Subsequently, a complaint was lodged by the Sub-Inspector Muthukumar and a team of policemen arrested Thamizhan and two others – Vignesh and Raj – on the charge of preventing government servants from executing their duty. Eighteen others were also booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-preventing-government-servant-from-performing-duty/article34611073.ece
21 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||More beds with oxygen facility coming up||Collector H Krishnanunni inspected a COVID-19 isolation ward here on Thursday. He visited the oxygen plant and checked the stock availability of basic drugs at the pharmacy in the Government Hospital. According to doctors, close to 190 patients were admitted in the Theni Government Medical College Hospital while 106 patients were in other Government Hospitals in the district. Around 80 patients were in treatment at private hospitals and 629 persons with mild symptoms, but tested positive for COVID-19 virus were in different COVID care centres. There were 4,178 people in home quarantine across the district. He told reporters that oxygen was sufficient in the district. He said tough restrictions would bring in results with a declining trend very soon. According to the state medical bulletin, 30,003 patients had so far (May 20) been reported with COVID-19 positive. Of this, 24,406 had been discharged. There were 5,314 active cases in the district. Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi said that the deployment of drone cameras in surveillance has been very effective. In the last two days, they had imposed fine and also seized vehicles from people who were found to be wandering without reason. Only those exempt by the government were permitted to step out of their houses. The barricades erected in the district at 45 locations had come in handy in conducting checks. The police said that they had installed check posts near the border where people from Kerala brought essentials to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-beds-with-oxygen-facility-coming-up/article34611040.ece
21 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Dean denies man died of mucormycosis||The Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital Dean has clarified that the cause of death of a patient on Thursday was due to COVID-19, and not mucormycosis. Soundararajan, 59, of Narasimmapuram was admitted to a private hospital on May 10 with COVID-19. After he developed infection in the eyes, he was referred to the medical college hospital. While the family alleged that Soundararajan died of mucormycosis, Dean Revathi Balan denied it categorically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dean-denies-man-died-of-mucormycosis/article34610915.ece
21 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Suspension of four police personnel revoked||More than a month after four police personnel, including an Inspector of Police and a Sub Inspector, were placed under suspension after the incident relating to ‘cash for cops’ broke out in the run-up to the Assembly election, their suspension orders have been revoked enabling them to rejoin duty. The four police personnel were, however, yet to be given fresh postings, said police sources. The case pertains to alleged bribing of police personnel in March-end ahead of the Assembly election with police teams seizing several covers containing cash at the Government Hospital police station and Thillai Nagar police station during searches conducted at both places. The incident led to suspension of six police personnel including Inspector of Police of Thillai Nagar station, a Sub Inspector of Government Hospital police station and two police personnel serving in the City Intelligence Section and tasked with looking after the Government Hospital police station and Thillai Nagar station. The City Crime Branch had initially booked a case against five persons including a Special Sub Inspector attached to the Government Hospital police station and a woman Head Constable who served in Thillai Nagar police station and an advocate in connection with the alleged bribing of police personnel. The money, it was then alleged, was distributed on behalf of the DMK Tiruchi West Assembly constituency candidate K. N. Nehru. However, Mr. Nehru (now a Minister in the DMK Cabinet) had then dismissed the allegation levelled against him in a letter addressed to the Chief Electoral Officer, Tamil Nadu. He had stating in his letter that it was an attempt to defame him. The case was subsequently transferred to the Crime Branch CID on the orders of the Director General of Police. As a sequel to the incident, the Election Commission had ordered the transfer of the then Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi J. Loganathan. It also ordered suspension of the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Law and order) Golden Rock, Tamilmaran, for “serious dereliction of duty”. Police sources said the suspension orders issued against the four police personnel were revoked based on their individual representations. However, the suspension order issued against the two other police personnel against whom the case was booked were yet to be revoked, the sources further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspension-of-four-police-personnel-revoked/article34611067.ece
21 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fear of oxygen shortage looms large over private hospitals||Several private hospitals in the city are being forced to deny admission to patients with low oxygen saturation level due to uncertainty over oxygen supply. According to sources, Tiruchi district reports about 1,200 to 1,500 fresh cases of COVID-19 every day. About 50% to 60% of the patients prefer to quarantine themselves in their homes under telemedicine guidance. The rest turn up at hospitals and several among them indeed require admission. About 20% of them are said to be in need of oxygen support. As of Wednesday, there are 9,602 active cases. Of them, 4,079 patients are under treatment in government and private hospital and 5,523 in home quarantine. The situation, which was termed as manageable until two weeks ago, has turned out to be grim with the healthcare infrastructure facing severe strain. Beds are overflowing in private and government hospitals due to heavy influx of patients. The number of patients seeking recommendation from influential persons to get beds, particularly oxygen-supported facility, has gone up manifold in recent days. Even after recommendation, many are not able to secure beds in private hospitals. According to sources, there are about 25 private hospitals in the district that offer treatment for COVID-19. Most of them are said to be turning away patients whose oxygen saturation level is below normal mainly due to a mismatch in oxygen supply. They only admit patients with mild symptoms of COVID-19. There has apparently been shortage in supply of oxygen to private hospitals for the last 10 days. Though the hospitals continue to receive oxygen, the supply has been erratic. “We do not want to take risk as there is no certainty about supply of oxygen. Each and every life is important. If oxygen storage goes dry, the lives of patients who require oxygen will be in danger. Hence, we have decided not to admit patients who require oxygen,” says a leading doctor of a hospital in Thillai Nagar. Most of the hospitals are learnt to have deployed point persons to liaise with oxygen suppliers. On their part, the suppliers prioritise catering to government hospitals.  We do not want to take risk as there is no certainty about supply of oxygen...Hence, we have decided not to admit patients who require oxygen Doctor at a private hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fear-of-oxygen-shortage-looms-large-over-private-hospitals/article34611075.ece
21 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Kasivilangi fish market to be closed till May 31||The Kasivilangi fish market has been closed until May 31 for retail and wholesale transactions. The decision was taken by the vendors to prevent the spread of the infection at the market, where crowding of customers is noticeable every weekend. Speaking to The Hindu , V. Rajendran, president, Kasivilangi Market Fish Vendors Welfare Association, said the decision to close the venue was taken after witnessing increasing crowds on Fridays and Saturdays before the Sunday lockdown. “We learn from the media that more than 1,500 people test positive in the district every day. Of them, many were the city limits. This has caused apprehension and we have chosen to close down the market,” he said. “Though the closure will entail heavy losses, the decision was made to ensure that we our customers stay safe. The market can become a hotspot for spread of the infection as many rush to purchase fish," he pointed out. The customers would purchase fish at inflated prices in view of the 60-day fishing ban, and social distancing norms were ignored in the market. “We do request them to maintain COVID-19 safety protocol but things get difficult to handle and we were afraid of the consequences,” Mr. Rajendran said. The market was opened in October lastbafter residents of Puthur and nearby Thennur areas raised multiple complaints about the unhygienic conditions at Puthur fish market. The Puthur market, located amid residential buildings and hospitals, was an eysore for residents and patients, who claimed that it posed a potential health hazard. “We moved from there with much difficulty. We do not want to be blamed for creating a COVID-19 hotspot," said Mr. Rajendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kasivilangi-fish-market-to-be-closed-till-may-31/article34611082.ece
21 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination for 18-45 age group yet to take off in Tiruchi||COVID-19 vaccination for adults in the age group of 18 to 45-years is yet to take off in Tiruchi district. Though the stock of vaccine has apparently been replenished in the district, the process has not begun. A total of 3,000 doses of Covishield had reached the district vaccine storage on Thursday. However, they were yet to be distributed to the vaccine centres. Only 630 doses of Covishield and 580 of Covaxin were made available, according to official sources. Meanwhile, the district had recorded a marked dip in the number of vaccines administered on Thursday. A total of 966 doses were administered; 816 for first dose, and the rest as second dose. People disappointed People who were expecting to get the vaccination from Thursday onwards were disappointed. “We saw on the news that the Chief Minister was to inaugurate the drive and hoped that we would get it too,” a 32-year-old woman who visited the vaccine session site at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital said. Another woman S. Bharathi, who also expected the vaccine to be administered said that the government had not planned the vaccination drive well. “We are seeing many middle-aged and young people dying of COVID-19. If the virus is attacking us, why are we not getting the vaccine?” she asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-for-18-45-age-group-yet-to-take-off-in-tiruchi/article34611079.ece
21 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||TNNLU to host legal history congress||The Tamil Nadu National Law University (TNNLU) will be hosting the second All India Legal History Congress on May 21 and 22. ‘Pursuit of Legal History of India in the 21 st century’ is the theme of the event funded by the State Government. Chief Justice of High Court of Madras, and Chancellor of TNNLU Justice Sanjib Banerjee will inaugurate the event at 9.30 a.m. and release an edited book containing the select papers presented in the First All India Legal History Congress, hosted by the Gujarat National Law University. Anthony Musson, Professor and Head of Research at the Royal Palaces, U.K, will deliver the keynote address. The Vice Chancellor of TNNLU and the Patron of this Congress, V.S. Elizabeth, will preside over. Eminent scholars in the field of Legal History - Radhika Singhal and Bhavani Raman will address the valedictory session. Cash prizes will be awarded for best papers in two categories: faculty/researcher and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnnlu-to-host-legal-history-congress/article34611064.ece
21 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New COVID Care Centre established at NIT-T||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) has provided two large buildings on the premises to the district administration for establishing new Covid Care Centre in Tiruchi, in view of the rapid rise in infection rate. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin will inspect the two buildings – the Convocation Hall and the Classroom Complex on Friday – and there after asymptomatic patients will be accommodated, sources said. “There will be a separate entrance for the buildings provided for establishment of Covid Care Centre. The institution has also provided cots from the hostels,” NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. Each classroom was large enough to accommodate 15 patients, she said. Covid Care Centres are already functional in Yatri Nivas, Srirangam; Khajamalai Campus of Bharathidasan University; Nehru Memorial College, Puthanampatti; Bishop Heber College; and Government College of Engineering, Srirangam, at Sethurapatti. A Siddha Care Centre was recently established at the Khajamalai Campus of Bharathidasan University. The district administration chose NIT-T campus for yet another COVID Care Centre in view of the rapid rise in the infection rate. On its part, the NIT-T has ensured that there is minimal activity in the campus. In its latest COVID-related circular issued late last month, the NIT-T had informed about closure of all laboratories all through May, and that entry of students, and project staff will not be permitted. The students and project staffs were advised to vacate the hostel before April 30, in view of the unprecedented rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. While permitting the faculty members to work from home till April 30, the institute had instructed them to desist from moving out of station for safety reasons. Faculty members were told that they should be available on call and report to the department whenever requested by the Heads of Departments. The Heads of Departments were, however, permitted to allow Ph.D. scholars residing inside the campus to work in the laboratories by strictly following the Standard Operating Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-care-centre-established-at-nit-t/article34611069.ece
21 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Joint task force launched||Against the backdrop of a spike in COVID-19 cases, Church of South India (CSI) Tiruchi Thanjavur Diocese and Bishop Heber College have jointly launched a task force to render help and assistance to infected people and their families in six chosen categories. The service will be provided round the clock through a dedicated number 0431- 2770136. The six areas identified for intervention are food requirements, ambulance service, funeral support, hospital beds and oxygen, counselling, blood and plasma support. A team of faculty members of Bishop Heber College College will be deployed in shifts to receive information over phone pertaining to requirement of help and assistance. The task force has compiled lists of volunteers ready to provide food for patients under home quarantine and their family members, hotels, hospitals and ambulance services covering nine districts including Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur. Upon receiving information about the requirement, the team members will immediately get in touch with representatives on the list and convey the information at the earliest to callers. The whole objective behind the initiative is to fulfill the requirements of people durign the pandemic, says A. Relton, Head, Department of Social Work, Bishop Heber College and coordinator of the task force. The joint initiative was inaugurated on Thursday by Rt. Rev. D. Chandrasekaran, Bishop, CSI Tiruchi Thanjavur Diocese, and chairman and secretary of the College Governing Board of Bishop Heber College on the institution premises in the presence of Principal D. Paul Dhayabaran and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joint-task-force-launched/article34611084.ece
21 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Free oxygen concentrators for patients in need||The K. Santha Cancer Foundation has undertaken an initiative to supply oxygen concentrators for patients in need without charging rent. The concentrators have been of help for patients in home isolation and those going through post-COVID recovery, a functionary of the foundation said. The project, called Swasam O2, will be given to patients after a series of checks are done by a team of doctors on the condition of the patient. The concentrators are not emergency care equipment, but will be used for patients who have been discharged from hospital, but need to be on oxygen support for a few more days to fully recover, patients who have been advised home isolation and require some oxygen to stabilize, or patients who are unable to get a bed at any hospital and need oxygen while waiting. Ten such concentrators are available and would be given to patients after a vetting process. The patient’s attender should provide the details of the patient along with their medical history, following which they would be asked to visit the G. Vishwanathan Group of Hospitals in Mambalasalai. “At the hospital, a preliminary check would be done, following which the patient would be asked to consult an in-house pulmonologist, who would then allocate a concentrator to the patient,” K. Govindaraj, Director, G. Vishwanathan Group of Hospitals said. Patients have been asked to use the concentrator for a period of five days, after which they must hand it over to the foundation. “Once returned, we dispose the oxygen mask and the concentrator is sterilized before being given to another patient,” he said. A team of volunteers take care of the logistics of the project. “We initially began with only two concentrators, but friends and well-wishers have donated eight more,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-oxygen-concentrators-for-patients-in-need/article34611077.ece
21 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Onion mandi shuts for a week||The Tiruchi All Perishables Commission Mandis Commercial Complex at Ariyamangalam will be closed from May 25-31 after at least eight workers tested positive for COVID-19. Onions and shallots procured from traders and farmers will be sold in the market till Saturday after which it will shut down for a week. The announcement was made a few days in advance as the traders cannot cancel the procurement orders. “Onions are procured from parts of Tamil Nadu as also rest of India including Nashik, Pune and various other parts of Maharashtra and Karnataka. It will take two to three days for the consignments to reach us. We cannot cancel it halfway. We will be processing the consignments and plan to sell the stock by Saturday,” A. Thangaraj, general secretary, Tiruchi Onion Commission Mandi Traders’ Association, told The Hindu . Meanwhile, local vendors and even retailers will be allowed to store the onions and shallots at the mandis till Wednesday next week. “This is because the vendors, even those attached to Gandhi Market now, do not have any storage facility. They can use our space after showing the bill provided to them. However, we will not allow any sales,” he said. At the 75 shops in the mandi, only one or two persons will be allowed from Monday to Wednesday. From Thursday to Saturday next week, the entire complex will be close down and disinfected. "We have told the farmers and the traders in advance so that they don't suffer any losses,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/onion-mandi-shuts-for-a-week/article34611076.ece
21 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Bio-mining project to be over in a year’||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Thursday said that bio-mining of Ariyamangalam dump yard would be completed within a year. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the project, he said that Tiruchi Corporation had undertaken the task of clearing garbage accumulated for over 70 to 80 years by removing about 1,500 tonne on a daily basis. In all likelihood, the garbage dumped in about 47 acres of land would be cleared in a year’s time, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bio-mining-project-to-be-over-in-a-year/article34611066.ece
21 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Aadhaar card mandatory: EPFO||The Regional Office of Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has intimated that Aadhaar card is mandatory to avail benefit/service. In a statement, Shashikant Dahiya, Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner/ Officer-In-Charge, said The Section 142 (Application of Aadhaar) of the Code on Social Security took effect from May . Aadhar number was necessary for purposes of registration as member or beneficiary; seeking benefit whether in kind, cash or medical sickness benefit or pension, gratuity or maternity benefit or any benefit or for withdrawal of fund; availing services of career centre; or receiving any payment or medical attendance as insured person himself or for his dependents. It was mandatory for every one to possess the Aadhaar card in order to avail these services as also the benefits/ services rendered by EPFO under the triple schemes: Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme, 1952; Employees’ Pension Scheme, 1995; and Employees’ Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme, 1976, henceforth, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aadhaar-card-mandatory-epfo/article34611070.ece
21 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 4,700 fresh cases||The central region reported 4,701 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday depicting a continuity of the spiralling trend. The region recorded 38 deaths, with six of the eight districts reporting at least one death. In Tiruchi district, 13 patients succumbed to the viral infection. Karur reported a sudden increase in the number of deaths with 10 casualties. Thanjavur reported nine deaths, Tiruvarur three, Nagapattinam two and Pudukottai reported one death. Tiruchi district reported 1,375 patients testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts reported a sudden spike in the number of cases with 734 and 711 fresh cases respectively. Thanjavur reported a decline in COVID-19 cases with 679 fresh cases. Similar trends were also reported in Pudukottai with 442 fresh cases. In Karur, 297 patients tested positive. Meanwhile, 267 fresh cases were reported in Ariyalur and 196 in Perambalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-4700-fresh-cases/article34611080.ece
21 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.87 feet on Thursday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,324 cusecs and the discharge 2,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34611086.ece
21 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Health workers go in search of COVID-19 cases||Collector V. Vishnu has deployed mobile units in every block of the district to visit each house for checking the dwellers with COVID-19 symptoms in a bid to bring down the viral infection and ensure early treatment of the patients. The exercise that commenced on Thursday is expected to yield desirable results by ensuring early medical intervention to hitherto unidentified COVID-19 patients in rural areas. Each block has been provided with eight mobile medical teams which would visit every house in a place. The team would lift swab samples from COVID-19 suspects if they had symptoms of the viral infection. “Since the persons having COVID-19 would not be able to enjoy the taste of food and feel the odour besides having fever, cough, cold, headache, body pain etc. the visiting mobile team will lift samples from such people. The team will also check the oxygen saturation level of people and take them immediately to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital or the nearest COVID Care Centres based on the severity of the symptoms and the findings, says Mr. Vishnu. This measure would ensure early medical intervention to the patients before their condition becomes worse with severe lung involvement. The team will also vaccinate the target groups during these door-to-door inspections. The Collector, in a bid to ensure optimum use of oxygen by the COVID-19 patients while under treatment, has instructed doctors manning the COVID Care Centers and the COVID-19 wards of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital to post ‘oxygen nurses’ in the COVID-19 treatment wards to check the oxygen level of patients under their care once an hour. “The oxygen required for every patient would differ based on their health condition and there is no need for giving precious medical oxygen to all the patients in a ward at the same level. If a patient is found to be healthy and can manage with less quantity of oxygen, the quantum would be reduced, while the flow of oxygen for other patients requiring higher quantum would be maintained at the higher level. This kind of need-based supply of oxygen has ensured significant savings of precious medical oxygen for us, particularly during recent critical situation,” a senior doctor attached to the TVMCH said. He said that the patients showing signs of improvement and those who have satisfactory oxygen saturation levels are encouraged to breathe on their own after giving breathing exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-workers-go-in-search-of-covid-19-cases/article34611042.ece
21 May 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination for 18-44 age group launched||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday inaugurated the COVID-19 vaccination drive for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group in Tiruppur district. Officials said the vaccination drive was held on the premises of the Netaji Apparel Park at Ettiveerampalayam, near Tiruppur city. Twenty employees of various knitwear units operating in the apparel park received their first shot of Covishield on Thursday. Mr. Stalin, who is touring parts of western districts to take stock of the COVID-19 situation, presented the vaccination certificates to some of the beneficiaries. J. Sathishkumar, 31, said that he was glad to have received the vaccine in the presence of the Chief Minister. “Everybody must get vaccinated so that we can be free at our workplaces without any fear,” he told The Hindu . A native of Villupuram, Mr. Sathishkumar said he was employed at the Human Resource Department at one of the knitwear units in Netaji Apparel Park. Following the inauguration of the vaccination drive, Mr. Stalin accepted petitions and cheques from various industrialists from Tiruppur district. Officials said 14 industrialists donated Rs. 2.7 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for COVID-19 relief. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan and District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-launched/article34610913.ece
21 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Isolation centres coming up in tribal villages||The district administration, with the help of Gudalur-based Shola Trust, will set up trial isolation centres made of wood from Lantana camara plants in tribal villages. The centres are being set up as part of the continuing effort to dispel hesitancy among tribal communities to get tested for COVID-19. According to NGOs as well as officials working in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks, tribal communities continue to show reluctance to getting tested for COVID-19. A few officials said that many members of the communities continue to flee to neighbouring villages when officials from the Health Department visit the area, as they fear that they will be taken to COVID-19 Care Centres and hospitals. Speaking to The Hindu , Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary and Monitoring Officer for the Nilgiris, said that in order to make tribal communities feel more comfortable and less wary of getting tested, the isolation centres can be set up in the villages themselves. “One of the main reasons for their apprehension is the fear that they will be taken out of their villages and to hospitals and COVID-19 care facilities. We plan to set up the isolation centres within the villages, so that any person from the community who tests positive and whose symptoms are not serious, can be isolated in the village itself,” said Ms. Sahu. The centres are to be made from the wood from Lantana camara plants, an invasive weed that has taken over large swathes of the Nilgiris. Subhash Gautam, Managing Trustee of the Shola Trust, said that the shelters can be fabricated using steel frames and then covered with the wood, and finally finished off by plastering with either cow dung or lime to make them water-proof. Each isolation centre is around 200 square feet, and can be split into two rooms. “We want to make sure that the isolation rooms can be of use even after the pandemic,” said Mr. Gautham. An Eco Development Committee run by the Gudalur forest division has agreed to fund the construction of two centres. On Thursday, Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya inspected the centres and gave the nod to set up centres in a few villages in Gudalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isolation-centres-coming-up-in-tribal-villages/article34610585.ece
21 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Case booked for illegal tree felling||The Forest Department has registered a case against a person for cutting down nine Syzigium cumini trees in Denad village in Kil Kotagiri. Following a tip-off, forest staff visited the area and registered a case against R. Shivakumar, a resident of Kil Kotagiri, who is alleged to have cut down the trees in the Sholur Mattam section of the Kotagiri Forest Range. The case was registered under the Tamil Nadu Hill Areas (Preservation of Trees) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-for-illegal-tree-felling/article34610940.ece
21 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Fine imposed on Tangedco||The Nilgiris district administration has imposed a fine of Rs. 2 lakh on the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) for failure to impose appropriate COVID-19 protocols, which led to a COVID-19 cluster at Kattukuppai in Geddai. According to officials, around 20 persons working at the facility had tested positive, leading to the area being designated as a containment zone. Teams from the Health Department have begun testing residents and workers in the area, most of whom are migrant workers. The officials said Tangedco had failed to implement the protocols in the working area, which led to the spread of the infection. As a result, the fine was imposed on the Kundah Generation Circle of Tangedco.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fine-imposed-on-tangedco/article34610939.ece
21 May 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Patients boycott food||Close to 70 COVID-19 patients admitted in Pentland Hospital, Vellore, refused breakfast on Thursday protesting against a delay in removing the body of an elderly COVID-19 patient, who died during the early hours. Sources said that a 67-year-old man, from Walajah in Ranipet district, had died early on Thursday. However, there was some delay in removing the body and this caused concern among other patients. According to hospital sources, the delay was caused as they had to contact officials from the deceased's native district. “They had to search a place for his burial in Wallajah. If he was from Vellore, we would have coordinated with the Corporation officials and cleared the body soon. In this incident, we removed the body by 11 p.m,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patients-boycott-food/article34610697.ece
21 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Private hospitals deny cashless treatment’||Even as State Government has warned private hospitals from over-charging patients during the pandemic time, government employees are complaining that private hospitals were denying admission to them if they insisted on using the cashless treatment . A young government employee has been forced to extend his stay in a private hospital in Dindigul as he was waiting for his insurance papers to be processed after the hospital delayed its process. The man was to be discharged on Tuesday but could not vacate the bed as the insurance claim process was yet to get over. “The hospital authorities told me that I could not get insurance cover as I had tested negative for COVID. However, I got admitted as there was mild lung involvement as per the scan report,” he said. He has already paid Rs. 1 lakh after pledging jewels. After it was insisted that the CT scan report could be sent to the insurance company to get further details on insurance scheme benefit, the hospital has sent it with inordinate delay. “Under the cashless treatment scheme, this employee need not have paid so much of money in advance. The very purpose of cashless treatment is defeated as the empanelled hospitals force patients to pay lump sum money in advance,” said Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Association, vice-president (Virudhunagar district), C.E. Kannan. Another employee had a bitter experience as the private hospital in Coimbatore denied her admission when she wanted to be treated under CM’s Insurance Scheme. “Since getting a bed for COVID treatment was a Herculean task, we admitted her there and paid over Rs. 2 lakh till now,” one of her relatives said. After admission, when the relatives approached the chief doctor, as per the advice of the nodal officer for the insurance company, for insurance claim, the doctor lost his cool. “He shouted and asked us to immediately get the patient discharged and take her to some other hospital. He shouted at his junior doctors for having admitted such patients (who were demanding to make use of insurance cover),” the relative said. The hospital said that it did not have enough staff to process the insurance papers. “We have drawn the attention of Chief Minister, Medical and Family Welfare Minister and Chief Secretary about private hospitals across the State denying benefits of cashless treatment to the beneficiaries,” said Mr. Kannan. He said that the private hospitals feared that their “loot” of COVID patients during the pandemic will be revealed if they extended the cashless treatment facility. Besides warning against over-charging by private hospitals, the government should also monitor them. “It will be better if the government puts cap on different types of treatment and medicines for COVID patients,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-deny-cashless-treatment/article34611043.ece
21 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Five doctors recruited||Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, on Thursday handed over appointment order to five doctors and 107 nurses who have been recruited on contract basis for COVID treatment.  Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, Tenkasi MP, Dhanushkumar and Rajapalayam MLA, S. Thangapandian, inspected a COVID care centre being set up at a college in Srivilliputtur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-doctors-recruited/article34611037.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore logs highest single day caseload||Coimbatore district reported 3,335 new cases of COVID-19, the highest single day caseload, on Thursday. The district had 28,363 active cases of the disease on Thursday while 2,148 persons recovered. Coimbatore district’s death toll increased to 942 after the Health Department informed that 20 more persons died of COVID-19 in the last few days. The district had 508 beds in different hospitals and 322 beds in Covid Care Centres vacant for patients as of Thursday evening. For the third consecutive day, the daily COVID-19 caseload of Tiruppur district stayed above the 1,500-mark as 1,581 cases were reported on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 42,192 cases. The Health Department reported five more deaths, which took the district’s toll to 290. Among the 32,864 patients who have recovered from COVID-19 so far, 627 were discharged on Thursday from various treatment centres. Only 91 beds (two oxygen beds and 89 non-oxygen beds) were reported to be vacant for COVID-19 patients at government and private hospitals in the district. On the other hand, 731 out of 1,375 beds at Covid Care Centres were reported to be vacant as of Thursday. Erode district reported 1,505 new cases, taking the tally to 38,614. While 783 persons were discharged, 8,904 continue to be under treatment. Six persons died, raising the death toll to 216. Krishnagiri recorded 729 cases and five deaths. A total of 458 patients were discharged from treatment centres. The total number of cases in the district stood at 7,003 cases as of Thursday. A total of 25,714 cases were reported, so far, in Krishnagiri. As many as 667 positive cases were reported in Salem. As per bulletin, 11 deaths were reported in Salem, including deaths of three women patients. In Namakkal, 381 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Two patients aged 37 and 75 died at private and government facilities. Dharmapuri recorded 362 fresh cases and one death. 80 patients were discharged after treatment. The total number of cases in the district was 2,607. In the Nilgiris, 325 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 14,072. The number of deaths in the district increased from 64 to 66 on Thursday while 2,570 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-logs-highest-single-day-caseload/article34610580.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK’s strength depleting in Rajya Sabha||Despite the Election Commission not indicating any plan to hold byelections to fill three vacancies in the Rajya Sabha from Tamil Nadu, sections of the AIADMK are debating among themselves about the party’s depleting strength in the Upper House. The vacancies have arisen following the death of A. Mohammedjan in March and the resignation of two senior leaders K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam in the wake of getting elected to the Assembly. As the three belonged to the different terms of six years, their seats will be regarded as separate vacancies and are to be filled through three by-elections, according to a former Chief Election Commissioner. The term of the deceased member would have otherwise ended in July 2025; that of Mr. Munusamy in April 2026 and Mr. Vaithilingam in June 2022. Given the composition of the State Assembly wherein the coalition led by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has 159 members, leaders of the AIADMK are aware that the ruling party and its allies are comfortably placed to bag all the three seats and there would not be any need for contest. In the event of a contest for one vacancy, a candidate is required to get a minimum of 118 votes, assuming that all the 234 members of the Assembly cast their votes. At present, the AIADMK has six Rajya Sabha members, including one from Puducherry – N. Gokulakrishnan, whose term ends in October. Subject to any display of leniency by its allies — the All India NR Congress and the BJP — towards it, the AIADMK, which has no representation in the Assembly of the Union Territory and will not be able to retain the Rajya Sabha seat. In that case, the party’s strength will dip to five from 13 in June 2016. Murmur among youth It is against this backdrop that the sections within the party feel that by nominating Mr. Munusamy to the Upper House last year the party had wasted one seat as it again decided to field him in the recent Assembly election. When he and the former Deputy Speaker of the Lok Sabha, M. Thambi Durai, were nominated last year, younger members of the party had nursed a grievance that at least one seat could have been given to one of the candidates from their ranks. In the case of Mr. Vaithilingam being fielded in the Assembly poll, nobody complained because he had just one year left in his Rajya Sabha term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmks-strength-depleting-in-rajya-sabha/article34610933.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cases may peak by May-end: Health Secy.||Hospitals were benefiting from even the little stabilisation in the number of cases in Chennai, he noted. “We are creating search capacity in every district. We have issued an advisory to the Collectors through the Unified Command Centre on how they can quickly increase the number of beds if there is any sudden rise in cases,” he said. There was a rapid rise in cases from 20,000 to 30,000 a day, while the rate of increase after the number reached the 30,000-mark had slowed down, he said. With the vaccination drive launched for those aged 18-44, the Health Secretary said those who wanted to get the vaccine should register themselves on Co-WIN. “We have 13.85 lakh doses of vaccines. With this, we are prioritising factory workers and differently abled persons...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-may-peak-by-may-end-health-secy/article34610923.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||Coimbatore   Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Online session on ‘Adding Humour to Your Speech’, 6.30 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Online contest on ‘Slow Motion Animation’, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article34610578.ece
21 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Chief Secretary asks officers to go door to door for tests||To contain the spread of COVID-19 in villages, the State government has asked health and other department personnel to take up door-to-door visits and conduct Rapid Antigen Tests. “Doorstep tracing and testing will be among the various steps to be taken by the State government to contain COVID-19 in rural areas,’’ Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar said in Belagavi on Thursday. He was speaking to officers after visiting the COVID war room and the COVID Care Centres set up by the district administration in the city. “We should go door to door and test. That is the best way to detect the disease early and contain its spread,” he said. He said that the Union government has on ICMR recommendations allowed Rapid Antigen tests to confirm infections. “We are supposed to conduct at least 30% such tests. But the rate of such tests in most districts is low. If we don’t do this, it will be very difficult to manage the pandemic,” he said. “Rapid Antigen Test results are enough to collect data. But RT-PCR tests should be recommended if a person has symptoms, but tests negative,’’ he said. He noted that there are some cases where those who gave samples also gave false addresses and wrong phone numbers. This should be avoided. Wrong address will create difficulties in ensuring home isolation or treatment of patients. Officers should verify addresses and get alternative phone numbers. The COVID war room should keep an eye on those who test positive. Once the test results are received, medical kits should be sent to patients houses, he said. The State government has modified patient discharge rules. Now, a COVID-19 patient shall be discharged after 10 days, if he has not suffered from fever in three penultimate days. He asked officers to allot government quota beds through the district administration portal. Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath and Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-secretary-asks-officers-to-go-door-to-door-for-tests/article34610560.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cases in Bengaluru Urban dip, while other districts see surge||The jury is still out on whether the dip in COVID-19 cases is the impact of the lockdown or reduced testing. But, figures shared by the government indicate a let up in the number of new cases Bengaluru has been reporting since the last few days. Meanwhile, districts are showing a hike. A far cry from accounting for over half the total number of cases in the State, there has been a significant drop in the city’s numbers. On Thursday, Bengaluru Urban reported 9,409 new cases and 289 deaths, while the State reported 28,869 new cases. According to the May 19 Health Department bulletin, of the 34,281 new cases, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 11,772. The day before, the city reported 8,676 new cases of the 30,309 in Karnataka. Through the course of the ongoing lockdown, the numbers have been within 17,000. Prior to that, the city was regularly reporting in excess of 20,000 cases a day.   The State government imposed what was termed as a “stricter lockdown” for 14 days, beginning May 10, after partial lockdown failed to put break on the rapid march of new infections. Though the State on the whole did see a gradual reduction in cases, other districts started seeing an increase, which was attributed to the migration of people from the city to their hometowns. This too has contributed to the decrease in cases in the city, experts say. M.K. Sudarshan, chairman of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said the decrease in cases is mainly due to the lockdown. “Other factors like targeted testing also helped. Though it looks like testing has reduced, what is being done is focussed and targeted testing, and it is yielding good results. Even inter-State travel has decreased, bringing down the numbers,” he said. He agreed that the surge in districts was due to the migration of people from the city to their hometowns. Other districts, especially ones that see movement from Bengaluru, have been bearing the brunt of a steady rise in infections since last month. Tumakuru, which reported 1,796 new cases on Thursday too, still has close to 26,000 active cases. Mysuru had 1,879 new cases, while Ballari had 1,109 new cases. During the second wave, other districts such as Bengaluru Rural, Chickballapur, Mandya, Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada, and Hassan have also seen substantial rise in cases. In February, before the second wave made an entry, most districts were reporting new cases in single digits, and had active cases in double digits. Experts and the medical fraternity had pointed out that unhindered movement between places and disregard for COVID-19 appropriate behaviour were the main reasons for the spread of infections in the districts too. With all eyes now on whether the lockdown will be extended, experts are now batting for graded unlock, like that of June 2020. “It is too early to say the second wave is plateauing. We have to wait for unlock and then another 15 days to see what happens, A graded unlock is what is needed,” one of the TAC members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-in-bengaluru-urban-dip-while-other-districts-see-surge/article34610536.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, app to monitor food parcel distribution at Indira Canteen||A week after rolling back norms that mandated collection of Aadhaar and mobile numbers of persons who receive free food packets from Indira Canteen, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has introduced a mobile application to monitor food parcel distribution, drawing ire. Those distributing food are instructed to take photographs of the food parcels in the hands of the public and upload these images on the ‘Indira Canteen Parcel Distribution’ app. In case of more than three parcels being distributed to one individual, staffers need to take their phone number, a photo of the family’s ration card, and also distribute the food packets after logging in these details and receiving an OTP. With several glitches, the app has marred food distribution at many canteens and even when the app is working fine, it has delayed distribution.  Move criticised Activists as well as Congress members have criticised the system as “irrational” coming from a “lack of knowledge and practical challenges on the ground”. Advocate Vinay Sreenivasa, working with urban poor, said he was at a loss to understand why the civic body has imposed so many restrictions when it comes to distributing relief to the poor. Taking photographs of people collecting food parcels will rob them of their dignity, he said, and called for the practice to be stopped immediately. Tulasi Madineni, Special Commissioner, Finance, BBMP, also in-charge of Indira Canteens, said the app was introduced to check misappropriation by contractors. “The data being captured through the app from Wednesday has clearly shown the real picture of the number of parcels being distributed, tad fewer than being shown in the previous days,” she said. Responding to criticism on photos being taken, she said there were clear instructions not to take photographs of the people’s faces, but only of food packets they hold. She conceded that there were teething problems with the app and the technology team was working all day to fix issues and it will be streamlined in the next few days. “Contractors have an interest in the app not working. We are only trying to bring in some accountability,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-app-to-monitor-food-parcel-distribution-at-indira-canteen/article34610528.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Industries anxious over missed export deadlines owing to lockdown||About 10 days into the lockdown, several industries relying on exports for their businesses are facing the heat over missed deadlines in export commitments. As a number of industries have not been exempted under essential services to operate, they have remained closed following the lockdown order of May 7. This comes even as workers in several industries that are functioning under exempted category are reporting to work amid heightened anxiety over contracting the virus. This is true across industrial areas in Doddaballapura, Bommasandra, Peenya, and Bidadi in Bengaluru, besides industries in Mangaluru, Hubballi, and Mysuru districts. According to an estimate by the Karnataka Employers’ Association, exports from the State from the manufacturing sector alone roughly translate to about $250 million every month. These come from about 300-export oriented companies as well as those companies catering to both the domestic and the international market. There are roughly about 500 garment industries that are exclusively export oriented. The association said that industries in garment, auto, electronics, machine manufacturers and components that are now shut, since they are classified as non-essential, have been affected. “A large number of medium and small scale, micro industries, export-oriented industries have been severely affected by the closure. We have requested the government to permit them to function to honour their export orders or domestic commitments with immediate effect,” president of Karnataka Employers’ Association B.C. Prabhakar told The Hindu . “Several industries are struggling to meet the supply deadline commitment.” In the light of industries facing crisis, the association has shot off a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking exemption for export oriented industries, medium and small scale industries to function. The association has also pointed out that neighbouring States, such as Kerala and Tamil Nadu, are permitting industries to operate having export commitments. “Several other States have also permitted industries with 50% employee strength,” he added. “Many industries have rearranged working shifts, shop floor layouts, and also extended support to employees for testing, vaccination and treatment. In spite of their distress, industries have also invested for bringing the required essential changes in the infrastructure,” the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industries-anxious-over-missed-export-deadlines-owing-to-lockdown/article34610553.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City’s domestic workers stare at uncertain future||Suraj is often seeing cycling his way through the bylanes of a residential layout in east Bengaluru, stopping when he finds a resident near his or her car.“Do you need someone to wash the car?” he asks, in the hope of getting some work. The Nepali national says his wife, who used to work as a domestic help, lost work during the pandemic, and he too has lost a big chunk of employers. It is a similar story across many households of domestic workers and relatedprofessions — cooks, car washers, and the like. If the first wave of COVID-19 and the sudden lockdown was a rude shock for most of the unorganised sector, the second wave has lent another blow. Geetha Menon from the Domestic Workers’ Rights Union said the intensity of the pandemic that 2021 ushered in had been made worse by the neglect on the part of the government and employers. On Wednesday, the State government announced financial aid for various sectors. Domestic workers will get relief of Rs. 2,000 each. In June 2020, Domestic Workers’ Rights Union, Bruhat Bangalore Gruhakarmika Sangha, and Manegelasa Kaarmikara Union released the findings of a study that pointed out that an estimated four lakh domestic workers live and work in Bengaluru, a majority of them women. Up until the first phase of the imposition of lockdown in India, while restrictions were enforced, domestic workers went to work as usual till the end of March. “Some of the owners paid the salary for March for the number of days worked, while a few employers paid full month’s salary for March. April was totally without work and money for domestic workers. With rents and bills to pay, most of them could barely manage one meal a day,” said the authors. According to the study, 2,084(about 87%) of the workers surveyed were told not to come for work since the lockdown in March 2020. As many as 341 workers in the areas surveyed (87%) and 150 workers in the areas surveyed by Manegelasa Kaarmikara Union lost their jobs entirely during the lockdown. Around 91% of workers lost their salaries for April, while 50% of all workers above the age of 50 lost their jobs during the lockdown. The survey was conducted in the first two weeks of May, covering 2,396 domestic workers in Bengaluru. “From August–September, some returned to work, but there has been a drastic reduction in the number of houses workers have now, and income also reduced. In some cases, those who still have jobs are told to water the garden or clean the compound and paid for that. Now, with this lockdown, it is complete turmoil again,” said Ms. Menon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citys-domestic-workers-stare-at-uncertain-future/article34610533.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Service on extended Mysuru Road line likely by July-end||Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) is hoping to start commercial operations of the extended Purple Line from Mysuru Road station to Kengeri by July-end. Officials estimate that will benefit around 75,000 people every day. BMRCL managing director Rakesh Singh told The Hindu that with trial runs on the 7.53-km line over, they would approach the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) for inspection and safety clearance by the third week of June. He added that 90-92% of civil work had been completed at five stations. At Kengeri, 80% of work is over. The BMRCL had planned to open the line in November 2020, but was unable to meet the deadline in view of the pandemic. The second wave of COVID-19 this year also impeded progress. “The pandemic situation in the last one month has impacted the work. If the situation improves, the entire civil work will be complete by June. We will approach the CRS for clearances,” said Mr. Singh. He added that as theCRS was an independent body, it would set its own timeline for inspection and clearances. “We are hoping that by July, we will be able to start commercial operations,” he added. Operations will also depend on the pandemic situation and the government guidelines. At present, on account of the lockdown imposed by the State government, the BMRCL is not operating metro services.  The maximum fare for the commute from Baiyappanahalli to Kengeri will be Rs. 56. On the longest stretch, from Kengeri to Silk Institute, which is part of the Green Line, tickets will be priced at Rs. 60. There are six stations on the extended line: Nayandahalli, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattangere, Kengeri Bus Terminal, and Kengeri. Parking facilities Parking facilities will be made available at Nayandahalli, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Jnanabharathi, and a two-level parking at Kengeri Bus Terminal, with bus bays at both sides of the station. The line has an automatic fare collection system compatible for using the National Common Mobility Card and QR code ticketing to travel in metro. Through banks, the BMRCL is likely to issue NCMC cards in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/service-on-extended-mysuru-road-line-likely-by-july-end/article34610526.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||College students, alumni give the dead a dignified farewell||Amid stories of conmen cashing in on the misery and tragedy brought about by the pandemic, there are an equal number of instances of people reaching out to help strangers. Their acts of kindness and empathy shine light in these dark times. Seven students and alumni of St. Joseph’s College in Bengaluru have taken it upon themselves to give a dignified farewell to victims of COVID-19. Over the last month and a half, they have buried more than 170 people at the Christian Cemetery. S. Arun Kumar, a final year undergraduate student of the college said that he and his friends had been involved in outreach programmes since March 2020, including distributing foodgrains. “But we learnt that the challenge during the second wave was families struggling to give their deceased loved ones a dignified farewell. So we decided to rise to the occasion and work at cemeteries,” he said. In the mornings they help distribute food and masks. “In the afternoons and evenings, we bury the bodies. It has been extremely depressing to see dead bodies of people in their 20s and 30s,” he said. Nelson, an alumnus of the college who is a part of the team, said, “Every time I bury a person, a part of me dies.”The others friends involved in the initiative are Tejhashwin, Yashwanth J., Kevin Lloyd, Rohit Rajeev, and Jerry Jockin. Although they take all the necessary precautions, their work weighs heavily on them. When they return home, they isolate themselves and ensure that their parents and family members in the house are not at risk. D. Kiran Jeevan, Public Relations Officer of the college, said, “The selfless act of these boys shows great hope for the future. Not only did they bury people, they used this opportunity to spread a message of hope and care to all the people,” he said.  Every time I bury a person, a part of me dies. Nelson,alumnus of St. Joseph’s College||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/college-students-alumni-give-the-dead-a-dignified-farewell/article34610530.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Save us from collapse, say MSMEs||The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector has expressed disappointment over their non-inclusion in the relief packages announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday. In a release, trade body KASSIA has said that the sector, an important segment of manufacturing and employment generation, “has been totally neglected by the government without announcing any packages/relief.” “The huge disruption caused by the pandemic has resulted in broken supply chains, displacement of labour, dried up cash flows and an all round sense of hopelessness,” said KASSIA president K.B. Arasappa in the release. He has said that their requests — for waiver of fixed charges in the power bill payments for three months, reduction in tax imposed on petrol and diesel up to March, 2022, working capital at 4% to MSMEs, for not enhancing water tariff and property tax up to March, 2022 — have not been considered. Due to the previous lockdown, 20% of the units have already closed down and once again in the 14-day lockdown, there is every chance of closure of 20-30% units, the release said, demanding that the State step in and save the industries from collapse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/save-us-from-collapse-say-msmes/article34610546.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Oxygen concentrators to be given to high-caseload districts’||As many as 25 oxygen concentrators will be provided to each district with more COVID-19 cases, said Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar here on Thursday. Speaking to the media, the Minister said that State has received 800 concentrators recently which will be distributed to districts with more cases and with a lack of facilities, such as Hassan, Mandya, Chickballapur, Kolar, and Chitradurga. “We are working on providing more assistance such as ICU facility, oxygen, etc in all medical colleges across the State,” he said, adding that he is visiting districts to review the situation. The Minister, who visited Tumakuru and Chitradurga as well, made observations about the situation there. For Tumakuru, which has seen a steady increase in the number of cases in tandem with the rise in cases in the State, he directed officials to prepare for the third wave now itself. Tumakuru, due to its proximity to Bengaluru, is among the worse-affected districts in the State. In Chitradurga, Dr. Sudhakar blamed the non-implementation of guidelines and protocols to control COVID-19 for the rise in cases. He also directed officials to make arrangements to shift those in home isolation to COVID care centres, and establish such facilities wherever possible. A release from the Health and Family Welfare Department also said the Chief Minister has decided to provide Rs. 50,000 advance to all gram panchayats. Village task force committees will utilise the fund to shift COVID patients to care centres. As cases of black fungus are increasingly being reported in the State, the Health Minister said treatment is being provided to mucormycosis patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-concentrators-to-be-given-to-high-caseload-districts/article34610535.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prioritise second dose of vaccine based on age of beneficiaries: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday said the State government must come out with a policy to prioritise the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine by categorising beneficiaries based on age and date of receiving the first dose. While asking the State and Central governments to take a stand on ensuring that even private hospitals administer only the second dose of vaccine, the court said the State government will have to take steps to postpone the second dose of vaccine by three months to persons infected with COVID-19 after taking first dose, based on the new guidelines issued by the Central government. A Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the direction, taking note of the acute shortage of vaccine, particularly Covaxin for second dose. Though the State government has restricted vaccine for second dose, the Bench pointed out that age- and date-wise priority for second dose is needed to avoid situations wherein a person aged above 60 is unable to get vaccination and the less older are able to get the second dose within the ideal period prescribed between two doses. Vaccine overdue As it is an expert body that has decided the ideal period of 4-6 weeks for Covaxin and 12-16 weeks for Covishield, the State and Central governments are obligated to administer vaccination within the prescribed period, the court said. It noticed from State government’s data that 1,53,571 beneficiaries of first dose of Covishield and 2,95,795 beneficiaries of first dose of Covaxin are overdue for the second dose. The Bench also directed both governments to take immediate steps to ensure that beneficiaries of first dose of Covaxin are not denied the second dose.  Meanwhile, the Bench ordered issue of notice to the Centre and the Indian Council for Medical Research on a PIL petition seeking direction to consider encouraging pharmaceutical companies to enter into voluntary licensing for scaling up vaccine production. Invoke provisions The petition, filed by S. Chandrashekar, who was earlier associated with ISRO and IIM-B, also sought direction to the authorities to invoke provisions of the Patent Act and the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights agreement, if companies failed to enter into voluntary license, for compulsory licensing by cancelling patents of vaccine manufacturers for nationalisation of patents in the light of the medical emergency created by the pandemic. The petitioner also sought directions to the Centre to consider that no royalty, GST, or other taxes shall be imposed on vaccine manufacturers in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prioritise-second-dose-of-vaccine-based-on-age-of-beneficiaries-hc/article34610541.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP makes bed availability dashboard public||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Thursday made public a dashboard for COVID-19 bed management. The dashboard shows real-time data on bed availability, zonal-wise booking, admissions, and discharge of patients. The dashboard also tracks changes in bed occupancy by patients — for instance, shifted from a HDU to a ICU bed — over the last seven days. Citizens can view the dashboard athttps://apps.bbmpgov.in /covid19/index.html. The initiative was reportedly spearheaded by Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya, as part of the reforms to the bed allocation system to prevent corruption. He hailed a dashboard as another step towards transparency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-makes-bed-availability-dashboard-public/article34610525.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PHC doctor arrested for giving vaccine at home||A doctor at a Public Health Centre in Manjunathnagar was arrested on Thursday for allegedly administering vaccine at her associate’s house, while two doctors of a PHC in Chamarajpet were arrested for allegedly issuing fake COVID-19 negative certificates and illegally selling Remdesivir vials. Police said Dr. Pushpitha, a medical officer with Manjunathnagar PHC, and her associate Prema, a homemaker from ITI Layout, were charging Rs. 500 for a shot of Covishield. The doctor used to get the vials from the PHC and vaccinate people at Prema’s house. “The vaccines are sanctioned by the government to the PHC to give it to the people who have registered at the government portals. We suspect that the doctor forged records to steal the vials and store them at Prema’s house,” said a senior police officer.  Fake certificates On receiving information regarding issuing of fake COVID-19 certificates, constable Satish G. approached a swab collector at the PHC in Chamarajpet, Kishore Guirumurthy, for one on Wednesday. He paid him Rs. 500 and gave him a copy of Aadhaar card. “Kishore asked Mr. Satish to meet him at Bannappa Park a few hours later and was caught while handing over the certificate,” said a police officer. Inquiries revealed that he was working in collusion with Shekhar B., the PHC medical officer. In another operation, the police arrested the doctor while he was selling them a Remdesivir vial for Rs. 25,000. The accused, Dr. Shekhar, told the police that he was sourcing the injections from his colleague Prajwala who worked at the PHC.The police recovered 11 vials from the accused who later confessed that they had sold three vials before for a price of Rs. 25,000 each. Based on their confession the police arrested Mohan Y., a staffer at the PHC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phc-doctor-arrested-for-giving-vaccine-at-home/article34610529.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. slams government for denying permission to hold meeting with DCs||State Congress leaders on Thursday hit out against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for denying permission to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah to hold meetings with Deputy Commissioners on COVID-19-related issues. Mr. Siddaramaiah had sought permission from the government to hold meetings with DCs to obtain information on management of the pandemic. However, the government had denied permission. Speaking at a press conference, KPCC working president Ramalinga Reddy, senior leader B.L. Shankar, and spokesperson Ramesh Babu said that fearing more lapses in the handling of COVID-19 getting exposed, the government had denied permission to Mr. Siddaramaiah. The Opposition Leader has been considered a “shadow CM” and the leader gets prominent place in several standing committees of the government to ensure transparency in the administration. By denying permission to know the truth, the BJP government had been denying true facts related to COVID-19 patients and deaths. The number of positive patients and COVID-19 deaths have been hushed up, Mr. Shankar alleged. Mr. Reddy urged Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri to allow holding meetings of the public accounts committee of the state legislature. All committee meetings were temporarily suspended following a spike in pandemic cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-slams-government-for-denying-permission-to-hold-meeting-with-dcs/article34610550.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||We are facing uncertain future, say hotel owners||Owners of hotels and restaurants have accused the State government of ignoring them and not attending to their grievances while announcing the relief package. They have said that outbreak of pandemic and subsequent lockdown has resulted in severe financial distress and last year itself 30 to 40% of hotels were closed. They have demanded relief, including Rs. 5,000 compensation for workers in the hospitality sector, relaxation from property tax and electricity fixed charges, and waiving excise license fee applicable for bars and restaurants. P.C. Rao, president of Bangalore Hotels’ Association, said that in Bengaluru alone over 6,500 hotels were closed last year. “Over 1 lakh people lost their jobs after closure of hotels. The State government did not come to our aid despite knowing the suffering of the industry. We have given all the required support and followed the guidelines, but received no relief,” he said, adding that bar and restaurants alone contribute Rs. 24,000 crore revenue per year, but no relief is given for them when they are in deep financial distress. Mr. Rao also demanded the State government to prioritise vaccination of the hotel staff in coming days. Chandrshekar Hebbar, president of Karnataka State Hotels’ Association, said that after January, they had hoped situation would improve but in April everything got reversed. “We are facing an uncertain future and we do not know how many months it would take to get better. The State government should have at least considered the plight of people working in the hotel sector and given them some relief. We would have been happy, if they got something from the government that also did not happen,” he added.  Over 1 lakh people lost their jobs after closure of hotels. The State government did not come to our aid despite knowing the suffering of the industry. P.C. Rao, President of Bangalore Hotels’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-facing-uncertain-future-say-hotel-owners/article34610551.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Announce special economic package for private unaided school teachers, says Suresh Kumar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa urging him to declare a special economic package for teachers of private unaided schools. The move comes a day after the State government announced a relief package of Rs. 1,250 crore for those hit by the lockdown. Mr. Kumar said that thousands of private unaided educational institutions have been affected by the pandemic as they could not hold classes on campus. Parents, many of whom lost their jobs or took pay cuts, have also not been able to pay fees. These private unaided schools employ approximately two teaching and non-teaching staff, he stated in the letter. He also apprised the CM that many of them were working under the Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act 2005, scheme as they lost their jobs, while others were selling vegetables and fruits to earn a living. Teachers feel that they have been ignored by the State government. The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka has launched a movement where affected staff have been asked to call and message their MLCs asking them to resign as they are not doing anything to help them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/announce-special-economic-package-for-private-unaided-school-teachers-says-suresh-kumar/article34610554.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Campaign by anganwadi workers||Anganwadi workers and assistants held a Statewide online campaign on Thursday demanding that the State government fulfill their various issues. They demanded that they should be assured of facilities and security while deploying Anganwadi workers for COVID-19 duty. In a release, Karnataka Rajya Samyukta Anganwadi Noukararara Sangha president K. Somashekhar Yadagiri and State secretary Rama T.C. said that anganwadi workers who died of COVID-19 last year did not get suitable medical facilities and the the families of those workers who lost their lives were yet to get a compensation of Rs. 30 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campaign-by-anganwadi-workers/article34610548.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Accused give police the slip||The Amruthahalli police are on the lookout for three Nigerian nationals who allegedly attacked a Central Crime Branch police team and escaped while they were being arrested on the charge of online fraud Tuesday. The CCB team had arrested John Obodozie, Ibe Godstine and Okolosie Precious while investigating an online fraud case. They had allegedly created a fake website in the name of a well-known pharmacy and cheated customers hoping to purchase drugs such as Tocilizumab used to treat COVID-19 patients. The accused, posing as doctors, agreed to sell the injections after customers wired an advance to a bank account, which the CCB traced to one Mukesh Chand. They tracked the trio to a house at Kaveri Layout, Amruthahalli, and arrested them. However, while they were being escorted out, the accused attacked the police team and escaped by jumping into an adjacent building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accused-give-police-the-slip/article34610531.ece
21 May 2021||HASSAN,KARNATAKA||16 COVID-19 deaths||Hassan district reported 16 COVID-19 deaths 897 fresh cases on Thursday. Of the deaths, nine were from Hassan taluk, three from Channaraypatna taluk, two from Alur taluk and one each from Arkalgud and Arsikere taluks. With this, the toll went up to 883 and the total number of active cases to 68,861. So far, 54,845 have recovered and 13,133 are in treatment. Of these, 131 are in intensive care units. As many as 1,570 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 313 were reported from Hassan taluk, 127 from Arkalgud, 117 from Holenarasipur, 87 from Arsikere, 67 from Belur, 92 from Channarayapatna taluk, 50 from Sakleshpur, 39 from Alur taluk and six from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/16-covid-19-deaths/article34610561.ece
21 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad lauded for COVID-19 work||Lauding the Dharwad district administration for COVID control work, Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar on Thursday said that the district administration has carried out good work from the beginning to check the spread of the pandemic during the second wave. Speaking at an outdoor review meeting with district and nodal officials on COVID management, he said that being at the centre of North Karnataka, Dharwad district had taken effective steps through a team led by Deputy Commissioner in controlling the pandemic. The team in coordination with all stakeholders has carried out good work by utilising the available medical infrastructure and amenities through continuous efforts, he said and added that it [Dharwad] is among the best in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-lauded-for-covid-19-work/article34610564.ece
21 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||CII and YI donate medicine to KIMS||Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Young Indians (YI) as part of CSR initiative donated medicine, surgical and other items to Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Hospital on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cii-and-yi-donate-medicine-to-kims/article34610563.ece
21 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Full lockdown during weekend in Dharwad||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has issued an order announcing complete lockdown for two days from 6 a.m. on Saturday to 6 a.m. on Monday. Mr. Patil has said that barring emergency medical services, all shops and establishments will remain closed on both the days. And, shops selling fruits, vegetables and milk will be allowed to operate only between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/full-lockdown-during-weekend-in-dharwad/article34610567.ece
21 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||KKRDB releases funds for two oxygen containers||To fight COVID-19, the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board has extended financial assistance for infrastructure related to oxygen support in six districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region, Chairman of KKRDB Dattatreya Patil Revoor has said. Mr. Revoor said that the KKRDB has already released 50% funds for purchasing two oxygen containers — one for Bidar, Kalaburagi and Yadgir and the other for Raichur, Ballari and Koppal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kkrdb-releases-funds-for-two-oxygen-containers/article34610558.ece
21 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Treat local body members as warriors, govt. urged||Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari on Thursday urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to declare members of local bodies — gram panchayats and urban local bodies — as frontline COVID-19 warriors and arrange their inoculation against COVID-19 on priority basis. Submitting a memorandum to Mr. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru, Mr. Poojari said that there were over 95,000 members in more than 6,200 gram panchayats in the State and they were part of COVID-19 task forces at the panchayat level. These members are in regular contact with the general public visiting their houses thereby exposing themselves to the pandemic. Similar is the case with members of town panchayats, municipalities, city municipal councils and city corporations. Therefore, it is prudent to consider them COVID-19 warriors and administer vaccines to them on priority, the Minister said. Government approval is required to recruit additional 40 Arogya Mitra executives; permission to conduct RT-PCR tests at KVG Medical College, Sullia, to conduct sample tests from Puttur and Sullia taluks; empanelling KVG Medical College, Sullia, under AB-ARK Scheme; sanctioning cryogenic tanker for the district in view of shortage of oxygen; supplying 50,000 doses of Covaxin and one lakh doses of Covishield and appointing medical doctors and nurses on ad hoc basis. Mr. Poojari also urged Mr. Yediyurappa to immediately release Rs. 100 crore to the district from the Natural Disaster Relief Fund in view of the extensive damage to property caused by the cyclone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treat-local-body-members-as-warriors-govt-urged/article34610569.ece
21 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP demands probe into Congress toolkit row||Continuing to accuse the Congress of preparing a toolkit to destroy the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the country, the BJP on Thursday demanded an inquiry into the issue. Addressing presspersons here, chief spokesperson of the State BJP Capt. Ganesh Karnik said that investigating agencies should conduct a thorough probe into the toolkit controversy and the guilty should be punished. The Congress is desperate after losing Assembly elections in five States recently. Hence, he said, it has resorted to the toolkit model of damaging the reputation of the country and the Prime Minister in handling COVID-19-related issues. The Congress is trying to create fear among people in the country as far as handling of COVID-19 matters is concerned by instructing its volunteers to use the term “Modi strain” or “Indian strain” for the mutant variant during the second wave, Capt. Karnik said. The spokesperson said that the Congress which ruled the country for long did not create enough health infrastructure facilities on par with the population of the country. Now, it is blaming the BJP-led Union government for lack of medical facilities, he added. Capt. Karnik said that the Congress has joined hands in a conspiracy to tarnish the image of the country in the international level by exaggerating cremation of bodies of COVID-19 victims. “It is a part of the Congress eco-system and the toolkit model of conspiracy,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-demands-probe-into-congress-toolkit-row/article34610571.ece
21 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two Blue Flag beaches in State being restored||The two Blue Flag certified beaches in the State, one at Kasarakod in Uttara Kannada and the other at Padubidri in Udupi district, which bore the brunt of cyclone Tauktae with their infrastructure getting damaged, are being restored now. According to official estimates, if Padubidri beach suffered a damage worth Rs. 25.85 lakh, the damage at Kasarakod beach, near Honnavar, has been estimated at Rs. 36,000. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha told The Hindu on Thursday that he visited the Padubidri beach on Wednesday. Restoration works have begun. “We have completed 50% of the works. The remaining will be completed in another seven days. Later, the beach will be kept ready,” he said. Mr. Jagadeesha said that major works comprised removal of sand accumulated but the damage is not a major one. Assistant Director of Tourism, Udupi, Somashekara B.K. said that 10 LED light poles with foundation, eight stainless steel bins with foundation, parking area, garden, electrical underground cable, pipelines have been damaged in Padubidri. The damaged protection wall near the parking area and pitching in the parking area are being restored to an extent of 150 m and 300 m, respectively. The parking area will have to be repaired/restored up to 300 m. And, 360 sq m of garden area will have to be restored. The electrical underground cable and pipelines will have to be re-installed to an extent of 300 m each, he said. Deputy Director, Tourism, Uttara Kannada, Purushottam S. said that two electrical poles, a CCTV camera, pathway, a signage board and dustbins have been damaged. “The restoration works will be completed by Thursday night,” he said. The two beaches are among eight in the country that bagged the coveted Blue Flag eco-label from an international agency, Foundation for Environment Education, Denmark, last year. According to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, a Blue Flag beach is an eco-tourism model to provide tourists clean and hygienic bathing water, facilities, safe and healthy environment and sustainable development of the area. Certification is based on 33 stringent criteria under environmental education and information, bathing water quality, environment management and conservation and safety and services in beaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-blue-flag-beaches-in-state-being-restored/article34610573.ece
21 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Discrepancies in number of deaths in Mysuru||A total of 136 COVID-19 deaths were reported in Mysuru between May 1 and 19 this year, as per the Mysuru district COVID-19 war room. But, if you go by the COVID-19 funeral team, constituted by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), more than 650 persons were laid to rest in accordance with the government protocol in this period. The report from COVID-19 war room showed that deaths in Mysuru city since the beginning of pandemic increased from 967 on April 30 this year to 1,103 on May 19, which translates to 136 deaths during May. An official in Birth and Death Records Department of MCC, who is overseeing COVID-19 funerals in the city, said the number of deaths had shot up sharply in May. Estimating that an average of 30 deaths had taken place every day, the official said anywhere between 400 to 440 people had died due to COVID-19 in the city in the first 15 days of May. He, however, said he did not have the “exact figures”. But, Ayub Ahmedji, a social worker handling unclaimed bodies for several years in Mysuru, who is now working with the funeral team constituted by MCC, told The Hindu that they had performed last rites of 666 bodies since May 1. “I have maintained a record of each body handled by the team. While April saw 321 deaths, May has seen a total of 666 till May 19,” he said. Endorsing the estimate of the official from the Birth and Death Records that an average of 30 deaths were taking place every day, Mr. Ayub said the highest number of deaths recorded by them was on May 9 when 48 people had died. The lowest number during the month was recorded on May 1 with 23 deaths, he said. Meanwhile, MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag said the official records documented the COVID-19 deaths taking place in hospitals till the 10th day after testing positive. In addition, the civic body’s funeral team is also handling the deaths of COVID-19 patients in home isolation, many of whom may not have subjected themselves to a test and hence, slipped out of the records. Another reason for the higher numbers could be arrival of bodies from other parts of the district. Bodies have even come from Bengaluru. “Though we prefer to keep it for the city’s population so that we can handle death management better, we are not sending anyone back,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discrepancies-in-number-of-deaths-in-mysuru/article34610544.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Muzrai temple priests to get food kit worth up to Rs. 1,500||The Commissioner Muzrai and Endowment Department has been directed to provide food kits worth up to Rs. 1,500 to priests and other staff of ‘C’ grade temples of the Department by utilising funds and foodgrain available at ‘A’ grade temples in different districts. Following a petition from priests of Muzrai temples seeking COVID-19 relief, Minister for Backward Classes and Muzrai and Endowment Kota Srinivas Poojari issued an order directing the commissioner to make arrangements to provide food kits to priests and other staff of ‘C’ grade temples, which have not been earning revenue. About 50,000 priests and staff expected to benefit from the scheme. Temples across the State have been closed following lockdown. The Minister wrote to the Finance Department to release Rs. 33.45 crore for payment of ‘tasdik’, monthly allowances, to priests of 27,000 Muzrai temples for May, June and July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muzrai-temple-priests-to-get-food-kit-worth-up-to-rs-1500/article34610542.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 548 deaths reported in Karnataka||Karnataka reported as many as 548 COVID-19 deaths on Thursday, on a day when the number of new cases was 28,869. While there is a marked reduction from the 30,000 odd cases the State has been reporting in the last few days, deaths are a matter of concern. The case fatality rate stood at 1.89%, while the positivity rate was 23.91%. The total number of people who have lost their lives due to the pandemic rose to 23,854, and the total number of cases to 23,35,524. The number of the active cases in the State now stands at 5,34,954. A total of 52,257 people were discharged, taking the total number to 17,76,695. Testing statistics The number of tests continued to be around the 1.2 lakh mark. However, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said on Thursday: “There is no point in hiding the statistics. We are conducting more than 1.25 lakh tests every day. We are working to further increase the number and get the report within 24 hours.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-548-deaths-reported-in-karnataka/article34610537.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Chamarajanagar deaths: Immediate relief of Rs. 2 lakh to next of kin||The State government on Thursday told the High Court of Karnataka that it will immediately give Rs. 2 lakh each to the kin of the 24 people who died of oxygen shortage at Chamarajanagar district hospital early this month. The State Advocate-General made this submission before a Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar in response to the court’s earlier direction to the government to consider ad hoc payment of compensation. The Bench had asked the government on paying ad hoc compensation as a State-level COVID-19 monitoring committee, comprising two retired judges of the High Court, of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority in its report had said that oxygen shortage was the cause for the death. The report had also pointed out lapses by the district and hospital administration in timely procurement of oxygen. While directing the government to immediately release compensation to eligible families, the Bench said that it would consider at a later stage the issue of adequacy of compensation and whether only 24 people died due to oxygen shortage. Oxygen supply Meanwhile, the Bench directed the State government to submit data on requirement of oxygen and how much of the oxygen allocated by the Centre had been procured by the State. Also, the Bench said the government will have to create buffer stock of oxygen in every district as per the Supreme Court’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chamarajanagar-deaths-immediate-relief-of-rs-2-lakh-to-next-of-kin/article34610540.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Decision today on lockdown||Earlier, during the meeting after giving suggestions on the lockdown, members of Agricultural Produce Market Committee urged the Ministers to take steps for timely distribution of seeds and fertilizer to farmers during the lockdown. Apart from Mr. Shettar, MLAs Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and Arvind Bellad, MLC Pradeep Shettar, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil , Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B. Susheela and others were present. Mr. Joshi and Mr. Shettar subsequently handed over to the district administration 51 oxygen concentrators of 10 litre capacity donated by MICL under CSR initiative and 100 empty cylinders for refilling oxygen. Mr. Nitesh Patil, who received them, said that they would be allocated to different taluks based on demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-today-on-lockdown/article34610566.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bommai warns of stricter action, vehicle seizure||A total of 1,205 vehicles seized on Thursday for violating lockdown rules.According to the police, 1,074 two-wheelers, 64 autorikshaws, and 67 four-wheelers were seized. The police also booked seven cases against shops for operating during the lockdown. However, many people objected to the police action and cited harassment. When Police Commissioner Kamal Pant tweeted about the number of seizures on his Twitter handle, people pointed out that a majority of the seized vehicles were two-wheelers, which usually belong to lower middle class people who need them to earn a living. The Home Minister’s announcement on strict action also elicited comments on social media. Many users asked if the police had taken action against Mr. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra, who allegedly violated the lockdown rules on Tuesday when he visited Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud. Some Twitter users asked if his visit was treated as an emergency, while others wanted to know if his vehicle had been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-warns-of-stricter-action-vehicle-seizure/article34610522.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fun on the road||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fun-on-the-road/article34610524.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Clinic sealed for flouting guidelines||The Hassan taluk administration, on Thursday, closed down a clinic at Shantigrama in Hassan taluk on charges of flouting guidelines under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act (KPME Act). A team of officers led by taluk health officer Vijay Kumar and tahsildar Shivashankarappa ordered for closure of Hasanamba clinic after a surprise visit. AYUSH doctor The clinic was run by Manoj Sharma, an AYUSH doctor. He was treating patients with influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness without getting their swabs tested for COVID-19. He had not displayed certificates of his educational qualification and the system of medicine he was practising. He had also not displayed the agreement with any private agency to dispose of medical wastes as per the KPME Act. The officers found that he was prescribing allopathy medicine to patients, against the guidelines. Considering these factors, the taluk health officer and the tahsildar got the clinic locked up and sealed. The doors were closed and the lock was sealed. The officers said they would submit a report to the Deputy Commissioner for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clinic-sealed-for-flouting-guidelines/article34610574.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Theatre activist M.G. Venkatesh dies of COVID-19||Senior theatre activist and union leader M.G. Venkatesh, 68, succumbed to COVID-19 on Thursday. He had been battling the disease and related complications for nearly a month now. Mr. Venkatesh was identified with the theatre group Samudaya for over three decades and also served as its State secretary for 10 years. He had recently translated Sudhanva Deshpande’s biography of Safdar Hashmi “Halla Bol” into Kannada. Mr. Venkatesh had a long career as an auditor and retired as senior audit officer at the office of Principal Director, Post and Telecommunication Audit, Bengaluru. He was also a union leader in the Central government services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theatre-activist-mg-venkatesh-dies-of-covid-19/article34610547.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Jab for frontline workers in 18-44 age group from May 22||The vaccination drive to cover frontline workers in the age group of 18 to 44 will begin on May 22, according to a release from the National Health Mission. The government has expanded the term of ‘frontline worker’ to include more professions. On Wednesday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa declared people supplying LPG cylinders, teachers, and electricity linemen as frontline workers. Earlier, he had also termed journalists as frontline workers. A release, on Thursday, said the implementing officers for the drive will be the BBMP Chief Commissioner for BBMP areas and DCs in the districts. Vaccines purchased by the government will be administered to the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jab-for-frontline-workers-in-18-44-age-group-from-may-22/article34610538.ece
21 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Duck deaths trigger panic in Kuttanad||The death of ducks in Kuttanad has triggered panic among farmers. According to Animal Husbandry Department officials, around 1,200 ducks/ducklings were found dead in Thalavady, near Edathua, on Thursday morning. The majority of the dead ducks belonged to two farmers, K.V. Varghese and Zacharia Geevarghese. They put the number of dead ducks at 2,000. Officials said samples had been sent to the Avian Disease Diagnostic Laboratory at Thiruvalla for testing. “We are closely monitoring the situation. The cause of death could only be ascertained after receiving the examination results,” said an official. Earlier this year, bird flu caused by the H5N8 strain of the Influenza A virus was detected from six places in Kuttanad at Nedumudi, Thakazhi, Pallippad, Karuvatta, and Kainakary in Alappuzha district and Neendoor in Kottayam district. Culled More than 80,000 birds, mostly ducks, died or were culled in the two districts due to the outbreak. It was the third outbreak of avian influenza in the region in the last seven years. In 2014, thousands of ducks had perished or had been culled in the region following a highly infectious bird flu outbreak caused by H5N1 virus. In 2016, avian influenza caused by the H5N8 virus was detected among ducks in Kuttanad. Besides, the region also witnessed mass duck deaths in recent years due to bacterial infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duck-deaths-trigger-panic-in-kuttanad/article34611060.ece
21 May 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha registers 2,462 cases, curbs in more wards in Kottayam||The district reported 2,462 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. It also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths. The fresh cases include 2,443 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission.The test positivity for the day stood at 25.85%. Among the 2,462 cases, 596 were logged from Alappuzha, 86 from Pathiyoor, 83 from Aroor, 68 from Nooranad, 66 from Cheruthana, 61 from Palamel, 59 from Kayamkulam, 57 Purakkad, and 52 Mararikulam South. Meanwhile, 2,214 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active caseload in the district stands at 21,271. In Kottayam As many as 1,826 persons tested positive in Kottayam on Thursday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 22.78%. Among the local bodies, Kottayam municipality led the tally with 261 cases, followed by TV Puram with 117 cases. As many as 2,502 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the active cases to 11,474. With the pandemic spread continuing unabated, authorities have extended the additional restrictions imposed on 40 local bodies to 358 more wards across 36 other local bodies. The police have initiated related steps in these areas.. Meanwhile, the TPR in Kumarakom panchayat, which hit a peak of 52.29% last week, dropped to below 40% mark on Wednesday. As on Wednesday, the TPR in four local bodies — Poonjar Thekkeklara , Maravanthuruth and Udayanapuram — stood over 40%. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, the number of fresh cases reported was 991. With 72 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality topped the chart, followed by Thiruvalla with 43 cases. Meanwhile, nine persons were reported dead due to COVID-19-related illness. With 1,677 recoveries during the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 14,524 active cases while 28,072 are under observation.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-registers-2462-cases-curbs-in-more-wards-in-kottayam/article34610623.ece
21 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Floral tributes paid to martyrs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Minister- designates from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] and the Communist Party of India (CPI) offered floral tributes to martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising on Thursday morning. Ahead of the swearing-in of the newly elected Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala in the evening, Mr. Vijayan, accompanied by his nominated Cabinet colleagues and Speaker-designate M.B. Rajesh, first visited the martyrs’ memorial at Vayalar in Alappuzha and paid their respects. Later, they paid tributes at the martyrs’ column at Valiyachudukadu in Punnapra. Paying homage to the martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar struggle prior to oath-taking has been a Communist tradition followed since the time of the first Communist government led by E.M.S. Namboothiripad in 1957. The revolt led by the undivided Communist Party of India is celebrated as one of the watershed events in the history of the communist movement in the State. It is named after two of the places involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/floral-tributes-paid-to-martyrs/article34611058.ece
21 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Minister visits areas hit by sea erosion||Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan on Thursday visited areas in the district ravaged by sea erosion and strong winds. Mr. Muraleedharan, accompanied by ADM Alex Joseph, people’s representatives, and various department officials, took stock of the situation at Arattupuzha, Nellanikkal, Alappuzha ESI, and Ottamassery. Heavy rain, coastal erosion, and strong winds that lashed the district recently left a trail of destruction. According to authorities preliminary loss due to the rain fury is pegged at Rs. 30 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-visits-areas-hit-by-sea-erosion/article34611061.ece
21 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Roshy a voice of settler farmers||Minister for Water Resources Roshy Augustine represents the Idukki Assembly constituency consisting mostly of settler farmers and his election success for the fifth time shows the strong links he has made with them. This time, he contested from the Left Democratic Front (LDF) as a representative of the Kerala Congress (M). He had a strong relationship with the party leadership and party founder K.M. Mani. After the split in the party, he got the second place within the party after chairman Jose K. Mani. “It is his strong bonds with the people that stood him in good stead in the elections. Anyone can approach him and he is always available to them,” says Joby Mathew, who runs a shop at Cheruthoni. “He has this amazing power to identify you in a crowd, if you are acquainted with him once,” he says. He is the lone Minister from Idukki in the Pinarayi 2.0 Cabinet after M.M. Mani of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in the previous term of the Left Democratic Front government. Mr. Augustine entered politics through the Kerala Students Congress(M), the students’ wing of the Kerala Congress(M). Mr. Augustine had always strived to protect the interests of settler farmers. In 2018 February, Mr. Augustine took out a rally from Idukki to Thiruvananthapuram raising farmers’ issues. In the 2018 floods, the Idukki constituency, including Cheruthoni, faced large-scale damage and his efforts in rebuilding the infrastructure were appreciated by the people. Rani, Mr. Augustine’s wife, is a nurse at the Regional Cancer Centre in Thiruvananthapuram and his children Ann Maria, Angel Maria, and Augustine are students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/roshy-a-voice-of-settler-farmers/article34611063.ece
21 May 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Action plan to vaccinate tribespeople in Wayanad||A meeting of senior officials of Health and Tribal Development departments chaired by Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla on Thursday chalked out an action plan to intensify vaccination drive against the spread of COVID-19 among tribespeople in Wayanad. The decision was taken in the wake of the rising number of COVID-19 cases among tribespeople in the district, Ms. Abdulla said after the meeting. The meeting decided to launch a special campaign for the purpose, Ms. Abdulla said. A six-day campaign will be launched in the three tribal development blocks in the district. Mobile vaccination units of the Health Department would visit tribal hamlets in each wards of the 25 local bodies in the district and administer vaccine to all members as part of the campaign, she said. The campaign would begin after getting sufficient stock of vaccine, and prior to it officials of the Arogya Keralam project would launch an awareness drive, ‘Gothra Raksha Varam’, among tribal communities.  Eight tribespeople have so far died of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-plan-to-vaccinate-tribespeople-in-wayanad/article34610665.ece
21 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Kottiyoor fest begins amid restrictions||Considered one of the biggest temple festivals in the Malabar region, the Vaisakha Mahotsavam at Kottiyoor temple commenced on Thursday in the absence of the public for the second consecutive year. Every year, the festival draws a huge crowd during the May-June period. But following the outbreak of the pandemic last year, restrictions were imposed on the conduct of the festival. With no respite in COVID-19 cases, the restrictions will continue this year as well. District Collector T.V. Subhash issued an order permitting the conduct of the Vaisakha Mahotsavam and related rituals by following stringent norms and regulations laid down by the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottiyoor-fest-begins-amid-restrictions/article34610662.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two consortiums in the race again for Brahmapuram plant||The waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at Brahmapuram here is likely to get a push again with the formation of the new Cabinet, as the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) has shortlisted two consortiums after evaluation of technical and financial bids. The KSIDC had re-floated tenders in January for the centralised plant of 300 tonnes per day capacity to be set up on public-private partnership (PPP) mode on 20 acres in the Kochi Corporation’s solid waste treatment facility at Brahmapuram. “We have completed evaluation of technical and financial bids and submitted it to the government for follow-up action,” KSIDC officials said. Tenders were re-floated after one of the two consortiums that had submitted technical and financial bids in the initial round had failed to qualify as per the evaluation done by an expert committee constituted by the government. The committee found that the consortium did not meet the minimum eligibility requirement as prescribed in the request for proposal issued by the KSIDC. In such a scenario, a re-tender has to be initiated, and fresh bids have to be invited, according to an order issued by the Finance Department. The WTE plant will have production capacity of 5 MW for the Ernakulam cluster of local bodies. The cluster comprises the Kochi Corporation and municipalities including Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Kalamassery, Eloor, Maradu, Aluva, Perumbavoor, Angamaly, North Paravur, Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Piravom, and Koothattukulam. The firm to be chosen for the execution of the project in 20 acres will have powers to mortgage leasehold rights over the said area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-consortiums-in-the-race-again-for-brahmapuram-plant/article34610683.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,682 COVID care beds available in Ernakulam||As many as 2,682 beds dedicated for COVID-19 care are available in Ernakulam, according to the district administration. Currently, 2,414 persons are undergoing COVID-19 treatment in hospitals in the district. There are 2,332 beds available for patients at domiciliary care centres, where 820 persons are currently undergoing treatment. As many as 63 such centres were set up in the district, said the communication. The district on Thursday recorded 3,336 new cases of COVID-19 and 4,418 recoveries. Test positivity rate in the district came down to 21.9% and a fresh set of 15,231 samples has been sent for testing. Till Wednesday, 9,47,085 people have received the COVID-19 vaccine in the district. While 6,39,986 people received the jab from government hospitals, 3,07,099 got it from private hospitals. The data released by the administration showed that 7,27,654 persons received the first dose and 2,19,431 got both doses. As many as 1,33,587 health workers and 80,693 COVID front-line workers were also given the vaccine. In the 18-44 age group, 3,123 persons were vaccinated while the number was 2,51,020 in the 45-60 age group. In the above-60-years age category, 4,78,662 persons were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2682-covid-care-beds-available-in-ernakulam/article34610673.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Online fraud on the rise during lockdown in State||Earlier this month, a Kochi-based budding filmmaker placed an order for a chair that he thought would be comfortable for his binge-watching of movies during the lockdown. He came across an attractive offer on a seemingly reliable and verified site through Facebook and paid Rs. 1,200 via Google Pay. But there was no response thereafter for weeks. He then returned to the site, only to find a torrent of negative comments calling out the fraud. He called a helpline number on the site and a person speaking in Haryanvi dialect attended. “He said that the product was no longer available and promised a refund. He gave me a mobile number and forwarded a suspicious-looking message that he wanted me to send to that number, which I felt was another ploy to cheat me,” said the filmmaker. Internet bots According to Rahul Sasi, a cybersecurity expert, the incident is a classic ploy to hack into one’s Unified Payments Interface (UPI) account. “The moment that message is sent, the UPI id of the sender gets linked to the mobile phone of the recipient, allowing the person free access to the former’s account. A person’s UPI id is already linked to his or her mobile number,” he said. Mr. Sasi warned those carrying out online payments to be on guard against internet bots programmed to take over bank accounts surreptitiously. The fraud could be tried out in the name of popular apps to instil trust, he said. With Kerala in complete lockdown and shopping mostly restricted to the virtual world, online frauds seem to be on an uptick. While hacking into UPI accounts needs some effort and planning, far simpler frauds are doing the rounds. “Creating fake Facebook accounts of persons and sending SOS to their contacts seeking financial assistance citing emergencies are rampant. It is easy money even if only a fraction of the targeted victims fall for it. The fake account will look almost real except for some minor changes,” said Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Manoj Abraham, nodal officer of Kerala Police Cyberdome. The police are undertaking awareness campaigns to help people avoid falling prey to such frauds. Cyber frauds are even being committed in the garb of appeals for donations to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund towards the ‘vaccine challenge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-fraud-on-the-rise-during-lockdown/article34610677.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Oxygen tanker returns to Kochi from Jharkhand||One of the three tankers forcibly taken over by the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) under the Disaster Management Act returned to Kochi with liquified oxygen from Jharkhand on Thursday morning. The tankers had been seized by the department on May 8. The tanker was filled with liquified oxygen at the Tata Steel plant in Jharkhand. It arrived at Cochin Air Products owned by the Cochin Shipyard at 7.30 a.m. after covering over 2,400 km. The tanker broke down at Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh but resumed the journey in eight hours. Three trained drivers of the KSRTC and an assistant motor vehicle inspector were aboard the tanker. Though the tankers were originally scheduled to be air-lifted to the supply point from the Kochi airport on May 14, the departure had to be deferred by a day to the Air Force port in Coimbatore on account of the inclement weather here. The tanker was examined at the plant before it was filled with liquified oxygen and left for Kochi on May 17 at 2 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oxygen-tanker-returns-to-kochi-from-jharkhand/article34610680.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||O2 transport sees high octane drama||The transportation of liquified medical oxygen (LMO) from a steel plant at Burnpur, a township at Asansol in Paschim Bardhaman district in West Bengal, to Kochi on Thursday morning marked the successful culmination of a dramatic sequence of events spearheaded by the Kerala Motor Vehicles Department (MVD). En route to Kochi, attempts were allegedly made in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh to usurp nine kilolitres of LMO stored in the tanker, leading to tension. “We were asked to give up oxygen with a promise to replace them. However, our men resolutely defended. They took the key of the tanker and contacted the District Collector and the State Transport Commissioner. Eventually, the police intervened, facilitating the onward journey,” said B. Shefiq, Joint Regional Transport Officer(RTO), Tripunithura, who was in charge of the mission. The journey was marred by obstacles as the tanker engine stuttered to a halt at Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh, leading to a delay of eight hours. In fact, the drama began to unfold with the seizure of three tankers after the multinational company that owned them and deployed for transportation of Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) for the Kochi-based Petronet LNG declined to surrender them citing internationally accepted technical standards. However, the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) granted an exemption in view of the prevailing oxygen shortage paving the way for the seizure of the tankers on a directive of District Collector S. Suhas. Technical process However, converting the tankers into a form fit for transporting oxygen called for a costly technical process called “purging,” which involved multiple rounds of circulation of nitrogen to strip them of the hydrocarbon presence. “Petronet LNG bore the cost of Rs. 15 lakh- Rs. 5 lakh for each tanker out of its CSR funds. Once purging was done, the standard operating procedure called for clearance of the tanker by an external agency and an engineering firm based in Hyderabad did it at a reduced rate of Rs. 40,000 per tanker as against the original fee of Rs. 75,000,” Mr. Shefiq said. “A MVD team then went about making hose, nozzles, and couplings for facilitating the filling of oxygen in the tankers,” said Mr. Shefiq. Later, a committee involving the Transport Secretary and the Transport Commissioner decided to airlift the tankers and the first of the tanker was airlifted from Coimbatore on May 15. A crew of nine KSRTC drivers and an assistant motor vehicle inspector was also sent alongside. The drivers were given a day-long specialised training in operating the tanker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/o2-transport-sees-high-octane-drama/article34610671.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Illegal waste dumping goes unchecked in 3 municipalities||Waste dumps on roadsides have become a common sight in Kalamassery, Thrikkakara and Eloor municipalities, according to an assessment by the Department of Local Self Governments. The gaps in the waste management scenario came to light during the performance audit of local bodies in April. The secretaries and ruling councils in Kalamassery, Thrikkakara and Eloor municipalities have been told to act tough against those involved in dumping of waste in the open. The civic bodies came under the scanner of the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on solid waste and the State Pollution Control Board (PCB) following their failure to comply with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The PCB had slapped a penalty of Rs. 2.77 crore as environment compensation on the Kalamassery Municipality for non-compliance. Only a section of waste generated in the three civic bodies was disposed of as per rules. The municipalities had also failed to ensure bioremediation or capping of old and abandoned dumping sites. The authorities should have identified suitable sites for setting up solid waste processing facilities, besides procuring sanitary landfill facilities, according to the board. The assessment found that the lack of surveillance had enabled violators to go scot free. In their response, officials of the civic bodies claimed that wayside dumping was common, especially at night hours. The Department of Local Self Governments has asked the civic bodies to submit an action-taken report on illegal waste dumping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-waste-dumping-goes-unchecked-in-3-municipalities/article34610681.ece
21 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Curbs on movement hit smooth flow of tea consignments||The tea industry in the State has largely avoided big disruptions in garden and factory operations with strict COVID-19 protocol in place, but restrictions on the movement of personnel have tended to unsettle the smooth flow of consignments. Appu Kurien, chairman of the Tea Trade Association of Cochin, said though the tea industry was exempted from the purview of the lockdown, there were instances in which workers manning sales and auctions were prevented from reaching their workplaces. It was apparently due to the lack of ground-level communication, he said, adding that tea auctions had not faced any disruption so far. Tea auction, earlier slated for Tuesday, was postponed to Wednesday as the tea business sought permission from the district authorities. Subsequently, auctions were held on Wednesday and Thursday.  Banks’ functioning He said there was a serious problem with the functioning of banks being scheduled for Monday, Wednesday and Friday as part of the lockdown protocol, whereas businesses and shops opened on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. When the shops were open, the banks were closed, he said. COVID protocol Tea Board executive director M. Balaji said the board had issued elaborate guidelines on following the COVID-19 protocol to avoid spread in gardens and factories. He said the Tea Board would take advantage of social media platforms to spread awareness as World Tea Day was celebrated on Friday. Sources in the Association of Planters of Kerala (APK) said there had not been any major disruptions in garden-level operations though sometimes micro containment zones, created to contain the spread of COVID-19, had some impact. But they have not been a major issue. It is estimated that there are around 1.1 lakh to 1.2 lakh workers in the tea sector in the State, including workers from other States. Strict steps were taken to control the movement of people in and out of garden areas and workers’ residential areas, he added. Mr. Kurien said the tea market had been bullish and large-scale procurement of tea by Kerala and Tamil Nadu governments, which were supplying essentials to people either free or at subsidised rates, had seen tea prices going up even on Thursday’s auctions in Kochi, where about 12 lakh kg was sold. APK sources said with demand for Kerala tea was buoyant in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries and Iran, it was geopolitical instability that was more of a threat to the industry than the pandemic. He pointed to the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict as an example of possible source of business disruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-on-movement-hit-smooth-flow-of-tea-consignments/article34610621.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Digital, physical filing of pleas to continue at HC||Physical and e-filing of petitions will continue simultaneously in the Kerala High Court. The decision was taken after representatives of a section of lawyers took up the issue with the High Court. They lawyers, who sought time for shifting to the digital mode, wanted more training sessions to be organised for themselves and their clerks. The shift to the digital mode would be possible only after putting in place the required infrastructure and providing training for lawyers and clerks, said Joseph John, chairman of the Bar Council of Kerala. As the responsibility of e-filing was on the lawyers and their clerks, it should have been implemented only after consultations with them. However, the Bar was kept in the dark, said Mr. John in a representation to the Chief Justice. The hassles pertaining to e-filing, which was introduced in the commercial courts earlier, remained unresolved. There were several loopholes in the e-filing rules, which were prepared without sufficient understanding of the issues faced by the Bar, as per the representation. Judicial sources indicated that the State would have to move to e-filing eventually, which would be beneficial to the public and the lawyers. Benefits listed e-filing had not been introduced in trial courts of the State. Once fully into e-filing, lawyers need not travel to courts to file applications. They would be able to move petitions to the courts from office or home. The cases thus filed would be automatically segregated and moved to the dashboard of the judges concerned without delay. The lawyers may check the status of the case from the dashboards, sources said. Once orders were passed, the digitally signed orders would be delivered instantly to the lawyers. One need not come to the court to collect orders. The directions issued by the courts could be implemented without delay, they said. e-filing system was in place for bail applications in the High Court. It could be extended to other matters too. The training module has been uploaded on YouTube, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-physical-filing-of-pleas-to-continue-at-hc/article34611017.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court to look into CB complaint against ED||The Ernakulam Principal Sessions Court will look into the merit of the complaint filed by the Crime Branch (CB) against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials for allegedly forcing some of the accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case to name the Kerala Chief Minister in the smuggling case. D. Suresh Kumar, the First Additional Sessions Judge who is holding the charge of the Principal Sessions Court, passed the order for inquiry under Section 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) on Wednesday. Preliminary inquiry The court will carry out a preliminary inquiry to find out whether there is merit in the complaint. If the court finds merit in the complaint, it would be forwarded to the Chief Judicial Magistrate having jurisdiction to book a case, judicial sources said. The court can order an inquiry on an application filed before it or otherwise when it is of the opinion that it is expedient in the interest of justice to carry out an inquiry into any offence, which is listed under the Section 195 of the CrPC, has been committed, the sources pointed out. The case The Crime Branch approached the Ernakulam court after being instructed by the High Court, which considered a petition moved by P. Radhakrishnan, the Additional Director of the ED, seeking to quash the First Information Report filed in the case. The investigation agency has submitted a set of documents, including some investigation reports, which were submitted in sealed covers before the Principal Sessions Court. Statements submitted The statements of independent witnesses, including police officials, women constables and the statements of Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, the two accused in the case, were also submitted before the court. The documents also included the statements of some witnesses implicating the ED officials in the case. Incidentally, the Crime Branch booked the case at a time when electioneering was at its peak in the State and the ED extending its probe to new sectors, including the SNC-Lavalin case, in which the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was earlier discharged by a trial court. The CBI appeal against the discharge is pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-to-look-into-cb-complaint-against-ed/article34611020.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Archdiocesan mouthpiece slams Central, State govts||Hospitals overflowing with COVID-19 patients, continuously engaged crematoriums and long queues for oxygen cylinders must be recognised as crimes against humanity, said an editorial in Sathya Deepam , the mouthpiece of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Syrian Catholic Archdiocese. The May 26th issue of the publication questioned the Narendra Modi government as to whether it stood with the people because it had not listened to pleas for efficient use of the PM CARES fund and the Rs. 35,000 crore set aside in the Budget for COVID-19 fight. The publication also slammed the second Pinarayi Vijayan-led government for holding a swearing-in ceremony with a large number of people in attendance while the government was prescribing restrictions on public functions like burials to contain the pandemic. While the ordinary people were buried with 20 people in attendance, VIPs were exempted. Similarly, the swearing-in ceremony could have been conducted as a simple ceremony in the Raj Bhavan, the editorial said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/archdiocesan-mouthpiece-slams-central-state-govts/article34610676.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rectify anomalies in marks policy: CBSE schools||The Kerala CBSE School Managements’ Association has urged the Union Education Minister to rectify the disparity and deficiencies noticed by the school authorities in the policy for assessment and tabulation of marks for Class 10 students, whose examinations have been cancelled in view of the pandemic crisis. It will lead to injustice and cause hardship to students who are completing studies in Class 10 this year. As per the guidelines, the subject-wise marks to be assessed for the year 2020-21 should be within a range +/-2 marks in the subjects in the reference year (previous year). However, the overall average marks for the school assessed in 2020-21 “for all the five main subjects should not exceed the overall average marks obtained by the school in the reference year,” it said. “If this guideline is to be implemented, hardworking students in Class 10 will suffer the consequences of lesser marks and grades on the basis of the average marks in the previous year for no fault of theirs,” said T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president of the association. Teachers’ discretion “Many students were facing problems as their performance in the model examination and other exams conducted by the school was much higher than the average marks to be awarded to them on the basis of the guideline. Hence the Central Board of Secondary Education may be directed to amend the above policy by providing discretion to the teachers, who are continuously assessing the students right from the start of the academic year,” Mr. Khan said in a letter to Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rectify-anomalies-in-marks-policy-cbse-schools/article34610619.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Collector briefs PM||District Collector S. Suhas on Thursday briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the good practices being followed by Ernakulam district and Kerala in general in managing the second wave of COVID-19. In a videoconferencing that Mr. Modi held with six districts from different parts of the country, Mr. Suhas told him how the district could maintain a testing rate of 4,500 per million population, how a case fatality rate of 0.2% was achieved and how the district set up an oxygen war room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-briefs-pm/article34610678.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Extend interim orders, bails till May 31: HC||A full Bench of the Kerala High Court has ordered that all the interim orders passed by all the courts and tribunals in the State which are due to expire during the lockdown period be extended up to May 31. The court also extended till May 31 the interim bails, including the ones granted to undertrial/remand prisoners, in connection with offences fetching seven years or less punishment. The court also ordered if the lockdown was extended beyond May 31, the interim bails would continue till the extended period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/extend-interim-orders-bails-till-may-31-hc/article34611018.ece
21 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Malabar pins hopes on new Ministers||Like in the previous term, Malabar has secured a good representation in the second Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. With new ministers and shuffled portfolios, more needs to be done for infrastructure development, Information Technology (IT) and Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES) and tourism sectors. Excluding Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who handles the IT portfolio among other departments, the north Kerala region will have six ministers. A.K .Saseendran (Forest and Wildlife) and K. Krishnankutty (Electricity) were colleagues in the former Cabinet. A fresh face, M.V. Govindan, who has been allotted Excise and Local Self-Government portfolios, is from Kannur district. Kozhikode has three ministers — P.A. Mohammed Riyas (Public Works and Tourism) A.K. Saseendran and Ahamed Devarkovil (Port, Museum, Archaeology and Archives). The lone Minister from Malappuram district is V. Abdurahiman (Minority Welfare, Wakf, Non-Resident Keralites Affairs, and Sports). Mr. Krishnankutty represents Palakkad district. The infrastructure development of Kozhikode, which remains as a hub for north Kerala, is one of the crucial factors to spur growth in the region. The focus will be on the two cyberparks, one in the government sector and the other managed by Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) in Kozhikode. More importantly, a healthy ecosystem needs to be maintained. This include the expansion plans of the Calicut International Airport and the pending widening of the 28-km stretch of the Kozhikode bypass. The Public Works Department will also have to focus on the Rs. 658-crore two-lane tunnel road project linking Kozhikode and Wayanad. The Rs. 2,775-crore Light Metro proposed for Kozhikode city and the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu road widening project should also get priority. The State government needs to explore more possibilities for the development of the Malabar Cruise Tourism Project. The existing water-based thematic cruise projects offered minimal requirements. The focus should be on development of basic infrastructure facilities such as restaurants, food courts, open-air theatres, parking, handicraft kiosks and biotoilets. The ambitious West Coast Canal project aimed at boosting backwater tourism has not taken off as expected in north Kerala. Another is the expansion of shipping operations in ports. This needs to be looked into with renewed interest. Beypore, Ponnani and Azheekal ports have great potential for high-end cargo handling apart from harbour development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malabar-pins-hopes-on-new-ministers/article34610670.ece
21 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) weighs options on new district panchayat president||The Communist Party of India ( Marxist) [CPI-M] is weighing its options about the new Kozhikode district panchayat president after MLA-designate Kanathil Jameela resigned from the post. Ms. Jameela won from the Koyilandy Assembly constituency in a keenly-fought contest, defeating Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) general secretary N. Subramanian by a margin of over 8,000 votes. Reserved for women Now with the post of Kozhikode district panchayat president, which has been reserved for women, falling vacant, the CPI(M) leadership will have to scout for either an incumbent member or wait till the completion of the bypoll at the Nanmanda division from where Ms. Jameela won in the three-tier local body elections held in December 2020. After the local body polls, the CPI(M) did not have to think twice to choose Ms. Jameela for the post for the second time. She was the president of the district panchayat from 2010-2015. However, the situation is different now. Eligible claimants Either the party will have to choose incumbent members — Sheeja Sasi or K.V. Reena, both heading the Standing Committees on Development and Public Works respectively — or bring in another leader, preferably K.K. Lathika, former legislator of Kuttiyadi, to contest the bypoll from Nanmanda, sources said. Ms. Sasi was a former president of Chakkittapara local body while Ms. Reena was a former president of Thodannur block panchayat. Both are eligible claimants to the post. But then Ms. Lathika, who was denied the ticket to the Assembly polls, would be left out from electorally represented bodies. At present, the charge of the district panchayat president would be temporarily held by vice president M.P. Sivanandan, who won from Arikkulam division. Brute majority The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which the CPI(M) leads, has a brute majority in the panchayat with 18 seats in the 27-member council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-weighs-options-on-new-district-panchayat-president/article34610660.ece
21 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||More tests in government hospitals to arrest TPR||Kozhikode has become one of the first districts in Kerala to ramp up the frequency and the number of COVID-19 lab tests in government hospitals in a bid to streamline the detection of daily test positivity rate (TPR) of the infection. The effort would also help detect patients with the Indian strain of SARS-CoV-2 or its variants. According to sources in the Health Department, all community health centres have been asked to conduct at least 100 RT-PCR tests and 75 antigen tests every day. District hospital, general hospital, the hospital for women and children and taluk hospitals should conduct 150 RT-PCR and antigen tests daily. The Government Medical College Hospital should hold 500 tests each, and the Institute of Maternal and Child Health attached to it has to conduct 300 tests. The Institute of Chest Diseases is required conduct 150 tests and the Government Dermatology Hospital, 50 antigen and RT-PCR tests each. Family health centres and primary health centres should conduct 100 RT-PCR and antigen tests twice a week. Fluctuating TPR The sources said that at least some of these institutions, especially those in the rural areas, used to conduct the tests only on alternate days or twice a week. This led to fluctuating daily TPR being reported from these places. The sources said that right now, the TPR and the number of cases are high in the border areas of the district. Panangad, Kottoor, and Kakkodi grama panchayats recorded a daily TPR of 34% on Thursday. Azhiyoor, Perumanna, Olavanna, and Onchiyam too had a TPR of 30% and above. With the high number of COVID-19 cases being reported from some of the rural pockets, the Health Department wanted a clear picture on the daily TPR to contain the infection. Along with increasing the number of tests, the district-level expert committee has decided to keep symptomatic people under surveillance. Triple lockdown could be enforced if the figure crosses 40%. A senior official pointed out that holding the tests daily in major healthcare institutions would be helpful to the people. “This will reduce crowding outside testing centres. People, especially those who are symptomatic or who are suspected to have the infection, may not have to wait either. Thus, it could reduce the chances of them spreading infection to others,” he said. To strengthen the surveillance, it would be better to have daily tests in PHCs and FHCs as well, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-tests-in-government-hospitals-to-arrest-tpr/article34610666.ece
21 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||COVID-19 graph plateauing in Kozhikode; 3,823 recover||The daily COVID-19 case graph seems to be plateauing in Kozhikode district if the data released by the Health Department are any indication. A daily test positivity rate (TPR) of 20.03% was recorded here on Thursday and 2,207 new cases were reported. According to the District Medical Officer, 3,823 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload further dropped to 31,745. As many as 11,734 samples were tested. Of the total fresh cases, 2,125 were due to local transmission of the infection, and the source of 78 others was not known. In Thrissur There were 2,231 fresh cases in the district on Thursday while 7,332 patients recovered from the pandemic. The test positivity rate on the day was 20.86%. Three local bodies in the district had the TPR higher than 50% on Thursday. The local bodies with high TPR were: Punnayur (53.27); Kadangode (50.63) and Poomangalam (54.84). So far, 2,14,403 COVID-19 cases were reported from the district and 1,82,686 people have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-graph-plateauing-in-kozhikode-3823-recover/article34610661.ece
21 May 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||30 local bodies in Palakkad declared containment zones||The district administration will restrict the movement of people in 30 local bodies, including two municipalities, from Friday in view of increasing COVID-19 cases. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi, who is the chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority, has ordered containment of the following local bodies after they reported more than 10 per cent test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19: Cherpulassery and Chittur-Thathamangalam municipalities, Agali, Alanallur, Chalissery, Erumayur, Eruthempathy, Kanjirapuzha, Kottopadam, Kumaramputhur, Kuthanur, Lakkidi-Perur, Mathur, Mundur, Nellaya, Nelliyampathy, Nenmara, Parali, Pattanchery, Perumatty, Polpully, Pookkottukavu, Puthukkode, Puthuppariyaram, Sreekrishnapuram, Thachanattukara, Thrikkadeeri, Vadakarappathy, Vadavannur, and Vandazhi panchayats. Ms. Joshi has asked the station house officers of the respective police stations to work in tandem with the panchayat and municipal authorities to ensure closure of entries and exits from those local bodies. Only one entry and one exit will be allowed from those panchayats and municipalities. Volunteers of rapid response teams will work to ensure that all families within the containment zones get food, groceries and medicines. People in those areas were advised not to venture out for anything other than medical care and essential services. No relaxation in lockdown will be given in those areas. Shops dealing in grocery and other essential goods will be allowed to function from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. Only home delivery will be allowed, said an official press statement here on Thursday. As many as 257 cases of COVID-19 protocol violation were reported in inspections carried out by sectoral magistrates in Palakkad on Wednesday. Thirty-nine sectoral magistrates were involved in the inspections. Cases were registered against people for disobeying rules of physical distancing, wearing masks, sanitising hands, crowding, spitting in public, and working of shops after the specified time. As many as 154 cases were registered in Palakkad on Wednesday in inspections conducted by the police. When 191 people were arrested, 112 vehicles were seized. As many as 625 people were fined for not wearing masks in public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-local-bodies-in-palakkad-declared-containment-zones/article34610668.ece
21 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital logs 3,969 new cases||The district’s COVID-19 caseload rose by 3,969 on Tuesday. The number of active cases is 22,448, with 5,512 recovering from the illness in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 24.58% when 16,146 people were tested. The death toll rose by 33 to touch 1,342. The deaths, which occurred between May 6 and 18, were of people who were aged between 35 and 87. The district has a case fatality ratio of 0.62. The district administration placed 5,906 people in quarantine, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 92,426. As many as 7,728 people were permitted to conclude quarantine on the day. A total of 259 cases were registered in the district for COVID-19 violations. These included 135 registered under the Thiruvananthapuram Rural limits and 124 in the capital city. Provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 were invoked against 89 people. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police seized 357 vehicles and registered cases against 41 people for violating quarantine norms. Mayor lauds donations Contributions of medicines and COVID-19 prevention materials by organisations and individuals to the city Corporation’s COVID-19 control room have been a huge help, Mayor Arya Rajendran has said. Employees of Government Model Lower Primary School, Thycaud, handed over medicines and other material to the tune of Rs. 45,000. The University of Kerala campus unit of the All Kerala Research Scholars’ Association; Communist Party of India (Marxist) Chenthitta local committee; and Kerala Medical and Sales Representatives Association also handed over medicines and materials to the control room, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-3969-new-cases/article34610627.ece
21 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New LDF govt. promises to eradicate poverty||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has laid out an ambitious plan to eradicate poverty, improve health care, create basic infrastructure, provide housing, stop mortgage evictions, mitigate unemployment, modernise higher education and tangibly elevate the State’s living standards to that of developed nations within the next five years. The legacy Speaking to newspersons after chairing the meeting of the new Cabinet here on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan pointedly invoked the political and social welfare legacy of the 1957 E.M.S. government. He underscored the new Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s commitment to insulate the State from the arguably anti-minority Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). He said the new government was moored to the foundational principles of secularism and socialism enshrined in the constitution. It would uphold renaissance values and gender justice. He laid particular stress on the welfare of marginalised sections of society. The Cabinet tasked the Local Self-Government Secretary to conduct a State-wide survey to gauge poverty and identify the factors that caused privation. The report would pave the way for a pushy government initiative to wipe out deprivation for good, Mr. Vijayan said. For banks Mr. Vijayan proposed a law to stop banks from expelling residents out of their homes for defaulting on their loan payments. A panel headed by the Additional Chief Secretaries of Finance and Planning and a legal expert would examine the matter and submit their recommendation before July 15. He promised to expand the social safety net to cover domestic workers and homemakers and reduce their workload by introducing smart kitchens. A scheme to employ 20 lakh educated youth was underway. Government services would reach home online from October 2. A panel of IT experts headed by the IT Secretary would finalise the scheme. The administration would expedite e-office and e-file projects. Single window system The Cabinet established a single-window system to clear projects as part of the Industries Department’s “ease of doing business” initiative. It also proposed legislation to give legal teeth to the Grievances Redressal Committee to inspire confidence in potential investors. The government recommended Governor Arif Mohammad Khan to convene the first session of the new Assembly on June 24 and 25. It decided to nominate P.T. Raheem, MLA, as the Protem Speaker. Appointments The Cabinet appointed senior High Court lawyers K. Gopalakrishna Kurup and T.A. Shaji as the State’s Advocate General and Director General of Prosecutions respectively. The government named V.K. Ramachandran as the State Planning Board vice chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-ldf-govt-promises-to-eradicate-poverty/article34611031.ece
21 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre grants Rs. 451 crore as Jal Jeevan share for Kerala||The Centre has sanctioned Rs. 451.14 crore as its share for the implementation of the rural water supply initiative Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in Kerala during 2021-22. The money is meant to implement JJM for providing functional household tap connection to rural households, and for water quality monitoring and surveillance activities, the Ministry of Jal Shakti said in a May 13 order. Rs. 902.29 cr. initially The amount forms the first instalment of the Central share for the implementation of JJM in the State, the State Water Resources Department said on Saturday. Kerala is implementing JJM works to the tune of Rs. 902.29 crore in the first stage. As per the guidelines for the Central initiative, which envisions tap connections to all rural households, the Centre and State share the costs 50:50. Part of the amount has been earmarked for providing connections to Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe communities in the State, the department said. For SC communities, Rs. 63.47 crore has been set apart and for the ST category consumers, Rs. 11.29 crore. The Ministry has noted priority should be given to ongoing/completed schemes of the erstwhile National Rural Drinking Water Programme that can be retrofitted/augmented to provide piped water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-grants-rs-451-crore-as-jal-jeevan-share-for-kerala/article34611016.ece
21 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Despite curbs, bursts of warmth at ceremony||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sprang a surprise to the Minister-designates and the invited guests at the Central Stadium by reaching out to them before the swearing-in ceremony. The Chief Minister, who arrived with his wife Kamala and grandson Ishan to the venue at around 2.45 p.m, watched the video album Navageethanjali by 52 leading musicians played on the 140-ft giant video wall behind the flower-bedecked podium of the huge pandal. Kerala’s achievements during the rule of various Left front governments since the formation of the first government in 1957 was chronicled through the video album directed by T.K. Rajeev Kumar and based on the theme ‘Randaamoozham’ (second chance). Singers including K.J. Yesudas, Hariharan, Sankar Mahadevan, Amjad Ali Khan, P. Jayachandran, K.S. Chitra, Sujatha, Shweta and M.G. Sreekumar, besides music composer A.R. Rahman and actor Mohan Lal participated in the programme. The presentation was done by film actor Mammooty. Around 3.15 p.m. when the album ended, Mr. Vijayan rose from his seat and walked from the first row meeting the Minister-designates, their families, legislators and members of the outgoing Cabinet, religious heads, former Chief Secretaries, police and Defence officials and mediapersons. Subaida, a 60-year-old woman from Kollam, who made headlines after she sold her goats to raise money for the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief fund (CMDRF) last year, was among the guests specially invited. She was all smiles on Thursday after witnessing the swearing-in function along with the kith and kin. Mr. Vijayan waved at those in the back rows as he had to rush to receive the Governor who arrived at the venue around 3.25 p.m. for the swearing-in. The shadow of the COVID-induced lockdown and triple lockdown in the capital was reflected in the ceremony. The customary floral bouquet by the Governor to those swearing in was confined to the Chief Minister. LDF workers, family members of Ministers and legislators watched the function on TV. The stadium can accommodate several thousands and in 2016 over 40,000 people had gathered there for the then swearing-in function. Chief Secretary V.P. Joy had issued a special order allowing the conduct of the swearing-in function in the presence of 500 invitees, exempting the event from the triple lockdown restrictions. Tamil Nadu Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu and West Bengal MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar attended the ceremony at the invitation of the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-curbs-bursts-of-warmth-at-ceremony/article34611024.ece
21 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cases go down, but fatalities show a spike in State||The State reported 30,491 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 1,31,525 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate has been remaining steady around 23% for the past three days and registered 23.18%. The case graph seems to be stabilising and the State should now expect a prolonged plateau before the graph begins to decline. The current lockdown seems to be helping to slow down the spread of the virus. Public health experts are now suggesting a continuation of restrictions till the new cases and hospitalisations show a significant decline. The active case pool is now declining steadily. With 44,369 recoveries, the active case pool has 3,17,850 patients. However, hospital admissions are not going down at the same pace, indicating that the recovery period is prolonged. Hospital admissions On Thursday, 3,972 persons were newly admitted to hospitals. The total number of hospitalised cases showed a slight decline for the first time in several weeks, from 40,199 on Wednesday to 38,685 on Thursday. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients, in both public and private hospitals, went up to 3,972, up from the figure of 3,883 the previous day, while the number of those on ventilator support went up from 1,510 to 1,523. The State’s case graph had peaked on May 12 and as expected, a week later, COVID deaths are beginning to spike. The State added 128 new deaths to the official list, taking the cumulative fatalities to 6,852. These are not deaths reported in the past 24 hours but which occurred over the past few days. Thiruvananthapuram district has the maximum number of patients in hospitals at 5,929. Since weeks, an average of 600 patients have been getting newly admitted to hospitals daily in the district. Ernakulam has the highest number of active cases at 50,539, with 4,855 in hospitals. In both districts, hospitalisations continue to go up. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 22,63,959 cases. The total number of recoveries till date is 19,38,887. Most in Malappuram Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 4,746, Thiruvananthapuram 3,969, Ernakulam 3,336, Kollam 2,639, Palakkad 2,560, Alappuzha 2,462, Thrissur 2,231, Kozhikode 2,207, Kottayam 1,826, Kannur 1,433, Pathanamthitta 991, Idukki 846, Kasaragod 728 and Wayanad 517.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-go-down-but-fatalities-show-a-spike-in-state/article34611027.ece
21 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 730.22 cr. from CMDRF for COVID relief||A sum of Rs. 556.37 crore has reached the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) exclusively for COVID-19 relief work from the public so far and Rs. 730.22 crore has been allocated from the CMDRF for the purpose. Of the Rs. 556.37 crore received from March 27, 2020 from the public to the CMDRF, Rs. 45.05 crore was through electronic mode till 12 noon on May 18, 2021 and Rs. 511.32 crore through other modes of bank transactions till December 31, 2020. The highest allocation of Rs. 450 crore in two tranches of Rs. 350 crore and Rs. 100 crore was used for distribution of food grain and provision kits to ration card holders through the Civil Supplies Department and Supplyco. A sum of Rs. 147.82 crore was used for providing financial assistance to those in the BPL and AAY categories. Help for NoRKs The CMDRF also came in handy for providing financial assistance of Rs. 83.5 crore through NoRKA for Non-Resident Keralites who had to return to the State due to the pandemic. Kashmiri families in the State who were undertaking various businesses were given Rs. 5 lakh during the lockdown. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation was given Rs. 5 crore to offset the loss for operating the fleet adhering to physical distancing norms, Director of Health Services Rs. 36.3 crore for hospital management committees, and Rs. 1.09 crore for purchase of medicines through the Karunya Community Pharmacy. In all, the CMDRF’s total receipts as on date is Rs. 5,468.82 crore, including Rs. 4,912.45 crore during the floods of 2018 and 2019, and allotments Rs. 4,612.16 crore. On May 18, 2021 alone till 1 p.m, a sum of Rs. 6.22 lakh reached the CMDRF through various modes.  The CMDRF is an emergency assistance scheme for granting relief to deserving families and individuals affected by natural calamities or loss of life of relatives due to accidents or for treatment for major diseases. Though the fund is operated by the Finance Secretary, the CMDRF is administered by the Revenue (DRF) Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-73022-cr-from-cmdrf-for-covid-relief/article34610618.ece
21 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Private hospitals asked to install oxygen plants||The State government as issued orders asking all private hospitals in the State to install Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants of adequate quantity corresponding to their bed capacity “at the earliest”. Accordingly, the government has instructed hospitals with a bed capacity of up to 200 beds to have daily oxygen generation capacity of 500 LPM; those with 200 to 500 beds, 1,000 LPM and those hospitals with more than 500 beds to have a daily oxygen generation capacity of 2,000 LPM. The government has issued the order following a letter from the Union Health Ministry that oxygen generation plants which provide assured oxygen supply had become a critical need in hospitals to handle health emergencies during COVID time MOHFW had thus directed that all States to establish PSA oxygen generation plants in public health facilities as well as in the private hospitals It also urged the States to ask all private health facilities to establish such oxygen generation plants at the earliest. The State government has already directed the Kerala Medical Services Corporation Limited to procure 35 PSA oxygen generation plants and to establish them at the government hospitals in order to augment oxygen generation capacity in these institutions.  Order follows a letter from Centre that oxygen generation plants have become a critical need in hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-hospitals-asked-to-install-oxygen-plants/article34611028.ece
21 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PG admissions in Kerala University||The University of Kerala has invited applications for admissions to postgraduate programmes in its teaching departments during the 2021-22 academic year. The courses include MA, MSc, MTech, MSW, LLM, MEd, MCom Finance and Accounting, Global Business Operations and Rural Management, and MLISc. The deadline for submitting applications is May 31. The entrance examinations will be held from June 21 to 25. Details can be obtained from admissions.keralauniversity.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pg-admissions-in-kerala-university/article34610628.ece
21 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||First session of 15th Assembly on May 24||The Cabinet has recommended to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to convene the first session of the 15th Kerala Legislative Assembly on May 24. The first Cabinet that met on Thursday under Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also decided to recommend P.T.A. Rahim, legislator from Kunnamangalam, as the Pro-tem Speaker. The election of the Speaker is on May 25. CPI(M) legislator from Thrithala M.B. Rajesh has been selected for the post of the Speaker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-session-of-15th-assembly-on-may-24/article34611021.ece
21 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Corpn. disinfects Central Stadium||The city Corporation disinfected Central Stadium ahead of the swearing-in of the new Left Democratic Front government on Thursday. The Corporation health wing employees conducted the disinfection. The process of disinfection of public places would continue in the days to come, the Mayor said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-disinfects-central-stadium/article34610624.ece
21 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur gets first woman minister||Though there have been ministers and even chief ministers hailing from Thrissur earlier, this is the first time that the district is getting a woman minister. R. Bindu, Minister for Higher Education in the second Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, who was elected from Irinjalakuda constituency, is the first woman minister from the district. Wife of CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, Ms. Bindu was the first woman mayor of the Thrissur Corporation. She is also the first woman MLA from Irinjalakuda constituency. Ms. Bindu was vice principal and head of the department of English at Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur. She holds a doctorate in English literature. Born in a Communist family, she entered politics through the Students’ Federation of India. She is a central executive committee member of the All India Democratic Women’s Association and a member of the State Higher Education Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-gets-first-woman-minister/article34610664.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rescue staff lend a hand to Chellanam||Fire and Rescue Services personnel joined hands with residents of the coastal village of Chellanam as the latter returned home after four days of high waves and sea incursion that saw hundreds of houses get marooned. A communication from the district administration said that rescue personnel led by District Fire Officer A.S. Geoji started cleaning up homes around 9 a.m on Thursday, and the efforts lasted till 4 p.m. As many as 136 persons, including civil defence volunteers, were engaged in cleaning houses, health centres, and schools. The volunteers had also lined up 18,000 sacks filled with sand to be laid along the coast as a bulwark against further sea incursion and to enable people to use bylanes that were left with silt and slush washed up from the sea. Volunteers led by panchayat president K.D. Prasad also lent a helping hand. The rural police took the lead in supplying drinking water in Chellanam panchayat, which has been facing acute shortage of potable water. “Drinking water will be brought to the coastal village in the coming days too,” said District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. Health officials distributed medicines and gloves and cleaning materials to the residents. Meanwhile, there is no let-up in COVID-19 spread in Chellanam, which recorded nearly 56% test positivity rate (TPR) over the past one week. Health Department sources said of the 23 persons who were tested at a relief camp on Wednesday, 12 had turned positive for SARS-CoV-2. Chellanam continued to be among panchayats where the disease spread was high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rescue-staff-lend-a-hand-to-chellanam/article34610675.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||LDF govt. 2.0 takes guard||This is the third LDF Cabinet to be sworn in outside the Raj Bhavan. It was done when V.S. Achuthanandan-led government of the LDF assumed office in 2006 and later when the government under Mr. Vijayan assumed office in May 2016. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala telephoned Mr. Vijayan to congratulate him over the formation of the new Ministry. He said the UDF representatives would watch the swearing-in virtually in view of pandemic situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-govt-20-takes-guard/article34611032.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||All set to lead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-to-lead/article34611034.ece
21 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate in Anantapur shows a downward trend||The positivity rate of coronavirus infections in Anantapur district has shown a downward trend, with the figures in the past 24 hours ending 10 a.m. on Thursday plummeting to 25.36% from the peak of 45.01% on May 16. As many as 7,075 samples were tested during the last 24 hours, of which 1,794 were confirmed positive. Nine persons succumbed to the infection in the said period, pushing up the total deaths to 818. However, the number of active cases came down to 12,189 from the peak of 17,524 on May 17. Collector Gandham Chandrudu told The Hindu that the doctors at the Government General Hospital (GGH) were verifying the complaints pertaining to black fungus infection in the district, but it was yet to be confirmed. Meanwhile, the Kurnool district recorded 1178 new infections in the last 24 hours and seven patients died, taking the total toll to 657. The number of active cases was put at 7,415. The daily positivity rate which was 17.13% on April 24, when the night curfew was imposed, increased to 28.82% on May 1, when the trading community began partial lockdown by themselves. The rate was a bit lower at 24.97% on May 4, but increased to 45.01% on May 16. DMHO Y. Kameswara Prasad observed that the downward trend had begun and the curve was likely to flatten by May 30 as the number of discharges per day were increasing when compared to the number of people getting admitted to hospitals. On Thursday, 4,599 patients were discharged . As many as 2,469 patients were undergoing treatment in hospitals, with all 260 ICU and 1,554 oxygen-supported beds in government and private facilities occupied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positivity-rate-in-anantapur-shows-a-downward-trend/article34611090.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka HC slams ‘publicity interest’ pleas||Describing three separate PIL petitions by former Ministers on COVID-19 related issues as “publicity interest” petitions, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday declined to entertain the petitions by H.K. Patil and S.R. Patil, while disposing of another one by K.R. Ramesh Kumar. A Special Division Bench. comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravin Kumar. passed the order questioning them for knocking at the doors of the court, when they were in privileged positions to get their grievances redressed by the State government. All the three petitioners belong to the Congress. The Bench orally termed Mr. H.K. Patil’s petition, seeking direction to the government to take ISRO’s assistance to store oxygen, as “frivolous” and asked what had the petitioner done to set up oxygen plants in his district. As the Bench orally indicated that it would dismiss the petition with an exemplary cost, while giving option to his counsel to withdraw it, his counsel later withdrew the petition. On the petition by Mr. S.R. Patil, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, questioning action initiated by the government against private hospitals for admitting COVID-19 patients exceeding its capacity and for a minimum quantity of oxygen supply to private hospitals in Bagalkot district, the Bench asked how could he espouse the cause of private hospitals while asking him to give representation to the government. Though the Bench termed as “publicity interest” the one filed by Mr. Ramesh Kumar, it disposed of the petition by only directing the government to issue circular to all private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients for implementing Section 11(vi) of the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act. This provision, which mandates private hospitals to hand over, in the event of the death of a patient, the body immediately without insisting on prior payment of the dues and to recover amount from their representatives as per law, was included in the Act in 2018 when Mr. Ramesh Kumar was the Minister for Health, his counsel had pointed out. At one stage, the court also observed orally what had they been doing since the past 14 months. However, one counsel told the Bench that it was just a coincidence that all three petitions came up for hearing on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-hc-slams-publicity-interest-pleas/article34610427.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka Minister for stricter rules||With the Karnataka government expected to take a decision on extending the lockdown in the State in 2-3 days, Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday indicated that police and the Home Department will go for stricter enforcement of lockdown rules, including seizure of vehicles of those indulging in unnecessary movement, for controlling the pandemic. The State government had initially announced lockdown from April 27 to May 12 but later imposed a complete lockdown from 9 p.m. on May 10 to 6 a.m. on May 24. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said a decision on extending the lockdown would be taken on May 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-minister-for-stricter-rules/article34610426.ece
21 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New DMHO for Chittoor as COVID scene worsens||The Principal Secretary to Government (CH&FW) on Thursday issued orders posting U. Sreehari, Civil Surgeon Specialist, Joint director (Child Health Immunisation), as the new District Medical and Health Officer of Chittoor district. The appointment comes in the wake of alarming number of COVID cases in the district, which is inching closer to 1.7-lakh followed by 1,137 deaths. While Chittoor tops the State in the number of casualties, it ranks second when it comes to positive cases. On Thursday, the district recorded 3,185 new cases, the highest in the second wave, and 15 deaths. The officials said the positivity rate was also close to 35%, while the daily tests at present is yet to cross the 10,000-mark. Collector M. Hari Narayanan on Wednesday had to halt payment of salaries to staff in five key departments involved in the 6th phase of fever survey in Srikalahasti, Satyavedu, Tamballapalle, Madanapalle and Tamballapalle mandals. After the death of 11 patients due to interruption in the oxygen supply at SVRR Hospital in Tirupati on May 10, a fear gripped people and officials on COVID duty. Apart from the surge in the number patients going to COVID hospitals, vying for oxygen beds, the COVID Care Centres in the district are also filling up with patients. Though COVID hospitals are functioning at Madanapalle, Kuppam and Palamaner for the western mandals, in case of emergency, the patients admitted there have to be shifted to the State COVID hospital and its subsidiary units in Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-dmho-for-chittoor-as-covid-scene-worsens/article34611091.ece
21 May 2021||Guntur,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. wedded to welfare agenda despite pandemic’||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has saluted the frontline workers for their efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. “About 40% of India’s total COVID-19 deaths have occurred during the second wave of the pandemic,” Mr. Harichandan said during his virtual address to the joint session of the A.P. State Legislature before the start of the Budget session. The Governor said that the Andhra Pradesh government had shown great commitment in handling the pandemic during the first wave, and continued to do so in the second wave. Stating that the government had established 632 COVID hospitals with a total bed capacity of 46,056 and recruited 18,270 additional staff for handling the crisis. The government also brought 50% of beds in the private hospitals under the purview of the Aarogyasri scheme, he said. “Testing has been scaled up. Out of 1.80 crore samples tested so far, 14.54 lakh people tested positive. The tests done per million is 3.3 lakh against the national average of 2.2 lakh,” he said. The government had also shown its commitment in ensuring sufficient oxygen supplies by procuring cryogenic tankers from overseas. “The State has been allotted 590 tonnes of oxygen per day, which it is utilising to the full,” he added. Referring to the vaccination programme, he said, against the total population of 1.48 crore people covering health and frontline workers, and those above the age of 45, the first dose of vaccine had been administered to 53.28 lakh people and the second dose to 21.64 lakh people. Economic revival The Governor also praised the steps taken for economic revival. The advance estimates of the State’s economy for the year 2020-21 projected an overall growth rate of 1.58% against the nation’s growth rate of (-) 3.8% at current prices. The per capita income of the State moved up by 1.03% from Rs. 1.68 lakh in 2019-20 to Rs. 1.70 lakh in 2020-21. While stressing that the government had shown its commitment in fulfilling all promises and launching a string of welfare schemes, the Governor said that despite the adverse impact of COVID-19 on the economy, the government remained steadfast in its vow of ensuring inclusive governance and unwavering support to the welfare of the farmers, women, underprivileged, marginalised and vulnerable groups. Navaratnalu Navaratnalu, a unique holistic approach, had significantly improved the lives of the citizens, he said. “Implementation of welfare programmes through the village/ ward secretariat and the volunteer system has facilitated disbursal of financial assistance directly into the bank accounts of beneficiaries without leakages,” he said. The government had also announced the welfare calendar for the year 2021-22, enabling advance planning for delivery of all schemes, thereby exhaustively covering all the eligible beneficiaries. Quoting Mahatma Gandhi, the Governor said positive thoughts would enable people to speak positive words, and ultimately lead them to keep positive values. The Governor ended his speech by appealing to people safeguard themselves from COVID-19 by taking safety measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-wedded-to-welfare-agenda-despite-pandemic/article34611097.ece
21 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s GDP higher than the nation’s||The Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of Andhra Pradesh has increased by 1.58% even during the COVID-19 crisis, which is higher than the national GDP of -3.8%, according to the advanced estimates for the year 2020-2021 in the Socio-Economic Survey brought out by the Planning Department. The survey report was presented to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy by Planning Secretary G.S.R.K. Vijaya Kumar. SDGs ranking The survey revealed that the per capita income of the State increased to Rs. 1.70 lakh per annum against Rs. 1.68 lakh in 2019-20. The national per capita income for 2019-20 stood at Rs. 1.34 lakh per annum. The survey also revealed some interesting findings about the progress of the State in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The State improved its position from 4th to 3rd rank in 2019 in the the country. In the latest rankings of the NITI Aayog, the State secured first rank in two SDGs – Clean Water and Sanitation (Goal No. 6) and Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions (Goal No. 16 ). The State also secured third rank in Eradication of Poverty (Goal No. 1). Andhra Pradesh also secured the second rank in other SDGs – Good health (Goal No. 3), Decent Economic Growth (Goal No. 8), Climate Change (Goal No. 13), and Life Below Water (Goal No. 14). On the other hand, the long march towards achieving total literacy continues, as the literacy rate of the State stands at 67.35%, which was lower than the nation’s average of 72.98%. The State was able to achieve a marginal increase after a sustained effort in improving literacy. The schemes that helped achieve it were ‘Jagananna Amma Vodi’, under which the State provided a financial assistance of Rs. 6,673 crore, entailing a one-time assistance of Rs. 15,000 per year, to 44.50 lakh mothers; ‘Jagananna Vidya Kunuka’, under which learning material was distributed to 42.34 lakh students; and ‘Jagananna Gorumudda’, a revamped nutrition mid-day meal benefiting 36.88 lakh students. Schemes such as ‘Jagananna Vidya Deevena’ and ‘Vasathi Deevena’ helped students pursue quality higher education. Healthcare The State’s health system had been revamped under the YSR Aarogyasri, benefiting 1.44 crore families, whose annual income was below Rs. 5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-gdp-higher-than-the-nations/article34611098.ece
21 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen concentrators donated in Guntur||Hindustan Coca Cola Beverages handed over a batch of EverFlo oxygen concentrators to the Guntur district administration. The machines were imported from Germany and were handed over in the presence of Joint Collector A.S Dinesh Kumar, Deputy Director Social Welfare, Madhusudana Rao and Manager, District Industries Centre, AV Patel. The gesture is a part of the company’s nationwide COVID care plan, Kamlesh Sharma, Chief Public Affairs and Communication Officer, HCCB, said it was a privilege in being able to serve the community at a time when the country combats a crisis of enormous proportions. He also said that HCCB is also donating ventilators, ICU beds, ICU equipment, BiPAP machines and several other medical emergency amenities to several hospitals in Andhra Pradesh. Besides, the company started distributing dry ration kits to the poor and underprivileged. It is also sponsoring free beverages at vaccination centres and to frontline workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-concentrators-donated-in-guntur/article34610485.ece
21 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corporate firms’ relief work lauded||Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar has lauded the role of corporate firms in coming forward to donate relief materials in the time of pandemic. Mr. Kumar was addressing a meeting after donating oxygen concentrators and other relief material contributed by the Reliance Foundation, State Bank of India and Red Cross. The companies donated five oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 8 lakh, oxymeters, sanitisers and other kits at a programme held at Red Cross Blood Bank. He said that State government would soon appoint a committee to coordinate the relief work during the pandemic. Red Cross vice-chairman P. Ramachandra Raju, treasure Ravi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corporate-firms-relief-work-lauded/article34610486.ece
21 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||@TwitterSpaces turns COVID hub||There are announcements in the afternoon and by evening, the pink bubble on the Twitter app starts blinking. And it feels like an intimate interactive talk show as the speakers begin sharing their thoughts, concerns and plans. Sometimes choreographed, most of the times instantaneous. In the midst of the raging COVID-19 pandemic, Twitter Spaces has become the hub of activity. While Twitter appears like a war room with messages zipping about various medical needs and resources, Spaces has become a place to plan, strategise and calm nerves. “We are hosting an @TwitterSpaces session on vaccines. Bring your questions, we will get you answers. Joining details in the next tweet,” shared Sugandh Rakha, a techie who has created a verified resource site for people impacted by COVID-19. “Spaces has become a good place to listen and collate information instantly. After our session on vaccination we have created some FAQs which are being vetted by Dr. Aviral Vatsa and Dr. Umair. The questions asked by people helped us shape our dashboard,” says Mr. Rakha. The pandemic has been especially hard on volunteers as they are working hard but get a constant stream of tragic news. “A volunteer might have arranged a bed after three-hour struggle but by the time he/she informs the family, the attender tells them that the patient is dead. We have to address the mental health issues and Spaces is perfect vehicle for that,” says Mr. Rakha. “TwitterSpaces is like the new age radio to which am slowly warming up better than podcasts. You tune into a space which has an interesting conversation, listen and leave. Every night I open twitter and check what spaces convos are happening. I jump in to see what’s the conversation about...I jump out if it’s boring,” says Padmaja Konisetti, a communications professional. However, it’s the optional nature of interaction that is winning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/twitterspaces-turns-covid-hub/article34610996.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala HC seeks details of vaccine supply||The Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the Union government to inform about the total number of COVID-19 vaccines so far given to the State. The court also asked the State government to file a statement regarding the number of vaccines received from the Centre. The directive came on a public interest litigation seeking to bring the COVID-19 vaccines within the ambit of the National Vaccine Policy and Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) and follow the national vaccine policy norms. The petition also sought a directive to the Centre to allocate sufficient funds for procuring the vaccines for the State to vaccinate its population in time-bound manner. ‘One drug, one price’ The petitioner pointed out that the differential pricing for vaccine doses for the State governments and private players was directly in contravention of the “One Drug, One Price” practice followed till date in all successful immunisation campaigns. The liberalised strategy of vaccination would effectively deny free vaccination to persons in the18-45 age group. The State governments had to bear the burden of bringing these age group within the ambit of free vaccination programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-hc-seeks-details-of-vaccine-supply/article34610428.ece
21 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caregivers continue to serve in Israel||Keralite nurses have worked in some of the most dreaded battlegrounds for decades — from the first Gulf War to the current Israel-Hamas conflict. Anita Prakash, a 38-year-old Chalakudy native who works as a caregiver in the Bartym street near Tel Aviv in Israel, too has experienced things that cut deep and nearly took her life. Ever since the Israel-Hamas conflict broke out, she has spent days learning to care for herself too. “We have about 60 seconds to run for shelter once the air-raid siren rings, but ensuring the safety of my wheelchair-bound patient is almost impossible. In the latest phase, the siren keeps ringing so frequently at night that I can’t sleep any more,” she says. Ms. Prakash reached Israel in 2014. “My husband and two daughters are in Kerala and I have not seen my four-year-old younger child since she was three months old. I have to continue here as this country has helped my family repay bank loans and build a life on our own,” she said. While landing in Tel Aviv, did she have a clue about what she was in for? No. But reality dawned in the first few months. Soumya’s death On the recent death of Idukki native Soumya Santhosh in a Hamas rocket attack, she says: “Not just me, the whole Keralite caregiver fraternity is shocked. But considering the financial obligations many of us have back home, it is still worth taking the risk,” she added. Antony David, a 44-year-old Mannarkkad native, too finds a home loan default riskier than the rockets that light up the Israel night sky. He is the caregiver of a 20-year-old wheelchair-bound person in Savyon, an upscale municipality in Israel. “I came here in November 2013 and have never seen the conflict escalating to this level,” he said. It has been three years since he visited his family in Kerala though he does not appear that eager to return. Out of question “Even if the war intensifies, leaving this country is out of question as Israel has given me everything, including a new house. Likewise, the sector here has ensured the economic well-being of thousands of Keralites by helping them meet their financial obligations, right from education loan to home and personal loans,” added Mr. David. While official estimates suggest that about 11,000 Keralites are employed as caregivers across Israel, there appears to be a dearth of accurate data. Officials with NoRKA-Roots, a State government agency for Keralite expats, attributed this lacuna to the practical difficulties involved in collecting the data of people emigrating through different routes. NoRKA offer “Once they have a problem, they can approach us. We will support them through formal and informal interventions,” said Harikrishnan Namboothiri of NoRKA-Roots. Official sources, however, said the expats in Israel were much safer when compared to other countries that are in the grip of full-scale civil wars.  Even if the war intensifies, leaving Israel is out of question for many as the country has helped them build a life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caregivers-continue-to-serve-in-israel/article34610430.ece
21 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayurvedic medicines for COVID-19 put on hold||The Nellore district administration has suspended the distribution of ayurvedic medicine by a practitioner B. Anandaiah at Krishnapatnam village, pending a decision by the Ayush Department on the efficacy of the traditional system of medicine. Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said the distribution of herbal preparations would not be allowed as it is in violation of the COVID safety norms, even as preliminary findings by a seven-member district-level committee comprising AYUSH doctors and officials found nothing harmful in the preparations. “Further action will be taken by the Ayush Commissioner based upon the report of the AYUSH laboratory in Hyderabad to which the samples of the herbal preparations have been sent,” he said. Meanwhile, YSR Congress Party MLA from Sarvepalli Kakani Govardhan Reddy said that distribution of the herbal preparations, if provided free of cost, should be allowed as it was not a patented drug after taking necessary precautions to ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour by those thronging the village for relief. Immunity booster He suggested to the organisers to provide separate enclosures for serious and asymptomatic cases and those seeking it for its immunity boosting properties. The authorities should note that the alternative system of medicine had evolved over centuries, he added. Meanwhile, Mr. Anandaiah made the necessary arrangements for resuming the distribution of the herbal medicines in compliance with the COVID protocols as and when the authorities cleared the decks for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayurvedic-medicines-for-covid-19-put-on-hold/article34610487.ece
21 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. reports 12 deaths, 2,742 cases in a day||The single-day coronavirus infection tally and related deaths continued to rise in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh even as the recoveries improved a bit in the last 24 hours ending on 9 a.m. on Thursday. Twelve patients —seven in Prakasam district and five in Nellore district, succumbed to the infection during the period, taking the total toll to 1,470. The number of active cases rose to 41,332 as 2,742 persons tested positive during the period. With this, the cumulative tally crossed the 2.05-lakh mark. However, 1,945 patients were recovered from the infection during the period. Recovery count improves For the first time, the number of recoveries outnumbered fresh admissions by more than 200 in Nellore district in the last 24 hours. As many as 1,219 persons tested positive while 1,443 patients were recuperated during the period. In contrast, Prakasam district had three times more number of new cases when compared to recoveries. The district reported a single-day tally of 1,523 infection, while 502 patients were recovered during the period. Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu advised the patients to undergo treatment at COVID Care Centres (CCCs) instead of putting them in home isolation. THE COVID Care Centres are equipped to provide the advanced healthcare services including oxygen therapy, he said. The Collectors also exhorted the corporate sector to take a cue from Aurobindo Pharma Foundation which donated 50 oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 40 lakh to various COVID Care Centres being run with the support from firms like APGENCO, SHAR Centre, Krishnapatnam Port and etc. Meanwhile, Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar constituted a special cell to combat the virus by appointing 73 teams to effectively implement the COVID control measures at the grassroots level by roping in government school teachers. Vaccine for journalists The Collector urged all journalists to enrol their names with Information and Publicity Department in the next two days to get vaccine doses on a priority basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-reports-12-deaths-2742-cases-in-a-day/article34611093.ece
21 May 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Walayar mother to resume protest today||The mother of the two minor girls of Walayar who had been found hanging in mysterious circumstances four years ago will resume her agitation in front of her house at Attappallam, near here, on Friday. She has chosen to resume her agitation a day after the swearing-in of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, demanding punitive action against two police officers who had originally investigated the case four years ago. She alleged that the government was protecting police officers M.J. Sojan and P.C. Chacko, who, according to her, had been responsible for scuttling the case. Walayar Action Council chairman Vilayodi Venugopal and patron C.R. Neelakandan said here that the mother would take a pledge at 12 p.m. on Friday to carry on with her agitation until the two police officers are expelled from service. Members of the Walayar Action Council will also take the pledge online. The two minor sisters were found hanging in their house on different dates in 2017. While the elder sister was found dead on January 13, 2017, the younger sibling was found hanging from the same rafter of their house on March 4, 2017. The postmortem reports had found that the girls had been sexually abused, and raised doubts of murder. However, the police and the prosecution failed to get conviction for the accused in a POCSO court here, which set the accused free in a sensational judgement in October 2019. The exoneration of the accused, who had links with the ruling CPI(M), stirred up a wave of protests, and forced the government to go in appeal at the High Court seeking a reinvestigation. Following appeals by the government and the girls’ mother, the High Court ordered a reinvestigation, and later a CBI inquiry. The Walayar Action Council and the girls’ mother continued to insist on punitive action against the two police officers in spite of the CBI taking over the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/walayar-mother-to-resume-protest-today/article34610440.ece
21 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curfew violators get a novel punishment||Curfew violators were given a novel punishment in Srikakuam on Thursday. The youngsters who were moving around without a valid reason after 12 noon were directed to hold placards and sign boards at Surya Mahal junction, 7 Road junction and other places. Messages like ‘Please maintain social distance’, ‘Please use masks in public places’, ‘Don’t violate curfew rules’ were written on these boards. Circle Inspector Ambedkar told the media that the curfew violators would be asked to work along with police to control the spread of COVID-19 in the district headquarters. “The police are working very hard to implement curfew which is aimed at protecting the lives of people. But some are violating intentionally. This kind of punishment is given for the first time violators. Next time, we will book cases against them,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curfew-violators-get-a-novel-punishment/article34611114.ece
21 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone: Collector alerts officials||With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting that a low pressure system could be formed within the next 48 hours, holding the potential to intensify into a cyclone between the coast of West Bengal and Odisha in the next few days, Collector J. Nivas instructed the revenue, fisheries and agriculture officials to take the necessary steps to minimise the possible damage. In a press release, the Collector said that more rains were likely to occur in the district from May 22 (Saturday). He advised the farmers in all the coastal mandals to take all measures to protect their standing crops. The District Collector also directed revenue officials to remain alert for next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyclone-collector-alerts-officials/article34611111.ece
21 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LDF government begins new innings in Kerala||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government led by the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) Politburo member Pinarayi Vijayan assumed office after a 21-member Cabinet was sworn-in at the Central Stadium here on Thursday at a function under the shadow of COVID-19-induced lockdown. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan administered the oath of office and secrecy to Chief Minister-designate Mr. Vijayan and 20 members of his Cabinet at the stadium, located behind the Secretariat. Mr. Vijayan, who was sworn in as the Chief Minister for the second time was the first to take the oath, followed by K. Rajan of the Communist Party of India (CPI) and senior Ministers representing other parties in the LDF. The others followed in alphabetical order. The Cabinet members sworn in include M.V. Govindan, K. Radhakrishan, P. Rajeeve, K.N. Balagopal, V.N. Vasavan, V. Sivankutty, Saji Cheriyan, Veena George, P.A. Mohammed Riyas, R. Bindu (all from CPI-M); V. Abdurahman (CPI(M)-backed Independent); K. Rajan, P. Prasad, G.R. Anil and J. Chinchu Rani (all CPI); A.K. Saseendran (Nationalist Congress Party); K. Krishnankutty (Janata Dal-S); Roshy Augustine (Kerala Congress (M); Antony Raju (Janathipatya Kerala Congress); and Ahamed Daverkovil of the Indian National League. Oath-taking While 15 Ministers, including the Chief Minister, took a solemn pledge, five, including Mr. Augustine, Mr. Krishnankutty, Mr. Raju and Mrs. George, took it in the name of God, and Mr. Daverkovil in the name of Allah. Chief Secretary V. P. Joy presented the Minister-designates to the Governor. All except the 77-year-old Mr. Vijayan, Mr. Radhakrishnan, Mr. Krishnankutty and Mr. Saseendran are making their debut as Ministers. The youngest Minister is 44-year-old mediaperson-turned-politician Mrs. Gerorge This is the third LDF Cabinet to be sworn in outside the Raj Bhavan. It was done when V.S. Achuthanandan-led government of the LDF assumed office in 2006, and later when the government under Mr. Vijayan assumed office in May 2016. The 1 hour-20 minute-long function was held in accordance with COVID-19 protocol. Video album A video album “Navageethanjali” by 52 leading singers and musicians was played on the 140-feet giant video wall behind the podium before the ceremony commenced. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, party Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, CPI(M) acting Secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, CPI state Secretary Kanam Rajendran, leaders of LDF coalition partners, legislators, members of the outgoing Cabinet, religious heads, heads of religious organisations and top civil and defence officials were present at the ceremony.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Mr. Vijayan in a tweet for assuming charge for the second term. “Congratulations to Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on taking oath as CM and commencing his second term in office,” the Prime Minister tweeted. After the swearing-in, the Chief Minister and the Ministers assumed charge at the Secretariat and this was followed by the maiden Cabinet meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ldf-government-begins-new-innings-in-kerala/article34610432.ece
21 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nearly 700 dead in Karnataka and Kerala||Karnataka reported 548 COVID-19 deaths on Thursday, and 28,869 new cases. While there was a marked reduction in cases over the last few days, the deaths were a matter of concern. The case fatality rate stood at 1.89% and test positivity rate (TPR) at 23.91%. Andhra Pradesh and Kerala also reported a high number of deaths. Kerala reported 30,491 new cases on Thursday with a testing level of 1,31,525 samples and a TPR of 23.18%. With 44,369 recoveries, the active case pool was 3,17,850. But on Thursday, 3,972 persons were newly admitted to hospitals. The total number of hospitalised cases showed a slight decline after several weeks at 38,685. ICU admissions in both public and private hospitals, went up to 3,972, up from the figure of 3,883 the previous day. The State’s cases peaked on May 12 and a week later, COVID deaths were beginning to spike. The State added 128 new deaths from the last few days to the official list, taking cumulative fatalities to 6,852. Thiruvananthapuram district had the maximum number of patients in hospital at 5,929. Ernakulam had the highest number of active cases at 50,539, with 4,855 in hospitals. The cumulative case burden stood at 22,63,959. Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 4,746, Thiruvananthapuram 3,969, Ernakulam 3,336, Kollam 2,639, Palakkad 2,560, Alappuzha 2,462, Thrissur 2,231, Kozhikode 2,207, Kottayam 1,826, Kannur 1,433, Pathanamthitta 991, Idukki 846, Kasaragod 728 and Wayanad 517. Andhra Pradesh reported the highest single-day toll of 114 deaths and 22,610 new infections on Thursday. The overall toll touched 9,800 and cumulative cases were 15,21,142. Active cases reduced to 2,09,134. The daily TPR of 1,01,281 samples was 22.32%, showing a gradual decrease in the past five days. West Godavari reported 17 new deaths, the highest in a day, Chittoor 15, East Godavari, Guntur and Visakhapatnam 10 each, Anantapur and Vizianagaram nine each, Krishna eight, Kurnool and Prakasam seven each, Nellore and Srikakulam five each and Kadapa two. . Karnataka’s overall death toll rose to 23,854, and the total number of cases to 23,35,524. The number of active cases in the State stood at 5,34,954. Tamil Nadu’s daily tally of COVID-19 cases exceeded 35,000 on Thursday while the toll crossed 19,000 to touch 19,131 with the death of 397 persons. A total of 35,579 persons tested positive for SARS CoV-2 in the State, taking the overall tally to 17,34,804. Among the dead were two teenagers, a 13-year-old girl from Theni and 19-year-old boy from Villupuram. Both had no co-morbidities. The active cases continued to rise in the State with 2,63,390 persons under treatment.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearly-800-dead-in-karnataka-kerala-ap/article34610443.ece
21 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||No role in Cabinet formation, says Yechury||Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday scotched reports that the party’s central leadership was at odds with the State unit for not including former Health Minister K.K. Shailaja in the second Left Democratic Front (LDF) Ministry. “The question of who will be a candidate in the Assembly election and which elected candidate will serve as Minister in the government is solely in the domain of the respective State committee,” Mr. Yechury said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-role-in-cabinet-formation-says-yechury/article34610433.ece
21 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parinayotsavam begins at Tirumala||The three-day Sri Padmavati Parinayotsavam began at the Lord Venkateswara temple here on Thursday. The rituals, however, were performed in ‘ekantham’ (private) at the Kalyanotsava mandapam inside the temple in view of the second wave of coronavirus. The processional deities were brought on the Gaja Vahanam to the mandapam where the priests performed the rituals and Asthanam. The Tirumala Tirupati Devsthanams (TTD) had dispensed with the performance of certain post-noon sevas inside the temple in view of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parinayotsavam-begins-at-tirumala/article34611094.ece
21 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only 5,000 darshan tickets a day in June||The TTD has resolved to provide only 5,000 online tickets a day during June for darshan at the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala. The quota will be released at 9 a.m. on Friday on its official website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/only-5000-darshan-tickets-a-day-in-june/article34610488.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deaths due to COVID keep rising||The State reported the highest single-day toll of 114 deaths and 22,610 new infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The toll reached 9,800 and the cumulative tally crossed the 15 lakh mark and reached 15,21,142.   During the past five days, 1.09 lakh cases were reported, and in May so far 4.19 lakh infections were reported and 3.31 lakh patients recovered. The number of recoveries also crossed the 13-lakh mark and reached 13,02,208 as 23,098 patients have recovered in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 85.61% and the death rate was at 0.64%. The number of active cases slightly came down to 2,09,134.   The daily positivity rate of the 1,01,281 samples tested in the past day was 22.32%. The daily positivity rate is gradually decreasing in the past five days.  New deaths, infections The overall positivity rate of 1.83 crore samples was at 8.29% and in the past 20 days nearly 20 lakh samples were tested and 21.4% of them turned positive. West Godavari has again reported 17 new deaths, the highest in a day so far. It was followed by Chittoor which reported 15 new deaths. East Godavari, Guntur and Visakhapatnam reported 10 new deaths each while Anantapur and Vizianagaram reported nine new deaths each. Krishna reported eight and Kurnool and Prakasam reported seven deaths each. Nellore and Srikakulam reported five each and Kadapa reported two deaths. East Godavari reported 3,602 new infections and was followed by Chittoor (3,185), West Godavari (2,066), Visakhapatnam (1,984), Anantapur (1,794), Guntur (1,584), Prakasam (1,523), Srikakulam (1,517), Nellore (1,219), Kurnool (1,178), Krishna (1,084), Kadapa (989) and Vizianagaram (885). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,96,267), Chittoor (1,67,043), Guntur (1,39,278), West Godavari (1,27,138), Anantapur (1,23,243), Visakhapatnam (1,20,792), Nellore (1,08,582), Kurnool (1,04,681), Srikakulam (99,374), Prakasam (96,629), Kadapa (87,039),Krishna (80,293) and Vizianagaram (67,888).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deaths-due-to-covid-keep-rising/article34610484.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP slams Jagan in ‘mock Assembly’||The “mock Assembly” organised in virtual mode by the Telugu Desam Party on Thursday in protest against the government decision to conduct the Assembly Budget session only for one day, witnessed walk-outs by the Opposition party leaders. Accusing the YSRCP government of not doing enough to curb the spread of COVID-19, that had been claiming an increasing number of lives across the State, they said the “incoherent” policies of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government had compounded the woes of the people in the State. Due to insufficient stocks of medicines and vaccines, more than 22,600 people had died, while short supply of oxygen had led resulted in 110 deaths, they alleged. Moving an adjournment motion, they demanded that the government take up the burning issue of the prevailing pandemic. Setting aside the question and answer session for the day, a short discussion was taken up on the issue at the “mock” Assembly session. The leaders said due to “non-serious” approach of the government, the number of daily positive cases had touched 23,000 and an emerging problem of black fungus and a threat of third wave loomed large in the State. The TDP MLAs criticised Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for attending the Assembly session without wearing a face mask. Party leader D.B.V. Swamy, who enacted the role of the Speaker, “struggled to bring order in the House” as the leaders created a pandemonium, raising slogans against Mr. Jagan and his “misrule”. Drawing a comparison between him and his counterparts in other States, they said Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Stalin, in consultation with his political opponents, had announced Rs. 4,000 financial assistance to the white card holders and Telangana’s K. Chandrasekhar Rao had visited COVID-infected people in Gandhi Hospital, but Mr. Jagan was confined to his Tadepalli residence. MLAs Atchannaidu, Gorantla, Butchaiah Chowdary and Nimmala Ramanaidu accused the Chief Minister of “utter failure” in handling the pandemic and advised him to learn from his predecessor, N. Chandrababu Naidu, known for his ability to manage crises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-slams-jagan-in-mock-assembly/article34611103.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||UTF alleges raw deal to teachers||Leader of the A.P. United Teachers’ Federation (AP UTF) expressed disappointment with the Budget presented by Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy in the Assembly on Thursday. In a statement, its president N. Venkateswarlu and general secretary K.S.S. Prasad said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s assurances on repeal of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and implementation of an effective Pay Revision Commission (PRC) had not found any mention even in the third Budget presented by his government. ‘Dip in allocation’ They said the government’s claim that the education sector was its top priority did not reflect in its policies. They pointed to the fact that this year, 10.7% of the total Budget was allocated to the education sector against 11.4 % last year. Compared to the past, funds for schemes such as Jagananna Gorumudda and Amma Vodi had been increased, but there was substantial slash in the overall allocations. Also, there was no mention of setting up of new schools in the government sector, nor any proposal to appoint teachers, they pointed out. They said, to achieve 100% literacy, the government would have to increase budgetary allocation to the education sector. There was a need to start new schools and junior colleges in the government sector and fill the posts of education officers at the mandal and district levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/utf-alleges-raw-deal-to-teachers/article34611104.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mucormycosis treatment to be covered under Aarogyasri||The State government has issued an order for including the ‘Post-COVID Mucormycosis Management’ procedure under Aarogyasri considering it an epidemic disease due to the rising number of cases among patients after COVID recovery with uncontrolled diabetes, prolonged usage of high dose steroids and immunosuppressants. As per the G.O., the new procedure for the disease includes a 14-day stay of the patient in the hospital, where the disease is diagnosed and treated. As per the treatment protocol, patients are given IV antibiotics, IV fluids, Liposomal Amphotericin B or oral Posaconazole for two to three weeks based on clinical evaluation. Meanwhile, Health, Medical and Family Welfare Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal said that the State had placed an order for over 15,000 vials of medicine with three companies to treat mucormycosis in addition to the 1,650 allocated by the Centre. In a press conference on Wednesday, he said that it would cost up to Rs. 3 lakh per person to treat mucormycosis and the government had included the disease under the Aarogyasri scheme. He said information on black fungus was still being collected. The Health Department has notified 17 government and teaching hospitals across the State to treat the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mucormycosis-treatment-to-be-covered-under-aarogyasri/article34610491.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on welfare a welcome feature: CII||The Andhra Pradesh chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has hailed the annual State Budget for the financial year 2021-22 with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 2.29 lakh crore. In a statement on Thursday, its Chairman D. Tirupathi Raju said the government’s focus on welfare initiatives was a welcome step in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. Children Budget He said allocations made for welfare schemes would create demand for various goods and services. Referring to the Gender and Children Budget, with a greater focus on measurable outcome on the money spent for children and women, he called it a step in the right direction. The focus of Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) would benefit the farmers as they would function as farmer knowledge centres, he said, adding that the thrust on farm mechanisation would address the manpower shortage and enhance productivity. The introduction of Nadu-Nedu programme in the health sector to improve public healthcare and health infrastructure, he said, adding that health sub centres, PHCs, Community Health Centres, area hospitals, district hospitals and teaching hospitals were being upgraded both in terms of infrastructure and equipment as well as additional human resource.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-welfare-a-welcome-feature-cii/article34611102.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Budget allocation for women welfare hailed||Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi hailed the State budget as about 25% of it was allocated for the welfare of women. In a release on Thursday, Ms. Bhagya Lakshmi thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for making such huge allocations towards the development of women. She said that the Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department was also allocated Rs. 8,727 crore, which is 7.2% higher than the previous allocation. Regarding the fever survey, Ms. Bhagya Lakshmi said the fever survey covered 88.72% of the households in the city so far. Under 286 Ward Secretariats, as many as 2.65 households out of 2.99 households were surveyed and people with fever and other COVID related symptoms were identified. She appealed to the public to inform Ward Volunteers if they have a fever or any other symptoms and get tested immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/budget-allocation-for-women-welfare-hailed/article34610482.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP Ramakrishna Raju’s family meets LS Speaker||Narasapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju’s wife Rama Devi and son and daughter met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in New Delhi on Thursday and submitted a memorandum to him. They apprised Mr. Birla of the alleged vindictive attitude of the Andhra Pradesh government in registering a case under the Indian Penal Code on sedition charge against the MP. Ms. Rama Devi alleged that her husband was targeted by the government for criticising it and making comments on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. She expressed regret that Mr. Raju was roughed up in custody before he filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court for bail. But for the apex court order to shift the MP to Army Hospital in Secunderabad, he would have faced a lot of trouble, as the State government was hell bent on making him pay a price for exposing the irregularities in the implementation of various welfare schemes and for repeatedly taking a jibe at the Chief Minister in the process, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-ramakrishna-rajus-family-meets-ls-speaker/article34610438.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A pile of debts: Congress||The Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) has called the budget “destructive” and an act of “regression.” In a statement on Thursday, APCC president S. Sailajanath said the Rs. 2.30 lakh crore annual Budget for 2021-22 was nothing but a “pile of debts.” Barring Navaratnalu, no other welfare programme was sanctioned budgetary allocation. The Budget speaks of allocation of Rs. 1,000 crore to battle COVID-19 and Rs. 1,600 crore for purchase of vaccines, but was silent on funds needed for uninterrupted supply of oxygen and medicines, besides hospital management, he said. While the agriculture Budget was pegged at Rs. 68,000 crore, farmers were being denied remunerative price for their produce. Of the Rs. 4,000 crore expected to be released for payments to be made to AgriGold victims, only Rs. 200 crore was allocated. Though adequate allocations were made to the education and health sectors, it was not sure how much money the government would actually release from this, he said. He also took exception to non-allocation of budget for frontline warriors, who had been relentlessly serving the virus-hit population in the State without caring for their own lives. He demanded allocations for medical and municipal staff, and inclusion of journalists in the list of frontline warriors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-pile-of-debts-congress/article34611106.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tenders for e-buses placed for judicial preview||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has prepared tenders for induction of 350 AC electric buses sanctioned by the Department of Heavy Industries (DHI) and approved by the Government. Bids have been invited for procurement, maintenance and operation of the buses through the Gross Cost Contract (GCC) model under phase-II of the FAME India scheme. In a statement on Thursday, the RTC Executive Director (Engineering) said the tender documents are now in public domain of Judicial Preview website www.judicialpreview.ap.gov.in to invite objections/suggestions from the general public and intending bidders. Any objections or suggestions should be submitted to the Judge, Judicial Preview, B. Sivasankar Rao, within seven working days (by May 28) through the Judicial Preview website only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tenders-for-e-buses-placed-for-judicial-preview/article34610490.ece
21 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appropriation Bills passed||The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly passed the Appropriation Vote-on-Account Bill, 2021 and Appropriation Bills (No.2 and 3), 2021 by a voice vote on Thursday in the absence of TDP MLAs, who boycotted the Budget session in protest against the ‘unilateral and undemocratic’ decisions of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy tabled the three Bills required to meet the supplementary grants made by the Assembly for the year and supplementary expenditure charged on the State’s consolidated fund. The Assembly also passed AP Medical Education and Research Corporation Bill 2021, AP Survey and Boundaries Amendment Bill, 2021, AP Municipal Laws Amendment Bill, 2021 and AP Municipal Laws Second Amendment Bill, 2021 and has withdrawn the AP Electricity Duty Bill, 2015. The House adopted resolutions against the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and for changing the name of Orvakal Airport in Kurnool district as ‘Uyyalawada Narasimha Reddy Airport’. The Assembly was later adjourned sine die by Speaker Thammineni Seetharam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appropriation-bills-passed/article34611107.ece
21 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district reports 1,984 new COVID cases, 10 deaths||The district reported as many as 1,984 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 1,21,304 as on Thursday morning. As many as 1,662 persons affected with the coronavirus recovered after treatment. The total number of recoveries stands at 99,616. As many as 3,908 persons have recovered from the virus in the last 48 hours. Meanwhile, the death toll in the district has breached the 800-mark and stands at 809 after 10 more persons succumbed to the infection. As many as 41,388 infections were reported in the month so far. Similarly, the district also saw 198 deaths in these 20 days. The number of active cases stands at 20,879.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-reports-1984-new-covid-cases-10-deaths/article34611121.ece
21 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free food service launched||With a view to help the needy during the pandemic, a 30-day free food service activity was launched by Sri Sathya Sai City Seva Samithi from Sri Sathya Sai Prema Sadan mandir on May 19. The members have provided food and fruits to the attendants of the patients at VIMS hospital and Rani Chandramathi hospital, homeless people, police and sanitary staff and also those who are under home isolation, here on Thursday. Contact details Those who need food may contact P.R.S.N. Naidu (9440156966) and M. Srinivasa Rao (9848668589).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-food-service-launched/article34611122.ece
21 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parties, TUs hail resolution against privatisation of VSP||The resolution adopted unanimously in the State Assembly on Thursday, opposing the proposal of the Union Government to privatise the public sector Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), had come in for appreciation from political parties and trade unions. Though the Centre had initiated measures for privatisation of the VSP, the YSRCP government had been making efforts to prevent it, said MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had taken up the issue with the Centre on a number of occasions in the past, he added. Fulfilling the promise made to the trade union leaders, the resolution was passed, and this reflected the commitment of the government to save the steel plant, Mr. Satyanarayana said. B. Ganga Rao, CPI(M) corporator, hailed the government for adopting the resolution. He also opposed the proposal of the government to mobilise funds by listing the VSP in the stock exchange. The CPI(M) leader also asked the BJP-led government at the Centre to do a rethink on its decision to privatise VSP. In a separate statement, party district committee secretary K. Lokandham also hailed the resolution. CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy too welcomed it. INTUC leader Mantri Rajasekhar lauded the government for adopting the resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parties-tus-hail-resolution-against-privatisation-of-vsp/article34611109.ece
21 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Budget failed to cheer people of North Andhra, alleges forum||An analysis of the Budget, presented by the Finance Minister in the Assembly on Thursday, shows that it will not contribute to the development of North Andhra in any way, Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) general secretary A. Aja Sarma has said. In a statement, Mr. Sarma said that the allocations made under different heads show that the emphasis of the government was only implementation of welfare schemes and pleasing different communities. No efforts seem to have been made in improving incomes of people, which is reflected in the poor allocations. The Finance Minister has merely mentioned some of the water projects, which are already under implementation in north Andhra but failed to talk on Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi project, which is the lifeline for north Andhra, he said. There was no mention of the Taraka Rama Theertha Sagar and Jhanjavathi projects in Vizianagaram district. Though a mention was made on the importance of Mahendra Thanaya offshore project in Srikakulam district, the fact that no work was done on the project for several years and was ignored. There was also no mention of the pending Neradi project under Phase-2 of the Gotta Barrage, he said. Concept city Though a mention was made that fishing harbours would be constructed at Pudimadaka in Visakhapatnam district and Badagatlapalem in Srikakulam district, the fact that they would come up in public-private partnership (PPP) mode as part of the new Fishing Policy of the Centre, was suppressed. There was also no mention of the fishing jetty at Gangavaram Port, which was promised at the time of construction of the port, several years ago, Mr. Aja Sarma said.  The Finance Minister had announced that Visakhapatnam was one of the three places in the State, chosen for development of a concept city. He, however, said that it would come up in the private sector. There was no mention of the Visakhapatnam Metro Rail project. Though populist promises were made on eradication of poverty, hunger and sustained growth, they will not contribute to sustained growth in any way. The announcements made on investments in education, health, electricity, dairy farming, fishing and Bhogapuram Airport, had an embedded element of the privatisation policies of the Centre, Mr. Sarma noted. The deficit of over Rs. 37 crore in the Budget, warrants going for more loans and it would be detrimental to the interests of the State in the long run, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/budget-failed-to-cheer-people-of-north-andhra-alleges-forum/article34611116.ece
21 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mobile oxygen generation plants inaugurated||Mobile oxygen generation plants, termed ‘Oxygen on Wheels’ designed and developed by the Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, under the aegis of Eastern Naval Command (ENC), were inaugurated by Vice Admiral A.B. Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of ENC, on Friday.  Remote hospitals The Naval Dockyard technical team conceived and developed two plants each with 100 litres per minute capacity, designed to provide a direct feed to any hospital’s pipeline system. The plants, mounted on trailers, can easily be transported to remote hospitals and connected to the hospital’s fixed piping system to serve as the main feed for up to 16 beds. The system can also serve as a backup to prevent incidents of low oxygen pressure in the hospitals. Such a system has been conceived and implemented to support the State government’s efforts during ongoing crises, especially in smaller hospitals and in rural areas that may not have the requisite infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mobile-oxygen-generation-plants-inaugurated/article34611126.ece
21 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INS Rajput to be decommissioned today after 41 years of service||As the sun sets on Friday, the glorious era of one of India’s frontline warships will come to an end at the Naval Dockyard in Visakhapatnam. The first destroyer of the Indian Navy, INS Rajput, will be decommissioned according to the naval traditions. INS Rajput, the lead ship of the Kashin-class destroyers built by the erstwhile USSR, was commissioned on May 4, 1980, and has rendered yeoman service to the Indian Navy for over 41 years. The ship will be decommissioned at a solemn ceremony. Owing to the pandemic, the ceremony will be a low-key event attended only by in-station officers and sailors with strict observance of COVID protocols. INS Rajput was constructed in the 61 Communards Shipyard in Nikolaev (present-day Ukraine) under her original Russian name ‘Nadezhny’ meaning ‘Hope’. The keel of the ship was laid on September 11, 1976, and she was launched on September 17, 1977. The ship was commissioned as INS Rajput on May 4, 1980, at Poti, Georgia by I.K. Gujral, the then Ambassador of India to USSR with Captain Gulab Mohanlal Hiranandani as her first Commanding Officer. The ship has the distinction of serving in both Western and Eastern Fleets. The ship has participated in several operations, as part of national security. Some of these include Operation Aman off Sri Lanka to assist IPKF, Operation Pawan for patrolling duties off the coast of Sri Lanka, Operation Cactus to resolve hostage situation off the Maldives, and Operation Crowsnest off Lakshadweep. In addition, the ship participated in numerous bilateral and multinational exercises. The ship was also the first Indian Naval Ship to be affiliated with an Indian Army regiment, the Rajput Regiment. In her glorious 41 years, the ship had 31 Commanding Officers at her helm with the last CO taking charge of the ship on August 14, 2019. As the sun sets on Friday, the Naval Ensign and the Commissioning Pennant will be hauled down for the last time onboard INS Rajput, symbolising the decommissioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ins-rajput-to-be-decommissioned-today-after-41-years-of-service/article34611125.ece
21 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar from June 4||GITAM Deemed to be University Centre for Climate Change and Disaster Management and the Society for Science of Climate Change and Sustainable Environment are jointly organising a two-day national-level e- seminar on June 4 and 5, said GITAM Environmental Science Department Head P.N. Srinivas in a release here on Thursday. Interested researchers can send their research abstracts towed2021@gitam.inon or before May 31. Fordetails visit thegitam.edu website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-from-june-4/article34611119.ece
21 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exchange of fire between police, Maoists||An exchange of fire reportedly occurred between the security forces and cadres of the banned CPI (Maoist) near Maripakulu village in Koyyuru mandal, in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district, on Thursday. According to initial reports, the exchange of fire was for a brief period of time, and no casualties were reported on either side. As per ASP of Chintapalli, Vidya Sagar Naidu, it occurred in the morning and further details are awaited. It is learnt that security forces comprising men from the Greyhounds and Special Parties were on routine combing operation, when the exchange of fire took place. It is learnt the Maoist party may have been led by senior leader Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exchange-of-fire-between-police-maoists/article34611110.ece
21 May 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen concentrators donated||The Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Aganampudi, has donated 20 oxygen concentrators for the use of COVID-19 patients in the district. The oxygen concentrators, valued at around Rs. 25 lakh, were handed over to District Collector V. Vinay Chand by representatives of the hospital. Joint Collector P. Arun Babu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-concentrators-donated/article34611117.ece
21 May 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII donates masks to railway frontline workers||Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Andhra Pradesh, has donated 5,100 numbers of N-95 masks to railway frontline staff of Waltair Division of Indian Railways. K.V.V. Raju, past chairman, CII Visakhapatnam Zone, and his team handed over the masks to Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, in his office on Thursday. G.S. Shiv Kumar and R.V.S. Raju, past chairmen of CII Andhra Pradesh, also made valuable contribution towards this mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cii-donates-masks-to-railway-frontline-workers/article34611118.ece
21 May 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||Members of Parawada LPG drivers and Workers Union have handed over ex gratia cheque of Rs. 5 lakh to family of K. Nooka Raju, one of the active members of the union, who succumbed to COVID-19 recently. IOCL Plant Manager Somnath Das arranged the amount from IOCL management after initiation from K.M.Suhasini, president of the Union. District INTUC president Mantri Rajasekhar, district general secretary B.Nagabhushnam and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc/article34611123.ece
21 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||50% fitment sought for teachers||Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Upadhyaya Sangham president Samala Simhachalam on Thursday urged the State government to initiate measures for the implementation of the recommendation given by the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) to benefit over 4 lakh employees working in 13 districts. In a press release, he said the PRC recommendation was supposed to be implemented from October, 2108, but it has been delayed for the last four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-fitment-sought-for-teachers/article34611112.ece
21 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A leg-up for anganwadis’||Former member of the A.P. State Commission for Protection of Child Rights K. Apparao has hailed the budgetary allocation of Rs. 27,428 crore for improving infrastructure in 55,607 anganwadi centres in the next three years. In a release, Dr. Apparao lauded Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for concentrating on per-school education. Dr. Apparao said schemes as Nadu-Nedu, Vidya Deevena, and Vasathi Deevena would better the facilities in government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-leg-up-for-anganwadis/article34611099.ece
21 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector urges industries to help boost health infra||Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Thursday urged corporate companies and industries to come forward to create more facilities in hospitals to save the COVID-19 patients. He urged all pharmaceutical industries to spare their CSR funds to improve the health infrastructure in the district. Aurobindo Pharma Private Limited Senior General Manager N.R. Raja Reddy handed over 12 oxygen concentrators and 2,500 sanitiser bottles worth Rs. 5 lakh to the Collector. Mr. Jawaharlal said that oxygen concentrators were very much needed to save many patients undergoing treartment in various COVID-19 hospitals. He lauded the company for providing two ambulances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-urges-industries-to-help-boost-health-infra/article34611115.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. focussed on well-being of every person in State: Jagan||The government procured 1,180 ambulances as part of 108 and 104 services, and was ensuring that the ambulance service was available within 20 minutes of making a call. YSR Health Clinics had been set up in every village and health workers appointed for every 2,000 persons. “The construction of village clinics will further ensure all health services are at the doorstep of the people in rural areas. Every mandal will have two PHCs and equipped with facilities and staff, including two doctors, and they will be integrated with 104 services,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. Referring to COVID-19 preparedness, the Chief Minister said that the government had been doing its best, scaling up testing facilities and ramping up health infrastructure. “Our government is the first to bring COVID-19 under the purview of Aarogyasri and every day more than 26,000 patients are getting treated under the scheme. We have spent close to Rs. 2,229 crore during the last 14 months for COVID-19. We have also included Black Fungus disease under Aarogyasri and notified hospitals,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Facilities improved “We had a single virology lab and we used to send samples to Pune to get the test results. Now we have over 150 labs involved in testing. During the first wave, we had 261 hospitals for COVID-19 and now we have 649 empanelled hospitals with 47,285 beds. COVID Care Centres have been set up for every constituency,” he said. Further, 104 services had been scaled up and oxygen monitoring cells set up in every district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-focussed-on-well-being-of-every-person-in-state-jagan/article34611101.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resolution passed||As per a report of the Ministry of Steel, RINL had an excellent layout, infrastructure including land, and large skilled workforce making it suitable to expand capacity up to 20 million tonnes of liquid steel per annum. The company incurred losses of Rs. 4,982 crore up to 2001-02 and capital restructuring was done by the GoI in 1993 and 1998 by way of conversion of its loans into equity and preference share capital. RINL went on to exceed it's rated capacity in 2001-02 and achieved a turnaround in 2002-03. It recorded a peak capacity utilisation of 120% in 2005-06 and peak profit after tax of Rs. 2,008 crore in 2004-05. It earned profits continuously for 13 years till 2014-15 aggregating nearly Rs. 12,958 crore. While giving a detailed insight into RINL's history and suggesting ways to put it back on rails and making a mention of its significant contribution to the supply of liquid medical oxygen required to fight COVID pandemic, the government expressed strong reservations against the sale of the Centre’s stake in RINL, and resolved to extend its support for protecting ‘the jewel of A.P.'||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resolution-passed/article34611100.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Come up with facts on Ruia incident, says High Court||The High Court of Andhra Pradesh has directed the State government to submit details of the SVR Ruia incident in which 11 persons died due to oxygen shortage, following the filing of Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petitions. A petition filed on behalf of the BJP State spokesperson G. Bhanuprakash Reddy put the number of persons dead in the incident at 56, as against the official figure of 11. Even as the State government announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to the kin of the victims, the party demanded it be hiked to Rs. 25 lakh. Similarly TDP leader P.R. Mohan filed a petition seeking judicial inquiry into the incident. Though he personally filed a complaint with the Alipiri police on the incident, the police had not registered an FIR, he alleged. Mr. Mohan demanded that the State establish five oxygen plants, in tune with the Union government’s directions. It was in this backdrop that the Bench comprising Justice C. Praveen Kumar and Justice K. Lalitha issued a notice to the Union and State governments, directing them to come up with all details pertaining to the incident, while posting the case for hearing after the vacation. A notice was also sent to Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) demanding explanation on Mr. Mohan’s complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/come-up-with-facts-on-ruia-incident-says-high-court/article34610489.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Groundwork||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/groundwork/article34610495.ece
21 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||COVID-19 spreads in Agency mandals||Even as coronavirus is spreading its tentacles in the Bhadrachalam Agency predominantly inhabited by Adivasis, the demand for enhanced COVID-19 surveillance in the border mandals is fast gaining momentum. Bhadrachalam Agency, which shares inter-State borders with both Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, by and large remained unaffected by the deadly virus during the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic last year. However, the border mandals, mainly Charla and Dummugudem, have been witnessing a steady rise in the number of COVID-19 cases over the past few days. 39 positive cases Of the total 89 COVID-19 tests conducted in Charla on Thursday, as many as 39 were positive, sources said. The spurt in COVID-19 cases in the Agency mandals can be gauged from the fact that nearly 118 beds of the total 125 oxygen supported beds earmarked for the COVID-19 patients in the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam town are filled. The hitherto unaffected tribal areas located in far flung areas in the district are also staring at the second wave of the pandemic. Sources said that a COVID-19 case was reported from a remote tribal habitation inhabited by Konda Reddi Adivasis at Pusukunta in Dammapeta mandal last week. With many tribal habitations located in interior areas devoid of road connectivity, the task of conducting household fever surveys has become a big challenge for the field-level health functionaries. Sources in the Health Department said that a little over 2.46 lakh households in the Gram Panchayats (GPs) across the district, including in Agency mandals, were surveyed as part of the ongoing fever survey by as many as 700 teams so far. A total of 10,375 home kits containing medicines were given to persons identified with fever and other symptoms of COVID-19 in these GPs. As many as 156 teams conducted fever surveys in a total of 56,181 households in the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in the district till date. Around 2,501 persons with fever and other symptoms of COVID-19 were given home isolation kits in the ULBs, sources added. "There is an imperative need to create greater awareness about the COVID-19 preventive measures among Adivasis living in interior tribal pockets close to the inter-State borders in Bhadrachalam Agency," insists Konda Reddi Adivasi Sangham founder Murla Ramesh. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, should play a proactive role in reaching out to Adivasis inhabiting the border villages to ward off COVID-19 threat, he suggests.  The ITDA should play a pro-active role in reaching out to Adivasis.   Murla Ramesh,  Founder, Konda Reddi Adivasi Sangham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-spreads-in-agency-mandals/article34611015.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cremation workers at high risk||In these times when going anywhere near a COVID positive person is considered hazardous, leave alone dead bodies of such people, cremation workers are putting their lives at risk by disposing of bodies as their numbers swelled in the second wave of the pandemic. With no guidelines from government on safety protocols to be followed in cremating the bodies of COVID patients, the cremation workers are left with no option but continue their traditional methods in completion of formalities. Frontline workers? In this background, a demand to treat them as frontline COVID workers and give them and their families priority in vaccination has gained ground. It was also shocking to learn that none of the cremation workers was vaccinated so far. According to president of the State-level cremation workers’ association Dasari Satyanarayana, a couple of workers died on contracting the disease initially. But, now they gained experience and took precautions like wearing mask and gloves as they saw through the rituals. There are about 300 cremation grounds, small and big, of the Hindu community in Hyderabad and surrounding areas, where bodies of COVID victims arrived from hospitals and home isolation over the last one year. The workers involved in cremating the bodies are illiterate and come from a poor socio-economic background. They charged Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 6,500 per body, including the cost of firewood and kerosene, where the cremation grounds were not managed. In crematoria run by trusts and management committees, the workers were paid only Rs. 500 per body as they did not have to procure the material. The workers were involved in handling the palls and mounting them on wooden blocks without any PPE kits. The bodies of COVID patients that arrived in ambulances from hospitals had staff equipped with PPEs. Advisor to Harishchandra ghat crematorium near ESI Hospital in Erragadda B. Shyamsundar Goud said that the government should provide PPEs to workers and carry out medical check-ups on them every two days. They should also be provided exclusive quarters for isolation as they are highly vulnerable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cremation-workers-at-high-risk/article34610994.ece
21 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rein in pvt. hospitals, Cong. tells KCR||Telangana Congress has said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao cannot wash his hands of by adopting Ayushman Bharat that has limited benefits, and inclusion of COVID-19 treatment in Arogyasri, he needs to take steps to control the loot by private hospitals and bring some succour to the people. Addressing a press conference here, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Leader of the Congress Legislature Party Bhatti Vikramarka, MLC. T. Jeevan Reddy and AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan asked why the government was in a state of inertia on controlling the private hospitals that are violating G.O. No 248 that put a cap on the prices of treatment. Despite the hospitals openly looting COVID patients billing them lakhs of rupees not a single case has been booked so far, Mr. Uttam Reddy said and wondered whether people in the government were hand-in-glove with the hospital managements. The Task Force Committee headed by IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has not even discussed this serious issue where people were forced to sell their lands and properties for treatment. “The authorities concerned have not taken action against any hospital so far and private hospital managements were being treated like sons-in-law of Telangana,” the Congress leaders alleged. Accusing the Chief Minister of ‘inefficiency’, Mr. Uttam Reddy referred to a video posted by a TRS activist from Siddipet who lambasted the administration over the poor handling of COVID treatment and also fudging the death figures. The lack of farsightedness is reflected in the total shutdown of vaccination in Telangana for the last few days. No PHC is doing more than 30 tests per day despite hundreds lining up for tests. Mr. Reddy said the RT-PCR machine costs about Rs. 30 lakh and if at least one machine is bought for each district along with the testing kits it would not cost more than Rs. 10 crore to test entire Telangana. Mr. Vikramarka said there was a state of medical emergency in the State with the virus swamping the rural areas as well. But the government is not even willing to accept the reality, he alleged adding that either the Chief Minister should allocate the Health portfolio exclusively to another member of the Cabinet and making him or her accountable. He described the visit of the Chief Minister to the Gandhi hospital as a PR exercise. After failing the State, CM is now seeking positive headlines in the media and posing as a saviour. “He is primarily responsible for spread of the coronavirus by holding elections and election rallies ignoring the advice of the opposition parties,” he claimed. He suggested to Mr. Uttam Reddy to seek an appointment with Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to take to her notice the the seriousness of the issue. Mr. Jeevan Reddy recalled how Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao ridiculed Ayushman Bharat scheme and said that he now adopted it to escape from responsibility of treatment. He said Ayushman Bharat facility was available only in 12 hospitals in Telangana with 10 of them in Hyderabad only. Where will the other beneficiaries go, he asked stating that anyway it covers only 26 lakh families. What is stopping KCR from including COVID treatment in Arogyasri when other States could do the same, asked Sravan Dasoju. He said entire machinery has become unaccountable and G.O.s issued by the government were being treated like trash by the private hospitals. Mr. Sravan said KTR-headed Task Force should visit private hospitals. He said instead of collecting fines from people the police should raid the hospitals fleecing people in violating the G.O.s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rein-in-pvt-hospitals-cong-tells-kcr/article34611010.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Performing last rites against all odds||A few days after the pandemic hit the State, a handful of young men, wearing yellow T-shirts, took the initiative to perform the last rites of COVID patients whose families had reservations in either burying or cremating them. And when the second wave hit the State, these people have been negotiating their way around a strict lockdown and security personnel, to ensure that the deceased get a decent, final farewell. Syed Jalaluddin Zafar of Youth Welfare Telangana (headquarters in Chatrinaka) says that the organisation has thus far performed the last rites of dozens of people who were either COVID positive or displayed symptoms seen in those who have been infected. Their work takes them to different parts of the city, even during odd hours of the lockdown. Mr. Zafar says, “Our volunteers are facing some hurdles during lockdown hours when they are on the way to or from funerals. They are stopped at checkpoints on half-a-dozen occasions by the police. We had to explain what we are doing. Since we have a lot of funerals to perform everyday, time is of the essence. It will be great if police issue us passes.” The team of around 60 volunteers in Hyderabad, and 160 in the State, have also been grappling with relatives insisting that the body be given ghusl (last wash) before the burial. Mr. Zafar says that religious scholars had opined during the first wave that COVID bodies do not require a ghusl . “We did try to explain this to the relatives, but many of them are not willing to forego the ghusl. This is why we have now decided to have a mobile ghusl van,” he said. The organisation has a team of four women volunteers who perform the ghusl of bodies of women. Volunteers of the organisation have also dealt with managers of graveyards who have been unwilling to allow burials, arguing that grave space was reserved for those living in neighbourhoods. Another issue, he pointed out, is negotiating with those who are in-charge of Christian cemeteries. “Very recently, we buried a Christian woman who was a native of Andhra Pradesh and had moved to Hyderabad 15 years ago, but was not a member of any church. We had to bury her at an independent graveyard,” he said. He claimed that so far his team had performed the last rites of around 600 people. “To be on the safer side, we take copies of ID proof of the deceased and a relative, and documents of medical history. For those who have died with COVID symptoms, but did not get tested, we ensure we are in PPE kits while performing the funeral. For the deceased who had tested positive, performing last rites wearing PPE kits is a must,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/performing-last-rites-against-all-odds/article34611002.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Altitude alters blood parameters’||Tibetans are one of the oldest high-altitude inhabitants in the world. There are known genetic and physiological factors that help them endure low-oxygen conditions. However, their population has now moved to low-altitude regions such as Karnataka. When Dr K. Thangaraj (now DBT- Director of Centre for DNA Finger Printing & Diagnostics - CDFD) and his team at the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, have studied changes in physiological factors of Tibetans now inhabiting the low-altitude regions like Karnataka, and found that the blood parameters in Tibetans are significantly different compared to their high-altitude counterparts. “We found that the red blood cells, haemoglobin concentration and haematocrit are significantly lower in the low-altitude Tibetans. Their haemoglobin levels are much closer to those living on the plains than the other Tibetans living beyond 4,500 metres,” said Nipa Basak, first author. “Our study suggests that when Tibetan people reside in non-native, low-altitude area for long, their body undergoes various adaptations to cope with the hyperoxic environment in low-altitude areas,” said Dr. Thangaraj, lead investigator. Physiological factors of people of Tibetan ethnicity from high-altitude regions of Ladakh at 4,500-4,900 metres are compared with those in Tibetan settlements in Bylakuppe, Karnataka, at an altitude of 850 metres. The Tibetan population in Karnataka had migrated after Tibetan uprising in 1959 and have been living there for the last 50 years. The study was recently published in the ‘Journal of Blood Medicine’ and the work was done in collaboration with researchers from Ladakh and Karnataka, including Dr Tsering Norboo of the Ladakh Institute of Prevention, Ladakh, and Dr. MS Mustak of Mangalore University, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/altitude-alters-blood-parameters/article34610987.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||As critical COVID cases go up, demand for ECMO escalates||The spike in the number of critical COVID patients has shot up the demand for Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) procedure in Hyderabad, which is offered only at top corporate hospitals. However, heads of the hospitals said that the ECMO machines are limited in number and procuring more would be difficult. Apart from patients from Telangana, there is a flow of inquiries from attendants of patients from other States. Many patients get airlifted to the city for this procedure from other States. ECMO is a method in which blood is drawn out of the body into a machine, oxygen is mixed with blood using a special by-pass pump-circuit, and the blood is pumped back into the body. It works as an artificial heart-lungs machine. The cost of the ECMO procedure, excluding charges for skilled HCWs, for initial two days is around Rs. 1.75 lakh-Rs. 3 lakh per day. And Rs. 80,000 to Rs. 1 lakh a day is charged thereafter. The charges vary according to hospitals. A few patients might need this treatment for up to a month or more. The machine costs around Rs. 35 lakh, and the ECMO kit, which consists of medical consumables, cost around Rs. 3 lakh. This procedure is used as a last resort. “ECMO is opted when a patient suffers from respiratory failure despite maximum mechanical ventilator support,” said consultant, Anaesthesiology and Critical Care at KIMS Hospital Dr. Sharanya Kumar. CEO of the hospital Dr. Riyaz Khan said that ECMO machines work as artificial heart-lung machines. “By providing ECMO support, we are providing some time for damaged lungs to heal,” he said. The gap between the demand for the treatment and the number of machines is felt at corporate hospitals. HCOO of Care Hospitals, Banjara Hills, Dr. Rahul Medakkar said that the machines are not easily purchasable since they have to be imported and are in short supply. Apart from high cost, offering the treatment is labour centric as at least two nurses, and an intensivist have to be present to constantly monitor the patients. A surgeon too, would be needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/as-critical-covid-cases-go-up-demand-for-ecmo-escalates/article34610990.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Strict action against officials if payments to ryots are delayed||Civil Supplies Corporation chairman M. Srinivas Reddy warned officials of stringent action if they fail to make timely payment to farmers after procuring food grains from them. He wondered how reports were coming from districts over the delay in payments in spite of the government sanctioning Rs. 20,000 crore for procurement of food grains, primarily paddy, from the farmers. This is because of the negligence of certain field-level officials going by the reports coming from the districts, he said directing the officials concerned to make payments within two days failing which stringent action would be initiated against them if found negligent in discharging their duties. The Civil Supplies Corporation chairman conducted a detailed review on the procurement operations with senior officials from procurement, finance and vigilance wings of the corporation on Thursday. He said the corporation had constituted teams of vigilance officials to monitor the procurement process. These teams would check district-wise procurement of food grains, the data entered into the online procurement management system and variation if any between the two. Officials should accordingly ensure that correct data is entered into the OPMS and bring to the notice of the concerned in case of problems encountered in the process. Details of procurement from farmers, dispatching the procured grain to mills along with acknowledgement by the millers and other aspects should also be duly entered into the online system, he said. He wanted the officials concerned to focus on procurement operations in the districts from where there are complaints relating to delayed payments to farmers. At a separate meeting with the ration dealers, he said the government had released Rs. 28 crore towards the commission of dealers which was pending for some time. Informing that the price of gunny bags had been enhanced by Rs. 3 each from Rs. 18 to Rs. 21, he said keeping this in view, dealers should duly surrender all the bags to the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/strict-action-against-officials-if-payments-to-ryots-are-delayed/article34611008.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Foot patrolling by forest staff stepped up in Kawal Tiger Reserve||“Feel the Forest!” is the simple but effective message that Divisional Forest Officer at Kawal Tiger Reserve S. Madhav Rao seems to have successfully put across to his tried and trusted staff to realise his dream of redefining the image and topography of the Reserve covering 13 sections and three Ranges. Posted to the office in 2019, Mr. Rao has used his technological background to start new trends not only in the conservation of the forest cover but also in ensuring that it is free from any disturbances from human beings. “This has not been an easy task. I had to take a lot of orientation classes for the staff (90 regular and some 100 outsourced). I keep telling them that unless you do foot patrolling around the forest, you will not know the ground reality,” Mr. Rao told The Hindu after the latest camera traps showed images of two pairs of leopards, a family of sloth bear and a pack of of jackals, among the many species that quenched their thirst at the waterholes. “My biggest achievement is that from an about 1700 km distance of foot patrolling covered by the entire staff every month we are now doing more than 6000 km of foot patrolling by using the M-STRIPES App developed by Wildlife Institute of India,” he says, with a sense of pride. “The concept is simple. Walk the forest, get a feel and report anything new to the immediate superior. This has actually inspired many and thankfully, it has become some sort of a habit daily for them now, because everyone is expected to walk a minimum of four km daily for 26 days in a month,” Mr. Rao says. “And, we are the only centre in Telangana to have a Geo-Informatics Centre, set up with limited resources, thanks to the encouragement of Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Shobha and other senior officers,” he reveals. “Definitely, there are a lot of hurdles when we have to ensure zero movement of human beings as for ages the people have been used to roaming around the forest without any checks. I explained to them and to my staff that if the curbs are not enforced there is no sanctity to the Kawal Tiger Reserve,” Mr. Rao said, pointing out that 15 gates were set up around the forest perimeter to ensure this. “To ensure there is some source of fodder for the cattle, we have allocated about 1300 hectares of forest land for the purpose to see that they don’t trespass into the restricted areas,” he said. “We have also developed grasslands by initiating intensive management measures apart from improving the water availability to the wildlife during peak seasons,” he added. “We are still in the process of doing many things and I am glad to have contributed in a little way to giving a new image to the KTR,” Mr. Rao signed off with a sense of satisfaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/foot-patrolling-by-forest-staff-stepped-up-in-kawal-tiger-reserve/article34611005.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banks to continue 4-hr. schedule||Bank branches in State will continue to remain open for customers for four hours, from 8 a.m. to 12 noon, until May 30. This follows the State Level Bankers’ Committee on Thursday advising member banks to adhere to the four-hour schedule, to which branches had shifted a week ago, in the backdrop of lockdown in Telangana being extended up to the same date. As per an earlier advisory, the new timings for the branches were to be in force till May 20. “It is felt necessary to continue the existing banking timings (8.00 am to 12.00 noon), so that the general population of Telangana is not put to any inconvenience and can carry out banking transactions with ease during the lockdown period,” SLBC Convenor and SBI General Manager Krishan Sharma said in a communication to the controller of all banks. During the four hours, the branches will provide essential services such as cash deposit/withdrawal, remittances, clearing of cheques and handle govt. business, on the lines of an advisory issued by the Indian Bank’ Association (IBA). The SLBC said staff at bank branches/administrative offices may be allowed to work on a rotational basis complying with all COVID-19 guidelines. However, “Controllers of banks would take [a] decision in this regard for effective implementation at the ground level without affecting customer service,” the communication said. Meanwhile, the United Forum for Bank Unions that had been seeking such measures has appealed to the State government to vaccinate all bank employees on a priority. They have been in the “forefront in providing banking services during the COVID-19 pandemic since the last one year and have contributed immensely in keeping the wheels of economy moving and also in implementing the various social welfare programmes of the government,” State Convenor of UFBU R. Sriram said in a letter to the Chief Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banks-to-continue-4-hr-schedule/article34611007.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL to vaccinate staff, family members by July||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has taken up measures to contain the spread of novel coronavirus with tracing, testing and treatment by scaling up the medical facilities by allocating Rs. 71 crore for the purpose. According to the company officials, the company has arranged 1,400 beds for COVID treatment in its hospitals and taken up vaccination of employees, retired employees, contract staff and their family members. As part of tracing and testing, over 1 lakh rapid antigen and TC-PCR tests were done in the Singareni areas after purchasing 1.27 lakh test kits with Rs. 3.16 crore. A total of 12,308 positive cases have been reported in the Singareni areas so far and the active cases were around 2,300. The company has tied up with corporate hospitals in Hyderabad for treatment of serious cases. Singareni officials said the company was also establishing six oxygen plants on the premises of its hospitals. On vaccination, the Singareni company officials said nearly 28,000 employees, contract staff, retired employees and their families were administered COVID vaccine and efforts were being made to procure another 50,000 doses of vaccine directly from the makers to vaccinate all employees and their family members by July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-to-vaccinate-staff-family-members-by-july/article34610985.ece
21 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Entrepreneurship camp||The Institution Innovation Council of the Institute of Public Enterprise (IPE), with “Think India” and “BITS Pilani Hyderabad’s Technology Business Incubator” as knowledge partners, is jointly hosting a three-day ‘Entrepreneurship Awareness Camp’ virtually from May 21 to 23. It will focus on spreading awareness among students about various facets of entrepreneurship and the journey involved in the process, business opportunities, government schemes available, and funding. Individuals above the age of 18 can attend. For registration, visit www.ipeindia.org or call on 82389-76475.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entrepreneurship-camp/article34610995.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC declines to stay CBI court order in Acharya case||Justice K. Lakshman on Thursday declined to stay the order issued by CBI court taking cognizance of the charges against retired IAS officer B.P. Acharya in the quid pro quo case involving AP Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. The judge said the criminal revision case petition filed by the retired official would be adjudicated finally and posted the matter to June 17 for hearing. Meanwhile, the CBI was directed to file detailed counter affidavit in the petition filed by the retired official. The Centre gave consent for the prosecution of Mr. Acharya while the State government declined. He approached the Centre seeking review of the permission it had granted for his prosecution. Subsequently, he moved the HC which passed an order staying the proceedings of the case in CBI court against him. As the stay order expired, the CBI court passed an order taking cognizance of the charges against him. He approached the HC again seeking to set aside the CBI court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-declines-to-stay-cbi-court-order-in-acharya-case/article34611006.ece
21 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed in road accident in Hyderabad||A 30-year-old man was killed in a road accident on Bandlaguda main road in LB Nagar police station limits here on Wednesday night. According to the police, the accident took place around 8.30 p.m. when the victim, Vijay Babu, was going to Indu Aranya on his Royal Enfield bike from Sai Nagar Colony. Babu was a car driver. “When he was passing Bandlaguda main road, another biker came in the opposite direction and crashed into his bike, as a result of wichh Babu suffered fatal injuries,” inspector V Ashok Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-in-road-accident-in-hyderabad/article34610988.ece
21 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SHE Teams gets 16 scooters||Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat handed over 16 scooters to SHE Teams here on Thursday. The scooters would provide swift response when SHE Teams received complaints from victims. An ambulance equipped with all required critical emergency facilities to assist COVID-19 patients was also flagged off by the Commissioner. He requested ambulance service providers not to exploit the victims. People can contact their control room in case of emergency and lauded free ambulance service providers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/she-teams-gets-16-scooters/article34610989.ece
21 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||9th Oxygen Express arrives||The 9th Oxygen Express to Hyderabad reached Sanathnagar Goods Complex bringing 119.45 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) filled in six tankers from Rourkela, Odisha, covering a distance of 1,320 km in a short period of around 22 hours. So far, 774.37 MTs of LMO has been transported with the train travelling at an average speed of 60 kmph from its originating station making use of the ‘Green Corridor’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/9th-oxygen-express-arrives/article34610991.ece
21 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||four held||Four persons were apprehended by Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (South Zone) for illegally procuring and selling Remdesivir vials. They were selling the injections in the black market for Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 35,000 each vial to make a quick buck. Police seized six vials and five mobile phones from Mohd Akbar Khan (22), a male nurse from Bahadurpura, Mohd. Muzaffar Khan (22), an optical technician from Bandlaguda, Mohd. Hakeemuddin (31), a businessman from Asif Nagar and Syed Sadiduddin (32), a businessman from Vanasthalipuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-held/article34610992.ece
21 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Two chilli thieves held||Tirumalayapalem police on Thursday arrested two members of a gang that was allegedly involved in stealing harvested chilli crop of farmers in the mandal. According to sources, they had stolen huge stocks of harvested chilli lying in open yards in various villages, including Kakaravai, Patvarigudem and Chandruthanda in the last couple of days. The two were identified as V Ravi, 32, and Naresh, 23, of Mahabubabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-chilli-thieves-held/article34610999.ece
21 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||COVID spreading fast in villages, fatality rate rises||COVID is spreading fast in rural areas and the fatality rate is going up by the day. A village near the district headquarters town of Sangareddy has reported 16 deaths in the last one and a half month, though all of them could not be attributed to coronavirus. However, the current death rate is almost five times compared to the past. A panchayat official informed on condition of anonymity that there used to be two to three deaths in two months earlier. On May 14, the data released by the Medak district administration shows that 23 persons tested at D Dharmaram village, out of which 12 tested positive (52.2%). At PHC Papannapet, 25 persons tested and nine of them came positive (36%), PHC Sardana 19 out of 54 (35.2%), and PHC Shivampet six out of 17 (35.3%). The average was 21.1%. On May 15, PCH at D Dharmaram reported 11 out of 23 (47.8%), Shankarampet R seven out of 20 (35%), Shankarampet A eight out of 26 (30.8%). “The rural areas are worst hit in the second wave. Following isolation is relatively almost zero due to various reasons including lack of sufficient rooms in houses. An entire family is testing positive within two to three days if one person is getting infected. These people are not approaching for advice or treatment despite Aasha workers moving around in villages,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-spreading-fast-in-villages-fatality-rate-rises/article34610998.ece
21 May 2021||Medak,TELANGANA||State to get 10 lakh vaccines soon: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that about 10 lakh vaccines are expected to reach the State shortly, and priority would be accorded for those moving among people — like auto drivers and vegetable vendors. He said that there is no shortage of oxygen cylinders and sufficient number of beds are available in the district. Mr. Rao visited the district hospital on Thursday and later held a review meeting with the officials. “Identify persons moving among the public in the age group of 18 and 45 years. Vaccine will be administered to them on a priority basis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-to-get-10-lakh-vaccines-soon-harish/article34611011.ece
21 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Hospital removed from COVID-19 treatment list||Acting tough against a hospital for not following guidelines, Collector M. Hanumantha Rao cancelled Srikethana Multi- Speciality Hospital from the list of hospitals extending corona treatment as it has sent away a patient after he complained against it for improper treatment. That the patient was sent out by the management was confirmed by the Revenue Divisional Officer and a report was submitted to the Collector in this regard, who acted swiftly. Meanwhile in another case, notices were issued to Padamavathi multi-speciality hospital for violating COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospital-removed-from-covid-19-treatment-list/article34611013.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||At Burari’s COVID Care Centre, patients get a Zumba surprise||COVID patients at the Sant Nirankari COVID Care Centre in North Delhi’s Burari were in for a pleasant surprise on Tuesday evening when suddenly loud music started playing and they were requested to dance a few Zumba moves. It brought smiles on so many faces, said District Magistrate (Central) Akriti Sagar. Yoga sessions Ms. Sagar said in the 1,000-bed facility, which is currently treating over 120 patients, yoga sessions take place at 11 a.m. and Zumba at 5 p.m. The facility had opened around 20 days ago. She said the doctors here shared feedback that the patients feel depressed because there is nothing to do all day. “They [patients] get bored because there is no source of entertainment. They have mobile phones but most of them are unable to use smartphones properly,” she said. Ms. Sagar said no professionals are hired as this is a practice for better mental and physical health. The doctors teach civil defence volunteers and sanitation staff, who then walk in wrapped in PPE kits, stand on a pedestal and conduct the sessions. “There is a mike and a speaker set up at the centre using which the doctors manage the sessions,” she said. Recalling an incident from Wednesday, Ms. Sagar said a patient was due to get discharged but she stayed back for the session and left later. The DM said she is also planning to tie-up with Delhi University students and professional psychologists because “isolation and staying away from family can take a toll on one’s mind and heart”. However, the plan is yet to materialise, she added. The facility, Ujala Cygnus group, is attached to Burari Hospital where patients are rushed in case of an emergency. There are 1,000 oxygen concentrators at the facility along with the beds and oxygen cylinders for backup, Ms. Sagar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/at-buraris-covid-care-centre-patients-get-a-zumba-surprise/article34610967.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital records highest-ever 24-hour rainfall in May: IMD||The Capital received a record 119.3 mm rainfall for May in 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday due to the impact of cyclonic storm Tauktae and a western disturbance, the IMD said. It added that this was double the previous record rainfall of 60 mm on May 24 in 1976. During the day, the sky remained overcast but did not receive any rainfall. The IMD has said that the sky would be clear and temperature will slowly rise to normal again. The maximum temperature on Thursday was 31.4 degrees Celsius, which was nine degrees cooler than normal for the season. The minimum settled at 19.3 degrees Celsius — seven degrees cooler than normal. The maximum temperature on Wednesday had dropped to 23.8 degrees Celsius, which was 16 degrees below normal and the lowest in the month of May since 1951. The Lodhi Road weather station recorded 124.4 mm rainfall during the same period. Palam, Ayanagar, Najafgarh and SPS Mayur Vihar received 64 mm, 98 mm, 92.5 mm and 95.5 mm rainfall. Weather today The forecast for May 21 reads “mainly clear sky with the maximum and minimum temperatures settling between 35 and 21 degrees Celsius”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-records-highest-ever-24-hour-rainfall-in-may-imd/article34610968.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||After road cave-in, repair work under way at spot, says DMRC||After a portion of the Khaira Road near Dhansa Stand metro station in Najafgarh caved in on Wednesday night, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said that repair work was under way. While stating that a drain burst had led to the incident, the DMRC said it was filling additional concrete below the road to avoid recurrence. It said: “A portion of the road along with the footpath at Khaira Road near Dhansa Stand metro station caved in late last Wednesday night after a drain burst in the area due to excess flow of continuous rainwater. The incident has also caused partial damage to an adjacent building. There has been no casualty or injury and senior DMRC officials are at the site to supervise the repair work.” The officials added that steps were being taken to ensure that the incident does not get repeated. “Repair work of the caved-in portion is in progress and all efforts shall be made to complete the work at the earliest. DMRC is now filing below the road with additional concrete to avoid the recurrence of this problem in the future. It is pertinent to mention that Delhi received the highest rainfall on May 19, in the last 70 years, because of the impact of Cyclone Tauktae,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-road-cave-in-repair-work-under-way-at-spot-says-dmrc/article34610974.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman, daughter and lover arrested for killing husband||A 46-year-old woman was arrested along with her lover and daughter for allegedly killing her husband, the police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Rajbala and Virender (43), both residents of Bharthal, and Sheetal (23) from Jaffarpur, they said. Virender was previously involved in three cases of murder, robbery etc. and was released on parole around 10 days ago, they said. On Tuesday, the police received a PCR call regarding the body of an unknown person in Chhawla. They rushed to the spot and found the body of a person of around 45 years. A bike was also parked near the spot, a senior officer said. Multiple stab injuries The deceased was identified as Ashok Kumar, a resident of Bagri Mohalla. There were multiple stab injuries on his body, the officer said. “During investigation, the police analysed the call details record of the mobile phone. The last caller on the phone was identified as deceased’s daughter Sheetal. She and her mother Rajbala were interrogated. It was revealed that Rajbala was in a relationship with Virender and Kumar had suspicion on her,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena. Virender, Sheetal and Rajbala hatched a conspiracy to kill Kumar, the police said. On Monday, Sheetal called her father near Nirmal Dham and informed Virender. Thereafter, Virender followed Kumar in a car and killed him by stabbing multiple times on his chest, stomach and neck, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-daughter-and-lover-arrested-for-killing-husband/article34610971.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Ensure opening of FCRA accounts within 10 days of approval: HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the State Bank of India (SBI) to ensure it opens Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) accounts for NGOs within 10 days of receiving approval from the Central government. Justice Rekha Palli gave the direction after some NGOs claimed that despite receiving the approval from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), SBI was delaying opening of accounts under FCRA. Significantly, the Centre informed the High Court that it has extended till June 30 the deadline for NGOs to open FCRA accounts at SBI’s New Delhi main branch. “After that date they shall not be eligible to receive Foreign Contribution (FC) in any account other than the ‘FCRA account’ opened in the SBI’s New Delhi Main Branch,” the Home Ministry said. Validity extension The Ministry also said it has decided to extend the validity of registration certificates issued to the NGOs which expired or would expire between September 29, 2020 and September 30, 2021 up to September 30, 2021.  The Ministry’s affidavit came in response to a petition filed by two NGOs operating out of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, who claimed that they are facing difficulty both in the opening of the FCRA account, and also in the subsequent approval which is to be obtained from the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ensure-opening-of-fcra-accounts-within-10-days-of-approval-hc/article34610960.ece
21 May 2021||New DELHI,||Police seek five more days of Kalra’s custody||The Delhi Police on Thursday asked a court here to grant five more days of custody of businessman Navneet Kalra to interrogate him for allegedly hoarding life-saving oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices in black market. The Crime Branch produced Mr. Kalra before Metropolitan Magistrate Akanksha Garg of Saket Court at the end of the three days of his police custody. The accused has also filed bail application in the case, which will come up for hearing along with the application of police seeking his further remand. During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Mr. Kalra. The absconding restaurateur was nabbed from Gurugram on May 16 night and formally arrested the next day. During the three-days custodial interrogation, the police took Kalra to the three upscale restaurants owned by him in Khan Market and Lodhi Colony. He was also taken for the mandatory medical examination. The police claimed that the concentrators were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant prices of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 70,000 a piece as against its cost of Rs. 16,000 to Rs. 22,000. The concentrators are a crucial medical equipment used for COVID-19 patients and are on high demand amid the second wave of the pandemic.  The concentrators were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant price of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 70,000 a piece Delhi Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-seek-five-more-days-of-kalras-custody/article34610961.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks AIIMS to set up board to hear woman’s plea on abortion||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to set up a medical board to examine the feasibility and advisability of aborting the 22 week plus pregnancy of a woman whose twin foetus suffer from ‘dandy walker malformation’, a rare congenital brain abnormality. Justice Rekha Palli asked AIIMS to constitute a board, examine the woman and submit a report to the court by May 24 after the petitioner and her husband said that their doctors have said that after 24 weeks of gestation, abortion would not be advisable. According to the petition, ‘dandy walker malformation’ is a rare brain condition in which the part joining the two hemispheres of the cerebellum does not fully form. Why couple took time? The couple told the court that they initially found about the malformation on April 28, but their doctors wanted to confirm the diagnosis and that is why they took time to file a petition. The High Court listed the matter for hearing on May 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-asks-aiims-to-set-up-board-to-hear-womans-plea-on-abortion/article34610962.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mother and son found dead inside house in north-east Delhi||Bodies of a woman and her son were found lying inside their house in north-east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar on Thursday morning, the police said. The deceased — Umlesh (56) and her son Ashok (29) — used to stay on the first floor. They ran a general store on the ground floor of the house. The police said they received information about the incident at 8 a.m. When the team reached the spot, the woman’s body was found lying on the floor. Her son was found lying dead on the bed in the same room, a senior officer said. “We have registered a case and shifted the bodies to mortuary for post-mortem. An investigation is under way. It seems to be murder by strangulation yet without any proper evidence, no conclusion can be drawn,” he said. Efforts are being made to find any clue about the accused, he added. The woman is survived by another son, Siddarth, 39, who lives just opposite her house. Umlesh’s husband had died on April 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mother-and-son-found-dead-inside-house-in-north-east-delhi/article34610970.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||BJP-ruled civic body sealing shops: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday alleged that the BJP-governed municipal corporation was sealing shops even during the pandemic. “AAP demands that the BJP-ruled municipal corporation should stop harassing traders by sealing their shops, if they are unable to pay taxes due to the pandemic,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak. He said that the small and medium-sized traders are under immense stress and urged the representatives of the BJP to stop “harassing” traders. “If for some reason, if a trader is unable to make payments, do not impose a penalty on him, do not seal his shops, do not send your agents to collect money. This is my earnest request and I also want to plead on the grounds of humanity,” Mr. Pathak said. BJP spokesperson did not respond to the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-ruled-civic-body-sealing-shops-aap/article34610969.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Final semester DU exams to commence on June 7||The Delhi University on Thursday announced that examinations for final semester students will commence on June 7. Earlier, the examinations were scheduled to begin from May 15 and were postponed due to the ongoing second COVID wave. In a notification issued, DU said: “Accordingly, all the date sheets released for commencement of examinations from May 15 are hereby withdrawn. The new date sheets shall be released soon and shall be available on the website of the University of Delhi. The detailed guideline regarding the May/June 2021 examination will be issued in due course of time.” Earlier this month, the university had deferred the examinations of terminal-year students in view of a surge in COVID cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/final-semester-du-exams-to-commence-on-june-7/article34610972.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fire breaks out at ESI hospital; none injured||A fire broke out at the ESI hospital in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh on Thursday, said Delhi Fire Service officials. They said no injuries were reported in the incident. A fire official said: “A call was received at 1.16 p.m. that a fire has broken out on the second floor of the ESI Hospital in Punjabi Bagh. It was a non-COVID area. A total of seven fire tenders were pressed into service and the blaze was brought under control at 2.30 p.m.” He said the fire broke out in the UPS room attached to an operation theatre on the second floor of the hospital. There were no patients present at that time on the floor but around 20 hospital staff, all of whom were safely rescued, the fire department said. Cause of fire is being ascertained, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fire-breaks-out-at-esi-hospital-none-injured/article34610965.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Driving home a point||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/driving-home-a-point/article34610964.ece
21 May 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai Congress targets Modi on vaccine shortage||Days after the Delhi Police arrested individuals pasting posters targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the shortage of COVID-19 vaccines in the country, the Mumbai Congress on Thursday displayed similar posters across the city. The posters displayed read, “Modi ji , why did you send our children’s vaccines abroad?” Mumbai Congress working president Charan Singh Sapra said, “The Mumbai Congress wants to highlight the BJP government’s policy paralysis, its failure in forming a comprehensive vaccine policy and ensuring safety for citizens when they are struggling. We will continue to raise valid questions by all means.” The BJP said the country was fighting two viruses, one of which was the Congress. “There are certain obligations regarding export of the vaccine. But the Congress is misleading the country and while fighting the novel coronavirus, we are being forced to fight with the Congress virus as well,” Sanjay Pandey, president, north India front of the BJP, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-congress-targets-modi-on-vaccine-shortage/article34610611.ece
21 May 2021||Mumbai,||HC rebukes Centre on door-to-door vaccination||The Bombay High Court on Thursday came down heavily on the Central government for not agreeing to carry out door-to-door vaccination for the elderly and bed-ridden and said, “We are very disappointed by this stand.” The HC had on Wednesday told the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that if the Centre did not allow a door-to-door drive, the court would give the green signal. “You need to chase the people to get them vaccinated. You cannot make them wait. There have been instances where people have waited for seven to eight hours,” a Bench said. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh said prior information were given about availability of vaccines and in which centres. The court interrupted him and said, “These are for people who can come to the centres. What about those who can’t come? We would like to know your advisory on that?” Meanwhile, the Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to ensure that those who had got appointments to receive COVID-19 vaccine must be prioritised for inoculation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-rebukes-centre-on-door-to-door-vaccination/article34610614.ece
21 May 2021||Pune,||Tauktae: Despite assurance, MVA govt. politicising relief issue, says Fadnavis||Stating that the Centre would give aid to all eight States, including Maharashtra, which had been hit by Cyclone Tauktae, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday accused the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of needlessly and deliberately politicising the relief issue. Mr. Fadnavis, who is on a three-day tour of the Konkan region, which was ravaged by the cyclone, also alleged that the State government had yet to complete the relief and rehabilitation of citizens who had been afflicted in June last year. “Instead of pointing fingers at the Centre each time something happens, I urge the State government to take its own relief efforts seriously. They [the MVA] have to ensure whether their announcements are being implemented on ground…I find that several people who were afflicted by Cyclone Nisarga have not yet received compensation,” the former Chief Minister said in Mahad in Raigad district. He was reacting to statements made by some MVA leaders that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi had personally visited and declared help for Gujarat, Maharashtra was being given step-motherly treatment and ignored. Raigad, along with Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts in the Konkan have been the worst-hit in Maharashtra, with the cyclone damaging around 10,000 houses, 5,000 hectares of fruits and cropland, nearly 200 school buildings, and scores of medical establishments. Mr. Fadnavis said that in a release issued on Wednesday, the Central government had clearly stated that it would provide assistance to all the eight States affected by the cyclone. “The landfall of the cyclone happened in Gujarat which bore the brunt of its onslaught. As many as 45 people died on the spot and a large number of villages have suffered destruction. So, on Wednesday, the Prime Minister visited the spot, inspected the damage, and declared help. It was also clearly mentioned in the official press note that all eight States hit by the cyclone including Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and Rajasthan and two Union Territories besides Gujarat would get help,” Mr. Fadnavis said. Meanwhile, State Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who commenced his own tour on Thursday, said that a package would be announced after Mr. Thackeray had inspected the afflicted areas on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tauktae-despite-assurance-mva-govt-politicising-relief-issue-says-fadnavis/article34610613.ece
21 May 2021||GAZA CITY,||Israel unleashes airstrikes across Gaza||Israel unleashed another wave of airstrikes across the Gaza Strip early Thursday, killing at least one Palestinian and wounding several, and Hamas fired more rockets, even as expectations rose that a cease-fire could be coming. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has pushed back against calls from the U.S. to wind down the Gaza offensive, appearing determined to inflict maximum damage on Hamas in a war that could help save his political career. Still, officials close to the negotiations say they expect a truce to be announced in the next 24 hours. In another possible sign of progress, Mr. Netanyahu scheduled a meeting later on Thursday with his Security Cabinet, where the issue of a ceasefire was likely to be debated. Explosions shook Gaza City and orange flares lit up the pre-dawn sky, with bombing raids also reported in the central town of Deir al-Balah and the southern town of Khan Younis. As the sun rose, residents surveyed the rubble from at least five family homes destroyed in Khan Younis. There were also heavy airstrikes on a commercial thoroughfare in Gaza City. The Israeli military said it struck at least three homes of Hamas commanders in Khan Younis and another in Rafah, targeting “military infrastructure,” as well as a weapons storage unit at a home in Gaza City. With hundreds already killed in the worst fighting since Israel and Hamas’ 2014 war, U.S. President Joe Biden told Israel on Wednesday that he expected “a significant de-escalation today on the path to a cease-fire” — but Netanyahu pushed back, saying he was “determined to continue this operation until its aim is met”. It marked the first public rift between the two close allies since the fighting began and poses a difficult test of the U.S.-Israel relationship early in Biden’s presidency. Still, an Egyptian intelligence official said a cease-fire was likely late Thursday or early Friday, after the U.S. appeal bolstered Cairo's own efforts to halt the fighting. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the delicate talks. Khalid Okasha, director of the Egyptian Center for Strategic Studies, which has close ties to the government, also said a cease-fire was likely in that timeframe, as did Osama Hamdan, a senior Hamas official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-unleashes-airstrikes-across-gaza/article34610377.ece
21 May 2021||Brussels,||EU lawmakers back patent waiver for vaccines||The European Parliament has urged the EU to back a push for a temporary waiver of coronavirus vaccine patents, in the face of scepticism from Brussels and key member states. Lawmakers voting late on Wednesday narrowly approved an amendment calling on the bloc “to support the Indian and South African World Trade Organization (WTO) initiative for a temporary waiver on intellectual property rights for COVID-19 vaccines, equipment and treatments, and urges pharmaceutical companies to share their knowledge and data”. EU leaders this month said they were willing to discuss patent waivers after U.S. President Joe Biden backed the plan — but called for more details on the proposal and urged other major producers to first increase their exports of much-needed jabs. EU trade commissioner Valdis Dombrovskis told lawmakers on Wednesday that Brussels would put forward its own proposal at the WTO focused on boosting production and freeing up exports. He insisted Brussels would “engage constructively” to see if a temporary waiver of patents could help bolster global supplies and access to the doses. WTO boss Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala was set to meet EU Trade Ministers for talks in Brussels on Thursday. The WHO, India and South Africa have all called for patents to be temporarily suspended in a bid to help boost deliveries to poorer nations struggling to vaccinate their populations. Key EU members France and Germany have defended vaccine patents, arguing that innovative companies must be rewarded for their efforts. Germany is the home of BioNTech, which developed the vaccine now being produced by U.S. giant Pfizer that has become the mainstay of Europe’s inoculation campaign. Officials from the bloc have said the hoarding of crucial ingredients needed for vaccines by some nations was a larger obstacle than patent protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-lawmakers-back-patent-waiver-for-vaccines/article34610375.ece
21 May 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka Parliament passes Bill on China-backed Port City||The Sri Lankan Parliament on Thursday passed a controversial Bill on laws governing the China-backed Colombo Port City, with a majority of 149 legislators — in the 225-member House — voting in its favour. The development comes after the Supreme Court suggested certain amendments, following over a dozen petitions challenging the Bill that political opposition and civil society groups said “directly affected” Sri Lanka’s sovereignty. The government accepted the amendments, pre-empting the requirement for a two-thirds majority or a referendum for passage of certain clauses, as per the apex court’s determination. The $1.4-billion Colombo Port City was launched in 2014 during the previous term of the Rajapaksa government, when Chinese President Xi Jinping visited the island nation. The mega infrastructure project is currently being built on land reclaimed alongside Colombo’s iconic sea front, while environmentalists and fisher folk opposed the move. The Ranil Wickremesinghe –Maithripala Siripala administration too went ahead with the project, vowing to develop it as a financial hub. Following their return to power in November 2019, the Rajapaksa administration sought to expedite construction work as well as a legal framework for what promises to be a tax haven for foreign investors. In a two-day debate in the legislature, culminating in Thursday’s vote, government MPs defended the Colombo Port City Economic Commission Bill, pointing to potential foreign direct investments —up to $15 billion — and prospects for job creation. The ruling side has a two-third majority in Parliament. ‘Chinese enclave’ Legislatures from Opposition parties, including the Samagi Jana Balawegaya (United People’s Front) and the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) challenged its provisions that they said infringed upon the country’s sovereignty, gave the governing commission overarching powers, and immunity from Sri Lankan law, and threatened to create a “Chinese enclave”. Some of the strongest attacks on the Bill, during the debate, came from Tamil MPs. Legislator and former Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran on Wednesday asked the government if its stated policy of striving for ‘One Country, One Law’ meant “Chinese law”. Intervening in the debate, Tamil National People’s Front Leader Gajen Ponnambalam on Thursday said Sri Lanka had gone too close to the U.S. in the Cold War era, prompting India to back and train Tamil militant groups. The “China-centric” Rajapaksa administration was again challenging the geopolitical order in the region, he said. Observing that the “Tamil nation” had paid a heavy price the last time Sri Lanka made such choices, he said he opposed the Bill for that reason. Tamil National Alliance MP M.A. Sumanthiran said the Supreme Court had made merely “cosmetic changes” to the Bill, while its fundamental character remained unchanged. Accusing the government of giving away part of its land to China, the Jaffna legislator said: “You say so much about [Tamil] Eelam, but this is Cheelam, [referring to China and Eelam, the Tamil name of Sri Lanka]... and it is Cheelam that you are enacting in your own laws, when you don’t have jurisdiction over that territory.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-parliament-passes-bill-on-china-backed-port-city/article34610379.ece
21 May 2021||Moscow,||Will knock their teeth out, Putin tells would-be aggressors||Russian President Vladimir Putin alleged on Thursday that some of the country’s foreign foes dream about biting off pieces of the country’s vast territory, warning that Moscow would “knock their teeth out” if they ever try. In strong remarks during a conference call with officials, the President noted that foreign efforts to contain Russia date back to centuries. “In all times, the same thing happened: once Russia grew stronger, they found pretexts to hamper its development,” Mr. Putin said, alleging that some critics of Russia, who he didn’t name, have argued that it’s unfair for it to keep its vast natural riches all to itself. “Everyone wants to bite us or bite something off us, but those who would like to do so should know that we would knock their teeth out so that they couldn’t bite,” the Russian leader said. “The development of our military is the guarantee of that.” The Kremlin has made the modernisation of the country’s armed forces a top priority amid tensions with the U.S. and its allies. Russia-West ties have sunk to post-Cold War lows over 2014 annexation of Crimean Peninsula, accusations of Russian meddling in elections, hacking attacks, and other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/will-knock-their-teeth-out-putin-tells-would-be-aggressors/article34610380.ece
21 May 2021||REYKJAVIK,||U.S., Russia at odds over military activity in the Arctic||The Biden administration is leading a campaign against Russian attempts to assert authority over Arctic shipping and reintroduce a military dimension to discussions over international activity in the area. As Russia assumed the rotating chairmanship of the Arctic Council on Thursday, the U.S. rallied members to oppose Moscow’s plans to set maritime rules in the Northern Sea Route, which runs from Norway to Alaska, and its desire to resume military talks within the eight-nation bloc. Those talks were suspended in 2014 over Russia’s actions in Ukraine. The effort reflects growing concerns in Washington and among some NATO allies about a surge in Russian military and commercial activity in the region that is rapidly opening up due to the effects of climate change. At a meeting of Arctic Council Foreign Ministers in Reykjavik, the capital of Iceland, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the group should maintain its focus on peaceful cooperation on environmental issues, maritime safety and the well-being of indigenous people in the region. Mr. Blinken stressed the importance of upholding “effective governance and the rule of law” to ensure that the “Arctic remains a region free of conflict where countries act responsibly.” Several other Foreign Ministers, including those from Canada, Iceland, Finland, Norway and Sweden, echoed Mr. Blinken’s call to keep the Arctic peaceful and free of conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-russia-at-odds-over-military-activity-in-the-arctic/article34610384.ece
21 May 2021||Paris,||World’s largest iceberg breaks off from Antarctica, says ESA||A huge ice block has broken off from western Antarctica into the Weddell Sea, becoming the largest iceberg in the world and earning the name A-76. It is the latest in a series of large ice blocks to dislodge in a region acutely vulnerable to climate change, although scientists said in this case it appeared to be part of a natural polar cycle. Slightly larger than the Spanish island of Majorca, A-76 had been monitored by scientists since May 13 when it began to separate from the Ronne Ice Shelf, according to the U.S. National Ice Center. The iceberg, measuring around 170 km long and 25 km wide, with an area of 4,320 sq km is now floating in the Weddell Sea. It joins previous world’s largest title holder A-23A — approximately 3,880 sq. km. in size — which has remained in the same area since 1986. A-76 was originally spotted by the British Antarctic Survey and the calving — the term used when an iceberg breaks off — was confirmed using images from the Copernicus satellite, the European Space Agency said. Icebergs form when hunks of ice break off from ice shelves or glaciers and begin to float in open water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/worlds-largest-iceberg-breaks-off-from-antarctica-says-esa/article34610385.ece
21 May 2021||Washington,||U.S. panel supports India in its fight against virus||The U.S. House of Representative’s Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC), on Tuesday, unanimously passed a resolution in support of India as it faces a devastating COVID-19 wave. The resolution, although largely symbolic, demonstrates support in Congress for the U.S.’s efforts to assist India fight the pandemic. The resolution, introduced by House India Caucus co-chairs Brad Sherman (Democrat) and Steve Chabot (Republican), expresses solidarity with the people of India and recognises the Biden administration as well as the U.S. private sector and Indian Americans for their assistance to India. The U.S. public and private sectors , including individuals, had provided over $500 million in assistance to India to fight this wave of the pandemic, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said on Wednesday. The Biden administration is working with international vaccine access programme COVAX to determine how it will distribute 80 million doses of spare vaccine to other countries in the coming weeks. The HFAC resolution also notes that India “lifted its export ban on certain therapeutics” in response to a request by the U.S. government last year when the pandemic was surging in America.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-panel-supports-india-in-its-fight-against-virus/article34610381.ece
21 May 2021||Washington,||Sanders wants arms sale to Israel halted||U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders is leading a long-shot effort to halt a $735 million arms sale to Israel as Democrats in the U.S. Congress raise mounting concerns about the violence in West Asia. The Vermont Senator introduced a resolution on Thursday to block the weapons transfer. A similar measure in the House was introduced Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat from New York, and liberal lawmakers on Wednesday. Mr. Sanders said that Congress needs to “take a hard look at whether the sale of these weapons is actually helping do that, or whether it is simply fuelling conflict.” Supporters of this effort are unlikely to have the votes needed to reverse the sale, but they’re registering their opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sanders-wants-arms-sale-to-israel-halted/article34610382.ece
21 May 2021||London,||BBC tricked princess Diana into 1995 TV interview: inquiry||Journalist Martin Bashir tricked Princess Diana into giving an explosive BBC television interview in 1995, in which she lifted the lid on her troubled marriage to Prince Charles, an independent investigation concluded on Thursday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bbc-tricked-princess-diana-into-1995-tv-interview-inquiry/article34610374.ece
21 May 2021||PARIS,||EU--France-Sarkozy-Trial||The trial of former French President Nicolas Sarkozy on charges that his unsuccessful 2012 reelection bid was illegally financed has formally started on Thursday. Mr. Sarkozy, 66, is facing allegations that he spent almost twice the maximum legal amount of €22.5 million on the presidential race.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-france-sarkozy-trial/article34610376.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Can the economy survive the second COVID-19 wave?||As the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and the State-level lockdowns batter the economy, Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das this week noted that the impact of the second wave is likely to be less severe than the first one. He said that businesses and people have started to adapt to lockdowns and that the hit to demand would be much lower this time. In a conversation moderated by Prashanth Perumal J. , Radhika Pandey and Vivek Kaul discuss the two COVID-19 waves and how they have impacted the economy. Edited excerpts:  How do you see the RBI governor’s assessment of the current economic situation compared to last year? Radhika Pandey:The nationwide lockdown last year in response to the first wave of the pandemic resulted in a severe supply shock. What we are seeing now is not a severe supply shock but a demand shock. The second wave, because it is highly transmissible and ferocious as compared to the first wave, has created a lot of uncertainty, pessimism and loss of confidence among households and businesses. It will take time for people to start recovering because it has created a lot of uncertainty. So, that’s the key difference between the first and second waves. The second wave also affects supply to some extent, but it is primarily a demand shock. Last year, what we saw was that during the first quarter, savings increased as people were not able to spend because of the lockdown. But in the second quarter, we saw that savings declined and consumption spending picked up. It is difficult to say whether that will repeat this time. So, we might not see a steep V-shaped recovery that we saw last time. How do you see the impact of the second wave in terms of the magnitude of the economic slowdown? RP:Unlike last year, there won’t be economic contraction this year. In fact, there will be positive growth, but most forecasters agencies are paring down their growth forecast because nobody anticipated the severity of the second wave. If we look at the GDP level, we won’t be able to reach the pre-pandemic level this year, but as compared to last year, there will definitely be growth. Vivek Kaul:The key difference is that growth this year will essentially be on a slow burner. We will not see a contraction because last year was really bad, but growth will be extremely slow. And economists will have to keep revising their numbers. One key thing is the fact that almost all governments in India missed the second wave and they had to hurriedly put lockdowns in place. I don’t see governments opening the economy up very quickly due to the fear of a third wave. Before the second wave, all economists were saying that FY 2021-22 GDP should cross the pre-pandemic 2019-20 GDP. I don’t think that will happen now. Would you agree with the assessment that we are looking at a prolonged slowdown? RP:Yes, if you look at the U.S. and the U.K., they have already vaccinated a considerable chunk of their population, and now they are opening up. That is not happening here in India as only 3-4% of our population is fully vaccinated. Even under the most optimistic scenario, it’s not possible to reach the pre-pandemic GDP level this year. We may see progress on vaccination only in the initial months of 2022. That’s why the economic recovery will be a protracted affair. In terms of magnitude, the decline won’t be too steep. But in terms of duration, it will take a lot of time because of all the uncertainty. VK:A significant section of the population has spent a large amount of their savings to fight COVID-19. A lot of people have also ended up in debt. There is no agglomerated data on this, but there is enough evidence going around if you keep your eyes and ears open. These families will find it difficult to spend. Then there is this great fear of a third wave. Even if people have the money, whether they are in the psychological state to go out and spend is a question well worth asking. Does the Indian state possess the capacity to effectively deal with pandemics through vaccination, testing, etc.? VK:If you leave out the few southern States, much of India doesn’t really have a health system. And the inequality across States is simply mind-boggling. One example that I often use is a comparison between Kerala and Jharkhand. And I do that because the population of Jharkhand is slightly more than that of Kerala. Kerala has close to 60,000-65,000 doctors while Jharkhand has around 5,000-6,000. If you go into other numbers such as the number of nurses and beds, you will realise that there is a great deal of inequality across the country. This is not something that can be set right overnight. It’s not just about spending more money. There is a whole host of other supply-side issues and this obviously cannot be set right overnight. There are two issues here. One is whether the Indian state has the capacity to fight the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. No, it doesn’t and that has become very obvious by now. The second question is whether it has the capacity to give vaccines. The situation is not as bad on that front. The vaccination problem can be taken care of even in the short term, as long as the vaccine supply becomes available. How have the monetary and fiscal responses been this time as compared to last year? RP:I don’t see any response, especially from the monetary side. They don’t have much space given that we are seeing bouts of inflation as well as growth slowdown and we are out of the global business cycle. In advanced economies, growth is picking up and as a result, inflation is picking up as demand comes back on track. As a result, we are seeing global commodity prices surge and we are seeing the impact of that on India’s domestic inflation. Last time the RBI cut the repo rate by 115 basis points, but today it is hard for the RBI to cut interest rates because inflation is going to rise even though there is a demand slowdown. It will be mostly cost push inflation where inflation is driven by crude oil prices and input costs. What the RBI can do is incentivise banks to lend to sectors which have been hard hit. But again, it all depends on whether banks are willing to lend because if we see the credit growth over the last few months, it has not actually been picking up as banks have become risk averse. There is greater scope for fiscal policy. Apart from free foodgrains distribution as was the case last year, one can allocate more funds for MGNREGS [Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme] given that there has been an increase in the demand for work. But given that India’s debt-to-GDP ratio has risen to somewhere around 90% and there has been a collapse in revenues, the ability of the government to spend is limited. VK:If you look at the monetary policy, it hasn’t been able to do much over the last five to six years. They talk about cutting interest rates and people borrowing and all that. All that works in theory, but if you look at numbers, it doesn’t work. One of the things that the RBI has been talking about is how lending to small and medium enterprises needs to go up. Now, if you look at the lending to micro and small enterprises, it has not moved and the overall lending has been the same for the last six years. This is despite offering all kinds of incentives, lower interest rates, so on and so forth. Secondly, it also tells you about the state of the small and medium enterprises in the country. They have been struggling over the years. They have faced everything from demonetisation to the Goods and Services Tax. And now the lockdown. Also, the main purpose of the bank is not to revive the Indian economy, which is why monetary policy has not worked for quite some time now. How do you see the migration of workers during the second wave when compared to the mass migration that happened during the first wave? RP:What we saw during the first wave was an abrupt lockdown. This time it’s not so. Workers this time are taking a conscious decision to go back [to their homes]; it’s not just an abrupt response. That’s a key difference. The other point is that as compared to the first wave, this time the rural sector has been affected much more severely. That’s visible in the employment numbers. What we see from CMIE data if we look at the April numbers is that total job loss was somewhere around 7.35 million and out of that, 2.35 million people lost jobs in the rural sector. Last time, rural employment was in a much better position as compared to urban unemployment. Also, urban workers are moving back to their villages. That has caused the increase in unemployment and MGNREGA is not able to absorb workers, which has resulted in a huge mismatch between demand and supply. In some cases, we also find that, even though work is offered, people are not taking it up because of fear surrounding the virus. VK:Also, a lot of people who went back last year never really came back. That has probably also added to the unemployment pressure in the rural areas. Obviously there is no way to measure this. But I think that is another factor at play. And, as Radhika pointed that, the question is even if you increase the allocation to MGNREGA, and create more jobs, will people turn up because the chances of infection go up? This is a tricky situation. Last year we were able to spend our way out of trouble by spending to create economic activity. This time around it is a little difficult to implement. What should the government do to put a permanent end to the pandemic and help the economy recover fully? RP:There are some short-term measures to be taken and then there are some medium-term and long-term measures that are within current state capacity. One is to ramp up the supply of vaccines and ensure that more people get vaccinated. We should increase the daily pace of vaccination which has recently slowed down due to shortage. Unless that is done, the recovery will be protracted. The other thing is to seriously think about structural reforms, especially in healthcare. The pandemic has exposed the limitations of the healthcare system. There has to be some way of building medical infrastructure, which is not going to happen overnight. But there has to be careful and serious thinking. VK:I think the only way to prevent another lockdown is to concentrate on providing the number of vaccines that the nation needs. You have a lot of these influencers going around who have all kinds of opinions on the disease. It has to be ensured that this kind of rubbish doesn’t go around. It is also important to ensure that the right messaging goes to the country. Another big fear is that even though there is huge demand for vaccines, this is largely from the cities. Once that demand is exhausted, one needs to ensure that vaccination continues. It might make sense to incentivise people who come and get vaccinated with rice and wheat or by depositing some money into their Jan Dhan account. These issues need to be thought about, and right now, nobody is thinking about them.  The nationwide lockdown last year resulted in a severe supply shock. What we are seeing now is not a severe supply shock but a demand shock. Radhika Pandey||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/can-the-economy-survive-the-second-covid-19-wave/article34610371.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A gear shift to pull India back from tipping point||Crises are of many kinds and come in different shapes and sizes. The current COVID-19 pandemic is a health crisis that is one of a kind, but it is at such times that the true qualities and grit of a nation and its leaders manifest themselves. It demands a mindset very different from carrying out surgical strikes or indulging in bombing expeditions on terror targets inside Pakistan. Today, when India looks to those in authority to provide the necessary kind of leadership, unfortunately, this is nowhere in evidence. If this continues for much longer, it could prove highly detrimental. The leadership must not evade its responsibility and should brace itself for the difficult period ahead. The transition will not be easy.  What is, perhaps, proving rather problematic is that during this time of human travail, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership is confronting another crisis which could have a more direct impact on the party’s future. This crisis centres around whether the BJP needs to make changes and adjustments to what it has been accustomed to do in conducting the affairs of the country since 2014. Triumphalism, which has been the BJP’s stock-in-trade for many years now, having met its Waterloo in the recent Assembly Elections in the States of West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu may need a reset. For a party that seemed to carry everything before it till now, effecting a change may not be easy. What kind of an impact it might have on the affairs of the nation is also a matter of conjecture.  Still no complete plan Coming first to the novel coronavirus pandemic and its impact — COVID-19 has now been with us for nearly 18 months. As yet, the nation has not seen a comprehensive strategy emerging from Delhi to deal with the situation. Numerous statements have been issued at different levels, and several meetings have been held from the Prime Minister downwards, but it is evident that all these are a poor substitute for a well-thought-out strategy. Most glaring is the flip-flop on the policy concerning vaccination — which is the nearest substitute for a strategy — for the nation is still trying to come to terms on how the authorities will conjure up even the several million doses needed to vaccinate the vulnerable sections of the population in the 18-44 age group. The situation is further muddied by reports of cover-ups regarding ‘missing deaths’ — a damning indictment of all those responsible — considering that ours is a civilisation that treats death and the dying with the same veneration as the living. Distorting statistics can hardly take away the pain of those who have lost their loved ones.  Fault finding has grown In the meantime, as the facts and statistics surrounding deaths become grimmer, fault finding between the Centre and the States on how to manage the pandemic has only intensified. Anyone familiar with India’s democracy would find it difficult to believe that we function under a federal Constitution (which has no doubt many unitary characteristics). Harmony between the Centre, and specially those States headed by Opposition parties, is conspicuous by its absence. Finding the right strategy may not be akin to nuclear science, but it could prove difficult for those in authority — mainly those in Delhi — to effect a metamorphosis in their thinking, and adjust to methods needed to implement suggestions, which involve taking the States into confidence and incorporating their suggestions and ideas. This is, perhaps, the biggest stumbling block today, and given the current style of functioning of those in authority, it may be difficult to envisage such a metamorphosis taking place. It is, however, imperative that this is done before it becomes too late.  Election results and fallout While the pandemic rages, what is perhaps of greater concern to the BJP leadership in Delhi is that the aura of electoral invincibility that had existed since 2014 seems to be dissipating at this time. Predictably (from their point of view), the consequences of this could prove to be dire, and this, possibly, is the main priority for the party’s high priests. It is difficult to believe that the BJP’s leaders would take kindly to the trouncing that the party has received in West Bengal, despite putting everything into its campaign in that State — with the Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the party President spending days campaigning in that State — and allow Mamata Banerjee to enjoy the spoils of victory. The defeats in Kerala, where the party failed to win a single seat, and in Tamil Nadu, where it won a handful of seats, are, perhaps, less galling but would still hurt. Retaining power in Assam and a win in the Union Territory of Puducherry provide little comfort. One can only envisage what has greater priority for the BJP today: dealing with the pandemic or redesigning its strategy to win elections in the future.  The defeat in West Bengal does convey a certain message, but it is uncertain whether the BJP, in its present frame of mind, would heed the message. It is more likely that the party may seek to reinforce the tactics it had employed, which had enabled it to raise its tally of seats from 3 to 77 (now 75), in the belief that more rather than less, would produce desired results. This would be a mistake. The history of Bengal is replete with instances where attempts to capture power, ignoring the ethos of Bengal, have hardly produced results and at best has led to a pyrrhic victory. Bengal has not forgotten either the tactics adopted by the East India Company — or the role of Mir Jafars — and, hence, suitably adjusting electoral tactics to prevailing winds are more likely to yield results. Consequently, it would be best if the BJP were to introspect on the reasons why it failed so conspicuously in West Bengal, despite having nursed a desire to capture power in that State since 2014. Otherwise, it would indeed be a sad day for democracy and India.  A misreading Polarising politics, accentuating the communal divide, employing the idiom of Hindu majoritarianism, etc., are electoral tactics that could, and have succeeded in certain States and in certain situations. It has often been observed that what might well succeed in certain States in the northern parts of the country may not be the recipe for States such as Bengal or many of the southern States. To cite a quotation, “But could saxifrages or soldanellas gemming a pasture in the High Alps thrive if planted in Egypt?” The extent to which Delhi misread the Bengali mind in the recent election is a sad commentary on Delhi’s understanding of Bengal and its politics. Even a fleeting acquaintance with Bengal’s electorate would confirm that Bengal did not fit into any kind of political straitjacket. For decades now, its politics has revolved round underdevelopment and related aspects.  Among other misjudgements made by the BJP on this occasion, which are best avoided in the future if it hopes to do better or capture power in Bengal, is to appreciate that Bengal’s politics contain a mixture of cultural exclusivism, a certain eclecticism, and a belief in their superiority. A far more nuanced approach, rather than muscular tactics are, hence, likely to produce positive results. Among other misjudgements best avoided in the future is that Bengal — in common with Kerala — give women an exalted status. The denigration of women leaders such as Mamata Banerjee, hence, created an adverse reaction and widened a chasm that existed already.  There is unity in diversity If the ruling dispensation in Delhi fails to heed the lessons that require to be learnt from the handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic and the outcome of the elections in West Bengal, the country may have to pay a heavy price. Bengal is not India, but it is a microcosm of India in miniature. Dealing with the pandemic at one level and managing the shifting democratic scenario at another level will demand dexterity of a certain kind which is not evident in the ruling dispensation so far. Image managing will certainly not be enough, nor for that matter, exaggerated claims to having achieved success. Neither of them is a substitute for real progress. The handling of the pandemic nationwide and the resort to a blame game has already created a divide and damaged relations between the Centre and the States. The current bias in the exercise of power has to be eschewed for the nation is truly mired in a serious crisis.  Above all, if India is to be retrieved from what many believe is a perilous state of affairs, there are many miles to go in which the Centre and the States must decide to go hand in hand. The ‘unity in diversity’ slogan must be adhered to in its true spirit if India is to survive and succeed. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-gear-shift-to-pull-india-back-from-tipping-point/article34610360.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The fault line of poor health infrastructure||As the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic ravages India, many bitter home truths and fault lines have been starkly exposed. One of these is the abysmally poor state of the country’s health infrastructure. World Bank data (https://bit.ly/3u4cHfg) reveal that India had 85.7 physicians per 1,00,000 people in 2017 (in contrast to 98 in Pakistan, 58 in Bangladesh, 100 in Sri Lanka and 241 in Japan), 53 beds per 1,00,000 people (in contrast to 63 in Pakistan, 79.5 in Bangladesh, 415 in Sri Lanka and 1,298 in Japan), and 172.7 nurses and midwives per 1,00,000 people (in contrast to 220 in Sri Lanka, 40 in Bangladesh, 70 in Pakistan, and 1,220 in Japan). Stagnant expenditure This situation is a direct result of the appallingly low public health expenditure. The latest data narrative from the Centre for Economic Data and Analysis (CEDA), Ashoka University, shows that this has been stagnant for years: 1% of GDP 2013-14 and 1.28% in 2017-18 (including expenditure by the Centre, all States and Union Territories) (https://bit.ly/3bw3O7Y). Health is a State subject in India and State spending constitutes 68.6% of all the government health expenditure. However, the Centre ends up being the key player in public health management because the main bodies with technical expertise are under central control. The States lack corresponding expert bodies such as the National Centre for Disease Control or the Indian Council of Medical Research. States also differ a great deal in terms of the fiscal space to deal with the novel coronavirus pandemic because of the wide variation in per capita health expenditure. Inter-State variation CEDA has prepared an interactive graphic that allows users to see the inter-State variation in per capita health-care expenditure in 21 major States and how this has changed from 2010-11 to 2019-20 (https://bit.ly/3bw3O7Y). Kerala and Delhi have been close to the top in all the years. Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, States that have been consistently towards the bottom of the ranking in all years, are struggling to cope with the pandemic, as a result of a deadly combination of dismal health infrastructure as well as myopic policy disregarding scientific evidence and expert advice. Odisha is noteworthy as it had the same per capita health expenditure as Uttar Pradesh in 2010, but now has more than double that of Uttar Pradesh. This is reflected in its relatively good COVID-19 management. Given the dreadfully low levels of public health provision, India has among the highest out-of-pocket (OOP) expenditures of all countries in the world, i.e. money that people spend on their own at the time they receive health care. The World Health Organization estimates that 62% of the total health expenditure in India is OOP, among the highest in the world. CEDA’s analysis shows that some of the poorest States (Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha) have a high ratio of OOP expenditures in total health expenditure. This regressive nature of OOP health expenditure has been highlighted in the past (https://bit.ly/33RpyXq). Essentially, this means that the poor in the poorest States, the most vulnerable sections, are the worst victims of a health emergency. The surreal and tragic visuals of bodies floating in the Ganga serve as a grim reminder that the poor have no dignity in life or in death. Families that have been stripped to the bone trying to save the lives of their loved ones cannot even afford a decent final farewell for them. Government’s role critical The inter-State variation in health expenditure highlights the need for a coordinated national plan at the central level to fight the pandemic. The Centre already tightly controls major decisions, including additional resources raised specifically for pandemic relief, e.g. the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund. The early declarations of victory over COVID-19 were very clearly credited to the central government. CEDA has shown that the first round of vaccinations, where the vaccines were procured by the Centre and distributed to the States, was marked by considerable inter-State variation, which was neither explained by the case load nor by the share of eligible (45+) population (https://bit.ly/3bx9Gh5). Now that the disease is ravaging the country and the need for a coordinated strategy on essential supplies of oxygen and vaccines is acute, the central government has shifted most of the responsibilities on to the States, including that of procuring vaccines from the international market. This is inefficient, as the Centre can bargain for a good price from vaccine manufacturers in its capacity as a single large buyer (like the European Union did for its member states) and benefit from the economies of scale in transportation of vaccines into the country. Once the vaccines arrive in India, these could be distributed across States equitably in a needs-based and transparent manner. Another benefit of central coordination is that distribution of constrained resources (medical supplies, financial resources) can internalise the existing disparities in health infrastructure across States. A decentralised management, on the other hand, exacerbates the existing inequities, as better-off States can outcompete others in procuring resources. This is evident in the vaccine procurement with various States floating separate global tenders. A policy brief In April 2020, CEDA came out with a policy brief, where among other measures, it recommended the creation of a “Pandemic Preparedness Unit” (PPU) by the central government, which would streamline disease surveillance and reporting systems; coordinate public health management and policy responses across all levels of government; formulate policies to mitigate economic and social costs, and communicate effectively about the health crisis (https://bit.ly/2RV4ywh). We had not foreseen the ferocity of the second wave; but knowing how deadly this is, our suggestion acquires even greater urgency. Indians were already “one illness away” from falling into poverty (https://bit.ly/3oxXvWq). Families devastated by the loss of lives and livelihoods as a result of this pandemic will feel the distress for decades to come. The central government needs to deploy all available resources to support the health and livelihood expenses of COVID-19-ravaged families immediately. As and when we emerge on the other side of the pandemic, bolstering public health-care systems has to be the topmost priority for all governments: the Centre as well as States. Ashwini Deshpande is Professor of Economics and Director, Centre for Economic Data and Analysis (CEDA), Ashoka University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-fault-line-of-poor-health-infrastructure/article34610363.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Circumvention||Wielding power at the Centre comes with great responsibility. A major responsibility in a federal country with strong centralising features is to maintain the balance, as well as mutual respect, between political structures at the central and State levels. In particular, it is an obligation of the Centre to refrain from bypassing the elected leadership while dealing with States. Two recent developments have raised concern that the Centre wants to give instructions to officials functioning under elected State regimes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has held two virtual meetings with district magistrates and State officials to review the COVID-19 situation. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal held a virtual meeting to discuss the National Education Policy, and related matters such as the conduct of Class XII examinations with State Secretaries in charge of education. While such meetings may help the Prime Minister or any Union Minister get some feedback from the field across India, it is quite unusual for leaders in the central political executive to bypass their counterparts in the States. The Tamil Nadu Minister for School Education, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, took the right stand by not deputing any official to represent the State in Mr. Pokhriyal’s virtual interaction. The idea was not to boycott the meeting, but to say the Minister ought to have been included in a discussion on the NEP. The Prime Minister addressing district magistrates, or collectors, does have a precedent. Rajiv Gandhi addressed the heads of the district administration in Uttar Pradesh, when it was under Congress rule, on the issue of Panchayati Raj. The defence then was that such direct interactions were permissible under the Constitution, citing Articles 256 and 257. These provisions stipulate that the States are obliged to comply with laws made by Parliament and also allow some directions from the Union government. If the Prime Minister belongs to one party, and the officials addressed are from a State run by another, there is bound to be resentment that the elected representatives of the State are being bypassed. In the present case, it is true that the Centre has a major role in the pandemic response. The Disaster Management Act has been invoked to specify guidelines on lockdowns, restrictions and relaxations and to ensure smooth medical supplies. However, it would be in the larger interest of the country if events and discussions are held in such a way that the political structures at the State are not seen to be undermined. There ought to be no scope for complaints, such as the one made by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, that Chief Ministers felt humiliated when all of them were not allowed to speak to the PM in a virtual interaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/circumvention/article34610354.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Balancing act||At the open UN Security Council session on Sunday on the Gaza conflict, India, a non-permanent member, attempted a delicate balancing act by reaffirming its traditional support for the Palestine cause without abandoning its new friend Israel. T.S. Tirumurti, India’s Permanent Representative at the UN, expressed concern over the violence in Jerusalem and the “possible eviction process” of Palestinian families in Sheikh Jarrah and warned against “attempts to unilaterally change the status quo ” in Jerusalem. He also reiterated India’s “strong support for the just Palestinian cause and its unwavering commitment to the two-state solution”. But India was careful not to upset Israel’s sensitivities. There is a direct condemnation of the rocket attacks from Gaza but no direct reference to the disproportionate bombing Israel has been carrying out on the impoverished Gaza Strip since May 10. India also did not make any reference to the status of Jerusalem or the future borders of the two states, in line with a recent change in its policy. Until 2017, the Indian position was that it supported the creation of an independent, sovereign Palestine state based on the 1967 border and with East Jerusalem as its capital that lives alongside Israel. The balancing did not appear to have gone down well with the Israeli side. When Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has a good rapport with Narendra Modi, thanked 25 countries that he said stood with Israel, there was no reference to India. For India, which voted against the creation of Israel in historic Palestine in 1947 in the UN General Assembly, ties with Israel have transformed since the early 1990s. In 2017, Mr. Modi became the first Indian PM to visit Israel and Mr. Netanyahu travelled to India in 2018. While Israel ties are on a strong footing, India cannot ignore the Palestinians for historic, moral, legal and realist reasons. Historically, India, which went through the horrors of 1947, opposed the partition of Palestine. Throughout the Cold War, it remained a strong supporter of Palestinian freedom, taking a moral and legal position against the Israeli occupation, in line with international laws and norms. It established full diplomatic relations with Israel in 1992, in the context of improving Israel-Palestine ties after the Madrid Conference and the changes in the global order following the disintegration of the Soviet Union, but never abandoned the Palestinians. India’s Palestine policy had realist underpinnings too. India has been energy dependent on the Arab world. It cannot alienate the Arab voices or be isolated in the General Assembly, where most member-countries oppose the occupation. These factors should have driven India to take a more emphatic position against both the indiscriminate rocket attacks into Israel, in which 12 people were killed, and the disproportionate bombing of Gaza, which has claimed at least 230 lives, including over 60 children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/balancing-act/article34610355.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The outdated nature of bureaucracy||COVID-19 has tested the resilience of all public institutions. Despite its efforts, bureaucracy has emerged as a major concern for the ineffective response to the COVID-19 crisis. This inadequacy is the reflection of the outdated nature of public bureaucracy. In the 21st century, democratic countries are still relying on traditional bureaucracies to perform public policy formulation and implementation roles. These bureaucracies have outlived their relevance. Weberian bureaucracy still prefers a generalist over a specialist. A generalist officer (IAS and State civil service officials) is deemed an expert and as a result, superior, even if the officer works in one department or ministry today and in another tomorrow. Specialists in every government department have to remain subordinate to the generalist officers. The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed this weakness. Healthcare professionals who are specialists have been made to work under generalist officers and the policy options have been left to the generalists when they should be in the hands of the specialists. The justification is that the generalist provides a broader perspective compared to the specialist. Weberian bureaucracy Traditional bureaucracy is still stuck with the leadership of position over leadership of function. Leadership of function is when a person has expert knowledge of a particular responsibility in a particular situation. The role of the leader is to explain the situation instead of issuing orders. Every official involved in a particular role responds to the situation rather than relying on some dictation from someone occupying a particular position. Weberian bureaucracy prefers leadership based on position. Bureaucracy has become an end in itself rather than a means to an end. Further, the rigid adherence to rules has resulted in the rejection of innovation. It isn’t surprising to see COVID-19 aid getting stuck in cumbersome clearance processes even during the pandemic. The reform often suggested in India is new public management. This as a reform movement promotes privatisation and managerial techniques of the private sector as an effective tool to seek improvements in public service delivery and governance. But this isn’t a viable solution, not the least in India where there is social inequality and regional variations in development. It renders the state a bystander among the multiple market players with accountability being constantly shifted, especially during a crisis. Further, COVID-19 has shown that the private sector has also failed in public service delivery. Collaborative governance The most appropriate administrative reform is the model of new public governance. This model is based on collaborative governance in which the public sector, private players and civil society, especially public service organisations (NGOs), work together for effective public service delivery. There is no domination of public bureaucracy as the sole agency in policy formulation and implementation. As part of new public governance, a network of social actors and private players would take responsibility in various aspects of governance with public bureaucracy steering the ship rather than rowing it. During the pandemic, we see civil society playing a major role in saving lives. As part of new public governance, this role has to be institutionalised. It needs a change in the behaviour of bureaucracy. It needs flexibility in hierarchy, a relook at the generalist versus specialist debate, and an openness to reforms such as lateral entry and collaboration with a network of social actors. All major revolutions with huge implications on public service delivery have come through the collaboration of public bureaucracy with so-called outsiders. These include the Green Revolution (M.S. Swaminathan), the White Revolution (Verghese Kurien), Aadhaar-enabled services (Nandan Nilekani) and the IT revolution (Sam Pitroda). New public governance is the future of governance, especially public service delivery. Zubair Nazeer is Assistant Professor (Public Administration) at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-outdated-nature-of-bureaucracy/article34610367.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The way the CPI(M) works||“Are you shooting the messenger,” I asked the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader who told me a few days ago that the party would not allow the media to set the agenda for it. His reference was to reports about the public outcry over the exclusion of popular Health Minister K.K. Shailaja from the new Kerala Cabinet headed by Pinarayi Vijayan. “The public sentiment is perfectly understandable. But see how the media tried to leverage it to create a narrative of the party being anti-women and undemocratic,” he said. The leader said that a few years ago, at a State plenum, the party decided that the perceived permanence attached to parliamentary positions should end. “We have the examples of Tripura and West Bengal in front of us. That’s why we chose not to field anyone who’s had two consecutive terms in the Assembly, in the polls. The State Committee also decided that all CPI(M) members in the Cabinet would be talented freshers, to bring about a generational change,” he said. He added that there were excellent Ministers in the last Cabinet who did not contest the election. Of the ministers who got re-elected, none was given an exemption. The party would not fall for “media propaganda,” he said firmly.  “An exemption to Shailaja Teacher alone would have had you [the media] crying foul that ‘the Kannur lobby’ was at work,” said another leader. The mutual distrust between a large section of the media and the CPI(M) goes back a long way. As the party’s State secretary between 1998 and 2015, Mr. Vijayan had frequent run-ins with some media organisations which he accused of working in concert, like a ‘syndicate’, to destabilise the party. Locked in a factional fight with veteran leader V.S. Achuthanandan then, Mr. Vijayan spared no occasion to go hammer and tongs at a section of the media for its “concerted leakage of inner party happenings”. With the ascent of the Bharatiya Janata Party nationally, the media was also accused of furthering a “right wing agenda”. Reporting on the CPI(M) in Kerala willy-nilly puts reporters in a spot when the leaders start wondering why a particular issue, a controversy or development was treated by the media in a certain way. To be sure, the media is not a monolith; those with the values of journalism intact are unremitting in questioning the establishment. And the cloak of secrecy covering the CPI(M)’s proceedings hasn’t helped matters either. I told the leader that it is only natural for the media to wonder if the exclusion of Ms. Shailaja had anything to do with cutting her down to size, similar to what happened to the legendary leader K.R. Gouri. He responded that the party has several talented youth, many of them women, at all levels, including in the Cabinet. “And there’s a mechanism to oversee the functioning of the government, to prevent concentration of power,” he said. Gouri Amma wasn’t officially projected by the party as its chief ministerial candidate in 1987; going by party seniority, E.K. Nayanar was the natural choice. The media got it all wrong, another leader said. Given the shared scepticism between the media and the party, it’s hard to know what actually happened in the party then or what has driven the policy shift now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-way-the-cpim-works/article34610366.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||UP administration (From an editorial)||Great indeed are the efforts made in the Administration Report of the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh for the year 1919-20 to proclaim the fancied failure of the Non-Co-operation movement and to revile the activities of the “extremist papers” that are described as carrying on a “campaign of hate.” It is also stated that the policy of “forbearance” followed by the Government has weakened the influence of the “extremist leaders” and strengthened the position of the Government. If the Non-Co-operation movement has met with “little success” and if the position of the Government is really strengthened by the noble policy followed, one fails to see the need for the series of proclamations, prohibitions and arrests launched all over the country. It is obvious that the nightmare of Non-Co-operation presses so heavily upon the bureaucratic bosom that it has been considered expedient to seek relief at least at the pronouncement of its failure and try to put down, if possible, the mighty movement by a series of repressive measures. This only shows how ignorant some people are as to the actual state of affairs and the penetrating power of the peaceful propaganda. The report after briefly describing the general economic conditions of the year refers to the work done with regard to the improvement of agriculture, industry and education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/up-administration-from-an-editorial/article34610364.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Tragic death of gallant mountaineer||Major Bahuguna, the only Indian member of the International Everest Expedition, died under tragic circumstances on April 18. And ever since the news appeared of how he lost his life, while descending from the expedition’s third high-altitude camp pitched at 7000 metres, a big controversy has been going on as to whether his death could have been avoided with a little more care and alertness. Bahuguna was a veteran mountaineer who was also a member of the successful 1965 Indian expedition to Everest led by Commander Kohli. He was also a member of the successful Indian expedition to Nanda Devi earlier and, only last year, he led the Saser Kangri expedition with distinction. He was specially selected to join the International Himalayan Expedition and he was aspiring to fulfil the ambition of his life of getting to the top of Everest, a distinction which narrowly eluded him in 1965.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tragic-death-of-gallant-mountaineer/article34610365.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. extends I-T filing deadline||The government has extended deadlines for various Income Tax law compliances citing the hardships being faced amid the severe COVID-19 pandemic. The due date for furnishing income tax returns for the Assessment Year 2021-22 has been extended from Jul 31 to September 30. Employers have also been granted a month’s extension for furnishing Form 16 that reflects tax deductions at source from employees’ salaries, from June 15 to July 15. Entities that need to file audited income reports have also been given a month’s extension from their usual deadlines for filing such audit reports, as well to furnish their income tax returns. “The Central Government, in continuation of its commitment to address the hardship being faced by various stakeholders on account of the severe COVID-19 pandemic, has, on consideration of representations received from various stakeholders, decided to extend timelines for compliances under the Income-tax Act, 1961,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement. In a related development, taxpayers will not be able to avail e-filing services on the income tax portal between June 1 and June 6, as a new e-filing system is to be introduced on June 7 and the week prior to it will be used for migrating data from the legacy system. “Taxpayers are encouraged to complete all their urgent tasks involving any submission, upload or downloads before June 1 to avoid any difficulty during the blackout period,” the I-T department said, adding that no compliance dates had been scheduled during that week to avoid inconvenience to taxpayers. The new portal is expected to facilitate quicker tax refunds and simplify tax returns with pre-filled forms that would minimise data entry efforts for taxpayers ‘without any tax knowledge’, the department said. A new call centre would aid taxpayers with immediate answers to queries with FAQs, tutorials, videos and chatbots and live agents, the department added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-extends-i-t-filing-deadline/article34610345.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||ICRA lowers growth outlook across automobile segments||Ratings agency ICRA on Thursday downgraded the growth outlook for all automobile segments as the second wave of the pandemic, which has now penetrated the rural areas as well, has derailed the recovery momentum of the sector. “The second wave of the pandemic, the intensity of which has taken the entire country by surprise, is expected to impact near-term automobile purchases, across segments,” said Shamsher Dewan, VP and group head, ICRA Ratings. “Unlike the first wave, where infections were largely confined to urban clusters, the second wave has seen deeper and wider penetration into rural hinterlands,” he added. He added that the significant medical spends have also eroded the purchasing power of individuals and families to a greater extent, which would impact large ticket discretionary purchases like vehicles, at least over the near term. The two-wheeler segment is expected to be impacted the most with the target consumer segment’s affordability and demand sentiment sharply hit by the second wave of the pandemic. Domestic two-wheeler volumes in FY22 are expected to grow by 10-12% now as against 16-18% earlier. Likewise, the domestic passenger vehicle segment will see a softening of demand due to the spread of pandemic to hinterlands, hit on disposable income and rising vehicle costs, including fuel cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icra-lowers-growth-outlook-across-automobile-segments/article34610335.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Twitter restores account verification after three years||Twitter on Thursday said it will begin rolling out its new application and review process for account verification on Twitter, almost 3.5 after pausing the programme. The U.S.-headquartered firm added it is also working on ways to indicate automated and memorialised accounts. A verified account on Twitter gets the ‘blue tick badge,’ which is one of the ways people can distinguish the authenticity of accounts of high public interest. “Today’s application roll-out marks the next milestone in our plans to give more transparency, credibility and clarity to verification on Twitter,” the company said in a blog. Going forward, it would continue expanding the ways people can express themselves on Twitter through their profile and introducing new account types. “We’ve been doing ongoing research on automated accounts and plan to introduce a way to denote this account type in the next few months, with memorialised accounts to follow,” Twitter said. Twitter has also introduced new guidelines for verified accounts on the platform. The guidelines are intended to encourage healthy conversations for the betterment of the Twitter community, it said.  Over the next few weeks, everyone on Twitter will start to see the new verification application directly in the account settings tab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/twitter-restores-account-verification-after-three-years/article34610347.ece
21 May 2021||Lalatendu Mishra,||Gujarat, Diu bore the maximum brunt of cyclone Tauktae: RMSI||Cyclone Tauktae is estimated to have caused losses to the tune of Rs. 15,000 crore, including Rs. 9,000 crore to the agriculture and transportation sectors, an initial assessment by RMSI, a provider of geospatial and engineering solutions, shows. Gujarat and Diu have suffered 65% of the losses, said Pushpendra Johari, senior VP, Sustainability, RMSI. He said while Gujarat and Diu were badly impacted, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Goa faced flooding and soil erosion along the coast due to a mild surge. The wind impact was primarily on electric poles and telecom towers, leading to disruption in power supply and communication in some areas. “The initial potential loss from cyclone Tauktae is estimated to be Rs. 15,000 crore. Out of this, at least 65% of the losses are expected from Gujarat and Daman & Diu,” Mr. Johari said. “The remaining losses are expected from Kerala, Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka,” he added. “Nearly, 25-40% losses are expected in the agriculture sector in all the above impacted States,” Mr. Johari said. About 15-20% from transportation sector, primarily ports, and a similar loss share from the utility sector, primarily power and telecom,” he added. Fortunately for the insurance industry, the loss would be minimal as the cyclone had spared the cities. “The loss is primarily driven by impact to ports and vehicles and potentially agriculture as no major city has been impacted. The structural losses are to the tune of Rs. 100 crore,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gujarat-diu-bore-the-maximum-brunt-of-cyclone-tauktae-rmsi/article34610339.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Bosch Q4 net profit jumps to Rs. 482 crore||Auto parts maker Bosch Ltd. on Thursday posted a sixfold jump in Q4 net profit to Rs. 482 crore from Rs. 81 crore in the year-earlier period. Net profit for FY21 stood at Rs. 482.5 crore as against Rs. 649.8 crore in the previous year, a decline of 26%. Total revenue from operations stood at Rs. 971.8 crore, a decline of 1.3% compared with the previous fiscal. In Q4, the company reported total a revenue of Rs. 321.8 crore, an increase of 43.8% compared with the year-earlier period. The second wave of the pandemic pushed the Indian auto industry, which was on road to recovery until early this year, to market uncertainties again, Bosch said. In addition, international market volatilities in the supply chain would continue to impact the auto sector in the country, the company said. “With 80% of our revenues driven through mobility business, we have been affected adversely,” said Soumitra Bhattacharya, MD, Bosch Ltd. and President, Bosch India. “The challenge will be to manage the fluctuating demand, supply chain crisis and changing consumer behaviour all at once,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bosch-q4-net-profit-jumps-to-rs-482-crore/article34610349.ece
21 May 2021||MUMBAI,||HPCL Q4 net profit surges to Rs. 3,018 crore||Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (HPCL) reported its fourth quarter net profit surged to Rs. 3,018 crore compared with Rs. 27 crore in the year-earlier period. Gross sales for January-March ’21 was Rs. 84,905 crore compared with Rs. 71,268 crore in the same period last year. “The enhanced profitability was a result of robust operational performance, improvement in refinery margins helped by inventory gains and favorable exchange rate variations,” HPCL said in a filing. For FY21, HPCL recorded a net profit of Rs. 10,664 crore compared with Rs. 2,637 crore for the previous year. Gross sales for FY21 were lower at Rs. 2,69,243 crore compared with Rs. 2,86,250 crore in the previous year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hpcl-q4-net-profit-surges-to-rs-3018-crore/article34610337.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Bharat Biotech Gujarat arm to make Covaxin||Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech on Thursday said it will start producing the vaccine at its Chiron Behring Vaccines unit in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, thereby adding 200 million doses of output per annum. The product is expected to be available from Q4 (October-December) of 2021. Bharat Biotech said the Ankleshwar facility was already operational for vaccine production based on inactivated vero cell platform technology, under stringent levels of biosafety. The added output will take the volume of Covaxin production to about one billion doses per annum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharat-biotech-gujarat-arm-to-make-covaxin/article34610340.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||FM urges CCI to take ‘market friendly’ tack||Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday urged the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to adopt a ‘free market’ approach and become a market-friendly regulator to help businesses recover from COVID-19’s adverse effects. “Referring to the challenges of post-pandemic revival of enterprises, the Finance Minister stressed on the need for the CCI to proactively engage with industry so as to ensure that their legitimate claims are patiently heard while also making sure that knowingly or unknowingly, by omission or by commission market processes are not undermined,” the Corporate Affairs Ministry said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-urges-cci-to-take-market-friendly-tack/article34610341.ece
21 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Mindtree to buy NxT Digital Business from L&T for Rs. 198 cr.||Mindtree, a digital transformation and technology services firm, entered into an agreement to acquire NxT Digital Business, a start-up set up by the L&T Group, to broaden its digital capabilities for a total cash consideration of Rs. 198 crore. NxT Digital posted a revenue of Rs. 37.59 crore in FY21. The deal would be completed before July, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mindtree-to-buy-nxt-digital-business-from-lt-for-rs-198-cr/article34610336.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Govt raises Rs. 4,000 crore from Axis Bank stake sale||The government has raised Rs. 4,000 crore through the sale of about 1.95% stake held in Axis Bank through the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI). The offer for sale (OFS) of Axis Bank shares, that began on Wednesday, got ‘a good response from investors with SUUTI garnering about Rs. 4,000 crore (subject to reconciliation),’ said DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-raises-rs-4000-crore-from-axis-bank-stake-sale/article34610343.ece
21 May 2021||Mumbai,||RBI imposes penalty on City Union Bank, 3 other lenders||The RBI has imposed monetary penalty on City Union Bank, Tamilnad Mercantile Bank and two other lenders for contravention of certain directions issued by it. The RBI said the penalties were imposed based on the deficiencies in regulatory compliance and not intended to pronounce upon the validity of any transaction with customers.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-imposes-penalty-on-city-union-bank-3-other-lenders/article34610350.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cipla launches RT-PCR test kit ‘ViraGen’ in India, partnership with Ubio Biotech||Drug major Cipla on Thursday announced the commercialisation of its RT-PCR test kit ‘ViraGen’ for COVID-19 in India, in partnership with Ubio Biotechnology Systems. “This launch will help address the current testing services and capacity issues while reaffirming the company’s ongoing expansion in the diagnostic space,” Cipla said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cipla-launches-rt-pcr-test-kit-viragen-in-india-partnership-with-ubio-biotech/article34610353.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian women to play maiden pink-ball Test||The Indian women’s cricket team will compete in its maiden day-night Test from Sept. 30 to Oct. 3 when it tours Australia this year. The match will be played in Perth, which hasn’t hosted a day/night game as yet, Cricket Australia said after BCCI secretary Jay Shah made the initial announcement. “Taking forward our commitment towards women’s cricket, I am extremely pleased to announce that Team India @BCCIwomen will play in their first-ever pink-ball day/night Test later this year in Australia,” Shah tweeted. First in seven years The Indian women’s team, which will play its first Test in seven years from June 16 in England, will compete in another one during the tour of Australia. The team will also play three ODIs (from Sept. 19 to 24) and as many T20Is (from Oct. 7 to 11) Down Under. India last played a Test against Australia in 2006. The pink-ball Test between India and Australia will be only the second such match to be held in the history of women’s cricket. The only day/night women’s game played so far was between Australia and England at Sydney in November 2017. The match ended in a draw. England and Australia are the only two teams which regularly play Test cricket, mainly against each other in the Women’s Ashes. Going forward, India will also be seen playing the longest format against the two teams. “As players, we’ve said for a long time that we’d love to play more Test matches,” Australia captain Meg Lanning said on Wednesday. “It’s an exciting prospect and I know (India) are heading over to England to play a Test match pretty soon so it shows they’re up for the challenge and really willing to play that format.”  The schedule:   ODIs: Sept. 19, North Sydney Oval (D/N); Sept. 22, Junction Oval; Sept. 24, Junction Oval.   Test: Sept. 30-Oct. 3, WACA Ground (D/N).   T20Is (all at North Sydney Oval): Oct. 7, Oct. 9 & Oct. 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-to-play-maiden-pink-ball-test/article34610451.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Olympic Channel captures Bindra’s golden journey||It is a story told a million times to a billion people. It never ceases to inspire the youth. The Olympic Channel has captured the golden journey of Abhinav Bindra, who has won the country’s only individual Olympic gold so far, in a vibrant fashion in the first episode of its video series, Legends live on . Starting to shoot under the mango tree with Lt. Col. J.S. Dhillon, missing the Olympic final narrowly as a teenager in Sydney in 2000, having the shattering experience of an unstable wooden floor destroy his 10 best shots in Athens, to helping the country realise an incredible dream of in Beijing, and the swansong of missing the Olympic medal in Rio by a hair’s breath, the story nicely recaptures the gripping passage of time. Explorer “More than an athlete, I was an explorer,” Abhinav concludes in the 26-minute video, that has footage from around the world, including his home in Zirakpur, where his parents, Dr. A.S. Bindra and mother Babli, provide so much insight to the makings of a champion. It was coach Gaby Buehlmann who gave Abhinav the first hug after the gold medal, when he shot 10.8 on the last shot. When the whole nation was holding its breath, Abhinav timed his shot between his “heartbeats”. “I wish we were there. I wanted to give him the first hug,” said Abhinav’s mom. She admits that at that moment of triumph she ran to her temple to thank God. “The last shot was THE shot,” said Dr. Bindra, quite proud to have supported Abhinav in fulfilling his improbable dream. Abhinav was tied with Henri Hakkinen of Finland, who had enjoyed a two-point lead before the final. In the process, the defending Olympic champion Zhu Qinan of China was pushed to the silver and a flood of tears. The biggest hurdle was in the five-minute warm-up prior to the start of the final. Abhinav’s first shot was a 4, which he had never shot even under the mango tree as a beginner. “Not again” was the thought, but he was composed to give 40-clicks to his dioptre, that helps to zero in on the target. His first competitive shot in the final was 10.7. He just focused on each shot thereafter to stand on top of the podium, crushing under his feet the overwhelming sense of negativity back home in India. For Abhinav, every challenging situation has been an inspiring motivation, as he marches on to help Indian sports in a big way with his ABTP venture, targeting performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-channel-captures-bindras-golden-journey/article34610509.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vinesh to train in Europe till Olympics||Asian champion and one of India’s biggest medal hopes at the Tokyo Olympics, wrestler Vinesh Phogat will continue training overseas for the next two months till the Games. Vinesh, currently undergoing high-altitude training in Bulgaria, will proceed to train in Hungary and Poland after the Mission Olympic Cell approved her training programmes costing Rs. 20.21 lakh on Thursday. The 53-kg wrestler will train in Budapest until June 9, travel for the Poland Open (till June 13) before returning to Budapest till July 2. She will be accompanied by coach Woller Akos, sparring partner Priyanka and physiotherapist Poornima Raman Ngomdir. Rowers Arjun Lal Jat and Arvind Singh, who qualified for Tokyo earlier this month, have been moved from the TOPS development group to the core group and sanctioned Rs. 21 lakh for a five-week training stint at the Pocinho High Performance Centre in Portugal from June 1. More in TOPS core group Wrestlers Seema Bisla and Sumit Malik, along with tennis player Ankita Raina, have also been added to the core group. Divij, Bopanna’s participation cleared Meanwhile, tennis doubles players Divij Sharan and Rohan Bopanna's participation in 14 and 11 tournaments respectively between January and June 2021 has also been approved. While Divij’s proposal cost approximately Rs. 30 lakh, he has received Rs. 80.59 lakhs in funding from TOPS in the present Olympics cycle. Bopanna’s proposal, including fee for coach Scott Davidoff and physio Gaurang Shukla, cost Rs. 27.61 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinesh-to-train-in-europe-till-olympics/article34610499.ece
21 May 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI requests England to drop a Test for IPL window||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has requested the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) to cut down the last of the scheduled five Test matches in England to enable a practical window for staging the suspended Indian Premier League (IPL). After the World Test Championship in Southampton from June 18 to 22, India’s Test squad will stay back in England for the five-Test series, scheduled between Aug. 4 and Sept. 14.  The Hindu understands that the BCCI, in an informal discussion, had requested the ECB to advance the series by a week so that the series gets over in September first week. Only option However, a BCCI insider confirmed late on Thursday evening that the only option it may explore is to request any of the counties if they are willing to forfeit a Test. “Since the venues in England are booked keeping in mind their tight international calendar and The Hundred, it’s not possible for them to advance the series. If any of the counties agree, India will compensate with increasing the number of games in the limited-over series next year,” a BCCI source said. With the T20 World Cup set to begin around Oct. 20, it will be impossible for the BCCI to carve out a three-week window for the IPL keeping in mind the quarantine protocols. Members of India’s touring entourage, most of whom have been quarantined in Mumbai, are hoping that they will have clarity about the itinerary before boarding the flight on June 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-requests-england-to-drop-a-test-for-ipl-window/article34610449.ece
21 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Mukesh Kumar back as Telangana Hockey secretary||In a surprise development, triple Olympian N. Mukesh Kumar has again taken over as secretary of Telangana Hockey. This comes in the wake of the resignation of the incumbentAlphonse Lazarus. Mukesh had been a secretary earlier but quit since he could not devote enough time to it. The 51-year-old told The Hindu on Thursday that he had to accept the responsibility as a majority of the members of the association felt someone like him was needed in view of the junior Nationals being allotted to Hyderabad in November-December this year. “The Telangana Hockey executive board meeting, chaired by president Saral Talwar through a video conference, nominated me as general secretary, Mr. M. Raghunandan Reddy as senior vice-president and Mr K. Vijay Kumar as honourable chairman,” said Mukesh. “I am back for the sake of the game and to give it a new direction,” added Mukesh. “The junior Nationals for men, featuring 30 teams, involves a massive expenditure of about Rs. 70 lakh. Though Hockey India chips in with a substantial amount, we need to mobilise resources to fill the gap. So, many thought it would be better if I took up the position again,” he explained. “We met the State sports minister V. Srinivas Goud this morning and briefed about the need to support Telangana Hockey. His response was very positive,” Mukesh said. Indifferent treatment Alphonse, whose four-year tenure was to end in May 2023, was not happy with the “indifferent treatment” meted out to him on important issues. “Since, I felt unwanted in the Association, I thought it is better to put in the papers rather than being humiliated further,” said Alphonse had played four senior Nationals alongside Mukesh when the latter made an impact as a teenager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukesh-kumar-back-as-telangana-hockey-secretary/article34610976.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Organise a pink-ball tournament before D/N Test: Shantha||BCCI Apex Council member and former captain Shantha Rangaswamy on Thursday welcomed the resumption of Test cricket for Indian women, and hoped that the board will organise a domestic pink-ball tournament before the day/night Test in Australia. Shantha spoke after Cricket Australia announced that India's inaugural pink-ball Test will be held at the WACA in Perth from September 30. “BCCI has been planning tournaments for women in the last year, but the plans have gone haywire because of the pandemic. “It is heartening to note that the board has planned a Test during the Indian women’s tour of England,” said Shantha. “I firmly believe that the ultimate barometer is the longest format. To add to this, a day/night Test against Australia has also been announced which should be highly appreciated. “However, as the Indian women don't play pink-ball cricket even in the domestic circuit, it is advisable for the BCCI to conduct a pink-ball tournament in India before the players embark on the tour of Australia,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/organise-a-pink-ball-tournament-before-dn-test-shantha/article34610461.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Shooting coach Monali passes away||In a big loss to the Indian shooting fraternity, coach and technical official Monali Gorhe died of mucormycosis on Thursday. She was 44 and is survived by her mother and a sister. Monali was admitted to a hospital after being diagnosed with COVID-19 but was discharged, only to get re-admitted to treat mucormycosis. A few hours before her death, her father Manohar Gorhe too succumbed to COVID-19. Monali was the coach of the pistol core group. She had also served as the national coach of the Sri Lankan shooting team. She had set up a shooting coaching centre called Excel Shooting in Nashik, where she was training hundreds of students in Maharashtra. The NRAI mourned Monali and her father’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shooting-coach-monali-passes-away/article34610507.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||A budding talent with promise||Sahaja Yamalapalli offers a little more promise for Indian women’s as she steps into the professional tour after a brilliant season in the American Collegiate circuit. The 20-year-old Sahaja, who graduated from Sam Houston State University in Texas last week, with Food Science and Nutrition as the main subject, did not drop a set the whole season, winning 18 singles matches on the trot, at the No. 1 position. Wonderful experience “It has been a wonderful experience winning all those matches. It gives me confidence to transition into the pro tour. I never felt any pressure because, I always think that every day is a new day to play tennis and no records will help me win unless I am mentally and physically 100% present that day on the tennis court,” said Sahaja. She was awarded ‘Tennis student-athlete of the year’ this season and in 2018 and 2019 as well, for topping both studies and sports. Sahaja achieved so much as the No. 1 player in the team, despite being a “part time tutor” and stringing the racquets for the whole team, for four years. She has also worked as a tennis trainer in various camps organised in the US by different Foundations and companies. First step “I have already started training. I want to train for a month continuously. I will make a schedule of tournaments to play. The first step is to find tournaments that I can get in, and the second step is to find the sponsorship to travel there,” said Sahaja, the daughter of a teacher in Hyderabad, Bhavani Kumar. “I am well prepared to start playing the pro tournaments with my present game level. I am looking forward to training at a professional academy, to compete better, if I get financial support,” she said. If she is able to show similar spark on the pro tour, as she has done in the American Collegiate circuit, Sahaja is bound to be noticed and gain support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-budding-talent-with-promise/article34610658.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dravid likely to be head coach for Sri Lanka tour||Former India skipper and National Cricket Academy head Rahul Dravid is likely to be the head coach of the Indian white-ball squad that will tour Sri Lanka in July. Dravid, who stopped travelling with the India-A and under-19 teams after taking over as NCA chief in Bengaluru, will be the head coach of the second-string side in the absence of Ravi Shastri, who will be busy with the Test side in England at that time. “He will be the head coach in Sri Lanka in all likelihood,” revealed a BCCI source. Bowling coach Paras Mhambrey will also be part the of the support staff. India is expected to play three ODIs and as many T20Is in Sri Lanka in July though the schedule has not been announced yet. Fringe players The squad will have plenty of fringe players and some established white-ball specialists. Hardik Pandya and Shikhar Dhawan are in the running for captaincy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-likely-to-be-head-coach-for-sri-lanka-tour/article34610453.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,||‘All the three relay teams will qualify’||There are just two slots left to fight for in the women’s 4x100m relay for the Olympics and, at No. 22, India is way down in the Road to Tokyo rankings but Adille Sumariwalla believes the team will make the cut. “The 4x100m women will run and qualify. They have not run, that is why they are way below in the rankings. One meet if they run, they will come up,” said the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) president to The Hindu.  Clearly, girls like Dutee Chand, Hima Das and Dhanalakshmi have made the federation confident. “Never in the history of Indian athletics have we had a sprint power like this. We have not run in two years and we are confident when the competition comes, the very first time they run, they will qualify. This sort of sprint power nobody has.” That came as a bit of a surprise for only a few weeks ago, the AFI withdrew its women’s 4x400m team — which the federation keeps insisting has the potential to win an Olympic medal — from the World Relays in Poland before the flight ban forced India to miss the event. In fact, after the pull-out, many had wondered whether the country could put together a quality women’s mile relay team for Tokyo. India has a confirmed Olympic berth in the mixed 4x400m relay and the 4x400m men and women are in very shaky 14th and 15th rungs respectively in World Athletics’ rankings with a little over a month to go before the qualification doors close on June 29. Only 16 teams are allowed in the relays and a lot could happen in a month but Sumariwalla is a very confident man. “All the three relay teams will qualify,” he said. “And if athletes are not fit, they will be fit by the time of the final trials,” said the AFI chief adding that the final trials will be held during the Grand Prix next month. The AFI is now busy trying to work out foreign trips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-the-three-relay-teams-will-qualify/article34610446.ece
21 May 2021||GENEVA,||Andujar ends Stricker’s impressive run||Pablo Andujar, who had knocked out Roger Federer in the second round, defeated Dominic Stephan Stricker 4-6, 6-4, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the Geneva Open here on Thursday. On Wednesday, the 18-year-old had given Swiss fans hope for the future when the World No. 419 became the youngest from his country to reach an ATP quarterfinal since Federer at Copenhagen in 2000. Stricker, 18, followed up his first round win over former US Open champion Marin Cilic with a 7-5, 6-4 victory over Hungary's Marton Fucsovics.  The results:   Quarterfinals: Pablo Andujar bt Dominic Stephan Stricker 4-6, 6-4, 6-4.   Second round: Stricker bt Marton Fucsovics 7-5, 6-4; Denis Shapovalov bt Marco Cecchinato 6-7(4), 7-5, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andujar-ends-strickers-impressive-run/article34610463.ece
21 May 2021||LOS ANGELES,||James’ last-gasp trey takes Lakers through||LeBron James overcame blurred vision on Wednesday to score a 34-foot trey (three-pointer) with under a minute left as Los Angeles Lakers rallied from a first half deficit to beat Golden State Warriors 103-100 and reach the NBA’s West playoffs. James, who said he could only see out of one eye, hit the game winner for the defending champion in dramatic fashion as it came over top of Warriors superstar Stephen Curry, who poured in a game-high 37 points, with the shot clock expiring. “After Draymond fingered me in the eye I was literally seeing three rims. I just shot for the middle one,” said James, who had a triple double of 22 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists. The Warriors will get another chance to get into the main playoff draw, but must beat Memphis Grizzlies on Friday. The Grizzlies earned the right to face the Warriors next by beating the 10th-seeded San Antonio Spurs 100-96.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/james-last-gasp-trey-takes-lakers-through/article34610448.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Milkha Singh tests positive for COVID-19||‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday and has gone into isolation at his home in Chandigarh. Fever The 91-year old former Asian and Commonwealth Games champion had fever on Wednesday but is stable now, his wife Nirmal Kaur said. The family decided to get tested after a member of the house staff tested positive following a few days of fever. The other members — Nirmal, daughter-in-law Kudrat and grandson Harjai — have tested negative.  “A long-time cook who used to stay here only developed fever and tested positive. “After that we decided to get us all tested. Sardar-ji had around 101 degrees fever last night but it has reduced now to 99 degrees and he is stable. Doctors at the PGI, Chandigarh are monitoring and have also offered to provide an attendant,” she added. Barring the fever, Milkha is asymptomatic and in control, but his wife admitted the only concern was his age. The former sprinter has been largely staying home for the past few months to stay protected and was taking all precautions while going out occasionally. He is yet to get vaccinated. Milkha’s son, golfer Jeev, is in Dubai and is expected to return over the weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34610456.ece
21 May 2021||KOCHI,||Foreign relay teams likely in Indian meets||Despite the uncertainty over flights, the long quarantine in many countries and the worrying COVID-19 situation, the AFI is working on ways to get its athletes ready for Tokyo. New developments “Every day something new comes up, the countries might be open for flights but a lot of countries are not allowing Indians to come,” said Adille Sumariwalla, the AFI president. “We are trying to send different batches to different countries. We will have to see the competitions they are going for, is it a competition for qualification or not, whether they can go for a camp, whether they can go to a neighbouring country, there are so many things being worked out.” And if countries insist on a 14-day quarantine, the AFI could even bring in foreign relay teams to run in Indian meets. “Yes, that is also on the plan. We will do that if required. We will have to see who is ready to come, how they will come, when they will come. We are in conversation with people there also,” he said. The AFI has also decided to move the Indian Grand Prix-4 (June 15) and the Inter-State Nationals (June 25-29) from Bengaluru to Patiala. “We are moving them to Patiala, the dates remain the same,” he said. Sumariwalla felt that everything went out of hand just when they all appeared to come together nicely. “We were doing fantastically, everything was going fine and you saw the good results we had in the Federation Cup and all. We had so many national records, never had so many before. “So, our athletes were in very good shape and prepared. And that final competition, that final edge which you need for the Olympics, that got hampered. That is the problem.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/foreign-relay-teams-likely-in-indian-meets/article34610462.ece
21 May 2021||Southampton,||Fans for WTC final||The World Test Championship final between India and New Zealand in Southampton will be held in the presence of 4000 spectators, Hampshire County Club head Rod Bransgrove has said. The COVID-19 situation has improved in the UK and around 1500 people were allowed to watch the county game between Leicestershire and Hampshire at the Ageas Bowl, which hosts the WTC final from June 18. “It is a high interest game and there is a good demand for it,” added Bransgrove.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fans-for-wtc-final/article34610466.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SAI to provide health, accident insurance to athletes, staff||The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has decided to extend medical and accident insurance cover to more than 13,000 athletes, coaches and support staff from 2021. The health insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh each will be provided to all national campers and probables, Khelo India athletes and junior campers training at SAI Centres of Excellence. It would also include a Rs. 25 lakh cover for accident or death. “We want to ensure that all our athletes and contractual staff have health cover during these difficult times and even after. Through this initiative, we are ensuring that all national-level athletes have insurance not just during the national camps but throughout the year. “We have significantly raised the insurance cover for Khelo India scholar and junior athletes up to Rs. 5 lakh per athlete each year,” Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju said. SAI has requested sports federations to identify the athletes and support staff for inclusion in the insurance scheme. The data of those covered will be stored in the National Sports Repository System to create a transparent, easy to access process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-to-provide-insurance/article34610496.ece
21 May 2021||Melbourne,||‘Piecemeal investigation’ not good: Vaughan||Former England captain Michael Vaughan has described Cricket Australia’s probe into the 2018 ball-tampering issue as a “piecemeal investigation”, saying it has left many questions unanswered and will keep coming back to bite the governing body. “Not many former professionals believe something like that would be confined to just three people”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/piecemeal-investigation-not-good-vaughan/article34610650.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||Ministry invites applications||The Sports Ministry on Thursday invited applications for the National sports awards, allowing eligible athletes, coaches, universities and other entities to self-nominate and apply online for a second year running because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The last date for submitting applications is June 21. “In view of the current pandemic situation, the nominations for the National Sports Awards will be accepted online, this year,” the Ministry said in a release. “Last year the Sports Ministry had for the first time allowed for self nomination of applicants in view of the pandemic. This year too, self nomination will be allowed,” it added. Till 2019, applicants needed recommendations to be able to apply, but the condition was waived last year as the COVID-19 lockdown prevented movement of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/applications-invited/article34610497.ece
21 May 2021||Lausanne,||Sreejesh is FIH Athletes’ Committee member||India hockey goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh was on Thursday appointed as a member of the FIH Athletes’ Committee during the virtual meeting of the Executive Board. “The EB confirmed the appointment of four new members for the Athletes’ Committee. “Sreejesh Parattu (IND), Marlena Rybacha (POL), Mohamed Mea (RSA) and Matt Swann (AUS) are now joining the Committee,” FIH said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreejesh-is-fih-athletes-committee-member/article34610502.ece
21 May 2021||BENGALURU,||‘Time to replicate Asia success in big events’||Women’s hockey team vice-captain Savita Punia believes it is time India replicates its success at the Asian-level in big-ticket events including the upcoming Tokyo Olympics.  “We have achieved good results at Asian-level tournaments. Playing well in these events has given the team, particularly youngsters, a sense of what it really takes to do well at big tournaments. Now, I feel we are ready for bigger feats,” said Savita. The goalkeeper said the team has improved immensely in the last three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/time-to-replicate-asia-success-in-big-events/article34610651.ece
21 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Swara Lakshmi wins title||Swara Lakshmi S. Nair won the title in the P.V. Lalitha Aadaram Chess Kerala women’s Grand Prix tournament. Swara tallied 6.5 points in the seven-round tournament and qualified for the mega final.  S. Niveditha (6) and A.J. Athira (6) finished second and third respectively. This is the third leg of the eight series tournament organised by Chess Kerala to promote women’s chess. The fourth leg, in honour of former State champion Vasanthi Unni, will be played on Saturday.  The standings:   1. Swara Lakshmi S. Nair (6.5), 2. S. Niveditha (6), 3. A.J. Athira (6), 4. R. Rithika (6), 5. C.H. Meghna (6), 6. Nayan Megha (6), 7. A. Nafila (6), 8. Veda Raveendran (6), 9. S. Sreelakshmi (5.5), 10. K. Megha (5.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swara-lakshmi-wins-title/article34610659.ece
21 May 2021||BENGALURU,||Hockey coach Katke passes away||Veteran hockey coach Manohar Katke, 66, passed away on Thursday. Katke, who worked with Sports Authority of India for more than three decades, coached the sub-junior and junior Karnataka teams in the National championships. He also coached Bangalore University to many inter-university titles. Katke coached the St. Joseph Indian High School team, which produced several international players like Arjun Halappa, V.R. Raghunath, Nikkin Thimmaiah and S.K. Uthappa during his long tenure. The Karnataka State Hockey Association and Hockey Karnataka condoled his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hockey-coach-katke-passes-away/article34610501.ece
21 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Former intl. umpire Karimanickam no more||Former international cricket umpire K.R. Karimanickam passed away in Chennai on Thursday. He was 85. Karimanickam officiated in an ODI featuring India and Australia at Rajkot in 1986. The TNCA, in a statement, condoled his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-intl-umpire-karimanickam-no-more/article34610464.ece
21 May 2021||Reggio Emilia,||Juventus beats Atalanta 2-1 to win Italian Cup final||Gianluigi Buffon lifted the last trophy of his glittering Juventus career after his team beat Atalanta 2-1 in the Italian Cup to put some shine on a disappointing season. It was a record-extending 14th Italian Cup title for Juventus on Wednesday. Dejan Kulusevski and Federico Chiesa scored for Juventus, either side of Ruslan Malinovskyi’s equaliser for Atalanta shortly before half-time.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juventus-beats-atalanta-2-1-to-win-italian-cup-final/article34610504.ece
21 May 2021||BENGALURU,||Women’s U-17 WC in India||The FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup in India will be held from October 11 to 30, 2022, FIFA Council announced on Thursday. India was to host 2020 edition, but the pandemic first forced its postponement to 2021 and then its cancellation. Last November, as a compensatory gesture, FIFA announced India as the host for the 2022 edition and the same will be held in October next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-u-17-wc-in-india/article34610454.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Canvassing support||A couple of weeks ago, as Arshmeen Baveja was rewatching Rang De Basanti , the 2006 Hindi film by Rakesh Omprakash Mehra, she struck upon a wild idea. She let A.R. Rahman’s soundtrack wash over her, as she painted away her feelings — 10 songs, 10 digital artworks. Put up for sale on her Instagram, the prints have brought in around Rs. 36,000 so far, all of which she is diverting to the Migrant Workers Solidarity Network. “ Rang De Basanti resonated with me, given the scale of the crisis we have at hand right now, and the mismanagement by the government. We are stuck in a situation where we only have each other to help,” says the 25-year-old from Delhi. Arshmeen’s contribution to COVID-19 relief is a drop in the ocean of fundraising campaigns being led by Indian artists at an individual level. Prints — both digital and physical — of visual art are being used as incentive for buyers, who can obtain them after showing proof of donation to a charity. Alternatively, they can send money directly to artists, who pass it on to the organisations they have partnered with. In just three days since the launch of Photo Solidarity, Chennai Photo Biennale has raised Rs. 3.6 lakh to be split equally between Khalsa Aid, providing medical resources, and Protsahan India Foundation, which takes care of children who have lost their parents to the pandemic. It was made possible, believes director of education at CPB, Gayatri Nair, because works by photographers such as Raghu Rai, Ronny Sen, Kannagi Khanna and Suresh Punjabi sold out immediately. “A Raghu Rai photo could sell for a minimum of Rs. 50,000 to up to Rs. 2 lakh depending on the print size and the work. But here, you are getting it for just Rs. 5,000, plus your money is going towards a good cause. That is the main attraction, I think,” says Gayatri. The other draw is the limited nature of the prints. “When the artistes donate their work to the CPB, we are allowed to print only three of them. This is generally work that has not been a part of a sale before, so the value of the work goes up because it is limited,” she says. Big names aside, CPB is also partnering with many young and upcoming photographers, to offer a variety of prints. While the funds go completely towards the charities and the printing cost, there may be another incentive for the young artistes. “I have noticed that many of the people interested are art buyers, gallerists and collectors. When they buy a young artist’s work, that increases its value, which will help them next time they professionally approach a gallery with their work.” So far, Photo Solidarity has over 60 photographers on board. Young guns blazing It was a collaboration of a similar scale that artist Devangana Dash pulled together in the beginning of May. “If the world wasn’t burning right now, I would truly call it the collaboration of my dreams!” quips Devangana. Within the first 24 hours of her fundraiser, she found support from 26 of her artist friends; the colourful mix of styles, voices and palettes raised Rs. 11 lakh in five days. “I started the campaign by uploading one of my own artworks to sense the engagement on Instagram, which turned out to be decent. I knew I won’t be able to gather concrete funds sufficient to make any difference, alone. This needs community work to be done well, and compassion brings people together,” says Devangana. Most of the artists, including Devangana, had no prior experience in fundraising. Finding a verified campaign or organisation to donate to, while at the same time amplifying the call for donations, and keeping a regular account of the money flowing in, can be challenging for a first timer. Platforms such as Mutual Aid India help. The website curates a list of urgent COVID-19 relief campaigns, verified in-house. “They were highlighting organisations/individuals doing on-ground relief work with the affected groups and communities at the grassroots areas that often get overshadowed. Their research was a key force, as their team of volunteers is constantly vetting the campaigns and identifying under-funded spaces,” says Devangana. Happy themes in a sad world In Jaipur, Shreya Parasrampuria, along with five other artists, is also encouraging others to donate a minimum of Rs. 1,500 to any of Mutual Aid’s featured campaigns, to get a set of six postcards. The theme for these postcards is ‘solitude’, interpreted by each of them in their own styles. “All of us find catharsis in drawing alone, and have done so a lot over the past year,” says Shreya. From a girl staring at a fish bowl in the warm yellow glow of her room, to one leaning against a fortress of mattresses — there is serenity to the postcards. Meanwhile, Anjali Chandrashekar and Nidhi Singh Rathore from the U.S., aiming to get the Indian diaspora around the world to contribute to Mission Oxygen, say their theme revolved around an Ode to India. They write, “it is a collection that represented what artists outside India were missing — the small moments of joy, calm, and strength of their motherland, India.” Artist M.S., who goes by the name The Big Fat Bao, says, “There is a lot of artwork out there focussing on the pandemic, the lack of governance and so on, but I wanted to give people things they could remember other than this chaos.” She is donating her sales to the Swabhiman Society and The Blue Dawn, both working towards supporting the Dalit community in accessing healthcare. Her artwork then, features icons such as B.R. Ambedkar, Savitribai Phule and tribal activist Kuni Sikaka. “Savitri mai was one of the key figures in handling the 1897 plague in Pune,” she says, adding “It is a reminder for us to stay strong and help each other out.”  Ongoing campaigns Diversify Photos:By a team of BIPOC visual artistes. Rs. 4,500 for one print. Funds go to Adivasi Lives Matter, Hemkunt Foundation, Indian Red Cross Society, Khaana Chahiye, Last Wildernness Foundation, Goonj, and Creative Dignity. Chennai Photo Biennale:Limited edition work by over 60 photographers. Rs. 5,000 for one print. Funds go to Khalsa Aid and Protsahan. Ode to India:Homage to the country by India-born artists. Funds go to Mission Oxygen. The Big Fat Bao:A3 size portraits of Dalit icons. Rs. 1,350 for one. Funds go to Swabhiman Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/canvassing-support/article34610594.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The diaspora taste test||Fluffy white paniyarams , steamingbiryani,grated coconut and an incomplete recipe chart with instructions to grind rice, flit between the scenes to a foot-tapping folk rhythm. A woman is at the centre of it all, meticulously chopping, grinding and frying. The 40-second, animated short gives a glimpse into the day-to-day of a family of three — a couple and their child. Food is almost a character, here. The short, which has already grabbed eyeballs on social media, is the teaser of a narrative cooking game, Venba, that has south Indian cuisine at its centre. Revolving around an Indian family based in Toronto, it weaves a tale of love, loss and identity. The two to three hours-long gameplay takes one through incomplete or damaged recipes that need to be solved like a puzzle, where the player is expected to guess the steps. Originally from Chennai, 27-year-old Abhi, the creator of Venba, moved to Toronto when he was 12. Despite migrating as a child, he never felt assimilated to the Canadian culture, and often feels his Chennai roots are stronger. “I very much see myself more rooted in Chennai. I grew up strongly connected to that culture and would visit often. I can also speak in Tamil very easily,” he says over a Zoom call. But having said that, he adds that Venba is not entirely autobiographical. “The story we see here was more inspired by the families that I see around me, that came here [Toronto] much earlier, in the 1980s,” says Abhi, adding, “There is a lot of media about immigrants: the line most of them pursue is about kids and how hard it is for them to handle two cultures. But I always thought the more interesting story is that of parents. As they come to this country and grow, they grow farther apart from their kids. I have seen some parents who find it really difficult to interact with their own children due to the level of cultural differences.” Which, sometimes, he states, even makes them regret their decision to move. Abhi wanted to focus on this aspect of immigration in Venba. This sentiment was also shared by Sam Elakana, his colleague from Indonesia. Together, they developed the concept in January 2020. While Abhi is the designer and programmer, Sam is responsible for the visual character of the game, as art director. “In a game, you can’t just tell a story, you need something to play with. The game has a series of days and each day happens at different points in their lifetime. So, I thought it would be interesting if we tell the story of what happened each day, through food. No matter what happens, whether there is a fight or not in the family, the kitchen is still on,” adds Abhi. But focussing on food, especially South Indian cuisine, does come with its own set of challenges. “For any given recipe, there are thousands of variations. So I need to do a lot of research, pre-production almost, before I finalise on a recipe,” says Abhi. The recipes concentrate on making everything from scratch; for instance, the game talks about how rice flour is prepared for different dishes. “When I communicate these dishes to people who are not of Indian origin — like Sam to draw it — a lot more references are needed,” he adds. However, the biggest challenge is the realisation that people of Indian origin are likely to find the gameplay easy, because the ingredients and recipes are familiar. Venba is now at its “polishing stage” and is expected to reach the market by the winter of 2021 or early 2022. However, those who wish to pre-order the game can do so by wishlisting it on the gaming platform, Steam. “It was supposed to be a hobby game. We did not expect the level of reception we are getting!” says Abhi. After the trailer was released, patrons from across the world, especially North America, seem to have taken note. The duo wants to bring Venba to PC and all three major consoles. “But bringing it to those platforms (Like PS5 or Nintendo Switch) requires deals and partnerships with those companies which we are in the midst of right now,” Abhi says. A career in games has always been Abhi’s plan. After graduating from the University of Toronto, he started working in a mobile games studio as a programmer, in downtown Toronto. “We make Venba on the weekend and the nights after my day job,” he adds. For Sam and Abhi, Venba will always remain as something they created for themselves. “But, we do hope that people would come for the cooking and stay for the story!” concludes Abhi.  For details, visit venbagame.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-diaspora-taste-test/article34610595.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||On screen journeys||You may not be able to leave home for some time, but that doesn’t mean you can’t go on any new adventures. Get ready to take a magical trip with these movies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/on-screen-journeys/article34610729.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||I spy...||1.Glass slipper ( Cinderella ) 2.Wizard’s hat ( Harry Potter series) 3.Spider web ( Charlotte’s Web ) 4.Honey Pot ( Winnie-the-Pooh ) 5.Golden Ticket ( Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory ) 6.Playing cards ( Alice in Wonderland ) 7.Magic Lamp ( Aladdin ) 8.Black Umbrella ( Mary Poppins ) 9.White Guitar ( Coco ) 10.Pirate flag ( Treasure Island )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/i-spy/article34610718.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Fasten your seatbelt!||Passport: Winnie-the-Pooh stories   Creator : A. A. Milne The Hundred Acre Wood is the forest in which Winnie-the-Pooh and his friends live. So, naturally, most of the stories take place here. Though the exact location is not known, it is inspired by Five Hundred Acre Wood in Ashdown Forest in East Sussex, England. The other features of the Hundred Acre Wood and its inhabitants are completely fictional. At the centre of the Wood is Owl’s house. Around it are the places familiar to those who’ve read the books: the houses of Pooh Bear, Kanga, Rabbit and Piglet; Christopher Robin’s House; The Sandy Pit Where Roo Plays; The Bee Tree; The Way to the North Pole; An area for Rabbit’s Friends-and-Relations; The Six Pine Trees; Where the Woozle Wasn’t; A Floody Place and Eeyore’s Gloomy Place. Earlier, only the areas surrounding Owl’s house were referred to as The Hundred Acre Wood. The other characters resided outside of it. Over time, it has come to refer to the entire forest where the stories take place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/fasten-your-seatbelt/article34610763.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Travel back in time||Find history boring? Just a meaningless bunch of names and dates? Then what you need is a dose of Subhadra Sen Gupta. The well-known children’s author, who passed away in early May, was beloved for making the subject exciting and fun. Here are four books of hers that are sure to transport you to a different era.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/travel-back-in-time/article34610733.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Have book, will travel||“Books are the plane, and the train, and the road. They are the destination and the journey. They are home.”  ~Anna Quindlen I’m sure many of you are disappointed that, this year too, your travel plans have been put on hold. But don’t despair. If you have a book, you can go wherever you want. To get you started on that wonderful journey, here are a few books. Candid Tales: India on a Motorcycleby Adithi Rao This is the story of a biker named Candida Louis and her adventures, as she criss-crosses the country discovering places that have captured her heart, people who have touched her life and cultures that have influenced her. This is no work of fiction. This real-life hero is fearless and follows her heart and answers the call of the open road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/have-book-will-travel/article34610754.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Painters Potters Cooks and Kings||What were the various issues that people in the past had to face? How can we use the past to question our present? This is a book that answers these questions with a set of short stories set during the reigns of kings like Ashoka, Akbar, Krishnadeva Raya and others. The protagonists are all children and, as they tumble into adventures and mysteries, the reader gets vivid word pictures of places and people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/painters-potters-cooks-and-kings/article34610735.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A Mauryan Adventure||For those who want excitement, the adventures of 12-year-old Madhura are sure to thrill. A companion to Princess Sanghamitra, Emperor Ashoka’s daughter, Madhura wants to be a soldier and travel like her brother, who is a trader. She falls headlong into intrigue and danger during a trip to Bodhgaya in Queen Mahadevi’s train. Who is this mysterious Tilaka? Is her brother just a trader or something more? Even as Madhura puts her wits to work, her brother disappears. What’s next?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-mauryan-adventure/article34610737.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Listen to Nature’s Song||Subhadra Sengupta didn’t always write about the distant past. She also wrote about more recent issues: like the Save Silent Valley Campaign. Part of the Caring For Nature series, this one talks about the development versus the environment debate by putting two schoolboys at the centre of the story. Raghu and Dhani meet a man during a school trip. As they marvel at the beauties of the Silent Valley, the readers get a lesson in ecology and the history of environmental movement in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/listen-to-natures-song/article34610739.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Globetrotting glory||Japanese trains are reputed to be the most punctual in the world. However, did you know that officials there issue passengers with a ‘delay certificate’ if a train is running more than five minutes behind schedule? These can be shown to employers or teachers to explain why one was late.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/globetrotting-glory/article34610769.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article34610716.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s all about navigation||Sahara with Michael Palin (2002)  This is afour-part BBC television series presented by British comedian and travel presenter Michael Palin, who travels around the vast Sahara, and the journey includes Gibraltar, Morocco, Western Sahara, Algeria and Ceuta, Spain. Palin rides a camel, plays football with the youth in Morocco, visits a public bath, travels over the Atlas Mountains and through the Marrakesh plains, as he brings to life the miles of emptiness and the endless sand dunes, unravelling its many mysteries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/its-all-about-navigation/article34610746.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A life in songs||Having served in the Army, renowned lyricist Anand Bakshi valued punctuality and discipline. During his days of struggle, with work not coming in regularly, he wanted to meet music director Roshan. Each time he got an appointment, it would get cancelled. Finally, the composer called the aspiring geetkar one evening and told him to be at his house the next morning. That night it rained heavily in Bombay and the next morning there was no public transport. But Bakshi was determined to meet the music director, and walked for over three hours, from Borivili to Santa Cruz, reaching before the appointed time of 10 a.m. Impressed, Roshan gave him a chance to write the songs for the 1959 film, CID Girl.  Hindi film music fans have followed Bakshi’s work closely since 1965, especially after the songs of Jab Jab Phool Khile became a hit. Then came Farz , Milan , Aradhana , Amar Prem , Hare Rama Hare Krishna , Bobby , Dost , Ek Duuje Ke Liye , Karz, Chandni , Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge, Taal and more. He was nominated for the Filmfare awards 40 times, winning on four occasions. His son Rakesh Anand Bakshi’s book, Nagme, Kisse, Baatein, Yaadein: The Life and Lyrics of Anand Bakshi (published by Penguin Random House), speaks  not only about his contribution as a lyricist, but also contains numerous anecdotes that showcase his personality. His upbringing in Rawalpindi, his days in the army, the early struggle in Mumbai, his writing style, success and family life, the book has it all. The role of his Bansiwale (Krishna) and his belief in taqdeer (destiny) and tadbeer (actions that shape destiny) are mentioned too. Anand Bakshi was always known for using simple words. A huge influence was lyricist D.N. Madhok. Rakesh recalls his father saying, “Madhok saab was a man of the masses. He taught me that the main aim of a lyricist should be to connect people through simple and effective words.” On his life and career Anand Bakshi developed his passion for writing as a teenager. He also loved to sing, and as a 19-year-old, when he watched Raj Kapoor’s Barsaat , he was fascinated by the romance in Shankar-Jaikishen’s songs. Besides Madhok, he was deeply influenced by lyricists Sahir Ludhianvi and Shailendra. The book’s foreword has been written by Salim Khan, who describes Bakshi as a simple, unpretentious and sincere man, while talking also of his fear of flying and elevators. The book’s ten main chapters describe Bakshi’s life in chronological order. The despair of losing his mother early in life, the family shifting after Partition, and his first unsuccessful attempt to get work in Bombay are described vividly. During his second visit to Bombay, he waited outside actor-director Bhagwan Dada’s office, and finally got a chance to write four songs for music director Nisar Bazmi in the film, Bhala Aadmi . The film was released two years later, in 1958, before Roshan signed him on. The role of his two mentors deserves mention. Bismil Saeedi, a poet-editor who stayed in Old Delhi, encouraged Bakshi to pursue his passion for writing. And Chhitar Mal Swaroop, a ticket collector and lover of poetry, met him at Marine Lines station in Bombay and invited him to stay after hearing of his struggle. One of the interesting chapters is titled, ‘Inking his way to the top’ and covers the period 1959 to 1967. Beginning with Roshan’s CID Girl , it ends with Laxmikant-Pyarelal’s Milan , and shows his slow but steady rise to fame. Other important films during this period were Phool Bane Angaare and Jab Jab Phool Khile with Kalyanji-Anandji, Mr X In Bombay and Aaye Din Bahar Ke with Laxmikant-Pyarelal, and Devar with Roshan. Stories behind songs Rakesh also mentions stories about the making of some of these songs. For instance, ‘Saawan ka mahina’ ( Milan ) was created when Laxmikant and Bakshi heard a paanwaala say ‘sor’ instead of ‘shor’, and ‘Chingari koi bhadke’ ( Amar Prem with R.D. Burman) was conceptualised after Bakshi threw a burning match in the rain. ‘Roop tera mastana’ ( Aradhana , S.D. Burman) was created when he and a friend saw a beautiful girl in Khar in Bombay. The book contains a special section of tributes by well-known names such as Pyarelal, Lata Mangeshkar, Subhash Ghai, Gulzar and Dharmendra, besides young lyricists who have been inspired by him. Lata Mangeshkar talks about how Bakshi attended the recordings of his songs and would sometimes suggest changes in pronunciation and correct emphasis on words to make the song more effective — like he did in the Chandni song, ‘Tere mere honton pe’, where he wanted the ‘th’ in the word ‘meethe’ to be stressed. Though Rakesh reveals many lesser-known facets of his father’s life, one wishes more songs from the 70s had been covered in detail. Though songs from Bobby, Aap Ki Kasam, Ek Duuje Ke Liye and Khalnayak are mentioned, one was keen to read about other favourites. But, as the writer says, it would require more than one volume to cover the entire span of his father’s work. For his admirers, however, this book strikes a fine balance between Anand Bakshi the person and Anand Bakshi the lyricist. The writer is a Mumbai-based music journalist.   ‘Chingari koi bhadke’ ( Amar Prem with R.D. Burman) was conceptualised after Anand Bakshi threw a burning match in the rain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-life-in-songs/article34610295.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance like an ocean||Rima Kallingal swirls, swings and dips seamlessly, every movement in step with Maya Angelou’s evocative poem ‘And Still I Rise’. Based on the poet’s own powerful rendition of the verses, actor-dancer Rima’s new choreography ‘Rise’ is a piece that symbolises resilience, hope and faith. Premièred on May 12 on YouTube, Rima says the choreography attempts to capture the spirit of the poem. “Ever since I first saw the video of the poet reciting it, I must have watched it innumerable times and each time I felt invigorated. A reason why I decided to take it up for choreography during this challenging period. I hope those who watch my video feel the same way,” says Rima. Directed and co-choreographed by Pratheesh Ramdas, ‘Rise’ is filmed by Jees John and has music by Lami. With her face painted with lines from the poem (by face artist Meera Chandran), Rima’s expressive eyes convey the essence of the lyrics — of courage in the face of defeat, of deprivation and chauvinism. “The idea of ‘Rise’ came from the way the poet reaches out to the huge audience with her attitude and style of recitation. When I wanted to create something during the lockdown, this came to my mind instantly,” says Rima. By experimenting with music, make-up, costume, space and movement, Rima has broadened her dance horizons. She has also been working with frames and light to create a signature style that merges different elements into a harmonious array of movements. In sync with the content Instead of sticking to a particular style of dance, Rima’s works are more in sync with the thematic content of the choreography. Since the first lockdown, she has uploaded three videos ‘Yamuna’, ‘Pirouette’ and ‘Rise’, each around a different theme, environment, space and gender. While ‘Yamuna’ was conceived by musician Sreevalsan J. Menon, ‘Pirouette’ and ‘Rise’ were conceptualised by her. “I visualised Sreevalsan sir’s idea through movements. ‘Pirouette’ was all about my love for space and architecture. It was done in a space designed by award-winning architect Vinu Daniel. And choreographing Maya Angelou’s poem is my tribute to all those women who have inspired and motivated me. This woman, from another era and another part of the world, who had a completely different experience from mine and spoke from the background of the civil rights movement… she yet has the power to stoke my inner fires,” says Rima. Rima was researching the life of K.R. Gouri Ammal when the veteran political leader passed away recently. She says, “Towards the end of her life, she may at times have felt defeated and disappointed. But the truth is that her life itself is an inspiration, a guiding light for women. The power of their work, their art and their lives cannot be obliterated. I had to pay homage to these women who walked ahead of us. We are standing on their shoulders. That was the whole idea behind ‘Rise.’” Rima is planning her next video with veteran Bharatanatyam guru Kalakshetra Vilasini, the first head of the Department of Bharatanatyam at R.L.V. College of Music and Fine Arts, Tripunithura. “I have been learning the adavus from her. During class she would demonstrate a particular step or a piece of abhinaya for us. I want to do a video with her where she is also performing, to showcase her amazing talent to viewers.” She has been working her team for more than seven years and attributes the sucess of her videos to their hard work. “I can trust them with my ideas. As a choreographer and artiste who has also worked in film, I try to bring together two different art forms: dance and film choreography. In cinematography, different ideas can be communicated with one close-up shot, sans movement. In many frames, I have communicated just with my eyes. I use movement only as and when required,” she says. Although she has a mood board, a light pattern and colour tone in mind, during outdoor shoots, the team lets nature guide them. “With low budgets, we have to improvise. We compromise a lot while shooting. So many elements come into play to make the video stand out. I think it is a miracle when an art form takes shape.”  I had to pay homage to these women who had walked ahead of us. We are standing on their shoulders. That was the whole idea behind ‘Rise.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dance-like-an-ocean/article34610327.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Adi Sankara as brilliant poet||As we celebrate Adi Sankara’s jayanthi this month, it is an opportune moment to look at the saint’s marvellous and prolific literary creations. We have to thank a large number of music composers, singers and recording organisations without whose help these compositions may not have reached our homes. In his short life of 33 years, lived about 13 centuries ago, Adi Sankara mastered Sanskrit, researched the Vedas and Upanishads, wrote commentaries on them, developed a deep understanding of sanatana dharma, developed its essence, and communicated it in the form of his own distilled literature. He preached to a growing band of disciples, established mutts across India, and connected with tens of thousands of people through his wide travels. His scholarly profile and contributions are immense, and a small part of that gargantuan effort are the songs he wrote. Musical versions Bhaja Govindam and Subramanya Bhujangam are perhaps the two most common musical versions of his writings that have entered the popular consciousness over the last several decades. But many other scriptures and poems like the Kanakadhara stotram, the Soundarya Lahari, the various pancharatnas, the Mahishasura Mardhini slokam (starting with Aigiri Nandini), the Sivapanchatchara stotram etc. are also available to us, set to music and sung by various stalwarts. This has succeeded in keeping the genius of Adi Sankara’s poetry alive even today. M.S. Subbulakshmi’s Bhaja Govindam record was released in 1970 and has since sold millions of copies. The singing legend assigned her royalty rights to the Ramakrishna Mission. With pleasing ragams included in the ragamalika composition, ‘Bhaja Govindam’ contains the essence of Adi Shankara’s philosophical discoveries. ‘Subramanya Bhujangam’ is the best known Sanskrit poem on Muruga, popularised through many different versions in Hamsadhwani and Ragamalika. The amazing feature of this slokam is the ‘bhujanga’ or serpentine meter that is built into the structure by Adi Sankara. His language virtuosity must have been such that he wrote as many as 33 stanzas of the bhujangam with this meter embellishment. The lilting tisra gati (not very far from the Western concept of waltz) offers the reciting anchor. All this, when Adi Sankara was not even a trained musician. In ‘Soundarya Lahari’, the poet dwells on the power and beauty of Sridevi while the ‘Kanakadhara stotram’ extols the virtues of Lakshmi. Many scholars have taken pains to understand the full import of these complex verses. Adi Sankara also wrote Bhashya or commentaries on various Upanishads, clarifying them for ordinary people. For the majority of people, these musical expressions remain our only connect to the great saint. People like Kadayanallur Venkataraman and L. Krishnan of AIR set to tune many of these works, as also did Dr. M. Balamuralikrishna, who tuned the songs for the Tamil film that was made on Adi Sankara.  The writer is a classical music critic and commentator.   Adi Sankara also has written Bhashya or commentaries of various Upanishads – making them lucid for people to follow. They remain in prosaic form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/adi-sankara-as-brilliant-poet/article34610320.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating the sarod||The last major live music festival before India went into lockdown again was held in Kolkata in the first week of April. Held over three evenings, the festival only featured sarod solos, and was organised by the Mumbai-based Annapurna Devi Foundation. Each concert was special; each performer determined to pay fitting tribute to the truly venerated master-musician Annapurna Devi. Kolkata to date has the best sarod-makers, and the city’s link with celebrated sarodiyas is age-old. Nityanand Haldipur, flautist and festival organiser, said, “We would like to make this an annual event.” The festival opened with Shiraz Ali Khan’s concert. Grand nephew of Annapurna Devi, he is the fourth generation sarodiya of the illustrious family. He was accompanied on the tabla by none other than Bickram Ghosh. Starting with the early evening raag, Madhuvanti, in which he essayed a compact aalap and jor, Shiraz went on to play a Maihar gharana speciality raag, Pahari Jhinjhoti. He played two compositions; and there was a pleasing sawaal jawab with Bickram Ghosh. He ended with a brief Mishra Kafi. Impeccable presentation The concluding recital of the first evening was by Maihar sarod player, Pt. Partho Sarothy, disciple of Ustad Dhyanesh Khan and Pt. Ravi Shankar. Appropriately, he played completely in the dhrupad style, a characteristic feature of his gharana, displaying his prodigious taalim (training). The raag he chose to portray expansively, Kaunsi Kanhra, was a favourite of Ma Annapurna. A combination of Darbari Kanhra and Malkauns, Partho treated it with magnificent gravity. The nearly one-hour ‘aalap jor jhala’ included pakhawaj-style accompaniment on the tabla by Sanjay Adhikari, reminiscent of sarod recitals of yore. Surprisingly, and laudably, Partho Sarothy concluded with raag Malkauns, an unusual choice given that he had just played a detailed Kaunsi Kanhra . Again, his treatment of the raag was impeccable, as one expects from a musician of his stature, with the same mellow, straight meends without needing to impart a lighter feel to the notes. The second evening started with a tribute by Senia Shahjahanpur’s Pt. Prattyush Banerji, disciple of Pt. Buddhadev Dasgupta. An innovative composer in addition to being one of the torchbearers of his gharana, Prattyush’s recital was exceedingly lyrical. Despite his mastery of rare raags, Prattyush chose to play the oft-heard Puriya Dhanashri, proving that you can impress even with a common raag. During the ‘aalap jor jhala’ one was frequently moved; his gharana’s trademark ‘ladant’ before the jhala was vigorous and crystal clear. The 11-beat composition was another departure from his gharana’s usual teen taal gats, and Pt. Abhijit Banerji lent expert tabla accompaniment. . Incidentally, this versatile musician is a disciple of Annapurna Devi. Prattyush concluded with raag Hameer; again with a individualistic but totally authentic vision of the raag. While retaining the stamp of his training, Prattyush showed how the best musicians are not mere copyists. A rare presence Maihar gharana’s Pt. Basant Kabra, who trained under his father Pt. Damodar Lal Kabra and Annapurna Devi, is rarely heard these days, but this reclusive musician from Jodhpur did not disappoint. His solid, non-gimmicky music also showed his immense tayyari . Playing Aiman Kalyan, in just a few minutes he got under the skin of the raag, presenting it in all its hues; his subtle use of the shudha madhyam truly delightful. The passion and vigour he brought to the ‘jor’ and ‘jhala’, the drama in his playing, the authentic note phrases were testimony to his expertise. The concluding raag Pilu was sparkling; the ‘drut gat’ a traditional Senia composition. The last day started with Pt. Tejendra Narayan Mazumdar. A disciple of Ustad Bahadur Khan and Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, he is the most popular sarod exponent of the Maihar gharana today. Pt. Tejendra presented the rare early evening ‘jor’ raag Lalita Gauri. Creditably essaying this relatively small raag over 40 minutes, he showcased its signature vairagya with finesse. Raags Bihag and Lalita Sohini followed. The concluding artiste was expectedly the senior most, Pt. Narendra Nath Dhar, representing the Senia Shahjahanpur (Pt. Radhika Mohan Maitra) and Senia Gwalior (Ustad Amjad Ali Khan) gharanas. Though he chose Shuddha Nat, which is not really associated with his gurus, he explored it succinctly, protecting it from overtones of similar raags without over-emphasising its characteristic phrases. His signature bold stroke work was evident; his ‘ulta jhala’ a delight — clearly age has not caught up with him. In Jaijaiwanti, the maestro played a beautifully traditional yet different Senia composition, and concluded with a gat in Bhairavi. There was some excellent tabla accompaniment by Pt. Subhankar Banerji, Pt. Arup Chattopadhyay and Anubrata Chatterjee, each with his distinctive baaj. The concerts are available on the Annapurna Devi Foundation website and YouTube channel.  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrating-the-sarod/article34610333.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Through the camera’s eye||A silhouette stretches across a tunnel, an eye looks through a window, hands are entangled in ropes, and feet gracefully move in sand — evocative images draw the viewer to the screen to experience dance through the eye of the camera. With a severe second wave of COVID-19 diminishing the possibility of returning to stage any time soon, the camera has firmly entrenched itself in the world of dance. It has emerged as a critical eye, a choreographic companion, and a creative collaborator. Several young dancers are turning to filming their dance to connect with the audience and their own practice in innovative ways. Beyond performance structure A recent dance film festival titled ‘Chakshu’, organised and curated by dance scholar Arshiya Sethi and Kathak dancer Sangita Chatterjee, screened many such interesting films. “Dance has a fascinating filmed life beyond performative spaces and performance structures. The pandemic has foregrounded dance’s relationship with the camera,” says Arshiya. For Sangita Chatterjee, the tryst with the camera began last year during the lockdown when she felt she was losing touch with her practice. “I felt a vacuum when we were all locked in and I couldn’t move. As a dancer this was extremely disturbing. It made me question myself: why do I dance?” Her first film emerged from this questioning, as she began documenting her daily practice on the phone camera. Playing with different emotions, movements and angles, she realised the camera has its own presence. “When we record live performances, the camera is a passive tool, but with a dance film, it becomes an active participant, part of the choreography and composition,” explains Sangita. Her second film, Mirage - A Lust for Life, was conceptualised and directed by her to engage more deeply with the possibilities of the medium. The recce to find the right locations, working on the frame, and making visual compositions made her experience her dance differently. “I was clear about the concept and the kind of images I wanted in the film, but what exactly I would do, how I would move was left to the moment. I just listened to what that particular site was telling me to do.” The story of spaces Contemporary dancer Surjit Nongmeikapam agrees that intuition plays a major role in dancing with and for the camera. Unlike the largely pre-choreographed stage performances that most dancers are used to, the camera and location offer the possibilities of spontaneous acts. “In a dance film, more than technique, the resonance of the space is important and I try to merge my body with the site.” For him, the concept of a dance film is rooted in strong visuals, while the theme and story follow. “I begin with a strong image, and improvise with the resources available. The choreography emerges from there.” In his latest film, Samnaba, the main resource was a black pot (longpi chafhu) and the concept of the film is inspired by the Japanese philosophy of Kintsugi. “The dancer’s body is important, but the resources and environment are crucial guiding factors in a film.” The option to do several retakes makes it easier to play and explore different compositions and quality of movements, but it also poses the challenge of continuity when working with a specific narrative. For Surjit, dance films are not new; he has been making them for over a decade now, and says that, “Time, space and body should come together to get the right shot. The camera and location provide a new adventure, room for freedom and exploration.” Contemporary dancer Shilpika Bordoloi also prefers intuitive spontaneity. Filming became part of her choreographic process while researching for a project on the Brahmaputra and its socio-cultural aspects. Later, the camera became a constant companion as she collaborated with filmmakers to explore the medium further. Her first dance film, Nature of Nescience , is an abstract exploration of magic and mysticism. “It was an adventure,” she recounts, “we were working outdoors, using natural light, without any pre-choreographed movements. It was about being present on the location and I improvised in reaction to the geography.” With about five days of shoot, the footage was edited into a short film. Bordoloi believes that concepts of direction and choreography get merged in a dance film and that it is a collaborative process. “In this medium I find it difficult to have specifics of who directed, who choreographed, etc. because as a performer I am responding to the moment and making choices of how to move, at the same time the person behind the camera is also making intuitive choices about what and how to capture this. With so much footage, editing also becomes an important part of the choreography!” Ways of seeing The way in which a dance film finally comes together on the edit table presents several choreographic possibilities. The storyboard, which is an important part of pre-production in most films, may emerge much later in a dance film. Collaborating with filmmaker Manoop Chandran for her directorial debut presented many moments of awe and learning for Bharatanatyam dancer Deepali Salil. The film Fly... Fly Again was shot over two days in Kerala and took about two months to edit. However, the concept had been brewing in her mind for over two years. “I had initially conceptualised it as an aerial act but when that did not work out, I decided to go ahead with it myself.” Collaborating with dancer Sayani Chakraborty, she decided to explore movements and impressions derived from the Bharatanatyam vocabulary. Reflecting on the possibilities of the medium for classical dance, she says, “Classical dance is rooted in a certain tradition that we follow, and to take the concept of stage out of the dance is a huge shift. I was amazed at the multiple layers and perspectives that come across conceptually with the different ways of seeing the camera offers.” Kathak dancer Sumedha Bhattacharya has been diving into research and practice around dance and camera for a few years now. Talking about these intersections, she says, “As classical dancers we are trained more to look at the end production. Working with the camera has made me aware kinaesthetically, and also mentally, of the process of dance. The process of dance filmmaking is not a linear one for me; intuition, improvisation and a lot of uncertainty and unpredictability are important to fathom the process and I draw from my Kathak training.” While she has worked extensively with the camera before and also runs a project titled, ‘Duet with Camera’, her latest film started out as an experiment during the lockdown. In Jam Upload Download Upload Jam she danced while holding the camera. “The possibilities of working with the lens are immense, the intentionality of using it is important. The camera has the possibility of being treated as a subject, to take on different roles and metaphors, and present different kinds of looking.” As dancers explore form and content with the camera, experimental and innovative works are emerging, with shifts between choreography and direction. From using archival videos of dance performances to dancing for handheld cameras to choreographing specifically for the screen, dance filmmaking may be the new lens that dancers use to experience and understand their art better and to communicate with the audience. The author is a Delhi based arts researcher and writer.  Unlike the choreography of stage shows that most dancers are used to, the camera and location offer scope for spontaneity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/through-the-cameras-eye/article34610302.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Symphony meets oppari||The sounds of nagaswaram and an international orchestra rub shoulders in the musical score of the recent Tamil film Karnan . The story of a protagonist defending the rights and dignity of the people in his village is compelling not just due to its myriad characters and powerful performances. Directed by Mari Selvaraj and starring Dhanush, the film breathes fire and fury in many of its sequences, and the songs and score fully complement its tone.  Karnan inhabits two different musical worlds. One is rooted in Tamil culture and brings forth the musicality of the land that its creator (director Mari Selvaraj) largely grew up in and drew inspiration from. The other is the score provided by FAME’s Macedonian Symphonic Orchestra, one that alternately nosedives and takes off in a musical sense. The soundtrack employs both these worlds to a considerable extent to accentuate the mood of the sequences; if musical pauses and the orchestra’s sustained notes are used to describe everyday life in ‘Podiyankulam’ and ‘Podiyankulam makkal’, there’s a boisterous joie de vivre in the folksy ‘Karnan aattam’. “We were confident that the idea of having Tamil folk artistes and a full-fledged orchestra in the same film would work,” says composer Santhosh Narayanan. “What was most satisfying was that they were both in their rooted space.” The use of melam Santhosh’s music stands out in modern Tamil cinema as he uses several unique voices and traditional instruments, with Karnan just a recent example of this. For instance, the trending ‘Kandaa vara sollunga’ makes ample use of folk artiste Kidakkuzhi Mariyammal’s rustic vocal artistry. The film also features popular music composer Deva and Reetha Anthony singing an oppari that has stirring lyrics by Yugabharathi (‘Cholerannu vandha noyi, Yeman kannedhire thinnuduche...’). There’s also the melodious ‘Thattaan thattaan’ and the motivational ‘Uthrathenga’. The album also features some not-so-often heard instruments such as the pambai, thudumbu, and urumi among others. The people behind the unique rustic sounds you hear in Karnan mostly belong to the Ramanathapuram Marungan Melam team. “Marungan aiyah is the greatest nagaswaram player I have ever heard. These folk artistes are in extreme financial stress, but they still sculpt their own instruments and dedicate their entire lives to the art form. When they all play together, there’s a lot of energy and passion in their music, and we have tried our best to capture that for Karnan ,” says Santhosh. The film and its music are deeply inspired by the setting — a village in the interior of Tamil Nadu that doesn’t even have a bus stop of its own — and depicts what director Mari Selvaraj himself experienced in his youth. “We grow up with certain cultural references but we need empathy to understand other people,” says Santhosh. “Our world is not restricted to the few hundreds we know. When Mari (Selvaraj) met me and narrated his story, I realised how his need has always been about sustenance. When I convert his ideas into music, it needs to come from his point of view. Mari gives certain key tweaks in this aspect; for instance, I had composed the interval block sequence as two separate segments, but he insisted that it be one long musical piece.” Songs of death Another feature of the sound track is the use of oppari, a musical outpouring of lament and grief at a funeral. If the Mari Selvaraj-Santhosh Narayan combination designed ‘Karuppi’ in their previous film Pariyerum Perumal as a tribute to a dead dog, here they come up with the evocative ‘Manjanathi puranam’, a number in which you can feel singer Deva’s lament. “There are several forms of oppari, but cinema largely uses only one format. At times, there’s even some dark humour in it. This art form is not just about death, it is also about life in many ways. I feel it works well as a metaphor in Karnan and integrates well with the other styles of music. Even ‘Enjoy Enjaami’ (Santhosh’s superhit indie track featuring Dhee and Arivu) had an oppari element.” That oppari co-exists with an orchestra speaks volumes about the musical variety in Karnan , and foretells an interesting future for Tamil film music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/symphony-meets-oppari/article34610278.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||What makes Kalamandalam Gopi special?||Dr. Kalamandalam Gopi, who turns 84 this month, is often described as the ‘Evergreen Hero’. In the world of Kathakali there have been several others with long careers, but why has Gopi Asaan, as he is reverentially called, become the poster boy for the dance form? What makes him so special? The answer may be found in a couple of incidents from his life. When Gopi Asaan returned to the stage in 1992 after a year-long absence and a major surgery, he chose for his comeback at Guruvayur the toughest role perhaps in Kathakali, ignoring the advice of his friends and gurus. Again, 25 years later, during his 80th birthday celebrations at Thrissur, he chose to perform the same physically demanding role — Dharmaputra in Kirmeeravadham — that involves an extremely slow tempo sequence or padinja padam and requires his continuous presence on stage for over three hours. For Gopi Asaan, there are no half measures, and no shortcuts. His guru, the late Padmanabhan Nair, had once remarked that while teaching an intricate rhythmic movement or kalasam, Gopi would do it over and over again till it got ingrained in his psyche. Gopi Asaan is also naturally gifted with the physical features ideal for a Kathakali artiste, and endowed with a face where all shades of emotions appear with ease. But what has sustained him is his meticulousness in executing kalasams and his use of the entire body to express. Even while he was more popular as the romantic hero, playing Nala, Kacha, Karna and Rugmangatha, he didn’t shy away from doing the demanding lead roles in the four major stories, Kottayam Kathakal, known for their strict adherence to stylised structure. Noted Kathakali connoisseur and arts activist K.B. Rajanand calls Gopi Asaan a self-made artiste. “Apart from his sincere efforts to internalise the language of Kathakali, he paid close attention to make-up, and after much experimentation arrived on the scheme that complemented and accentuated his high cheekbones and the shape of his lips, nose and eyes.” Rajanand also credits him with creating an idiom of his own. “The changes he brought about — the precision and speed of his mudras, the variations in rhythm and tempo that he employs for the mudras, the way he uses his eyes to inject force into his gestures, certain unconventional postures that he strikes on the stage — all make him unique,” says Rajanand. For fellow Kathakali artiste Ettumanoor P. Kannan, Gopi Asaan’s gifts go deeper. He says that the sum total of Asaan’s performance, his angika and aharya, all can be termed satwika prakasam or a manifestation of satwika. But satwika in this context must not be confused with facial expression, he cautions. “Satwika here has a deeper meaning — it is the inner energy, the source of inspiration and the font of emotions, thoughts and imaginations that power an artiste’s mind, be it in painting or the performing arts.” From Ottanthullal to Kathakali Vadakke Manalath Govindan was born in 1937 in the village of Kothachira in Palakkad district. When Gopi was in fourth standard, the local landlord got him to learn the folk art, Ottanthullal, his first step into the world of performing arts. When the Ottanthullal school closed down, Gopi was called by the patron of a nearby village to a Kathakali kalari run by Thekkinkattil Ravunni Nair. When that too ended and the future looked bleak, the chance to join Kerala Kalamandalam presented itself. It is said that the poet Vallathol, who was instrumental in setting up Kalamandalam, took one look at Gopi and enrolled him in the institute in 1951 at the age of 14, even without the mandatory facial make-up test. That moment turned out to be a milestone in 20th century Kathakali, when Gopi met the two great gurus — Kalamandalam Ramankutty Nair and Kalamandalam Padmanabhan Nair — who moulded him. Gopi says the seven-year course he completed in 1957 was as good as a 14-year course considering how rigorous and punishing it was. He was appointed a teacher there in 1958 and went on to become the principal in 1990. He retired from Kalamandalam two years later. No appreciation of Gopi Asaan will be complete without mentioning his contributions as a guru. Perhaps his most profound contribution came after retirement, when he returned to his alma mater as professor emeritus. The fact that he has trained several generations of artistes will go a long way in preserving a tradition of Kathakali that has come to be known as the Kalamandalam kalari. His book, the 400-page Nalacharita Prabhavam , an actor’s manual, was published in 2017. Gopi Asaan says he didn’t set out to write a book, but it evolved when he was asked to train post-graduate students in Nalacharitam , traditionally not taught in the kalari. He also recalls how his guru Padmanabhan Nair, who wrote the stage manuals for the four Kottayam plays, exhorted him to compose one for Nalacharitam . “My voluminous notes to my students and my consultations with litterateurs on the various meanings and sub-texts of Nalacharitam ultimately took the form of the book.” Gopi Asaan lives at Mundur, not far from his place of birth, with his wife, two sons and their families. A seven-decade career is now paused by the pandemic. As he turns 84, what does he feel when looking back? “I am filled with a sense of wonder. Coming from a small village I have traversed the world stage. There have been two constant sources of strength in my life — Guruvayoorappan and my wife Chandrika.” It is indisputable that Asaan always had a very clear idea about the philosophy of beauty and always aimed for perfection. To quote Rajanand, “Gopi Asaan’s idiom o over time became the accepted stage language of Kathakali. He thereby shaped and defined the aesthetics of an entire generation and thus became part of the art form’s history.”  The retired journalist writes on Kerala’s performing arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/what-makes-kalamandalam-gopi-special/article34610299.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Music in the making||Kriteka Iyer, who performed recently at Rasika Ranjani Sabha in Chennai, was brought up in Ahmedabad and is among the few singers from Tamil Nadu to pursue Hindustani classical music. Trained under Ustad Waseem Ahmed Khan and the doyenne Girija Devi — both scholars at ITC-SRA, Kolkata — Kriteka has a sweet voice which, with time and experience, will perhaps gain power and depth, making her music more full-bodied. Her concert was complete in repertoire — with khayals, thumri and bhajan. Since it was a 75-minute concert, it seemed to rush from one piece to the other, without giving a complete experience of any one aspect. But the rendition of raga Bhimpalas, the mainstay of the concert, was an exception to this. Kriteka rendered three bandishes in Bhimpalas, one in vilambit and the other two in drut. She chose the famous bandish ‘Ab to der bhai’, immortalised by legendary musicians across gharanas. My mind harked back to the reflective contours of Pt. Pratap Narayan recording of 1998. Kriteka took us through the raga stage by stage, and once in a while a phrase or a bhaav reminded us of Girija Devi. Striking bol bant  The musician knows the method, her music ideas are good, and she doesn’t resort to a display of skill nor does she seek to make her rendition flashy. Her pursuit is serious, and like a devout student she explores the many possibilities of articulation. But it is also time for Kriteka to push the frontiers and take on challenges beyond known territories. The landing notes, before she picked up the mukhda , seemed to pose a problem, often faltering into an alien note. The frequency with which this happened disrupted the mood she had built thus far. Her rendition of ‘Moorat man…” and ‘Jaa jaare” were more competent than her vilambit portions. She maintained stability in higher speeds, marked with interesting features. Her bol bant was striking, her gamak tans were immaculate and lucid, and she brough energy to her singing in these portions. The rendition of Kedar Bandish by Ustad Khadim Husain Khan (Sajan Piya) — the maestro of the Agra Gharana — was a laboured one. The brief picture she presented of the raga was evocative, but the bandish itself was hard to attain. The thumri in Des also faltered a bit. I personally thought that these glitches were more due to poor planning than any lack of ability. There was no time for Kriteka to absorb herself into these compositions. The much liked and sung Marathi Natyasangeet (from Jai Jai Gaurishankar ) ‘Narayana Rama Ramana’ was the concluding piece. It was a vibrant and energetic song, and it took the mood to a crescendo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/music-in-the-making/article34610309.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Fitting tribute||A prominent vocalist apart, Sathur A.G. Subramaniam was a much-loved guru. A purist to the core, he was known for his raga alapanas and pallavi elaborations marked by lakshya and lakshana. When Chennai-based sabha Kedaram recently organised a concert in his honour, what better choice for singer than his grandson, Krishna Ramarathinam? The concert, replete with Tyagaraja’s compositions, began with ‘Sri Ganapatini’ (Sourashtram) from the poet’s opera Prahlada Bhakthi Vijayam . It was followed with a virutham, ‘Ramabrahmakya viprendra’, in Gowri Manohari, as a prelude to ‘Guruleka etuvanti’ (Khanda Chapu) with niraval at ‘Thathva bodhana’. Krishna, an IT professional from Sydney, trained initially under M.S. Ramanathan. He later learnt from V. Subramaniam, A.S. Murali, M. Chandrasekaran and, of course, his aunts, the Sathur Sisters. Extensive alapana His next piece was the Chenju Kamboji kriti, ‘Vararagalaya,’ popularised by GNB, who had composed a lovely chittaswaram for the piece. Krishna’s next was ‘Intha Sowkhyamanine’ in raga Kapi with swaras at ‘Swararagalaya.’ He rendered an extensive alapana, exploring almost all the charming nuances of the raga. On the violin, his wife Mahathi Balajee, a corporate risk manager in Sydney, responded with a lovely elucidation. Having had her initial training under her grandmother Padma Veeraraghavan (disciple of KVN), she learnt violin under S.D. Sridhar and H.N. Bhaskar. This was followed by ‘Lekana ninnu’ (Asaveri). The centrepiece of the concert was ‘Manasu swadheenamaina’ in Sankarabharanam. The alapanas by the couple were expansive. Niraval and swaras were at ‘Rajarajesa niranjana.’ The thani by Sumukha Jagadeesh in misra chapu, especially the tisra nadai, was impressive. Sumukha, also from Sydney, had his initial training under Suthanthiraraj. He is currently undergoing advanced training under Melakkaveri Balaji. Krishna Ramarathinam concluded his two-hour recital with ‘Shobhane’ (Pantuvarali), Tyagaraja’s Utsava Sampradaya kriti.  The Chennai-based author writes on music and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/fitting-tribute/article34610304.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Western string meets Eastern note||The melody emanating from Pt. Debashish Bhattacharya’s slide guitar during a recent online concert struck a note of hope amid despair. Through exhaustive research and performance of over 50 years, the Hindustani musician has designed and patented 34 guitars, with names like Chaturangi, Gandharvi, Anandi and Pushp Veena, for raga music. And he has travelled around the country and the world playing these guitars and creating a niche for himself. Intrigued by this unusual concert, which opened with the antara (the latter half) of the famous bandish, ‘Ab mori baat, maan le piharva…’ in raag Shuddha Sarang, (although his sensitive ‘vistar’ (elaboration) did full justice to the raag), I had a long conversation with the artiste about this concert in particular and the interesting facets of his musical journey. He laughed at the mention of his concert starting with the antara and said that it was just a clip from the YouTube premiere of his concert ‘Mangalacharan’ in memory of Pt. Arun Bhaduri, one of the seniormost disciples of Pt. Jnan Prakash Ghosh. Bhaduri, a well-known vocalist, taught at the ITC-Sangeet Research Academy, Kolkata for many years and groomed many vocalists and instrumentalists. The concert was organised by one of his disciples, Indrani Mukherjee, and her tabla artiste husband Apoorva Mukherjee. Initiated into Hindustani music by his parents, Sunil Kumar and Manjushri Bhattacharya, Debashish further trained under stalwarts like Acharya Gokul Nag, Acharya Maharaj Bandopadhyaya, Pt. Ajoy Chakrabarty, Pt. Brij Bhushan Kabra and Ustad Ali Akbar Khan. He began to experiment with strings, creating a range of guitars. He performed live and released records in collaboration with Pt. Ravi Shankar, Ustad Zakir Hussain, John McLaughlin, Mandolin Shrinivas, Jerry Douglas, Derec Trucks and many others. Having played more than 3,000 concerts and trained over 1,000 students, Debashish has redefined Hindustani music on the slide guitar. The repertoire he has created for the instrument shows his determination to elevate its position in the classical music world. Many young musicians have been benefited by his approach to music and teaching. With the pandemic posing one of the biggest challenges to performing arts, Pt. Debashish Bhattacharya has been curating the ‘Call of the soul’ series of concerts to seek support and aid for his guitar manufacturing company, the luthiers and their families, and young musicians, accompanying artistes and students of music. One of the concerts in this series that left a lasting impression featured Pt. Debashish with his son Suryadipta, playing raag Kirwani comprising alap-jod-jhala and compositions set to medium tempo rupak and faster teentaal on Chaturangi Veena, an improvised 22-string guitar for the khayal ang treatment of a raag. They were accompanied by Archik Banerjee (son and disciple of Pt. Shubhankar Banerjee) on the tabla. The second half of the concert had Pt. Debashish playing a detailed alap-jod jhala in raag Jhinjhoti followed by two compositions set to slow and medium tempo teentaal on Pushpa Veena in typical Maihar Senia tantrakari ang followed by a khayal ang presentation in raag Adana with compositions set to Ada Chautala and Drut Ektala on Chaturangi Veena. The concert concluded with the famous Bhairavi thumri, ‘Babul mora naihar chhoto hi jaye’.  The Delhi-based author is aHindustani music critic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/western-string-meets-eastern-note/article34610330.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Kutcheri competition||Mudhra’s annual music competition is back, but this time is open for Chennai artistes only. Titled ‘Kutcheri Competition’, the contest will be held for those in the 20-30 age group. One best performer will be chosen in each category: vocal, violin and mridangam. Those who wish to participate should send an audio or video recording of their performance of at least 90 minutes by email to mudhrasabha@gmail.com. The winners will be awarded the title ‘Sangeetha Mudhra,’ a purse, and also get to perform at Mudhra’s December Music Festival this year. Entries with participant’s profile and age proof should be submitted on or before May 31. For more details, Whatsapp 98406 39653.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kutcheri-competition/article34610273.ece
21 May 2021||May 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Through the camera’s eye||A silhouette stretches across a tunnel, an eye looks through a window, hands are entangled in ropes, and feet gracefully move in sand — evocative images draw the viewer to the screen to experience dance through the eye of the camera. With a severe second wave of COVID-19 diminishing the possibility of returning to stage any time soon, the camera has firmly entrenched itself in the world of dance. It has emerged as a critical eye, a choreographic companion, and a creative collaborator. Several young dancers are turning to filming their dance to connect with the audience and their own practice in innovative ways. Beyond performance structure A recent dance film festival titled ‘Chakshu’, organised and curated by dance scholar Arshiya Sethi and Kathak dancer Sangita Chatterjee, screened many such interesting films. “Dance has a fascinating filmed life beyond performative spaces and performance structures. The pandemic has foregrounded dance’s relationship with the camera,” says Arshiya. For Sangita Chatterjee, the tryst with the camera began last year during the lockdown when she felt she was losing touch with her practice. “I felt a vacuum when we were all locked in and I couldn’t move. As a dancer this was extremely disturbing. It made me question myself: why do I dance?” Her first film emerged from this questioning, as she began documenting her daily practice on the phone camera. Playing with different emotions, movements and angles, she realised the camera has its own presence. “When we record live performances, the camera is a passive tool, but with a dance film, it becomes an active participant, part of the choreography and composition,” explains Sangita. Her second film, Mirage - A Lust for Life, was conceptualised and directed by her to engage more deeply with the possibilities of the medium. The recce to find the right locations, working on the frame, and making visual compositions made her experience her dance differently. “I was clear about the concept and the kind of images I wanted in the film, but what exactly I would do, how I would move was left to the moment. I just listened to what that particular site was telling me to do.” The story of spaces Contemporary dancer Surjit Nongmeikapam agrees that intuition plays a major role in dancing with and for the camera. Unlike the largely pre-choreographed stage performances that most dancers are used to, the camera and location offer the possibilities of spontaneous acts. “In a dance film, more than technique, the resonance of the space is important and I try to merge my body with the site.” For him, the concept of a dance film is rooted in strong visuals, while the theme and story follow. “I begin with a strong image, and improvise with the resources available. The choreography emerges from there.” In his latest film, Samnaba, the main resource was a black pot (longpi chafhu) and the concept of the film is inspired by the Japanese philosophy of Kintsugi. “The dancer’s body is important, but the resources and environment are crucial guiding factors in a film.” The option to do several retakes makes it easier to play and explore different compositions and quality of movements, but it also poses the challenge of continuity when working with a specific narrative. For Surjit, dance films are not new; he has been making them for over a decade now, and says that, “Time, space and body should come together to get the right shot. The camera and location provide a new adventure, room for freedom and exploration.” Contemporary dancer Shilpika Bordoloi also prefers intuitive spontaneity. Filming became part of her choreographic process while researching for a project on the Brahmaputra and its socio-cultural aspects. Later, the camera became a constant companion as she collaborated with filmmakers to explore the medium further. Her first dance film, Nature of Nescience , is an abstract exploration of magic and mysticism. “It was an adventure,” she recounts, “we were working outdoors, using natural light, without any pre-choreographed movements. It was about being present on the location and I improvised in reaction to the geography.” With about five days of shoot, the footage was edited into a short film. Bordoloi believes that concepts of direction and choreography get merged in a dance film and that it is a collaborative process. “In this medium I find it difficult to have specifics of who directed, who choreographed, etc. because as a performer I am responding to the moment and making choices of how to move, at the same time the person behind the camera is also making intuitive choices about what and how to capture this. With so much footage, editing also becomes an important part of the choreography!” Ways of seeing The way in which a dance film finally comes together on the edit table presents several choreographic possibilities. The storyboard, which is an important part of pre-production in most films, may emerge much later in a dance film. Collaborating with filmmaker Manoop Chandran for her directorial debut presented many moments of awe and learning for Bharatanatyam dancer Deepali Salil. The film Fly... Fly Again was shot over two days in Kerala and took about two months to edit. However, the concept had been brewing in her mind for over two years. “I had initially conceptualised it as an aerial act but when that did not work out, I decided to go ahead with it myself.” Collaborating with dancer Sayani Chakraborty, she decided to explore movements and impressions derived from the Bharatanatyam vocabulary. Reflecting on the possibilities of the medium for classical dance, she says, “Classical dance is rooted in a certain tradition that we follow, and to take the concept of stage out of the dance is a huge shift. I was amazed at the multiple layers and perspectives that come across conceptually with the different ways of seeing the camera offers.” Kathak dancer Sumedha Bhattacharya has been diving into research and practice around dance and camera for a few years now. Talking about these intersections, she says, “As classical dancers we are trained more to look at the end production. Working with the camera has made me aware kinaesthetically, and also mentally, of the process of dance. The process of dance filmmaking is not a linear one for me; intuition, improvisation and a lot of uncertainty and unpredictability are important to fathom the process and I draw from my Kathak training.” While she has worked extensively with the camera before and also runs a project titled, ‘Duet with Camera’, her latest film started out as an experiment during the lockdown. In Jam Upload Download Upload Jam she danced while holding the camera. “The possibilities of working with the lens are immense, the intentionality of using it is important. The camera has the possibility of being treated as a subject, to take on different roles and metaphors, and present different kinds of looking.” As dancers explore form and content with the camera, experimental and innovative works are emerging, with shifts between choreography and direction. From using archival videos of dance performances to dancing for handheld cameras to choreographing specifically for the screen, dance filmmaking may be the new lens that dancers use to experience and understand their art better and to communicate with the audience. The author is a Delhi based arts researcher and writer.  Unlike the choreography of stage shows that most dancers are used to, the camera and location offer scope for spontaneity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/through-the-cameras-eye/article34610323.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Don’t let guard down despite dip in cases’||The Capital reported 3,231 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours and 233 deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. This is the lowest number of daily new cases in about 50 days. The last time new cases were less than this was on April 1, when 2,790 cases were reported. The bulletin added that 58,744 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 5.50%. Commenting on the fall in the number of cases that has been sustained for over two weeks, experts said that Delhi has passed the peak of the current wave of infection but warned that preparations need to be made for a possible third wave of infection. Head of the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, Jugal Kishore, said that people are going to come from other cities and countries to Delhi and will bring different variants of the virus. “We don’t know how the virus will change and we should be careful when dealing with it. There are around 400 variants of concern and 1,000 variants of interest. Also, we don’t have any study showing lifelong immunity against the virus,” Dr. Kishore said. Vaccine production Delhi Medical Council president Arun Gupta also said that the peak is over in Delhi and that the situation is better in hospitals and admissions are also decreasing. He stressed on the importance of vaccination to combat the virus in the backdrop of the Delhi government closing down 100 vaccination centres last week due to shortage of vaccines. “This is a war and all sources must be put into vaccine production. How much vaccine can two companies produce? It should be opened up for more companies and the Central and State governments should work together on this,” Dr. Gupta said. The ferocity of the virus has ebbed and flowed in the Capital, first peaking in November after falling in the next three months. On January 27, the number of new COVID-19 cases had dropped to 96, the lowest in nine months and on February 16, dropped even further to 94. However, on February 24, the number of new cases hit 200, and started increasing thereafter. The situation that started in mid-April when people started finding it difficult to find beds in hospitals started when the positivity rate peaked at 36.2% on April 22. On Thursday, the positivity was 5.5%, the lowest since April 6. The number of vacant beds in hospitals have also increased from 5-6% on many days in April to 48% on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dont-let-guard-down-despite-dip-in-cases/article34610606.ece
21 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Provide protection to live-in couple, HC tells Haryana police||Allowing a petition filed by a ‘live-in couple’, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed Haryana police to provide appropriate protection, if found necessary, and ensure that no harm comes either to the lives or liberty of the petitioners. Justice Sudhir Mittal in an order on May 18 observed that the Constitution of India is the supreme law of the land. “Right to life and liberty is enshrined therein and is treated as a basic feature. The said right includes the right of an individual to full development of his-her potential in accordance with his-her choice and wish and for such purpose, he-she is entitled to choose a partner of his-her choice,” he noted. “The individual also has the right to formalise the relationship with the partner through marriage or to adopt the non-formal approach of a live-in relationship. The concept of live-in relationships has crept into our society from western nations and initially, found acceptance in the metropolitan cities, probably because, individuals felt that formalisation of a relationship through marriage was not necessary for complete fulfilment. Education played a great role in development of this concept. Slowly, the concept has percolated into small towns and villages also as is evident from this petition. This shows that social acceptance for live-in-relationships is on the increase,” he added. The petitioners had approached the High Court after the family of one of the petitioners opposed the relationship and was threatening to cause physical harm. The counsel for the State submitted that “live-in-relationships are not legal and are frowned upon by society. Thus, no protection can be granted to the petitioners.”  ‘Not an offence’ Justice Mittal added “In law, such a relationship is not prohibited, nor does it amount to commission of any offence and thus, in my considered view such persons are entitled to equal protection of laws as any other citizen of the country. The law postulates that the life and liberty of every individual is precious and must be protected irrespective of individual views...The Constitutional Courts grant protection to couples, who have married against the wishes of their respective parents. They seek protection of life and liberty from their parents and family members, who disapprove of the alliance. An identical situation exits where the couple has entered into a live-in relationship. The only difference is that the relationship is not universally accepted. Would that make any difference? In my considered opinion, it would not. The couple fears for their safety from relatives in both situations and not from the society. They are thus entitled to the same relief. No citizen can be permitted to take law into his own hands in a country governed by Rule of Law,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/provide-protection-to-live-in-couple-hc-tells-haryana-police/article34610954.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||150 jab centres shut from today: Atishi||About 150 vaccination sites for people belonging to the age group of 18-44 will be shut from Friday due to shortage of vaccine, said AAP leader Atishi on Thursday. “Our Covaxin stock for the age group of 18-44 has been finished for the last one week. Covishield’s stock is also available for less than a day. This means that in 99 schools, the 368 sites that are operating, half of them i.e. more than 150 vaccination sites will close down for the age group of 18-44 from Friday,” Ms. Atishi said in a statement. Cause for concern She said that this is a matter of “great concern” for the people of Delhi as a lot of young people in the age group of 18-44 want to get vaccinated. “And as we have seen in the second wave, the youth has been affected in large numbers. Not only have they been infected, but also hospitalised, and many deaths too have occurred. That’s why it is important that Delhi gets its vaccination stock at the earliest,” the AAP leader said. She said that walk-in vaccination for people above 45 years of age are open and requested senior citizens to come forward to get vaccinated. “Delhi’s total vaccination count has reached 48,69,640 and the number of people who have gotten both the doses stands at 11,01,742,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/150-jab-centres-shut-from-today-atishi/article34610607.ece
21 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha government gears up to face possible cyclonic storm||The Odisha government on Thursday started the process of pre-positioning man and machine for rescue and relief operation for a possible cyclone hitting the State. “We have received information from India Meteorological Department that a low pressure area which is likely to form over north Andaman Sea could take the shape of a cyclone by May 25. But, details of the possible cyclone have not emerged,” said P. K. Jena, Special Relief Commissioner of Odisha, on Thursday. “Although it is expected that the cyclone could hit the coast by May 26, no clear picture about the eye of the storm has come through” Mr. Jena pointed out. He said the government had started preparations from Wednesday to face the cyclone. “We held a discussion with Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force, National Disaster Response Force and Director General of Police (Fire). We have assessed their manpower and equipment availability. We have chalked out a preliminary deployment plan,” said Mr. Jena. Cyclone shelters Similarly, all District Collectors, Superintendents of Police, fire officers and emergency officers of 10 coastal districts were instructed to be prepared for the cyclone, keeping COVID-19 protocol in mind. They were asked to keep the cyclone shelters and other equipment ready, the Special Relief Commissioner said. “Moreover, we held a discussion with all departmental heads on Thursday informing them about deployment of manpower and machine during the cyclone. All departments have already started the groundwork,” he informed.  Assessment started Energy department has already started assessing manpower requirement and mobilisation of machines to the possible affected areas. Awareness campaign has been launched in fishing villagse and fish landing centres to bring back fishermen who are already deep in the sea. “We are trying to bring them back to the mainland by May 22,” said Mr. Jena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-government-gears-up-to-face-possible-cyclonic-storm/article34610955.ece
21 May 2021||Guwahati,||Help bring back scholar caught in Israel-Palestine conflict: MP||Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi has asked the External Affairs Ministry to help bring back an Assam scholar caught in the Israel-Palestine conflict. In a letter to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Thursday, Mr. Gogoi sought “appropriate action” to ensure Naziha Tarannam returned safely to her home at Dergaon in eastern Assam’s Golaghat district. Ms. Tarannum is a chemistry scholar at the Ben Gurion University stuck in Negev, Israel, due to the country’s conflict with Hamas in Palestine. She is from Mr. Gogoi’s Lok Sabha constituency Kaliabor. On May 16, the body of Sowmya Santhosh was brought back to her hometown in Kerala from the conflict zone in Israel. She was killed in a Hamas airstrike in Israel’s Ashkelon on May 19. In another letter to Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Mr. Gogoi hoped the State government would heed certain recommendations of the Congress for protecting the Assamese language and culture. These included non-implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and adherence to the clauses of the Assam Accord of 1985. The MP also sought enhancement of daily wages of tea plantation workers to Rs. 365, a monthly stipend of Rs. 2,000 to all homemakers in Assam, and free electricity of up to 200 units to the most vulnerable families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/help-bring-back-scholar-caught-in-israel-palestine-conflict-mp/article34610956.ece
21 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Rights group asks PM for probe into graft in tribal councils||A Manipur-based rights group has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi into large-scale corruption in the State’s tribal councils with the police investigation into the nexus between members of these councils and extremists making no headway. Attaching relevant documents, the Movement for People’s Rights Forum, Manipur (MPRFM) had a few days ago written to the Prime Minister underlining the misappropriation of Rs. 143.77 crore across six autonomous district councils (ADCs). These ADCs are Chandel, Churachandpur, Kangpokpi, Senapati, Tamenglong and Ukhrul in as many hill districts.  ‘Funds misappropriated’ The MPRFM said the Centre had been providing funds to these ADCs for the all-round development of districts. But Rs. 143.77 crore sanctioned in 2017-18 by the 14th Finance Commission was “misappropriated and wrongfully utilised by the public servants in connivance with the elected members” of the respective ADCs. The projects such as inter-village roads, water reservoirs, public toilets, street lighting, playgrounds and improvement of primary schools awarded to a coterie were never executed, the MPRFM said. The memorandum, signed by MRPFM convener Gonmei Kiropou and secretary P.R. Amos, cited several instances of corruption and sought an investigation by agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation since the Centre directly funds the ADCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rights-group-asks-pm-for-probe-into-graft-in-tribal-councils/article34610959.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 govt. hospitals to treat black fungus||To tackle the rising cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) infection in the Capital, the Delhi government has dedicated three hospitals for its treatment. Treatment centres, it said on Thursday, will be established at Lok Nayak Hospital, GTB and Rajiv Gandhi Hospital with teams of specialised doctors constituted at each centre for efficient functioning. They will prepare a detailed plan and issue special SOPs on how to raise awareness amongst COVID-recovered people for the prevention of the disease. The decision to dedicate three hospitals as well as to ensure adequate management of medicines used in its treatment was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. In a statement released after the meeting, Mr. Kejriwal said: “Delhi is the Capital of the country and so, people from outside also come here for treatment. We should have a sufficient quantity of medicines to cater to everybody who is coming for the treatment of black fungus.” The Chief Minster stressed on the need to prevent the growing number of black fungus cases, and also the need to provide better treatment to those who are infected. He added that the government would soon release SOP details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-govt-hospitals-to-treat-black-fungus/article34610604.ece
21 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Ramp up production of black fungus medicine’||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to bridge the gap between production and demand of Amphotericin B, the medicine used for treating black fungus which is primarily affecting COVID-19 recovered people. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh asked the Centre to act quickly to ramp up the production of the drug or import it from foreign countries noting that the “issue is time and human life”. The court said it appears that the domestic production is far less than the requirement on an all-India level. It directed the Centre to submit a status report detailing the production capacity, producers licensed to produce and enhanced capacity by next date of hearing on the issue. “Looking at the requirement, we are afraid that doubling may not suffice...Centre should consider import from wherever in the world,” the HC remarked. The court was informed by Delhi govt.’s counsel that currently Delhi has around 200 cases of Mucormycosis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ramp-up-production-of-black-fungus-medicine/article34610602.ece
21 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||40% of ration shops were found closed: rights body||According to an audit of ration shops conducted by the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, 40% of the shops visited by volunteers were found closed during working hours. Of the 110 shops visited by the volunteers, only 44 were found to be distributing grains to ration cardholders. The audit of the ration shops was conducted between May 15 and May 20 across the city. “Nearly 40% ration shops that were visited [43 out of 110] were closed during working hours. Only 44 shops were found to be distributing grains to cardholders. Over 23 ration shops at the time of our visit claimed that they were awaiting the full stock of ration,” the report said. No notice board The DRRAA also said that in 100 of the 110 shops visited, no notice board or banner was found displaying the category-wise entitlement of rations. “This is despite the fact that the orders dated May 14 by the Delhi government stipulate that a board detailing total entitlement of beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act is to be mandatorily displayed prominently at all ration shops,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/40-of-ration-shops-were-found-closed-rights-body/article34610609.ece
21 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Former CM Pahadia dies of COVID-19||Former Rajasthan Chief Minister Jagannath Pahadia died of COVID-19 infection late on Wednesday night. Mr. Pahadia, 89, breathed his last at a private hospital in Gurugram. He served as the first Dalit Chief Minister of the State in 1980-81 and was later the Governor of Haryana and Bihar. The State government announced a one-day mourning on Thursday, during which the government offices remained closed and the national flag flew at half-mast. The veteran Congress leader was elected an MP four times and later an MLA in 1980, 1985, 1999 and 2003. He also served as a Union Minister of State three times after being elected to Lok Sabha from Rajasthan’s Sawai Madhopur and Bayana seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/former-cm-pahadia-dies-of-covid-19/article34610957.ece
21 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Mission work expedited for water supply||The technical work under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) are being expedited in Rajasthan to ensure the supply of 55 litres of water per person per day to every rural household by 2024. The proposals for providing tap water connections in all the remaining households will be sent shortly for approval of the State Level Sanctioning Committee. The Congress government in the State has sought changes in the norms for Central assistance for the JJM in order to reduce financial burden on the States. The flagship Central scheme at present stipulates the share in 50:50 ratio. The State has a huge task lying ahead to meet the target of water supply, as only 12% of the households are currently getting piped water supply. Additional Chief Secretary (Public Health Engineering) Sudhansh Pant said here on Thursday that action would be taken to sanction the functional household tap connections by this month-end.  ‘Tenders issued’ Mr. Pant said the technical approvals for 5,451 of the 9,101 villages, in which the plans were earlier sanctioned, had been released and tenders issued for 3,671 works. All the technical works were approved in Bundi and Churu districts, while over 90% approvals were made in Bhilwara, Jaipur and Baran districts. Rajasthan, which has only 1.01% of the country’s surface water, has been trying hard to supply drinking water to geographically difficult areas and expects more assistance from the Centre to achieve the targets of JJM. The Public Health Engineering Department has coordinated with other wings of the State government to get the water allotted from different sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mission-work-expedited-for-water-supply/article34610958.ece
21 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Ashok- MLA||Local MLA Sudhir Singla on Thursday suggested that private schools should not collect any charges from the parents when the schools are shut during the lockdown period. He also made a request to Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar to look into his suggestion. Mr. Singla appealed to the private schools to take a positive initiative in this regard and waive the fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ashok-mla/article34610603.ece
