22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC: personal guarantors liable for corporate debt||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld a government move to allow lenders to initiate insolvency proceedings against personal guarantors, who are usually promoters of big business houses, along with the stressed corporate entities for whom they gave guarantee. In a judgment which will ring loud and clear across the business community, a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat held that the November 15, 2019, government notification allowing creditors, usually financial institutions and banks, to move against personal guarantors under the Indian Bankruptcy and Insolvency Code (IBC) was “legal and valid”. The November 15, 2019, notification was challenged before several High Courts initially. The Supreme Court had transferred the petitions from the High Courts to itself on a request from the government. ‘Intrinsic connection’ The court said there was an “intrinsic connection” between personal guarantors and their corporate debtors. Justice Bhat, who authored the 82-page verdict, said it was this “intimate” connection that made the government recognise personal guarantors as a “separate species” under the IBC. It was again this intimacy that made the government decide that corporate debtors and their personal guarantors should be dealt with by a common forum — National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) — through the same adjudicatory process. In this context, Justice Bhat referred to how the November 2019 notification had not strayed from the original intent of the IBC. In fact, Section 60(2) of the Code had required the bankruptcy proceedings of corporate debtors and their personal guarantors to be held before a common forum — the NCLT. “The adjudicating authority for personal guarantors will be the NCLT if a parallel resolution process is pending in respect of a corporate debtor for whom the guarantee is given,” Justice Bhat noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-personal-guarantors-liable-for-corporate-debt/article34618777.ece
22 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Tarun Tejpal acquitted in rape case||FormerTehelkaeditor Tarun Tejpal was on Friday acquitted in the 2013 sexual harassment and rape case by the Mapusa District and Sessions Court in Goa. Mr. Tejpal, who was accused of raping a colleague in the elevator of a five-star hotel, was arrested on November 30, 2013, by the Goa Crime Branch. He was granted bail in July 2014 by the Supreme Court. The Crime Branch filed a 2,846-page chargesheet against him the same year. No journalists allowed No journalists were allowed inside the court due to COVID-19 protocols, public prosecutor Francisco Tavora toldThe Hindu. Special judge Kshyama Joshi pronounced the judgment. On September 29, 2017, the court framed charges against him under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354 A (sexual harassment), 354 B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376 (2)(f) (person in position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376 (2)(k) (rape by person in position of control) of the Indian Penal Code against him. The trial commenced in March 2018 but got interrupted due to several factors, one of them being Mr. Tejpal seeking a discharge in the case, for which he first moved the sessions court, then the High Court and the Supreme Court. In August 2019, the apex court declined his plea and ordered that the trial be held in camera (not open for public) and completed in six months. The trial finally began on December 7, 2020, and the woman was examined and cross-examined till January 7, 2021, by appearing physically and through videoconferencing. The prosecution examined 71 witnesses and the defence had four witnesses, including family members of both the accused and the woman. The trial concluded at the end of February 2021 after final arguments and the judgment was reserved. The court was supposed to pronounce the judgment on April 27 but was adjourned to May 12 due to shortage of staff. It was again adjourned to May 19 because of cyclone Tauktae and then to May 21. Mr. Tavora said, “We are seriously aggrieved and State will be assailing the judgment.” Thanks lawyers Mr. Tejpal, in a press statement, thanked the judge and his lawyers, one of whom died of COVID-19. It read, “As a family we owe our advocate Rajiv Gomes a profound and permanent debt. The past seven-and-a-half years have been traumatic for my family as we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these false allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional and public lives.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tarun-tejpal-acquitted-in-rape-case/article34619226.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||A green warrior to the core is no more||Well-known environmentalist and Gandhian Sunderlal Bahuguna is no more. Mr. Bahuguna, 94, died of COVID-related complications at AIIMS, Rishikesh, on Friday. He was one of the founders of the Chipko , or hug the tree movement, in the 1970s to save Himalayan forests. Mr. Bahuguna also led the charge against the construction of big dams in the Himalayas in the 1980s. He was fervently opposed to the construction of the Tehri dam and sat on two long hunger strikes against the dam, which proved to be of no avail. Mr. Bahuguna, who lived for decades in his Silyara ashram in Tehri Garhwal, inspired many young people by his passion for the environment. His ashram was open to young people, with whom he communicated with ease. He wrote about the problems of deforestation for years — drawing a link between the lack of tree cover and the drying up of springs in the Himalayas. He also led a movement of women’s groups, or mahila mandals, to enforce prohibition in Tehri Garhwal, which was then part of Uttar Pradesh. Dressed in khadi, sporting a flowing white beard and a jhola on his shoulder, Mr. Bahuguna toured the length and breadth of India carrying his message of “save the Himalayas” to whoever would listen to him. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttarakhand Chief Minister T.S. Rawat were among those who condoled the pioneering environment leader’s death. Former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted, “He had considerable influence on Indira Gandhi & his 4,000 km Kashmir to Kohima padyatra in ‘81-‘82 to heighten public awareness, especially on forest protection, was a landmark. A charismatic man.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-green-warrior-to-the-core-is-no-more/article34618783.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccinate, wear masks, Fauci tells India||As India’s daily COVID-19 infections approached the 2,60,000 mark, Anthony Fauci, Chief Medical Adviser to the U.S. President, urged the government to push very hard to get as many people vaccinated as possible. “As I’ve said over and over, do whatever you can to upgrade and keep getting people vaccinated. You’ve got to continue to push very hard to get as many people vaccinated,” Dr. Fauci told The Hindu during an interview recorded in Washington DC on Friday. The infectious disease specialist led the White House response (including having to work around non-science based messaging from former U.S. President Donald Trump) as the U.S. faced a surge in coronavirus cases last year. On India, he said the timing of the end of the current wave would depend on a number of factors like vaccinations, targeted shutdowns and mask wearing, including indoors. “Until more people get vaccinated, one needs to be concerned about making sure people wear masks, particularly in indoor settings when the ventilation is not as good as you would expect, compared to the outdoors,” Dr. Fauci said, adding that indoor mask wearing was a good idea until one was fully (not halfway) vaccinated. He also recommended shutting down States or regions experiencing a surge. “You don't need to shut down for an extended period of time. You could shut down just enough to break the transmission cycle,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccinate-wear-masks-fauci-tells-india/article34618785.ece
22 May 2021||Pune,||Nearly 45,000 more recoveries in State||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 44,493 recoveries as opposed to a spike of 29,644 COVID-19 cases as its active case tally dipped to 3,67,121. Over 1,250 deaths were added, of which 555 occurred last week. Of these, 369 were recorded over the last 48 hours, while over 700 had been added in the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process, as per the State Health Department figures. The total toll has now risen to 86,618. Despite a drop in cases in the urban pockets of Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur and Nashik, at least 10 districts in Maharashtra’s rural hinterland, including Kolhapur, Satara, Solapur, Satara, Sangli among others continue to show an upward trend. Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, along with Chief Minister Thackeray, called a meeting in Mumbai to discuss why the lockdown was not working in these areas. While the total case tally has reached 55,27,092, cumulative recoveries have risen to 50,70,801, with the recovery rate rising to 91.74%. “Of 3,24,41,776 laboratory samples tested thus far, 55,27,092 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 17.04%) have returned positive, with over 2.87 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had risen to 1.57%. Pune reported more than 4,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 9,92,671. As per State Health Department figures, 91 deaths were reported as the total death toll rose to 11,015. As per district authorities, the active case tally has dipped below 60,000, while the death toll has reached 15,853. Mumbai reported 1,415 new cases to take its tally to 6,94,200, while active cases have dipped to 28,579. As many as 59 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 14,464.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-45000-more-recoveries-in-state/article34619306.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,||Health care, data science will attract more talents, say academicians||Health care, data science, Artificial Intelligence, and Information Technology will figure top among aspirants for higher educational institutions thanks to the spike in demand for trained professionals during the pandemic, according to academicians. “Kerala can tap into the increase in demand for trained manpower in health care and allied sectors. There will be a huge demand for not only doctors and nurses, but also those from areas like design, production of medical equipment, and the pharmaceutical sector,” pointed out Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor, Mahatma Gandhi University. Prof. Thomas, who headed an expert committee for formulation of niche academic programmes in Kerala’s higher education sector last year, asked higher educational institutions to step up focus on these sectors by promoting research and learning using the latest tools and technology. Digital content “Information Technology will be another sector that will continue to attract fresh talent. There will be an improved focus on digital content and digital pedagogy, as teaching and learning have shifted to the online mode after the pandemic,” he said. Rajan Varughese, Member Secretary, Kerala State Higher Education Council, reminded that disciplines would increasingly draw closer to one another in the wake of the emergence of more and more cross-disciplinary areas of knowledge. “In the post-COVID higher education scenario, competence will be e-competence, outcome computational, teaching ICT-linked, evaluation online-based, quality e-competency-related, access technology-dependent, and equity a mere rhetoric,” he said. Maintaining that Kerala is well-positioned to provide quality higher education in the present context, Prof. Varughese said there were several new-generation programmes at the UG/PG level in universities and colleges in Kerala in areas such as Information Technology, Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, data science, and financial management. They include five-year integrated programmes started last year. M.V. Rajesh, Associate Professor in the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Government Model Engineering College, Kochi, said data science would be a major sector that would require manpower in the emerging scenario. “All engineering students will be required to gain adequate knowledge in data analytics. They need to enrol for courses along with their core branch to keep up with the challenges in the post-COVID situation,” he added. Explaining that local language computing is another key area that will require additional manpower, Prof. Rajesh said many daily activities in this pandemic scenario had turned online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-care-data-science-will-attract-more-talents-say-academicians/article34619006.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka extends lockdown till June 7||In the wake of COVID-19 continuing to spread and claim lives, particularly in rural areas, the State government has extended the lockdown by two more weeks, till June 7. After holding an hour-long meeting with Ministers and officials on Friday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the decision was taken after considering the suggestions made by health experts. All existing lockdown restrictions will be in forcetill June 7. All essential goods and services, such as food, medicines, milk, and fruits and vegetables, will be available for four hours from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. However, this time the government has lifted restrictions on inter-State and intra-State movement of people. There will also be no restrictions on smooth movement of all types of goods vehicles, including empty ones. As many people have been found moving on the roads unnecessarily even after the 10 a.m. deadline, the Chief Minister said the police have been told to enforce the rules strictly and take action against violators. The police will seize vehicles of those indulging in unnecessary movement after 10 a.m. The Chief Minister appealed to the public to start returning home by 9.45 a.m. Noting that the number of COVID-19 cases had started declining because of the lockdown in the past three weeks, Mr. Yediyurappa urged people to cooperate with the government and the police for effective implementation of restrictions. The State government first imposed lockdown from April 27 to May 12. It was then extended to May 24. After extensive discussions with the Deputy Commissioners and senior Ministers this week, the Chief Minister announced the third phase of the lockdown. The Chief Minister, who has announced a Rs. 1,111.82-crore package for persons impacted by the lockdown, said more steps would be taken, if necessary, to provide relief to the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-extends-lockdown-till-june-7/article34618818.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC grants bail to YSRCP MP Raju||The Supreme Court on Friday decided there is no need for the Jaganmohan Reddy-led YSRCP government in Andhra Pradesh to keep its Narasapuram MP and party’s vocal critic, K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju, now accused of sedition, in custody and granted him bail. A Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B.R. Gavai, after a hearing, which spanned the better part of the day and extended beyond normal court hours, gave Mr. Raju his liberty back. The court referred to his bodily injuries highlighted in a medical report prepared by the Secunderabad Army Hospital doctors and the fact that his charges did not require custodial interrogation to rule in his favour. The court said the possibility of ill-treatment could not be ruled out. The Army Hospital medical report, which was partially read out in court, showed that Mr. Raju suffered from general oedema, contusions and a toe fracture. Senior advocate Mukul Rohtagi, for Mr. Raju, claimed he was “tortured” in police custody and demanded a CBI probe. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, for Andhra Pradesh, said the injuries “may have been self-inflicted”. The Bench said Mr. Raju’s public statements against his party and the Chief Minister are very much on record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-grants-bail-to-ysrcp-mp-raju/article34618771.ece
22 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||COVID-19: Odisha logs highest number of cases in a single day||Odisha recorded highest ever single-day surge with 12,523 persons testing positive on Friday. Similarly, 27 persons succumbed to virus – highest in a single day since outbreak of the pandemic in the State. Despite more than two weeks into lockdown, there has not been visible improvement in pandemic situation in the State. Odisha has been consistently logging over 10,000 new coronavirus cases on a day for past 10 days. The State’s test positivity report against breached 20% mark on Monday after remaining below 20% for four days. In fact, according to Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the TPR was estimated to be above 10% in 29 out 30% in the State. In five districts, it is above 30%. The cumulative positive cases in the State has now reached 6,68,422 cases following addition of 12,523 cases. Similarly, the active cases stand at 1,09,438 in the State. Khordha continued to the worst affected district which recorded jump of 1842 coronavirus cases followed by 1084 cases in Cuttack. Angul with 930 fresh cases and Sundargarh (715) are other affected districts. Consistent high fresh cases are attributed to increase in tests in rural pockets where situation in stated to be serious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-odisha-logs-highest-number-of-cases-in-a-single-day/article34618934.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||No doses left for 18-44 age group: Delhi govt.||The Delhi government on Friday announced that all centres administering vaccines to those in the 18-44 age group will be temporarily shut from May 24 due to unavailability of vaccines. The government had over the past few days shut nearly 235 vaccination sites due to shortage of vaccines for the 18-44 age group. The remaining 133 sites will also be shut now as the government has no vaccines left. ‘Extremely saddening’ Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi said the situation was extremely saddening and appealed to the Centre to supply vaccines to Delhi at the earliest, especially for the 18-44 segment, as many had succumbed to the virus in the latest COVID-19 surge. “After May 22, we will have absolutely zero vaccines left for the 18-44 segment. When we started inoculating the 18-44 group, the drive was running in 368 sites. Covaxin supply has already ended, and Covishield supply is also nearing its end. As of Friday, those in the 18-44 age group are being jabbed in only 133 centres,” Ms. Atishi said. Dwindling supply For those over 45 years of age and healthcare/front-line workers, Ms. Atishi said the government has Covaxin stock left for less than one day and Covishield stock for eight days. According to the Delhi government’s vaccination bulletin, 77,438 doses were administered on Thursday. The city has administered 49,70,995 doses till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-doses-left-for-18-44-age-group-delhi-govt/article34619220.ece
22 May 2021||NELLORE,||‘Herbal medicine’ for COVID: huge crowds cause stampede||SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu has ordered suspension of the distribution of a herbal preparation by one B. Anandaiah in Krishnapatnam touted as “miracle cure” for COVID-19 pending approval by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Despite this, those longing for a cure for the viral disease and their relatives made a beeline to Krishnapatnam on Friday getting an indication on the social media about the arrangements being made for the distribution of the ayurvedic preparation by volunteers there, as and when the ayurvedic preparation gets a nod from the authorities concerned, resulting in a stampede. Meanwhile, experts from ICMR reached Krishnapatnam, accompanied by Joint Collector M.N. Harendira Prasad, to study the efficacy of the herbal preparation in treating the dreaded disease. Taking note of the “Krishnapatnam medicine” gaining popularity, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who hails from the district, asked Union Minister for AYUSH Kiren Rijiju and ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava to conduct a study on the herbal preparation. Throwing to winds COVID appropriate behaviour, people from across the State as also from neighbouring States poured into Krishnapatnam, about 25 km from the city, to get at least a few packets of the herbal preparation distributed free of cost at a time when allopathic drugs for the disease, including Remdesivir, were allegedly black-marketed leading to a stampede. Police had a tough time in restoring order as about 35,000 people from far and near swarmed Krishnapatnam, Mr. Anandaiah had trained a large number of volunteers in each and every household to make the preparation from locally available herbs with the knowledge passed on to him by his forefathers. Barricades set up Nellore Rural police erected barricades on several places on the Chennai-Kolkata highway to prevent people, including those infected with coronavirus, thronging the village. People ran helter-skelter and jostled with each other to get some packets of the ayurvedic preparation distributed by the volunteers before the stocks got exhausted. “'We intervened and restored order by dispersing the crowd,” said Nellore Rural Deputy Superintendent of Police Y. Harinath Reddy, overseeing the beefed up security at Krishnapatnam. The Collector, in a statement, said: “As soon as we found out than an individual was distributing herbal or ayurvedic medicine and that COVID-19 norms are being flouted, the district administration immediately intervened, stopped the distribution and enforced all COVID-19 protocols.” Similarly, the DMHO, AYUSH officials rushed to the spot to find out more. Samples of the formula and ingredients were sent to a lab in Hyderabad for analysis. The ICMR has been roped into for investigation. Depending on the findings, the individual is free to approach the relevant authorities to obtain permissions through pre-established procedures. No supply or distribution would be allowed until then, the Collector made it clear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stampede-in-ap-town-for-herbal-drug/article34618734.ece
22 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||No need to panic on black fungus: Sudhakar||Making an appeal to the public not to panic over the instances of black fungus, Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar on Friday said that the State government had requested union minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda to ensure increase in the supply of medicine for the infection to which he had responded positively. Speaking to presspersons after holding a review meeting on COVID-19 management and visiting the district hospital in Davangere on Friday, Dr. Sudhakar admitted that the supply of medicines to the State for black fungus was inadequate. However the supply would be enhanced shortly, he said. Dr. Sudhakar appealed to the people not to pay heed to rumours about the disease as already all district hospitals had been instructed to ensure treatment for it. “Various causes have been attributed for it. Patients with kidney problems and diabetes are susceptible to contracting the disease after recovering from COVID-19. We are awaiting for a report from experts’ committee which is likely to submit the same in a day or two,” he said. Mentioning that barring a few districts, the positive cases in many had come down owing to strict government measures and people’s cooperation, Dr. Sudhakar said that a similar cooperation would help the government to fight against the pandemic during the second wave. Replying to a query, the Minister said that as there were discrepancies in COVID-19 management in Davangere district, the administration had been asked to take requisite measures to address them within a week. The order on earmarking 75% beds in private medical college and 50% beds in private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment had not been implemented properly in the district and consequently the Deputy Comissioner had been asked to ensure its implementation and take legal action if necessary. To another query, he said that all vacant posts of the doctors would be filled up within a week and also specialist doctors were being recruited. The district administrations had been authorised to recruit health staff on contract basis, he said. Earlier. the Health Minister and others visited the Chigateri District Hospital. He took the health officials to task for discrepancies found there. Later in the day, Dr. Sudhakar visited Haveri where COVID-19 deaths were comparatively more despite not so high rate of infections and chaired a review meeting along with district in-charge Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Speaking to presspersons prior to the meeting, Dr. Sudhakar said that the State had sought 25,000 vials of medicines for black fungus and it was hopeful of receiving 10,000 vials in the next three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-need-to-panic-on-black-fungus-sudhakar/article34618896.ece
22 May 2021||Kolkata,||‘It’s like participating in a procession of the dead’||Pradipta Chattopadhyay is accustomed to watching the dead being brought in, but even he is shaken by the news of the deaths being caused by COVID-19, so much so that he chokes momentarily when he thinks of those he has lost in the recent weeks. “If someone goes to the hospital after a heart attack or because of any other disease, you have a fair idea how things are going to turn out. But with COVID-19, you never know. These days, when you hear of a relative or a friend contracting COVID-19, the first thing you ask yourself is: will they be able to make it?” he said. Mr. Chattopadhyay, 56, is a sub-registrar at one of the seven crematoriums run by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation — he signs the all-important piece of paper certifying that one is dead and has been cremated. He is posted at the crematorium in south Kolkata’s Garia — a facility easily a few hundred years old — where, during pre-COVID days, hardly 10-12 bodies were brought in on a daily basis. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, this number rose to about 20 and now, during the second wave, this figure oscillates between 35 and 45. Non-COVID deaths “There is almost a four-fold rise in the number of dead being brought to the Garia crematorium alone. These are not COVID-19 victims; I am not even counting them at the moment. These are mostly non-COVID patients who have died because they have been unable to get timely medical attention due to the pandemic,” he said. “As for COVID-19 victims, they are brought in for cremation only after 10 p.m. The corporation assigns each crematorium a certain number of bodies every evening. My crematorium sometimes gets 20-plus bodies, sometimes just six. These cremations go on till about 6.30 in the morning, after which the crematorium is sanitised,” he said. Mr. Chattopadhyay, who joined the service in 1998 and has served at five of the crematoriums, said that even as a boy, he was only too keen to visit ailing relatives and friends in hospital or taking the dead to the crematorium, so he was never really disturbed by the sight of the ill or of corpses, “but the pandemic has shaken my very faith in existence”. “The whole thing is getting onto my nerves,” he said. “Each day is like participating in a procession of the dead.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/its-like-participating-in-a-procession-of-the-dead/article34619221.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Lockdown in State extended till May 30||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said the government was extending the State-wide COVID-19 lockdown till May 30. He said the State had the steepest infection curve in the country. Public health experts had warned of an impending spike in the pandemic death rate. The pestilence was yet to show signs of abating. The grim situation had forced the State to prolong the lockdown as a drastic measure to rein in the transmission rate. The next three weeks are crucial for the State in the battle against the scourge, he said. However, the government eased the triple lockdown restrictions in Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur following a marginal drop in new cases. Malappuram district would continue to remain under triple lockdown regulations. The pestilence continues to surge in the region. Mr. Vijayan ordered the Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, to tour Malappuram and review enforcement of lockdown regulations in the region. The triple lockdown did not yield the intended result in the district, he said. Tribal colonies He directed District Collectors to ensure that tribal colonies remained well supplied during the lockdown. The administration should persuade tribal community members from venturing out to buy essential supplies. Non-essential travel could expose them to the disease. The government has declared the distribution of school textbooks an essential service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-in-state-extended-till-may-30/article34618972.ece
22 May 2021||Kolkata,||‘It’s like participating in a procession of the dead’||Pradipta Chattopadhyay is accustomed to watching the dead being brought in, but even he is shaken by the news of the deaths being caused by COVID-19, so much so that he chokes momentarily when he thinks of those he has lost in the recent weeks. “If someone goes to the hospital after a heart attack or because of any other disease, you have a fair idea how things are going to turn out. But with COVID-19, you never know. These days, when you hear of a relative or a friend contracting COVID-19, the first thing you ask yourself is: will they be able to make it?” he said. Mr. Chattopadhyay, 56, is a sub-registrar at one of the seven crematoriums run by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation — he signs the all-important piece of paper certifying that one is dead. He is currently posted at the crematorium in south Kolkata’s Garia — a facility easily a few hundred years old — where, during pre-COVID days, hardly 10-12 bodies came on a daily basis. During the first wave of the pandemic, this number rose to about 20, and now it is between 35 and 45. “There is almost a four-fold rise in the number of dead being brought to Garia crematorium alone. These are not COVID-19 victims; I am not even counting them at the moment. These are mostly non-COVID patients who have died because they have been unable to get timely medical attention due to the pandemic,” he said. Mr. Chattopadhyay, who joined the service in 1998 and has served at five crematoriums, said even as a boy, he was only too keen to visit ailing relatives and friends in hospital or taking the dead to the crematorium, so he was never really disturbed by the sight of the ill or of corpses, “but the pandemic has shaken my very faith in existence. The whole thing is getting on my nerves. “Each day is like participating in a procession of the dead.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/its-like-participating-in-a-procession-of-the-dead/article34618932.ece
22 May 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Preventing virus spread in rural areas is the key’||As the risk of spreading the COVID-19 is high in rural areas, Commissioner for the Directorate of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and Kalaburagi in-charge Secretary Gunjan Krishna directed officials to take measures for the containment of virus in rural areas. Ms. Krishna held a meeting with the senior officers of all departments concerned on Friday to review the situation related to COVID-19 and the preparedness to contain its spread in rural areas. After collecting the data of cases in the district, Ms. Krishna said that increasing the number of cases in a rural area when compared to urban areas is a worrying sign, and measures should be taken to control the spread of the pandemic in rural pockets, she stressed. The ASHAs who tested positive should be in-home isolation and the task force committee working in rural areas should take all precautionary measures. Zilla panchayat Chief Executive officer Dileesh Sasi claimed that many people were reluctant to shift to the COVID Care Centres at taluk headquarters across the district. The district administration is also setting up centres at the hobli level. “At present, we have 13 centres and only 118 patients were admitted at these centres. As many as 714 beds were are vacant against the 832 total beds in these centres,” Mr. Sasi added. Ms. Krishna said that the lockdown was imposed to help cut the chain of COVID-19 transmission amid the second wave. Strict measures should be taken by encouraging symptomatic patients to get admitted at COVID Care Centres, she said and directed officials to follow test, trace, and isolate to control the infection. The quantity of vaccination doses being allotted is not adequate for the district. The district requires about 15,000 doses per day. Ms. Krishna said that the vaccine availability is expected to ease further when the Russian Sputnik V vaccine becomes available. Mr. Sasi said that from March 2020 to February 2021 the district saw 4,46,621 tests with (22,007) 4.9% positive cases. And there was a drastic increase in positive per cent in the last couple of months, from March 2021 to till date district reported 2,60,346 tests with (36,068) 13.85 % positive cases. Last week it was 30 per cent and this week declined to 20 %, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/preventing-virus-spread-in-rural-areas-is-the-key/article34618894.ece
22 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Daily deaths again cross 100 in State||The State has again reported more than 100 deaths and 20,000 infections in a day. In the 24 hours ending Friday morning, 104 deaths due to COVID-19 and 20,937 infections were reported taking the toll close to ten thousand at 9,904 and tally to 15,42,079. The number of recoveries increased to 13,23,019 as 20,811 patients recovered in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 85.89%. There were 2,09,156 active cases in the State. The daily positivity rate has slightly come down to 20.67% as 1,01,281 samples were tested in the past day. The overall positivity rate of 1.84 crore samples was 8.36%. Chittoor reported 15 new deaths and was followed by Prakasam and Vizianagaram which reported 10 new deaths each. East Godavari, Nellore and Visakhapatnam reported nine new deaths, while Krishna reported eight deaths. Anantapur, Guntur, Srikakulam and Kurnool reported seven deaths each and West Godavari reported six deaths. Kadapa reported no new deaths. The districtwise new infections were as follows: East Godavari (3,475), Chittoor (3,063), Visakhapatnam (1,886), Anantapur (1,818), West Godavari (1,634), Guntur (1,463), Prakasam (1,296), Krishna (1,292), Nellore (1,246), Srikakulam (1,143), Kurnool (970), Vizianagaram (970) and Kadapa (721). Srikakulam’s cumulative tally crossed one lakh and it was the ninth district to witness over one lakh infections during the pandemic. Meanwhile, East Godavari's tally almost crossed two lakh. The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,99,742), Chittoor (1,70,106), Guntur (1,40,741), West Godavari (1,28,772), Anantapur (1,25,061), Visakhapatnam (1,22,678), Nellore (1,09,828), Kurnool (1,05,651), Srikakulam (1,00,517), Prakasam (97,925), Kadapa (87,760), Krishna (81,585) and Vizianagaram (68,818).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-covid-deaths-again-cross-100-in-state/article34618774.ece
22 May 2021||GAZA/JERUSALEM,||Israel-Hamas reach truce after 11 days of fighting||A truce between Israel and Hamas took hold on Friday after the worst violence in years, with U.S. President Joe Biden pledging to salvage the devastated Gaza Strip and the UN urging new Israeli-Palestinian dialogue. Israel’s bombardment of Gaza and militant rocket attacks on Israeli towns ceased after 11 days under an agreement mediated by Egypt but with negotiations to maintain stability still to be held, it was unclear how long it would last. Five more bodies were pulled from the rubble in the densely populated Palestinian enclave, taking the death toll to 243.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/israel-hamas-reach-truce-after-11-days-of-fighting/article34618787.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUCHI,||Stalin hints at lockdown extension in Tamil Nadu||Citing the prediction of medical experts that the daily COVID-19 case count would reach its peak in the next few weeks, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Friday that the lockdown might be extended further with more stringent measures. Speaking to reporters here, he said it was with the aim of breaking the chain of transmission that his government imposed a total lockdown from May 10. The measure started showing results in Chennai and some other places. But fresh cases were increasing in 10 other districts, he said, adding that medical experts had warned of fresh cases increasing further. He received representations from people from all walks of life, including industrialists, to extend the lockdown with severe restrictions. A decision would be taken after discussions with the all-party committee, headed by him, and medical experts in Chennai on Saturday. Asked whether the State had received the necessary support from the Centre, Mr. Stalin said he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on various occasions and highlighted the measures taken to combat the contagion. The Prime Minister had promised him that he would depute Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to coordinate with Tamil Nadu. He was in constant touch with Mr. Goyal. “The Central government, too, faces many problems. We understand it. There is cordiality between the State and the Centre,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-hints-at-lockdown-extension-in-tamil-nadu/article34618858.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Who said lockdown?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/who-said-lockdown/article34619254.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||HC quashes GST on oxygen concentrators||The Delhi High Court on Friday held the government’s imposition of GST on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use as “unconstitutional” and said oxygen concentrators constitute a life-saving device during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Oxygen concentrator, on the face of it, is a life-saving device,” Justice Shakdher said. “In times of war, floods... pandemic, a different approach needs to be adopted,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-quashes-gst-on-oxygen-concentrators/article34618772.ece
22 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||HC cancels MPTC, ZPTC elections||Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday cancelled the MPTC and ZPTC elections held on April 8 by declaring the notification issued for them by the SEC on April 1 as illegal, arbitrary and violative of Supreme Court directions. The court ordered that the SEC issue a fresh notification for the elections and to reimpose the Model Code of Conduct. Justice Murthy passed the order in respect of a writ petition filed by the Jana Sena Party, which wanted the SEC to issue a notification for filing nominations afresh, on the ground that the process was marred by violence, prevention of candidates from filing nominations and forceful withdrawal of the nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-cancels-mptc-zptc-elections/article34618741.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Treatment for ‘black fungus’||Patients infected with black fungus (mucormycosis) will be treated for free in district government hospitals, announced Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The treatment for black fungus involves high expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/treatment-for-black-fungus/article34618819.ece
22 May 2021||Patna,||13 accused in Senari massacre set free by HC||The Patna High Court on Friday acquitted 13 accused persons in the Senari massacre case in which 34 persons were killed on March 18, 1999 by an erstwhile Maoist group in Senari village in central Bihar. In November 2016, a district court had awarded death sentence to 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13-accused-in-senari-massacre-set-free-by-hc/article34618937.ece
22 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||80 of vulnerable tribe in Odisha test positive||A sudden spike with over 80 COVID-19 positive cases in the past one week has been reported among the Dongria Kondh, a particularly vulnerable tribal group living in the Niyamgiri hill range of Odisha’s Rayagada district. This came to light when the district administration successfully persuaded the tribe to undergo testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/80-of-vulnerable-tribe-in-odisha-test-positive/article34618938.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||No sedition charges in Red Fort violence case||No sedition charges have been mentioned in the chargesheet filed by the Special Investigation Team of the Delhi police against Punjabi actor-activist Deep Sidhu and 15 others who were arrested in the Red Fort violence case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-sedition-charges-in-red-fort-violence-case/article34619223.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Nearly 200 cases of black fungus in Delhi hospitals’||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that 197 cases of black fungus have been reported in Delhi and there was a shortage of drugs to treat the infection. He cautioned COVID-19 patients against taking steroids without doctor’s advice as it lowers immunity and increases chances of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-200-cases-of-black-fungus-in-delhi-hospitals/article34619224.ece
22 May 2021||Patna,||13 Senari massacre accused acquitted||The Patna High Court on Friday acquitted 13 accused persons in the Senari massacre case in which 34 persons were killed on March 18, 1999, by an erstwhile Maoist group in Senari village in central Bihar. A Division Bench acquitted the accused for lack of evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13-senari-massacre-accused-acquitted/article34619225.ece
22 May 2021||Kolkata,||Calcutta HC refers Narada case to larger bench||The Calcutta High Court on Friday referred the Narada case to a larger bench and directed that the four arrested leaders be put under house arrest instead of judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/calcutta-hc-refers-narada-case-to-larger-bench/article34618936.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Colleges to start online classes for next semester||With the academic schedule thrown out of gear by the pandemic, educational institutions have been asked to begin online classes for the next semester immediately. Universities and colleges that have not completed odd-semester exams of UG programmes are also to start online classes, said a circular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colleges-to-start-online-classes-for-next-semester/article34618817.ece
22 May 2021||Mumbai,||13 naxals killed in Maharashtra||Thirteen naxalites belonging to the Kasansur dalam were killed in an encounter in Gadchiroli district’s Paidy jungle, the Maharashtra government said on Friday. “Today morning, police and naxalites had an encounter in which 13 naxalites were killed and their bodies have been recovered, out of which six are male and seven female,” said State Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil, who was on his official tour of Gadchiroli on Friday. Extortion plan According to the government, the C-60 squad of the Gadchiroli police had received a tip-off that a group of naxalites was expected at the Paidy jungle. “Gadchiroli district is known for tendu leaves collection which is used in beedi production. Naxalites recover extortion money out of this trade. The meeting between the tendu leaf contractors and naxalites was planned and the C-60 squad got a tip-off of the same,” said the Minister. Ankit Goyal, Superintendent of Police, Gadchiroli district, told The Hindu that police reached the meeting site on Thursday night. “We covered them and realising this, they fired at us. Our team retaliated and 13 naxalites were killed. We have recovered their bodies and soon more information will be made available,” Mr. Goyal said. The government said the police had recovered AK-47 rifles, an SLR gun, carbine, .303, 12 bore guns, and explosives from the site. “The naxalite movement is anti-democratic and poses a serious threat to India’s sovereignty. The police force is capable of fighting against them,” said Mr. Walse-Patil. The Minister said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray would be coordinating with his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel regarding the steps be taken to stop cross-border activities of naxalites and to enhance surveillance. Last month, naxalites had conducted one of the deadliest attacks so far on security forces. As many as 22 central paramilitary security personnel were killed and 31 others injured in the attack in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma.  The meeting between the tendu leaf contractors and naxalites was planned and the C-60 squad got a tip-off Dilip Walse-Patil State Home Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-naxals-killed-in-maharashtra/article34618683.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||SII unresponsive to States, says Chhattisgarh Health Minister||The Serum Institute of India (SII) is unresponsive to the State governments, Chhattisgarh Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo, said urging the Centre to foot the bill for COVID-19 vaccines instead of passing on the cost to State governments. Speaking to The Hindu following a meeting with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Mr. Deo said, “There has been no response from the Serum Institute of India on queries from our side. There is nobody responsible who is talking there.” Chhattisgarh has so far bought seven lakh vaccine doses on its own, and over four lakh doses are that of the SII’s Covishield. He said that Bharat Biotech, which manufactures Covaxin, though attentive to the States, just did not have enough doses. Dr. Harsh Vardhan chaired a virtual meeting on Friday on the COVID-19 situation and vaccination progress with the Health Ministers of Chhattisgarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Puducherry, and the Lieutenant-Governors/ Administrators of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Lakshadweep . Problem flagged Mr. Deo said that he had raised the issue with the Health Minister, urging the government to centralise vaccine procurement for the 18-plus category too. “This is a pandemic and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman gave an assurance in Parliament, allocating Rs. 35,000 crore for the vaccination programme. There was no reason to palm it off to the State governments,” Mr. Deo said. “The Centre’s vaccination policy is comparable to demonetisation, where a certain denomination was cancelled without first printing the new notes to replace the cancelled, leading to a slide in the economy,” he added. Earlier this month, SII CEO Adar Poonawala left for London. In an interview in London, he said that he and his family had left the country after unprecedented “pressure and aggression” over the demand for COVID-19 vaccines. The SII declined to comment on the remarks made by Mr. Deo. The Centre has now started allocating a vaccine quota for each State. Mr. Deo said that if they controlled the quota, then they must also pay for it. Out of the 68 lakh doses Chhattisgarh received from the Centre, Mr. Deo said that over 61 lakh doses have been administered. The issue of “black fungus” spreading, often in the patients hospitalised for COVID-19 treatment, was also raised in the meeting. “So far we have had 102 cases of black fungus and one death. The Centre has provided us only 500 vials of Amphotericin B injection. Doctors say we need at least 12,000 doses because these injections have to be administered over a 21-day period,” Mr. Deo said. He complained that drug manufacturing firms only listened to the Pharmacy Pricing Department, which came under the Union government. “So unless the Centre steps in, the States cannot do much,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-unresponsive-to-states-says-chhattisgarh-health-minister/article34618724.ece
22 May 2021||Mumbai,||FIR filed against barge captain||The Mumbai Police on Friday registered an FIR against the captain of barge P-305, and others, after the vessel sank in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae, resulting in the death of 49 people. Based on a complaint from the barge engineer, an offence was registered under Sections 304 (2), 338, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code against Rakesh Ballav, the captain, among others. “A case of homicide should be registered against the ONGC. Why should the blame be limited to the captain of the barge? The owner of the private company, contractor and the ONGC should also face the action,” said NCP leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik. Mumbai Police spokesperson, Deputy Commissioner of Police S. Chaitanya, said, “The FIR has been registered based on the complaint filed by chief engineer of the barge Rehman Shaikh for acting negligently despite warnings being issued of Cyclone Tauktae.” Of 261 personnel onboard the barge, the Indian Navy and Coast Guard rescued over 186 and bodies of 49 have been recovered so far. Search operations for the missing is in progress. Three barges and an anchor deployed by private contractor Afcons for ONGC drifted and capsized in the high winds due to the cyclonic storm. Compensation for kin Afcons on Friday announced a financial compensation for all victims. The company said “it was its moral duty to support not only the families of the deceased persons on its direct rolls, but also families of all deceased persons who were employed with its subcontractors.” It said that it would ensure that the families would receive a compensation equivalent to the balance period of service up to 10 years through a combination of ex gratia payouts and insurance compensation.  (With inputs from Lalatendu Mishra)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fir-filed-against-captain-of-barge-p-305/article34618940.ece
22 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Tarun Tejpal acquitted in rape case||Former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal was on Friday acquitted in the 2013 sexual harassment and rape case by the Mapusa District and Sessions Court in Goa. Mr. Tejpal, who was accused of raping a colleague in the elevator of a five-star hotel, was arrested on November 30, 2013, by the Goa Crime Branch. He was granted bail in July 2014 by the Supreme Court. The Crime Branch filed a 2,846-page chargesheet against him the same year. No journalists were allowed inside the court due to COVID-19 protocols, public prosecutor Francisco Tavora told The Hindu. Special judge Kshyama Joshi pronounced the judgment. On September 29, 2017, the court framed charges against him under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354 A (sexual harassment), 354 B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376 (2)(f) (person in position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376 (2)(k) (rape by person in position of control) of the Indian Penal Code against him. The trial commenced in March 2018 but got interrupted due to several factors, one of them being Mr. Tejpal seeking a discharge in the case, for which he first moved the sessions court, then the High Court and the Supreme Court. In August 2019, the apex court declined his plea. The trial finally began on December 7, 2020, and the woman was examined and cross-examined till January 7, 2021. Mr. Tavora said, “We are seriously aggrieved and the State will be assailing the judgment.” Mr. Tejpal, in a press statement, thanked the judge and his lawyers, one of whom died of COVID-19. It read, “As a family we owe our advocate Rajiv Gomes a profound and permanent debt. The past seven-and-a-half years have been traumatic for my family as we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these false allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional and public lives. We have endeavoured to uphold every norm of decency expected in a case like this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tarun-tejpal-acquitted-in-rape-case/article34618697.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Bahuguna’s simply extraordinary life||I first met him in 1979. As a group of youngsters beginning our journey into ecological issues, Chipko was already a legend, a movement to draw inspiration from. At a meeting in Delhi, Sunderlal Bahuguna spoke quietly but firmly about the havoc being caused by deforestation and road construction in the Himalayas, and of the resolve of villagers to stop this madness. His sing-song voice, his Garhwali phrases, the mix of cold science and grassroots wisdom in his arguments for why the Himalayan ecosystems had to be saved, the simplicity of his appearance — all these served to create a deep impression. Forty-two years later, the imprint he made on my mind and heart has been moulded and shaped by countless other women and men who have braved the odds to protect India’s environment from destructive development, including the women of Chipko on the frontlines of saving Himalayan forests, whom we, as members of Kalpavriksh, met on treks through Tehri Garhwal in 1980-81. But like the seeds we carry within us from our parents, some original voices and personalities do not disappear even after decades. Sunderlal ji ’s is one such. Lots will be said about his contributions — the campaign to save Himalayan forests resulting in a ban on commercial felling above 30 degrees slope and above 1,000 msl (mean sea level) in 1981; the movement against the Tehri Dam, a mega-project with devastating consequences due to submergence, tree-felling, displacement, and possible seismic impacts, unsuccessful even after Sunderlal ji undertook one of India’s longest fasts after Independence, over 56 days, and after an expert committee appointed by the Central government said it should not be built; his support for women-led movements against the liquor mafia in the hills, and for the Beej Bachao Andolan, a movement to save Himalayan agricultural biodiversity from being wiped out by the chemical-intensive Green Revolution; the untiring awareness campaigns across India and the world, including a jaw-dropping Kashmir-to-Kohima padayatra (foot march) in the early 1980s to bring attention to the entire Himalayan region; and even before much of this, with his wife Vimla ji , who was in his own words one of his strongest inspirations, the freedom movement and struggles against untouchability and caste discrimination. The list of contributions can go on. But what I would like to remember him for is his personality. He was gentle, quietly persuasive, firmly strong in his beliefs and arguments, with occasional bouts of anger quickly left behind and replaced by his infectious smile. He showed delight in interacting with children and youth, charming them with the kind of open laughter only mountain people are capable of, giving them simple nuggets of wisdom. Like his mentor Gandhiji, he had the ability to come up with pithy one-liners, such as “ecology is permanent economy”. And in the simplicity of his lifestyle, he was always clad in khadi, ate sparsely but healthily, no frills, and lived the life he preached. In his insistence on ecology being the foundation of everything, and “development” being anything but development if it does not respect this, Sunderlal ji gave us a wealth of ground truths. Given the deepening chasm between India’s governance and these ground truths (the hubris-filled Chardham and hydro-electricity projects in the Himalayas as painful manifestations), and his own health situation, which had been worseing even before COVID-19 struck, perhaps it is just as well that he does not have to live through these traumatic times. His was a life well-lived, and it is up to us to learn from it and continue struggling for ecological sanity. The author is with Kalpavriksh and Vikalp Sangam in Pune||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bahugunas-simply-extraordinary-life/article34618702.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar to meet Blinken, UN chief||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will travel to the United States next week to discuss bilateral issues and “COVID-related cooperation,” the Ministry announced on Friday. Mr. Jaishankar will travel to New York and Washington in a visit scheduled from May 24 to 28, and will meet UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken. Mr. Jaishankar is also expected to meet American vaccine manufacturers, and discussions are expected to focus on commercial procurement of vaccine doses from industry, including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, as well as gifts of extra doses of AstraZeneca’s vaccine that the U.S. plans to share with other countries. “The External Affairs Minister will have two interactions with business forums on economic and COVID-related cooperation between India and the U.S.,” the Ministry said. Mr. Jaishankar is expected to meet business representatives at the U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) and the U.S.-India Business Council (USIBC) during the visit. In recent weeks, both groups have formed a “Global Task Force on Pandemic Response” along with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to work on several aspects of pandemic relief, including provision of 1,000 ventilators required by hospitals in India, 25,000 oxygen concentrators and coordination of human resources executives in India and the U.S.  Meeting CEOs Industry sources said Mr. Jaishankar would address a round table with CEOs of various vaccine and pharmaceutical companies, where U.S. manufacturers are keen to discuss a more centralised procurement, rather than the current State by State mechanism, and would like to see India grant Emergency Use Authorisation for the U.S. vaccines soon. Mr. Jaishankar is expected to make a stop at the United Nations, his first visit since India assumed its two-year term at the Security Council this January. Officials said the meeting with Mr. Guterres would focus on a range of issues, expected to include India’s efforts against the pandemic, the Afghanistan talks process, where India plays a role as Chair of Taliban Sanctions Committee at the UNSC, the violence between Israel and Palestine, and UN reforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-to-meet-blinken-un-chief/article34618704.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India should push hard to get as many people vaccinated as possible’||Anthony S. Fauci, Chief Medical Adviser to the U.S. President and Director of the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, warns that COVID-19 is very dangerous, and discusses the efficacy of a single dose of the vaccine across populations and the benefits of mixing of vaccine candidates. Edited excerpts:  When do you expect the current wave of the pandemic to subside in India? You know, that’s going to depend on a number of things. First of all, I know India unfortunately has not had the opportunity to vaccinate as many people as we would like to see. Something like 3% of the population is fully vaccinated and somewhere a little bit more than 10% have received one dose. So, you’ve got to continue, to the best of your ability, to vaccinate as many people as possible. Until more people get vaccinated, one needs to be concerned about making sure people wear masks, particularly in indoor settings when the ventilation is not as good, compared to the outdoors. You know, I had been asked, several times by Indian journalists, about what my recommendation would be. And I had said that you should shut down whatever region or State in India is actually having a big surge. You don’t need to shut down for an extended period of time. You could shut down just enough to break the transmission cycle, which you can do. So, I think continue wearing a mask, pushing on vaccination to the extent you possibly can and where you have a high degree of infection... to make sure you keep it shut down until it [the surge] starts to come down. Are you advising wearing masks even indoors, with people who are halfway through their vaccination schedule? You know, the CDC [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention] in the U.S. recommends that if individuals are fully vaccinated, they don’t need to wear a mask indoors, but I would wait until you were fully vaccinated, as opposed to halfway through the vaccination procedure. How efficacious are the vaccines currently available in India with regard to viral strains in the country, and how efficacious are others that might be making their way to India (mRNA-based vaccines and Johnson and Johnson, for example)? Yeah, the ones that have been looked at the most carefully have been the mRNA vaccines in the sense of looking at the antibodies that are induced by the vaccine and then matching them to see if they neutralise the B.1.1.7, which is quite prevalent in New Delhi. The 617 [B.1.617] in Maharashtra but the 1.1.7 in New Delhi … I mean, that’s probably changing now. So, I’m not really quite sure today what the dominant ones [strains] are that are spilling over into other States. But 1.1.7 seems to be very well handled by the vaccines, certainly by the mRNA vaccines. When we did studies and others did studies on looking at the antibodies that are induced by the standard vaccines against the B.1.617, the Indian variant, we find that it diminishes by a few fold, the efficacy, but not so much that you would expect that it would be a major problem of loss of activity. So, even though it diminishes it somewhat. We have more data with mRNA and with J & J [the Johnson and Johnson adenovirus-based vaccine], not so much with the other vaccines, but you might expect that those vaccines would likely be somewhat similar to the others. There is another evolving situation in India with mucormycosis infections, especially among people who have diabetes and so forth. Are there any insights you can share with us based on your experience in the U.S. or other countries? We have not seen that. That is usually seen, as you said correctly, not only with diabetes, but for people who are on high-dose corticosteroids. So, I would want to look and see that perhaps that corticosteroids are being utilised liberally in India, for people with advanced disease. And if you have a combination of diabetes and on an immunosuppressive drug or an anti-inflammatory drug like glucocorticoids, I know from my experience as an infectious disease person, unrelated to COVID-19, but in other circumstances, that mucormycosis is almost always a complication in people who are immunosuppressed or whose immune system is not functioning well. You can see that in diabetes, particularly uncontrolled diabetes, but you could also see it in people who are on immunosuppressive drugs. There has been talk of a third wave in India down the road. Is it inevitable that there will be a third wave of significance? Apart from vaccination, what is the most important thing India can do between now and any third wave? You are still very much in the middle of your second wave. So, before you start worrying about a third wave, I think you should try and get the second wave under control. I mean, you always worry about what’s going to happen in the future. The real solution to this really is vaccination. We know that from experience with other diseases, and we see it with experience in countries like the United States. You've seen, we now have 60% of our population of adults who have received at least one dose and 40% or so of adults have been fully vaccinated. And the infection rate is starting to dramatically come down. Now it was at 60,000 a day, then 50 [50,000] and 40 [40,000]. And now for the first time, several days in a row, it’s been less than 30,000 a day. Hopefully, it will continue to come down. That’s what India really needs to do one way or the other. They've got to get more people vaccinated. That is going to be the solution. That will prevent a third wave. It will blunt the second wave, and it will prevent a third wave. So, whatever Indian needs to do to get vaccines into the arms of their people, that's what they need to do. Should the priority be getting the first dose in more people, rather than the second dose to those who have already had dose one? If you have enough vaccines, you want to do both one and two, because we know that the second dose makes you much more protected, but sometimes you have to modify and change your protocol because you don’t have enough doses. So, at least for now, it might make sense to give more one doses than two. Now that vaccines are available, is the COVID-19 research response going to shift towards therapeutics? I don’t think it’s going to shift. I think it’s going to intensify with therapeutics because we really do need good therapeutics, particularly direct antiviral drugs that when given very early in the course of symptomatic infection will prevent someone from the necessity of getting hospitalised. So, we have drugs now that you can give to people with advanced COVID-19. We don’t have very many drugs. We have monoclonal antibodies, but those require intravenous injection. So, logistically, it’s more difficult to give. What you really need is an orally administered drug that you can give as soon as you start to get symptoms to prevent you from progression. That’s what we’re putting a considerable amount of effort on right now. I know there are no crystal balls, but can we expect some good news on that front, say, later this year? I know that there are a couple of drugs that are now in testing. There’s one drug from Merck; there is one from Pfizer that we’re looking at. We’re also doing what’s called targeted antiviral therapy, similar to what we did many years ago with HIV drugs, where you look at the replication cycle of the virus and you identify vulnerable targets of the replication cycle, and specifically designed a drug to inhibit that particular vulnerable target. We’ve got to do that quickly because we are in need of better therapeutics. What is the most important message you have for India? Well, the most important message, as I’ve said over and over is, do whatever you can to upgrade and keep getting people vaccinated. You’ve got to continue to push very hard to get as many people vaccinated as you possibly can. (Read the full interviewathttp://bit.ly/InterviewFauci)  Sometimes you have to modify your protocol because you don’t have enough doses. So, at least for now, it might make sense to give more one doses than two||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-should-push-hard-to-get-as-many-people-vaccinated-as-possible/article34618707.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘1.3 billion doses a realistic estimate’||India ought to realistically expect around a 1.3 billion doses of vaccines from August to December and not the two billion that the Centre has projected, said epidemiologist and public health expert Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, in an interview to The Hindu . The estimate that had been made by Dr. V.K. Paul, who heads India’s COVID-19 task force, is premised on vaccines from eight companies. Four of those vaccines (Biological E, Zydus Cadila, Genova Biopharma and Bharat Biotech Nasal) are in various phases of clinical trials, some in phase 1-2, said Dr. Lahariya and their success and eventual licensing could not be predetermined. “We have seen till now in the pandemic that nearly all manufacturers have fallen short of their projected production capacity and ability to scale up production. My analysis shows that by the end of July 2021, India is likely to conduct an additional 200 million vaccinations [that would take the total to 380 million total vaccinations]. A realistic estimate for vaccine availability for between August-December 2021 is around 1.3 billion doses.” Combining data from the serology surveys of the Indian Council of Medical Research, and inferring that there were 20-30 undetected cases for every confirmed one, it was likely that 50-60% of the population had already been infected and developed some immunity to the virus. Considering that the majority of infections have happened in March 2021 onwards, Dr. Lahariya reasons, this sub-group would have some form of protection from infection till December 2021. The real challenge could come thereafter and preparations are key, he said.  (For the interview, log on to bit.ly/Lahariyainterview )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-billion-doses-a-realistic-estimate/article34618717.ece
22 May 2021||Srinagar,||120-yr.-old inspires an entire J&K village||A 120-year-old woman has emerged as a ‘poster boy’ of vaccination in J&K, where vaccine hesitancy resulted in a slow progress of anti-coronavirus vaccination drive in March and April this year. An official said Dholi Devi, 120, a resident of village Ghar Katiyas of Sub Division Drudu, Tehsil Latti in Udhampur was administered the first dose at a vaccination camp. “Ms. Devi has set an example for younger people,” the official said. A family member, who accompanied Ms. Devi, told the media that they feel more confident to come forward for vaccination. “Vaccine is the best shield against the Covid infection. We are very happy to get our eldest member of the family vaccinated against the virus,” he added. Plea to cooperate Deputy Commissioner, Udhampur, Indu Kanwal Chib has appealed to the public to cooperate with the district administration to break the chain of Corona virus. “The Health department has been directed to expedite the vaccination campaign in a mission mode and achieve the targets in a fixed timeline,” she added. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner, Jammu, Anshul Garg on Friday said overall positivity rate which was above 10% in the first week of May has dropped to below seven percent in the last few days. “Equivalent emphasis has been given on testing in urban as well as rural areas. Around seven thousand to eight thousand tests are being conducted on a daily basis out of which 50% have been conducted in rural areas,” he said. Mr. Garg said the majority of 45-plus age group persons have been vaccinated. “Over 3.55 lakh beneficiaries of this age group have been given the first dose of the vaccine and those left out will be covered soon to achieve the 100% target,” he added. 3,848 new cases According to official figures, 43 infected people died and fresh 3,848 people tested for coronavirus in the past 24 hours. “While 1,442 cases were from the Jammu division, 2,406 were reported from the Kashmir division. Of 43 deaths, 27 from the Jammu division and 16 from the Kashmir division,” officials said.  We are very happy to get our eldest member of the family vaccinated against the virus A family member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/120-yr-old-inspires-an-entire-jk-village/article34619229.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic has made countries more self-seeking: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has hinted that countries has failed to live by “commitments” during COVID-19. The pandemic has prompted countries to become self-seeking often resorting to broader definition of national security that disrupted supply chains, he said in a speech at a ‘Future of Asia’ event organised by Nikkei on Thursday. “In the past, defence, politics and intelligence drove calculations, with some extrapolation into domains like resources, energy or technology. With some notable exceptions, its demands were balanced out by the requirements of global exchanges, economic efficiency and perhaps by social habits. These trends, in fact, became stronger as the globalisation mantra took deeper root. The pandemic, however, saw capabilities leveraged, commitments dishonoured, supply chains blocked, logistics disrupted, and shortages created, with all the accompanying anxieties,” said Mr. Jaishankar distinguishing the pandemic-era response of nation-states from the usual globalisation-driven concerns. The policy-oriented speech is being interpreted as an admission by the Minister to the problems that India itself is facing in continuing with the Vaccine Maitri project, under which it had promised to deliver vaccines to all over the world and especially to the South Asian partner countries. On Wednesday, Bangladesh Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen called Mr. Jaishankar and reminded him that Dhaka had not got the Covishield vaccine from Pune’s Serum Institute of India despite placing orders. Similar problems have been reported from Nepal, Sri Lanka and African countries that were promised vaccine from the SII. Ukraine has been lobbying for required doses from India for weeks but has not succeeded in getting even a small consignment, as India has prioritised the domestic process of vaccination due to the second wave of COVID-19. Mr. Jaishankar acknowledged that the process of prioritising self-interest had led to a degree of avoidance from “international” sphere. “When economies slowed down due to material disruptions, we now understood the need for manufacturing security. Call it buying nationally, middle class concerns, dual circulation or self-reliance, there is no question that many polities are seeking to hedge against excessive exposure internationally,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pandemic-has-made-countries-more-self-seeking-jaishankar/article34618721.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre wants ‘manipulated media’ tag off ‘toolkit’ tweets||Hours after a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national spokesperson Sambit Patra on the alleged “Congress toolkit” was labelled as “manipulated media”, the Union government has asked Twitter to remove the tag for “tweets on toolkit to defame government’s COVID-19 efforts” as the matter is pending investigation before a law enforcement agency. “The Ministry of Electronics and IT has written a strong communication to the global team of Twitter, registering its objection to the use of ‘manipulated media’ tag on certain tweets made by Indian political leaders with reference to a toolkit created to undermine, derail and demean the efforts of the government against the COVID-19 pandemic,” a Ministry source said. “The government has asked Twitter to remove the tags affixed prejudicially to certain tweets in recent days in the interests of fairness and equity... Investigation will determine the veracity of the content, not Twitter,” the source stated.   On Thursday, the micro-blogging website flagged a May 18 tweet by Mr. Patra as ‘manipulated media’. As per Twitter’s policy, content may be labelled as ‘manipulated media’ or in some cases removed, if the company has a reason to believe that media, or the context in which media are presented, are “significantly and deceptively altered or manipulated”.    ‘Cong. stand validated’ “The Congress’ stand has been validated by this Twitter action itself. What the Congress has been telling for the last so many days, so many years about BJP’s false propaganda and spreading lies is actually validated by this single incident itself,” Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal said, addressing an online press conference.  “The action by Twitter proves forgery of the highest order... The world should see and realise how India’s ruling party is playing fraud in the middle of a pandemic,” the party’s senior spokesperson, Pawan Khera, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-wants-manipulated-media-tag-off-toolkit-tweets/article34618678.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC stays HC order on U.P. healthcare||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed a May 17 order of the Allahabad High Court, which described the medical system in smaller cities and villages of Uttar Pradesh during the pandemic as Ram Bharose (at God’s mercy). A Vacation Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B.R. Gavai remarked that the High Court’s directions for COVID-19 management in its May 17 order may be difficult to implement. In fact, the High Court had issued a slew of directions to the government, which included ensuring that nursing homes in the State have oxygen facility for every bed; certain percentages of beds, ventilators, high flow nasal cannula facility and beds with bipap machines in every nursing home/hospital; every nursing home/ hospital which has more than 30 beds to compulsorily have an oxygen production plant; and medical colleges in Prayagraj, Agra, Meerut, Kanpur and Gorakhpur be provided enhanced facilities like Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute within four months. The High Court had ordered the State to provide within a month at least 20 ambulances in small towns of the States and have at least two ambulances with ICU facilities in every village The High Court had said these arrangements would help “patients from smaller towns and villages to be brought to bigger hospitals in bigger towns” for medical treatment. In the hearing on Friday, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta agreed that improvements to health infrastructure cannot be ignored. “But these directions are impossible to comply with,” Mr. Mehta exclaimed. He submitted that high courts should exhibit restraint before passing such orders. Mr. Mehta, for Uttar Pradesh, said the State government caters to a population of over 24 crores. He said the High Court order has encroached into the “arena of governance” and breached the principle of separation of powers. The order needs to be set aside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-stays-hc-order-on-up-healthcare/article34618719.ece
22 May 2021||Chennai,||2.49 lakh cases and 4,031 deaths recorded||India recorded 2,49,314 new COVID-19 cases and 4,031 new deaths till 9.50 p.m. on Friday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,62,80,095 cases and 2,95,397 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 36,184 new infections, followed by Karnataka (32,218) and Kerala (29,673). Maharashtra recorded 1,263 new casualties on the day, followed by Tamil Nadu (467) and Karnataka (353). Maharashtra’s fatalities includes backlog deaths which were not reported in the previous bulletins. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. As many as 20,61,683 samples were tested in the country on Thursday (the results for which were made available on Friday), the highest number of tests carried out in a single day in the country. According to a press release from the Health Ministry, around 14.82 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Friday, which is 3.1 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/249-lakh-cases-and-4031-deaths-recorded/article34618726.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||Activists’ entry barred after Bastar firing||Days after three villagers were killed in police firing at Silger in Chhattisgarh, police said a magisterial inquiry will be conducted to probe the “encounter” deaths as per the Supreme Court guidelines. The villagers killed on May 17 were part of a large group who were protesting the opening of a security camp at Silger in Chattisgarh’s Bastar, one of the worst Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected areas. The police claimed that the three were Maoist sympathisers and were killed when the security camp was attacked. ‘Police theory false’ However, human rights lawyer Bela Bhatia said the police theory was completely false and it was the security forces who opened fire first. On Twitter, she posted the photographs of a 16-year-old boy identified as Uike Murali who had been shot in the head and another villager admitted in the Intensive Care Unit of Bijapur district hospital who was shot in the back. She also shared a video by regional journalist Alok Putul where shots can be heard being fired at unarmed villagers when they blocked an under construction road. Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, P. Sundarraj told The Hindu that the said camp was opened on May 12 and it was detrimental to the Maoists as the “camp is at their doorstep.” “The Maoists mobilised their jan militia cadres from far-off villages and compelled some local villagers to participate in the protest. On May 17, all of a sudden they started pelting stones, they wanted to burn the tents and they even fired at the camp, we were left with no option but to retaliate… it took us a couple of days to identify the bodies,” Mr. Sundarraj said. Ms. Bhatia said the villagers were demonstrating against the camp for five days. “On May 13, the villagers had a conversation with some security personnel at the camp and five days later this incident occurred. The locals have been calling us on phone but the administration is creating hurdles, they are not letting me perform my duty as a lawyer. The villages need legal guidance,” said Ms. Bhatia. She added that though there are no formal arrest orders, they were being stopped on the pretext of RT-PCR tests and other excuses. Ms. Bhatia and activist Jean Dreze were stopped from meeting the villagers for the second day on Friday as the gates of the government guesthouse where they were accommodated were locked by officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activists-entry-barred-after-bastar-firing/article34618693.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||USSR-era INS Rajput decommissioned||Destroyer INS Rajput , built by the erstwhile USSR, was decommissioned on Friday at Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam after 41 years of service. “The ship was decommissioned in a solemn and low-key event due to the ongoing COVID pandemic when the national flag, Naval ensign, and the decommissioning pennant were lowered at sunset time…,” the Navy said in a statement.  INS Rajput has participated in several important operations over the years, including Operation Aman off Sri Lanka to assist the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ussr-era-ins-rajput-decommissioned/article34618690.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||KCR asks collectors to identify super spreaders||He enquired from the officials about supply of medicines and oxygen in their respective districts. As a follow up to the first door-to-door survey of fevers which concluded recently, he asked them to launch another one soon. The Cabinet will take a decision on the problems faced by outsourcing employees in COVID hospitals. Mr. Rao asked Principal Health Secretary Syed Ali Murtoza Rizvi to personally review the COVID situation in Yadadri and Nagarkurnool districts where the positive cases continued to be high. Earlier, the Chief Minister instilled confidence in the COVID patients in the Intensive Care Unit and general wards of MGM Hospital. He enquired from them treatment, medicines and food served to them. He inspected the sanitation in the hospital and spoke to doctors, nurses and para-medical staff. Post-lunch, he visited the Central Jail where he went round the barracks and spoke to the prisoners to enquire about offences that landed them behind bars. Then he left for the Collectorate for video conference and an exclusive meeting with ministers, MLAs, MLCs and other elected representatives of erstwhile Warangal district.  Cabinet will take a decision on problems faced by outsourcing employees in COVID hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-asks-collectors-to-identify-super-spreaders/article34619258.ece
22 May 2021||Patna,||HC acquits 13 accused in Senari massacre case||The Patna High Court on Friday acquitted 13 accused in the Senari massacre case in which 34 persons were killed on March 18, 1999, by an erstwhile Maoist group, Maoist Communist Centre, in Senari village in central Bihar. In November 2016, Additional District Judge-III of the Jehanabad District Court had convicted and awarded the death sentence to 10 accused and life imprisonment to another three. As many as 23 accused were acquitted for lack of evidence by the district court and four others who had died. The police had filed the case on information provided by Chintamani Devi, whose husband was among the 34 victims. On Friday, a Division Bench of the Patna High Court, comprising Justices Ashwani Kumar Singh and Arvind Srivastava, dismissed the lower court’s order and acquitted all 13 accused of Senari massacre case for lack of evidence. Those who were acquitted are Bacchesh Singh, Buddhan Yadav, Butai Yadav, Satendra Das, Lallan Pasi, Dwarika Paswan, Kariban Paswan, Godai Paswan, Uma Paswan, Gopal Paswan (all were sentenced to death), Arvind Yadav, Mungeshwar Yadav and Vinay Paswan (life imprisonment). The caste war had raged in parts of central Bihar in 1990s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-acquits-13-accused-in-senari-massacre-case/article34619227.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Supreme Court grants bail to YSRCP MP Raju||The Bench said Mr. Raju’s public statements against his party and the Chief Minister are very much on record. An FIR has already been lodged on the basis of a detailed enquiry by the State CID. The Bench said the MP deserved bail considering the “totality of the circumstances and his health position”. The court referred to the fact that Mr. Raju had undergone a heart surgery too. The court however ordered Mr. Raju not to interact with the Press on “any subject which relate to the case”. Justice Gavai stressed that Mr. Raju should not display his injuries to the Press. “We will take it very seriously,” the Bench noted. The court imposed other conditions including the furnishing of a personal bond of Rs. 1 lakh and two sureties before the trial court concerned. Mr. Raju should be given 24-hour notice before questioning. His interrogation should be done only in the presence of his lawyer. The Andhra government said in the court that Mr. Raju had consistently and deliberately abused his reach and authority as a public person to create disaffection among castes and communities. His words and action had actually triggered violence, the counsel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supreme-court-grants-bail-to-ysrcp-mp-raju/article34618680.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||HC quashes GST on oxygen concentrators||“This is a George Floyd moment for the citizens of this country. The refrain is — ’I can’t breathe’ — albeit, in a somewhat different context and setting; although in circumstances, some would say, vastly more horrifying and ghastlier. Chased and riven by the merciless novel coronavirus, the citizenry has been driven to desperation and despair,” the judgement from the HC Bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh noted. The petitioner in the case, a senior citizen whose nephew had shipped him a concentrator as a gift, had challenged a May 1 notification that levied 12% GST on such imports from 28% earlier. He invoked Article 21 of the Constitution which enshrines the fundamental right to life. When the matter was initially taken up, the bench ‘carried the impression that because of the prevailing chaos and confusion caused by the raging pandemic’, the State had not granted the GST exemption on such imports ‘due to an oversight.’ The court had asked the government to consider temporarily dropping the 12% GST levied on such imports altogether, citing the shortage of oxygen in the second wave of the pandemic. Its hopes of ‘a course correction’ from the Centre, however, didn’t materialise.  “Our attempt at nudging the State to take, what we thought was a reasonable stand, [and we dare say, a morally right position] has come a cropper,” the judgement averred, before holding the GST levy unconstitutional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-quashes-gst-on-oxygen-concentrators/article34618684.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||No sedition charges in Red Fort violence case||No sedition charges have been mentioned in the chargesheet filed by the Special Investigation Team of Delhi Police against Punjabi actor-activist Deep Sidhu and 15 others who were arrested in the Red Fort violence case, said a senior officer on Friday. “We have conducted a detailed investigation while preparing the chargesheet. The accused have not been charged under sedition. If more evidence or any new development happens in the case then they will file supplementary chargesheet in the case,” the police officer said. He added that a total 3,000-page chargesheet was submitted on May 17 before the Duty Magistrate at the Tis Hazari Court. It was the first chargesheet in the violence that happened during farmers’ tractor rally on Republic day across the city. “The chargesheet was prepared after going through scores of technical evidence like mobile locations of accused and their presence was also established with the help of CCTV footage. The forensic report of all evidence has been also submitted in the chargesheet. The main ‘operational part’ is mentioned in 350 pages in which the name of the conspirators and how the whole incident happened has been described in detail,” said the officer. Lakha Sidhana and six others are named as absconding accused as they are still on run. “All 16 accused have been charged under IPC sections 186 [obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions], 353 [assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty], 308 [attempt to commit culpable homicide], 152 [assaulting or obstructing public servant when suppressing riot, etc], 397 [robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt], and 307 [attempt to murder],” as per the chargesheet. Key conspirators In the chargesheet, the police have mentioned Deep and Lakha as key conspirators, who were acting on behest of farmers’ leaders protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border. After January 26 violence, the Delhi Police registered 43 cases across the city. The SIT constituted by the Delhi Police Crime Branch that was probing the Red Fort incident on Republic Day. Over 150 persons were arrested in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-sedition-charges-in-red-fort-violence-case/article34618687.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||SC: personal guarantors liable for corporate debt||In fact, side by side bankruptcy proceedings before the same forum for both the corporate debtors and their personal guarantors would help the NCLT “consider the whole picture, as it were, about the nature of the assets available, either during the corporate debtor’s insolvency process, or even later”. “This would facilitate the Committee of Creditors to frame realistic plans, keeping in mind the prospect of realising some part of the creditors’ dues from personal guarantors,” the judgment reasoned. Clears misconception The court further corrected a misunderstanding among petitioners that approval of a resolution plan in respect of corporate debtors would also extinguish the liability of the personal guarantor. The petitioners, mostly personal guarantors to stressed companies, had argued that an approved resolution plan in respect of a corporate debtor amounts to extinction of all outstanding claims against that debtor. Consequently, the liability of the guarantor, which is co-extensive with that of the corporate debtor, would also be extinguished. “The release or discharge of a principal borrower from the debt by operation of law, or due to liquidation or insolvency proceeding, does not absolve the surety/guarantor of his or her liability, which arises out of an independent contract,” Justice Bhat clarified.  During the hearings, the government had justified the November 2019 notification extending bankruptcy proceedings to personal guarantors. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal argued that by roping in guarantors, there was a greater likelihood that they would “arrange” for the payment of the debt to the creditor bank in order to obtain a quick discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-personal-guarantors-liable-for-corporate-debt/article34618691.ece
22 May 2021||Srinagar,||Valley sees tight security on 2 separatist leaders’ death anniversary||Security was tightened in the Kashmir Valley on Friday due to the death anniversaries of Mirwaiz Farooq, father of Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, and Abdul Ghani Lone, father of Peoples Conference (PC) chief Sajad Lone. Concertina wires and barricades were erected on many stretches leading to the volatile old city. Extra deployments were made to seal lanes and bylanes in and around Nowhatta area and the Eidgah, where the two separatist leaders are buried. Unidentified gunmen assassinated Farooq on May 21, 1990 and Lone on May 21, 2002. The Mirwaiz, also chairman of the Hurriyat, remained under house arrest at his Nigeen residence. He was placed under house arrest on August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked J&K’ss special constitutional position. PC chairman Sajad Gani Lone said his father was killed for speaking the truth. “Those who opposed my father and created false narrative that ended up in his killing saw what his father was mercifully spared from seeing. But what gives me some solace is that those who opposed him and created that false narrative that culminated in my father being killed- that crowd, some of them still alive, were better dead than alive.,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/valley-sees-tight-security-on-2-separatist-leaders-death-anniversary/article34619329.ece
22 May 2021||Special correspondent,||Narada case accused now under house arrest||The Calcutta High Court on Friday constituted a five-judge bench to hear the Narada case. Earlier in the day, a Division Bench referred the case to a larger Bench and directed that the two arrested Ministers and other two leaders be put under house arrest instead of judicial custody. The next hearing is on May 24. The Division Bench directed that the matter be heard before a larger Bench since one of the judges thought it was fit to grant interim bail to the four. The order said the court found that guidance given by the Supreme Court on May 12 in the case titled Gautam Navlakha vs National Investigation Agency was applicable in these cases. “As far as interim relief is concerned, while modifying the earlier order dated May 17, 2021, we direct that considering the age and health issues of the accused, three of whom are said to be admitted in hospital, instead of custody in jail, all the accused persons can be put under house arrest in their own homes,” it read. During house arrest, while being in home comfort, they shall be entitled to all medical facilities and be bound by all applicable restrictions. “Any violation thereof can result in recall of this order,” it stated. West Bengal Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former Minister Sovan Chatterjee, were arrested by the CBI in connection with Narada sting videos, on Monday. They have been in judicial custody since then. Senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi represented the four, while Solicitor General Tushar Mehta argued for the CBI. Mr. Singhvi sought relaxation for Minister Firhad Hakim who, as the chairman of the Board of Administrators of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, was actively involved in the fight against COVID-19. The court directed that the arrested persons could access files and meet officials through videoconference. “As far as the prayer of the accused for allowing them to discharge their official functions to manage Covid-19 in the State, we direct that the officials will not have any direct access to the accused, however, they are permitted to deal with the files sent to them online and hold meetings through videoconferencing,” the court order read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/narada-case-accused-now-under-house-arrest/article34618705.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Variable DA for workers in Central sphere revised||The Labour Ministry notified and revised the rate of variable dearness allowance (VDA) for different categories of workers engaged in various scheduled employments in the Central sphere, with effect from April 1. It is expected to benefit about 1.50 crore workers. The rate of wages — including variable dearness allowance area wise — per day for the unskilled, semi-skilled/unskilled supervisor, skilled/clerical and highly skilled employees engaged in construction or maintenance of roads/runways/building operations ranges from Rs. 431 to Rs. 854. It varies from Rs. 431 to Rs. 645 for those in sweeping/cleaning and loading/unloading works. The rates fixed for scheduled employment in the Central sphere are applicable to the establishments under the authority of the Centre, Railway administration, mines, oil fields, major ports or any corporation established by the Centre. These rates are equally applicable to contract and casual employees/workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/variable-da-for-workers-in-central-sphere-revised/article34618708.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Israel-Hamas reach truce after 11 days of fighting||This includes 66 children, with more than 1,900 wounded and critical infrastructure damaged as well as thousands of homes. In Israel, the military said a soldier had been killed as well as 12 civilians; hundreds have been treated for injuries in rocket salvoes that caused panic and sent people rushing into shelters as far away as Tel Aviv. Palestinians who had huddled in fear of Israeli shelling poured into Gaza’s streets, embracing one another in celebration in front of bombed-out buildings. Mosque loudspeakers feted “the victory of the resistance achieved over the Occupation (Israel)”. Cars driving around East Jerusalem’s Sheikh Jarrah at dawn flew Palestinian flags and honked horns, echoing the scenes in Gaza. In the countdown to the 2 a.m. ceasefire, Palestinian rocket salvoes continued and Israel carried out at least one air strike. Egypt said it would send two delegations to monitor it as the warring parties said they were ready to retaliate for any violations. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the operation had hit the ability of Hamas, the Islamist group which runs Gaza, to launch missiles at Israel.  Hamas however cast the fighting as successful resistance to a militarily and economically stronger foe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/israel-hamas-reach-truce-after-11-days-of-fighting/article34618694.ece
22 May 2021||Patna,||13 Senari massacre accused freed||The Patna High Court on Friday acquitted 13 accused persons in the Senari massacre case in which 34 persons were killed on March 18, 1999 by an erstwhile Maoist group in Senari village in central Bihar. In November 2016, Additional District Judge-III of the Jehanabad District Court had awarded death sentence to 10 accused and life imprisonment to another three. On Friday, a Division Bench of the Patna High Court dismissed the lower court’s order and acquitted all 13 accused for lack of evidence. In 1999, the banned Maoist Communist Centre had killed 34 people from the upper caste Bhumihar community at Senari village in the then Jehanabad district. The Senari massacre was said to be a fallout of the 1997 Laxamanpur-Bathe massacre in which 57 Dalits were killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-senari-massacre-accused-freed/article34618679.ece
22 May 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata may contest from Bhabanipur||Senior Trinamool Congress leader Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay on Friday tendered his resignation from the Bhabanipur Assembly constituency in Kolkata, triggering speculation that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee may contest byelections from the seat in the next few months. Ms. Banerjee had represented Bhabanipur in 2011 and 2016. In the 2021 Assembly polls, however, she chose to contest from Nandigram and lost by a narrow margin 1,956 votes to the former Trinamool leader, who moved to the BJP, Suvendu Adhikari. In the Assembly, the Trinamool won 213 seats in the 294-member house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-may-contest-from-bhabanipur/article34618681.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sunken barge death toll touches 60||Eleven more bodies were recovered from the sunken barge P-305 off Mumbai coast, taking the toll to 60. Fifteen people are missing five days after the incident. “From barge P-305, there are 186 survivors and 60 bodies have been recovered. Navy is coordinating search and rescue operations with ships and aircraft for the missing,” the Navy said on Friday. An underwater search is planned by the Navy’s survey ship for locating wreckage of barge P-305 and Tug Varaprada using specialised teams and equipment, the Navy added.  On the other vessels rescued in the area, the Navy said that drill ship Sagar Bhushan and Support Station-3 arrived in Mumbai harbour on Thursday under tow. Support Station-3 is at Indira Dock, Mumbai Port Trust while Sagar Bhushan entered the port on Friday. Preventive measures With a low pressure area likely to form over the North Andaman Sea and adjoining East Central Bay of Bengal around Saturday and very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm, the Coast Guard has initiated extensive pre-emptive measures on the eastern coast and has put ships and aircraft on high alert. The system will be named ‘Yaas’ once it develops into a cyclone. “Coast Guard ships at Andaman and Nicobar relayed weather warning to mariners and fishermen, urging them to return to shore or take shelter in the nearest port,” the Coast Guard said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sunken-barge-death-toll-touches-60/article34618688.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||PM must act rather than talk: Congress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should act instead of giving speeches and advice, the Congress said on Friday as it shared the details of relief measures undertaken by the party to help those affected by COVID-19. In response to Mr. Modi getting emotional during a video-conference with heathcare professionals and frontline workers of his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi, the party said India needed a strong resolve to fight the pandemic instead of tears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-must-act-rather-than-talk-congress/article34618722.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Singapore for united action against virus||The High Commission of Singapore in Delhi on Friday called for united action in defeating COVID-19. In a social media post, it indicated that controversies that divide efforts would not deliver a successful strategy against the pandemic, and praised Singaporean real estate giant CapitaLand for contributing relief assistance to fight the virus in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/singapore-for-united-action-against-virus/article34618727.ece
22 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Police to probe killing of dogs in Nagaland||The police in Nagaland’s Mon district have been asked to investigate the killing of eight dogs by a students’ union members allegedly because their owners had failed to vaccinate them. The students’ union of Nokzang village had written a notice on May 8, warning “action” against canine pets that were not vaccinated during a drive on May 1. The union directed all dog owners to vaccinate their pets against rabies before May 15. But the notice was reportedly circulated on May 16, a day before members of the union shot the eight “infected” dogs for attacking livestock. Mon Deputy Commissioner Thavaseelan K. said the police have been advised to file an FIR. Villagers said the union members also extracted a fine of Rs. 500 each from the eight families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-to-probe-killing-of-dogs-in-nagaland/article34619228.ece
22 May 2021||Mumbai,||Vaze’s colleague dismissed from service||Assistant Police Inspector Riyaz Hisamuddin Kazi, arrested by the National Investigation Agency in the Antilia bomb scare case and the subsequent death of businessman Mansukh Hiran, was dismissed from service on Friday. Mr. Kazi, a former colleague of Sachin Vaze in the Mumbai Crime Branch, was dismissed by the Mumbai Police Commissioner under Article 311 (2)(b) which makes it possible to sack a government servant without a departmental inquiry if holding such inquiry is not deemed practicable, an official said. Mr. Vaze too has been arrested in the case and dismissed from service. Both Mr. Vaze and Mr. Kazi were working in the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai Police. An SUV with explosives was found near Antilia in south Mumbai in February this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vazes-colleague-dismissed-from-service/article34619308.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||Southwest monsoon arrives over Andaman and Nicobar||The southwest monsoon has arrived over the Andaman and Nicobar islands on Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, indicating that it will soon reach the mainland. Last week, the IMD said the monsoon was likely to make an onset over Kerala on May 31, a day ahead of its normal schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/southwest-monsoon-arrives-over-andaman-and-nicobar/article34618686.ece
22 May 2021||Mumbai,||Stan Swamy seeks interim bail, says he can’t walk or eat||Father Stan Swamy, 84, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, was on Friday produced before the Bombay High Court through videoconferencing. “I was brought to Taloja jail eight months ago and, since then, there has been a slow regre-ssion of my body. I can’t write now, can’t go for a walk, can’t eat, someone has to hold the spoon for me,” he told the court and sought interim bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stan-swamy-seeks-interim-bail-says-he-cant-walk-or-eat/article34618695.ece
22 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Pilot killed as IAF aircraft crashes in Punjab||A pilot was killed after a Bison aircraft of Indian Air Force (IAF) crashed in Punjab’s Moga district late on May 20. “The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries in the accident. IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family,” said a tweet by the IAF. The IAF has ordered a court of inquiry into the incident that took place at Langeana village in Moga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pilot-killed-as-iaf-aircraft-crashes-in-punjab/article34618698.ece
22 May 2021||GUWAHATI:,||Congress resents posting of IPS officer charged with sexual assault on minor||The Assam Congress has objected to the posting of an IPS officer charge-sheeted for sexually assaulting a minor, as the Superintendent of Police of a district in Bodoland Territorial Council. In a letter to Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev said the case, filed under the POCSO Act and the Indian Penal Code, “is still being probed”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-resents-posting-of-ips-officer-charged-with-sexual-assault-on-minor/article34618699.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hospitals must reserve beds for certain categories: HC||The Delhi High Court said on Friday that there has to be reservation of beds in hospitals for treatment of certain categories of people. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh made the remark while hearing a plea seeking a centralised and transparent system to help COVID-19 patients locate a bed in hospitals. “If the Prime Minister of India or the President needs treatment, you have to keep a bed reserved for him in a hospital. That category has to be there. You can’t say no,” the court stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospitals-must-reserve-beds-for-certain-categories-hc/article34618709.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccination of pregnant, lactating women: DCPCR moves SC against govt advisory||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has moved the Supreme Court against the January 14 advisory of the Union government excluding pregnant and lactating women from COVID-19 vaccination. The petition said the notification was based on unreasonable classification, was arbitrary and violated the right to life of a class of women. “The health of pregnant women and lactating mothers is inextricably connected with and directly impacts on the mortality and health of children,” the petition added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-of-pregnant-lactating-women-dcpcr-moves-sc-against-govt-advisory/article34618711.ece
22 May 2021||Bhubaneswar,||80 of particularly vulnerable Dongria Kondh tribe test positive in Odisha||A sudden spike with over 80 coronavirus positive cases in the past week has been reported among the Dongria Kondh, a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG) living in the Niyamgiri hill range of Odisha’s Rayagada district. Alarmingly, the test positivity rate in one village is close to 75%. “Our team set up a camp at Gandili village in Bissam Cuttack block on Thursday. Of 62 persons who underwent tests, 46 were found to be infected,” Saroj Kumar Mishra, Rayagada Collector, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/80-of-particularly-vulnerable-dongria-kondh-tribe-test-positive-in-odisha/article34618715.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||Check facilities for COVID-hit vulnerable groups, Centre tells States||The Ministry of Home Affairs has written to the States to review the support facilities for vulnerable groups impacted by COVID-19. “In order to meet the new challenges arising out of recent wave of COVID-19, it is requested to undertake an immediate review of the existing facilities for vulnerable groups impacted by COVID-19 such as children who have been orphaned, senior citizens who may require timely assistance and support, and members of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes who may need guidance to access government support facilities,” the letter stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/check-facilities-for-covid-hit-vulnerable-groups-centre-tells-states/article34618728.ece
22 May 2021||Lucknow,||UP to declare black fungus notifiable disease||The Uttar Pradesh government will declare black fungus a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act. During a meeting on Friday, the CM said, “In compliance with the order of the Central government, black fungus should also be declared a notified disease on the lines of COVID. Order should be issued today and be made effective.” The orders were not issued till late evening. However, a senior official said the process is on. The order will be issued after the approval of the file,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-to-declare-black-fungus-notifiable-disease/article34618941.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thunderstorms till May 25: IMD||Many places, particularly in coastal and north Tamil Nadu, enjoyed thunderstorms on Friday. The Meteorological Department forecast that thunderstorms with light to moderate rain will continue over a few places of the State and Puducherry till May 25. For the second consecutive day, various areas in Chennai and neighbouring districts received light to moderate rain on Friday. Such rain spells are considered rare during May. Heavy rain lashed some parts of the city’s southern suburbs. West Tambaram received nearly 6 cm of rain, followed by Chembarambakkam (4 cm) and Kancheepuram (3 cm) till 5.30 p.m. Many other places like Nungambakkam, Taramani, Poonamallee and Villivakkam in Chennai and Vellore, Valparai, Tiruvannamalai and Tiruvallur also received light rain. Officials of the Meteorological Department cited convective activity and an east-west shear zone, which is filled with winds of opposite directions, near south Tamil Nadu as reasons for the thunderstorms. However, the intensity of the rain may reduce from Saturday. The low-pressure area brewing over the east-central Bay of Bengal and the adjoining north Andaman Sea may push up mercury levels by two to four degree Celsius in north coastal areas between May 23 and 25. Dry weather may return to most parts of the State as hot northwesterlies may begin to prevail. The weather system over the Bay of Bengal is likely to develop into a cyclone around May 24 and move towards the Odisha-West Bengal coasts. Chennai continues to stand a chance of light to moderate rain in some localities during the weekend, according to the Meteorological Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thunderstorms-till-may-25-imd/article34618873.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crematoria helpers get uniforms||The Greater Chennai Corporation has provided uniforms to helpers at crematoria in the south region to shield the relatives of COVID-19 victims from anti-social elements. There are 92 crematoria in zones 11-15. Of them, 13 are gasifier, LPG and electrical; the rest are conventional. Most of the COVID-19 victims are cremated at the gasifier, electrical or LPG crematoria. “We received some complaints that anti-social elements or non-employees were loitering around and creating a nuisance [at the crematoria]. Hence, we decided to come up with a uniform for the staff members so that members of the public can easily identify them and not fall prey to conmen,” said Rajgopal Sunkara, Regional Deputy Commissioner, South. As of now, 72 staff members have been given the blue jersey and shorts, with ‘crematorium helper’ emblazoned. “We have also given them gloves and masks. They will wear their identity cards. Earlier, cremation was allowed only till 6 p.m. Now people bring bodies till 10.30 p.m.; many women relatives are also coming. Hence, we wanted to help them identify our staff easily,” said R. Balasubramanian, SE. Mr. Balasubramanian, along with R. Subash, executive engineer, zone 13, designed the uniform. “We chose blue as we wanted the colour to stand out from the rest,” Mr. Subash said. “We also have CCTVs being set up. We can monitor the movement of anti-social elements. Just another initiative to make the last journey a peaceful experience,” Mr. Sunkara said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crematoria-helpers-get-uniforms/article34618862.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. seeks 1 cr. vaccine doses from Centre||The Union government must urgently supply at least one crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Tamil Nadu, as its current allotment of 13.85 lakh doses is meagre and insufficient, DMK MP T.R. Baalu told Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan at a meeting on Thursday. Mr. Baalu, on instructions from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, sought vaccine doses for the State. In a letter submitted during the meeting, Mr. Baalu said there were 3.65 crore people in the 18-44 age group in the State, but till date, only 13.85 lakh doses of vaccines had been supplied to Tamil Nadu. “This is meagre and insufficient,” he said. Chengalpattu unit He also appealed to the Union government to provide Rs. 300 crore to HLL’s vaccine manufacturing plant in Chengalpattu to tackle the shortage. “The HLL vaccine manufacturing unit was established at a cost of Rs. 700 crore. But the plant is not functioning as it requires an additional investment of Rs. 300 crore to produce vaccines,” he said. A DMK release said Mr. Vardhan informed Mr. Baalu that the Central government had allotted 11,51,760 vaccine doses each for June and July, for the 18-44 age group, and 6,55,330 doses for the first 15 days of June for those aged 45 and above in Tamil Nadu. A similar quantity would be made available in the second half of June, he said. The release added that the Health Minister said he had started the process of speeding up work at the Chengalpattu unit, and a decision would be taken by the Centre soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-seeks-1-cr-vaccine-doses-from-centre/article34618888.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 467 deaths, 36,184 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu recorded a high number of deaths due to COVID-19 on Friday with 467 more persons succumbing to the infection, taking the toll to 19,598. The State added 36,184 fresh cases to its tally. Though the daily cases dropped below 6,000 in Chennai, the number of fatalities hit 100. A total of 5,913 people tested positive and 109 persons died. The city had reported 6,000-plus cases for eight consecutive days. Fatalities were reported in 36 districts, except in Ariyalur. After Chennai, Chengalpattu reported 40 deaths, followed by Tiruvallur with 32. A total of 27 persons died in Madurai, while 25 died in Coimbatore. There were 16 deaths each in Kanniyakumari and Nagapattinam, 15 each in Dindigul and Tiruchi and 13 each in Salem, Vellore and Virudhunagar. Of the 467 persons who died (168 at private and 299 at government hospitals), eight were in their 20s, and 30 were in their 30s. A total of 128 persons did not have co-morbidities. Among them was a 22-year-old woman from Madurai, who was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on May 15. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia on May 17. Coimbatore reported 3,243 fresh cases, followed by Chengalpattu with 2,226 cases. There were 1,656 cases in Erode, 1,145 in Kancheepuram, 1,251 in Kanniyakumari, 1,355 in Madurai, 1,667 in Tiruvallur, 1,796 in Tiruppur and 1,331 in Tiruchi. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 17,70,988. The State had 2,74,629 active cases. These included 48,782 people in Chennai, 29,345 in Coimbatore, 15,330 in Chengalpattu, 12,306 in Madurai, 12,046 in Tiruvallur and 10,861 in Tiruchi. The active case-load went past 10,000 in two more districts — Kanniyakumari with 10,048 and Tiruppur with 10,132. A total of 24,478 people, including 4,590 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. In the last 24 hours, 1,74,112 samples were tested. This took the total sample count to 2,59,49,517. Another 46,744 people were vaccinated. They included 24,605 people aged 45-59 and 10,085 senior citizens. The overall coverage has gone up to 71,52,535.  U.T. reports 26 deaths The Union Territory of Puducherry on Friday recorded 26 COVID-19 deaths and 1,702 new cases. Of the total deaths reported in the 24 hours ending at 10 a.m. on Friday, 22 were reported in Puducherry and four in Karaikal. The toll rose to 1,295 in the Union Territory. As many as 2,017 people recovered from the infection. The number of active cases stood at 17,936. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 9,62,501 people have been tested for the infection. So far, 93,167 people have tested positive. As many as 2,36,975 people have got vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-467-deaths-36184-fresh-cases/article34618891.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lab uploads wrong COVID-19 results, stripped of permission to test samples||The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has cancelled the permission granted to a private laboratory to test RT-PCR samples for COVID-19 after spotting discrepancies, including uploading of negative results as positive for nearly 4,000 samples and uploading the results of samples received from Kolkata as those from Kallakurichi. On Friday, Director of Public Health T.S. Selvavinayagam issued an order cancelling the permission granted to Medall Laboratory to test RT-PCR samples with immediate effect. A public health notice has been served on the laboratory under sections of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. The DPH said on analysing the ICMR portal pertaining to entry of COVID-19 tested samples, a number of issues were identified in the laboratory — the results of RT-PCR samples for testing received from Kolkata were uploaded as samples from Kallakurichi, and around 4,000 samples that were found negative for COVID-19 were uploaded as positive on the ICMR portal on May 19 and 20. A lot of incomplete details were found in the line list of positive cases entered daily. The laboratory acted against the guidelines issued by the government and ICMR, and functioned with “vested interest” and “negligent attitude”, he noted. The laboratory has not followed the due procedure laid down by ICMR and the Government of India. Uploading of positive results of samples from outside Tamil Nadu led to undue increase in the State’s case load and positivity, he said. He added that wrong reporting of results might cause wrong calculation of resource allocation by the Centre. Uploading negative results as positive led to “undue confusion, panic, anxiety and stress among the general public”. The government suspected a nexus between the laboratory and hospitals, as wrong reports might have been utilised to draw patients to the hospitals. He said the managing director of the laboratory had been instructed to give an explanation to the directorate within three working days after receipt of the notice. Further action would be decided after an inspection by a public health team.  Lab’s response In a statement on Friday, Medall Healthcare said an encryption error had occurred while uploading data to the ICMR server. “We deeply and unconditionally regret the encryption error that occurred while uploading data to the ICMR database and have already taken steps to correct it in full and right earnest,” it said. It said that the RT-PCR testing process at the laboratory was not in question. “It must be clarified and placed on record that the report generated and shared with customers who took the test was accurate. So the issue is not with the testing process or its quality or accuracy. The issue has been an encryption error (technical) that occurred while uploading the data to the ICMR server,” it said. When the encryption error is rectified/addressed, it offsets the issue/challenge caused by the error. The error is being rectified in record time, on a priority basis, it said. “We once again reiterate our unstinted co-operation with the team being sent by the Director of Public Health,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lab-uploads-wrong-covid-19-results-stripped-of-permission-to-test-samples/article34618884.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||C.V. Krishnaswami passes away||Eminent diabetologist C.V. Krishnaswami, 83, died here on Friday night. He is survived by two daughters and their families. Dr. Krishnaswami was a pioneer in his field. He had worked at the Voluntary Health Services (VHS) Hospital for more than 50 years. When he headed the diabetes department there, he was instrumental in opening India’s first juvenile diabetes registry. He was also formerly an honorary clinical professor of medicine at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, Chennai. He also served as the director of Prema’s Medical and Diabetes Research Centre (PMDRC). His friends and colleagues recalled how he was service-oriented and not money-minded. “He was an extraordinary human being first and a physician par excellence. He had won the hearts of thousands of families who relied on him not just as a doctor but also as a friend,” said Ramesh Chandrasekaran, his son-in-law, who is a senior consultant, physician and diabetologist at PMDRC. He said Dr. Krishnaswami was a pioneer in research on type-1 diabetes, and his heart went out to children in particular. “CVK was not only the first diabetologist to start a registry for juvenile diabetes but he also provided them with free insulin. His clinical acumen was legendary and, coupled with his warmth and genial approach, he symbolised the essence of a revered physician,” said Lakshmi Vijayakumar, eminent psychiatrist and founder, Sneha. “The legacy which he has left are grateful patients, colleagues and students,” she said. V. Mohan, chairman, Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, said Dr. Krishnaswami’s yeoman service to type-1 diabetic patients at the VHS could not be forgotten. “He was an excellent clinician, a walking encyclopaedia, and a superb orator,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cv-krishnaswami-passes-away/article34618868.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fourth edition of Homepreneur awards launched||The fourth edition of the Homepreneur Awards, a platform that recognises women entrepreneurs who work from home, was launched virtually on Friday. Aimed at encouraging entrepreneurship among women and creating opportunities, the initiative by Brand Avatar, a brand and event management firm, would shortlist winners in 14 different categories through interviews with a panel of jury members. On the initiative, L. Hemachandran, founder-CEO, Brand Avatar, said the event was being held through the digital mode.  Director Maniratnam and actor Suhasini Maniratnam launched the event, and lauded it for its positive outlook during such tough times. Launching the websites, www.homepreneurawards.com andwww. suyasakthiawards.com, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said women faced many challenges and there was more to do towards women empowerment. Such awards would create opportunities for women and help inspire others, especially during critical times as now. Actor Aari Arjunan, who introduced the award trophy, extended his support to home entrepreneurs. Women entrepreneurs may register for the awards online till June 18 and the organisation would guide them to turn their ideas into business. Those shortlisted would be called for an online interview with the jury. The 16 jury members are eminent personalities from various fields, including education, hospitality, entertainment, event management and the media. Some of the jury members highlighted how it would help share knowledge, celebrate women achievers and work as a networking and mentoring platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fourth-edition-of-homepreneur-awards-launched/article34618871.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Political pressure to free Rajiv case convicts unacceptable, says Cong.||The Congress will not be opposed to the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case if the courts decide to free them but use of political pressure to get them released was unacceptable to the party, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said. On Thursday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind to accept the recommendation of the State government made in 2018 to remit the life sentences of the seven convicts and release them. “We don’t have any feeling of revenge for these seven. If you give political pressure [for their release], then there is no need for courts. When the courts released 19 of the 26 convicts, we did not oppose it nor did we appeal against it. Even now we are saying, if the courts release them, we will not be opposed to that. But it is for the courts to take that decision,” Mr. Alagiri told The Hindu . He said criminals should not be portrayed with any tinge of religion, caste or language. “If you want to take pride about Tamils, there are so many great examples — K. Kamaraj, Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi], Abdul Kalam, Tiruvalluvar. There are many more. You need not take the examples of these people [seven convicts],” he said. Mr. Alagiri cautioned that any political pressure on securing the release of the seven convicts would lead to anarchy in the future. There was a possibility of many such demands being made in the future. “The demand for their release is not acceptable in a humane society,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-pressure-to-free-rajiv-case-convicts-unacceptable-says-cong/article34618878.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC adopts community-driven approach to tackle COVID-19||The Greater Chennai Corporation has adopted a ‘community-driven COVID prevention and case management’ model for Chennai with 12 different strategies. It has roped in cab operators, welfare associations and other volunteers in its efforts. It is taking inputs from social media to swing into action. In addition to old measures, such as fever surveillance, fever camps, mask enforcement, quarantine and vaccination, it has set up oxygen centres, started door-step testing, introduced a single window system for lab results and speeded up the process of transferring patients without any delay. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has directed the officials in charge of 15 zones to focus on a multi-pronged approach with the help of community-driven initiatives to tackle COVID-19. As a result, the number of patients transferred in COVID special ambulances has increased from 418 on May 13 to 1,742 on May 20. The COVID special ambulances have been operated in the 15 zones with support from cab operators who have redesigned the cars to transport patients during an emergency. As many as 241 teams of doctors and nurses have started visiting residential neighbourhoods for triaging. Doctors have started visiting residents’ doorsteps to screen patients before recommending home quarantine. The single window system for lab results has covered 39 private laboratories and government facilities. The GCC has trained 300 volunteers for communication of the results under the single window system. Over 3,000 beds at oxygen centres have been planned to be readied in various parts of the city. At least 1,750 beds are expected to be readied shortly. The work on conversion of COVID Care Centres into COVID Health Centers with oxygen support and intense monitoring will be completed in most of the centres shortly. The Corporation has planned to rope in celebrities to strengthen the campaign for COVID management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-adopts-community-driven-approach-to-tackle-covid-19/article34618863.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid COVID worries, a glimmer of solace in PMJJBY||The second wave of COVID-19 across India has left people gasping for breath and running around to save their near and dear ones. As the number of deaths increases, experts have advised people to go in for the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), a one-year life insurance scheme, renewable each year. Those aged 18-50 can join the scheme. They should have bank accounts and be willing to give consent for auto debit. Aadhaar is the primary KYC document for the bank account. The annual premium of Rs. 330 will be auto-debited by May 31. The risk coverage is for Rs. 2 lakh in case of death. The benefit will go to the nominee, according to the information posted on the website of the Department of Financial Services. The scheme is being offered by the Life Insurance Corporation and other life insurers. The risk cover is applicable after the first 45 days of enrolment (lien clause). However, deaths due to accidents will be exempt from the lien clause and paid for. “This is a very useful life insurance scheme in the current circumstances. There is surely a lack of awareness of the product. Regulators like the Reserve Bank of India and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India should ensure that such products are given more preference,” said Suresh Parthasarathy, financial planner and founder of myassetsallocation.com “There is a challenge for the banks as when they push this product, some would allege mis-selling. The State governments can push the product through a campaign, along with banks, and by roping in celebrities to create awareness,” he said. Consumer activist T. Sadagopan urged the banks to do more to create awareness. Banks should send out reminders for renewal premium payment and open help-desks for processing claims. The proof required for settlement of claims are death certificates and bank statements with the premium debit proof. “While my account was opened, the bank duly deducted the first premium. After that it did not deduct the renewal premium because of which my family will miss out on the benefit. Banks must send reminders on premium payment and the Centre must create awareness...,” said V. N. Mani, administrative officer, Jaya Group of Institutions. The total enrolments to the scheme, which was launched in 2015, stand at 10.32 crore. It has received 2,56,523 claims; 2,39,605 of them have been settled. Mr. Parthasarathy said that for a domestic help earning Rs. 3,000-Rs. 5000 a month, having an insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh would be hugely beneficial. “Charity can begin at home, and those who employ domestic help and drivers can pay the premium..., which will help to increase the spread of the scheme.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amid-covid-worries-a-glimmer-of-solace-in-pmjjby/article34618881.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25,465 vehicles impounded for violating lockdown norms||Finding it tough to keep vehicles impounded from lockdown violators safe, the city police are now guarding them round the clock. With strict lockdown norms in force, impounded vehicles are piling up on road sides or are parked in places near the police station. “Keeping them safe is a challenge. All vehicles cannot be kept on the station premises. So we park them on school grounds and Corporation property premises. We maintain a register of such vehicles and policemen are guarding them round the clock,” said a senior officer. Since the complete lockdown came into effect on May 14, the police have been impounding vehicles. In seven days until Friday, the city police booked 21,346 cases for lockdown violations and impounded 25,465 vehicles from motorists. A senior traffic police officer said, “Our efforts to curb the movement of people on roads has yielded good results. On Tuesday, personnel stopped vehicles on Anna Salai and insisted on e-registration. The next day, the number of vehicles plying on the road without e-registration or for emergency reduced substantially.” Police on arterial roads have been impounding at least 100 vehicles daily. A release from the DGP said the number of cases booked for not wearing masks since April 8 had touched 10,52,686.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25465-vehicles-impounded-for-violating-lockdown-norms/article34618883.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK’s strength set to decrease in Rajya Sabha||Despite the Election Commission not indicating any plan to hold byelections to fill three vacancies in the Rajya Sabha from Tamil Nadu, sections of the AIADMK are debating among themselves about the party’s depleting strength in the Upper House. The vacancies have arisen following the death of A. Mohammedjan in March and the resignation of two senior leaders K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam in the wake of getting elected to the Assembly. As the three belonged to the different terms of six years, their seats will be regarded as separate vacancies and are to be filled through three by-elections, according to a former Chief Election Commissioner. The term of the deceased member would have otherwise ended in July 2025; that of Mr. Munusamy in April 2026 and Mr. Vaithilingam in June 2022. Given the composition of the State Assembly wherein the coalition led by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has 159 members, leaders of the AIADMK are aware that the ruling party and its allies are comfortably placed to bag all the three seats and there would not be any need for contest. In the event of a contest for one vacancy, a candidate is required to get a minimum of 118 votes, assuming that all the 234 members of the Assembly cast their votes. At present, the AIADMK has six Rajya Sabha members, including one from Puducherry – N. Gokulakrishnan, whose term ends in October. Subject to any display of leniency by its allies — the All India NR Congress and the BJP — towards it, the AIADMK, which has no representation in the Assembly of the Union Territory and will not be able to retain the Rajya Sabha seat. In that case, the party’s strength will dip to five from 13 in June 2016. It is against this backdrop that the sections within the party feel that by nominating Mr. Munusamy to the Upper House last year the party had wasted one seat as it again decided to field him in the recent Assembly election. When he and the former Deputy Speaker of the Lok Sabha, M. Thambi Durai, were nominated last year, younger members of the party had nursed a grievance that at least one seat could have been given to one of the candidates from their ranks. In the case of Mr. Vaithilingam being fielded in the Assembly poll, nobody complained because he had just one year left in his Rajya Sabha term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmks-strength-in-rs-set-to-decrease/article34618869.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK expels Nilofer Kafeel||The AIADMK on Friday announced the expulsion of former Labour Minister Nilofer Kafeel from the party. A release issued by the party’s coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, and co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami stated that Ms. Kafeel had “violated” the party’s discipline and acted in a manner as to bring “disrepute” to the party. After the party’s decision in March to deny renomination to her for the Assembly election, she had publicly blamed her Cabinet colleague and local party strongman K.C.Veeramani for her being sidelined. Ms. Kafeel, who was elected from Vaniyambadi in 2016, was among three Ministers to be denied party ticket during the Assembly poll. At an interaction with the media a couple of months ago, she broke down and said she accepted the decision. Mr. Veeramani could not retain his Jolarpet seat in the Assembly poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-expels-nilofer-kafeel/article34618880.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK seeks Cabinet resolution||The Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) has urged the State Cabinet to again pass a resolution to release all the seven persons convicted in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, and send its recommendation to the Governor. In a statement on Friday, the party’s chief, Thol. Thirumavalavan, welcomed Chief Minister M.K. Stalin's request to President Ram Nath Kovind to release the convicts. He said with a view to protecting State autonomy, the Cabinet should pass a resolution again. He also pointed out that the State Cabinet, under the AIADMK government, had passed a similar resolution and sent the recommendation to the Governor, who said only the President could take a decision. Mr. Thirumavalavan alleged that the decision by the Governor was against the State’s autonomy. Till the Governor’s assent, the seven convicts should be released on parole, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-seeks-cabinet-resolution/article34618870.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals increase beds with oxygen support||Major government hospitals in the city, over the past few weeks, have been stepping up their oxygen-supported bed capacity to meet the needs of an increasing number of patients who require oxygen. Be it beds with oxygen supply from a central line or those with oxygen concentrator support, hospitals have been ramping up infrastructure in the available space, as COVID-19 patients requiring oxygen support continue to pour in. The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has now added 136 oxygen-supported beds on the seventh floor of tower-3 — the designated COVID-19 block. With this, the hospital now has 1,914 beds — 1,242 oxygen-supported beds, 280 with oxygen concentrators and 393 non-oxygen ones. “The aim of establishing a new ward with 136 oxygen points was to de-congest ambulances that bring in patients. Of the 136 beds, 106 have oxygen concentrators,” E. Theranirajan, Dean of RGGGH, said. As of Friday, the hospital had 1,303 patients on oxygen support. The average duration of hospitalisation of a patient requiring oxygen support is five to seven days. The Government Stanley Medical College Hospital recently added 550 oxygen-supported beds, M.A. Aravind, professor of paediatrics and in-charge of oxygen beds, said. “As on date, we have 2,000 beds, of which 1,550 are oxygen-supported ones — 1,200 with supply from oxygen lines and 350 with oxygen concentrator support. These include 150 beds from intensive care units. We are planning to add 250 oxygen-supported beds and 100 triage beds in a week,” he said. It was mainly patients requiring oxygen support who were approaching tertiary care centres like the hospital, he said. “Our zero-delay ward is full of patients on oxygen,” he said. R. Jayanthi, Dean of the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, said the hospital had 860 oxygen-supported beds. “We are adding 120 oxygen beds on the seventh floor with central oxygen supply. We also have temporary shelters that will have 150 beds with oxygen concentrator support,” she said. Similarly, the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, has added 100 oxygen beds, its Director K. Narayanasamy said. “The hospital has 450 oxygen beds, ” he said. Senior doctors said while bed capacity was being increased in hospitals, there was a need for more specialist doctors, particularly anaesthetists and physicians (internal medicine).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hospitals-increase-beds-with-oxygen-support/article34618864.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM launches 200-bed COVID Care Centre||A 200-bed COVID Care Centre has been established at the SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre in Kattankulathur. While 100 beds will be allocated for allopathic treatment, the rest will be used for treatment through ayurveda. Pro-Vice-Chancellor A. Ravikumar, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM MCH and RC, commissioned the facility on Friday. Senior officials from the institute and the medical college and hospital were present. As per the government and AIIMS guidelines, only patients with moderately severe disease are admitted to the hospital. A large number of patients had mild symptoms or were asymptomatic. According to the hospital officials, only those with mild to moderate symptoms would be treated here. The ayurveda COVID Care Centre has been established with the support of Lions Club of T. Nagar Charitable Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-launches-200-bed-covid-care-centre/article34618866.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Viral conjunctivitis can be early sign of COVID-19, say ophthalmologists||Ophthalmologists at private hospitals have been noticing that some people who come in with complaints of conjunctivitis develop COVID-19. They say it is likely to be the earliest sign of the novel coronavirus infection, which could often be missed. During the second wave of COVID-19, ophthalmologists found out that conjunctivitis could be the first sign of COVID-19, said Mohan Rajan, chairman and medical director of Rajan Eye Care Hospital. “Conjunctivitis spreads through contact. COVID-19 infection has also been found to spread through contact,” he explained.  Five tested positive As early as mid-April, cases surfaced at the hospital. Of the 10 patients screened for conjunctivitis, five tested positive for COVID-19. They had no symptoms such as fever, cough or cold. “What we see is the tip of the iceberg. Viral conjunctivitis is caused by adenovirus. It spreads through contact and very easily in closed spaces and air-conditioned rooms. The adenoviral infection is self-limiting and not a threat to sight or life,” he said. The SARS-CoV 2 virus that causes COVID-19 spreads through aerosol, too, but brings forth other symptoms, such as sore throat and fever. It is fatal sometimes. “Generally, ophthalmologists are in close proximity while examining a patient through a slit lamp biomicroscope. Hence, we use the simple acrylic sheet, which will prevent direct exposure from the patient,” Dr. Mohan explained. “Before the lockdown, we saw 25-30 patients in three weeks. There were more patients in March and April. We used to see one or two cases daily. We took 15 cases of red eye and did RT-PCR tests... Of them, six were positive. Early diagnosis led to home quarantine, and they did not need hospitalisation,” he said. Aravind Eye Care Hospital, Puducherry, which covers several districts of Tamil Nadu, has also handled such cases. Chief medical officer R. Venkatesh said the father of a patient tested positive and two patients had complaints of body ache. None reported symptoms such as fever, diarrhoea, cough or cold. Amar Agarwal, chairman of Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospital, said, “This is the first sign of COVID-19. Lots of patients with red eye have turned out to be COVID-19-positive.” At Sankara Nethralaya, more patients have been coming in for treatment of mucormycosis, a fungal disease, said vice-chairman T.S. Surendran. The referral hospital has been receiving patients from north India for the condition. K. Tiruvenkatakrishnan, head of the cornea department, Aravind Eye Hospital, Chennai, reasoned that the stigma attached to the infection prevented patients from revealing the history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/viral-conjunctivitis-can-be-early-sign-of-covid-19-say-ophthalmologists/article34618889.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold worth Rs. 4 cr. seized from eight passengers||Customs officials at the Chennai airport seized 9 kg of gold worth Rs. 4.5 crore from eight passengers, who had smuggled it from Dubai. Based on information that gold was being smuggled by a group of passengers arriving from Dubai, special vigil was maintained at the airport to nab them. Eight passengers who arrived from Dubai were intercepted at the exit as they appeared to be in a hurry. On questioning, they became nervous and gave evasive replies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-worth-rs-4-cr-seized-from-eight-passengers/article34618874.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ban The Family Man 2: Seeman||Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman urged for a ban on the web series The Family Man 2.  “The visuals featured in the trailer of the web series The Family Man 2 , which is set for release on Amazon Prime, are shocking. The series seeks to intentionally portray the LTTE as terrorists and Tamils as vicious people,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-the-family-man-2-seeman/article34618879.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Probe death of COVID-19 patient: EPS||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday demanded a probe into the circumstances leading to the death of a COVID-19 patient at the Cuddalore Government Hospital. He referred to a video doing the rounds on social media and called on the government to take action against those responsible, and provide solatium to the kin of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-death-of-covid-19-patient-eps/article34618882.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CSIR-SERC gets new director||N. Anandavalli took over as the Director of CSIR-SERC in Taramani on Friday. She graduated from University of Madras in 1991 with first rank and won the Rao Bahadur S. Subbarayachariyar Gold Medal. She joined CSIR-SERC as scientist in 1998, and has a doctorate from Anna University. Her research interests include blast response behaviour of structures, computational methods, sustainable materials and multi-scale modelling of composite materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/csir-serc-gets-new-director/article34618859.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PhotoSolidarity print sale for COVID-19 relief||The Chennai Photo Biennale Foundation has launched “PhotoSolidarity”, a print sale to raise funds to support organisations working to provide relief to those affected by COVID-19. The initiative is supported by artists from across the world, and profits from the sale will be donated to Khalsa Aid India and Protsahan India Foundation, which supply essential and medical kits, and also provide child care during the COVID-19 crisis. The print sale has raised Rs. 5,00,000 since the launch. Each photograph will be available in two sizes in editions of three each size. This is a special edition (not limited edition) for ‘PhotoSolidarity’ and as such will only be available during the sale period, a press release said. Artists are free to sell images in other forms in open editions or other editions in any size. All photographs will be printed on Epson large-format printers with Epson K2 Archival Inks on Epson Archival Paper. Photos will be printed on demand at the end of the sale period. International shipping is also available. These special edition prints are available onshop.chennaiphotobiennale.com. Interested persons can also emailcontact@chennaiphotobiennale. com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photosolidarity-print-sale-for-covid-19-relief/article34618860.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI/Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sterlite: government to drop cases against protesters||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday ordered the withdrawal of most of the cases filed against anti-Sterlite protesters. He also handed over appointment orders to the kin of 17 persons who were killed or severely wounded in the Thoothukudi police firing incident in May 2018. The appointment orders were based on the educational qualifications of the beneficiaries. The Chief Minister also ordered the provision of no-objection certificates to those arrested during the protests to enable them to pursue higher education and employment. An official release said the government accepted the recommendations made in the interim report of the Aruna Jegadeesan Committee. The report was submitted on May 14. The committee had recommended that needless cases filed against the protesters be withdrawn. After consultations with the Advocate-General, and based on a report from the Director-General of Police, the Chief Minister ordered the withdrawal of most of the cases, the release said. The government will also provide Rs. 1 lakh in compensation to each of the 93 persons who were arrested and had suffered injuries and mental agony. One more person was arrested in a different case, and he died in prison. The government will provide Rs. 2 lakh in compensation to his 72-year-old mother. The government will withdraw all cases except those that have been transferred to the CBI, those filed for destruction of public and private property and some of the cases filed before May 22, 2018 — when the police opened fire, killing 12 persons in Thoothukudi — that are pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sterlite-govt-to-drop-most-cases-against-protesters/article34618877.ece
22 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DCPU to identify children who lost their parents to COVID-19||The District Child Protection Unit here will identify children who have lost their parents to COVID-19. An official at the unit said that it has written to the Health Department seeking a list of those who died in the district because of COVID-19. “We will start work to see if any of the deceased had children below 18 years. If there are children who have lost their parents in the pandemic and do not have anyone to look after, we will make the necessary arrangements for them,” the official said. If there are specific cases of children who have lost their parents to COVID-19, their details can be shared with Childline on its toll-free number 1098 and it will rescue these children, the official said. The unit had appealed to the public to share such information and so far no one had contacted them. Hence, they plan to start work to identify such children. Meanwhile, sources in the National Child Labour Project said the spread of the pandemic had made it impossible to identify child workers and school drop-outs in the district. “We do get calls about children working in some of the units. However, when we visit the unit, there are no children there,” an official said. It is difficult to take surveys now and hence there is no data on school drop-outs and child workers, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dcpu-to-identify-children-who-lost-their-parents-to-covid-19/article34618918.ece
22 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CRI sets up hospital to treat COVID-19 patients||CRI Trust and CRI Pumps have set up a 100-bedded hospital with oxygen facility here to treat COVID-19 patients. The CRI Pumps office at Chinnavedampatti has been converted into a hospital, according to a press release. The Rs. 3 crore project will have qualified doctors, nurses, two oxygen tanks, and rooms. According to G. Soundararajan, vice-chairman of CRI Pumps, the hospital is expected to become operational next week. It will have a team of 10 doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers and a professional social worker, too. While 70% of the beds will be with oxygen connection, the rest will be for those who do not need oxygen support. The number of beds can be increased, if needed, in a couple of weeks. The 30,000 sq.ft facility is to provide quality treatment at a ‘subsidised price’ to the needy. “There is a gap now in availability of facilities for those who are in critical condition. The facility aims to serve those people at an affordable price," he added. CRI has applied for approvals and officials have inspected the place, Mr. Soundararajan said. CRI company directors and trustees, G. Soundarrajan and G. Selvaraj submitted a letter about the project to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cri-sets-up-hospital-to-treat-covid-19-patients/article34619181.ece
22 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. asks crematoria to handle more bodies||With the increase in the number of bodies at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital mortuary, and more bodies added every day due to COVID-19 deaths, the Coimbatore Corporation has asked crematoria managers in the city to cremate more bodies. After visiting a few electric crematoria, Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian asked their managers to increase the working hours and deploy more manpower, if necessary, to cremate as many bodies as possible. His visit and instructions to the crematoria followed a call from the hospital authorities to increase cremations to reduce the number of bodies at the mortuary, according to sources. The increase in cremations in the Corporation’s crematoria was also due to death in Coimbatore of people who had come here from neighbouring towns and districts for COVID-19 treatment. As per instructions, the kin of such persons who had succumbed here were encouraged to cremate or bury the body here and not take it to their native. Therefore, the body count increased and put more load on crematoria, the sources said. The Corporation has 12 electric crematoria that are managed on its behalf by various trusts. The sources said the Commissioner asked the managers to start taking in bodies from 7 a.m., without reserving the time from 7 a.m. to noon for non-COVID-19 bodies. The objective was to ensure that each of the 12 crematoria cremated a minimum of 16 bodies. At present, each crematorium handled eight to 12 bodies a day, and did not take in bodies after 6 p.m. But, now the crematoria were cremating the last body by 9 p.m. or 10 p.m. The Corporation had also readied a few burial grounds to handle more bodies, if necessary, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-asks-crematoria-to-handle-more-bodies/article34618914.ece
22 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Contributions to battle pandemic||Contributions continue to pour in to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight the pandemic. Members of the Nilgiri Planters’ Association contributed Rs. 5.25 lakh to the Nilgiris district administration. In Coimbatore, Lakshmi Ceramics, Vinod-Sonali Textiles, and Eppinger Tools Asia have given Rs. 15 lakh each. Dr. Karthikeyan Raju of Kongunadu Hospital, Dr. Hariprasad and Dr. Gokul of Kumaran Hospital, Dr. Thangavel of PPG Hospital, Dr. Manoharan of NH Hospital, Dr. Senthil of Abirami Hospital, Coimbatore, Tiruppur Tiny and Micro Entrepreneurs Association, Arthi Associates Muthuraman, Velcro Foundation, Muruganantham of Arthi Filters, Open End Spinning Mills, RPK Rajamannar of Kandaswamy Arts Centre, Danukodi Adithya Auto Stores Masilamani, Sreenivasan of Annapoorna group, Krishnan of Krishna Sweets, and SIMS Hospital gave cheques for Rs. 10 lakh each. Rajasthani Sangh gave Rs. 11 lakh, Oshima - Rs. 12 lakh, and RSK Constructions (Rs. 20 lakh) were the other contributors. The SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association gave Rs. 12.5 lakh. Sree Annapoorna group contributed Rs. 10 lakh. The contributions in Tiruppur included Rs. 15 lakh each from V. Palaniswami of JV Tapes and AC Easwaran of South India Hosiery Manufacturers Associations. And, Rs. 10 lakh each from A. Sakthivel of Poppys Exports, S. Murugasamy of Tiruppur Dyers Association, V. Raghupathi of Tiruppur West Rotary, Sigamani of KRC Housing and Infrastructure company, Moorthy of Tiruppur West Rotary, Murugesan of Jagathguru Textiles, Dr. Thangavel from Coimbatore, and Arumugham of Vigneshwara Agencies. Rathinasamy and Rajamani of Knit Cloth Manufacturers Association gave Rs. 5 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contributions-to-battle-pandemic/article34618917.ece
22 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination centre sought||The district administration should establish a vaccination centre in Kinathukadavu Assembly constituency as there was none in the list of vaccination centres established to vaccinate persons over 18 years. In a release on Friday, DMK candidate for the constituency, Kurichi R. Prabhakaran, said the nearest vaccination centre in Kuniamuthur Government Higher Secondary School was at least 25 km away from Kinathukadavu town.  Amenities Keeping in mind the people’s interest, the administration should establish a centre in Kurichi, Madukkarai or Arisipalayam, he said and also sought beds with oxygen support in the Madukkarai government hospital and improve amenities in the Arisipalayam Primary Health Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-centre-sought/article34619192.ece
22 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Prisoner dies||A prisoner lodged in Coimbatore Central Prison died on Thursday after complaining of chest pain. According to the police, V. Thangaraj (35) was remanded in judicial custody in 2019 and on Thursday at around 9.30 a.m., he complained of chest pain. The prison officials offered first aid to him and he was taken to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival at around 2.20 p.m. Killed in accident A head constable attached to Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) in Coimbatore died following a road accident near Kinathukadavu on Thursday. The police said Kannan (46) was driving his two-wheeler with another constable Sivakumar in the pillion at Kinathukadavu when his vehicle lost control suddenly, leading to both men suffering serious injuries. Kannan died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prisoner-dies/article34619197.ece
22 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Garment export units to resume operations||Garment exporting units in Tiruppur plan to resume operations on Monday, May 24. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters Association, said the units had voluntarily stopped production for the last few days. “We cannot continue like this when orders are good. We will take the required precautions and continue production,” he said. The garment units will now take measures to ensure there is no spread of COVID-19 on their premises and the workers follow the precautions to remain safe, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garment-export-units-to-resume-operations/article34618923.ece
22 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Awareness campaign||Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi on Friday kickstarted a COVID-19 awareness campaign. A release said volunteers would hold the campaign using autorickshaws in Kuniamuthur, Selvapuram, Karumbukkadai and other areas with a high number of positive cases. Using public address system, the volunteers would educate the residents. They would also distribute Siddha and Ayurvedic medicines and mask. Party’s district president Ahamad Kabir flagged off the vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-campaign/article34619191.ece
22 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three restaurants sealed||Coimbatore Corporation officials in East Zone sealed three restaurants after their owners were found violating the lockdown rules. According to sources in the civic body, the officials on field sealed the three restaurants opposite the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Kamarajar Road as they were found open beyond the permitted time. The sources said the Corporation initiated action after a complaint was lodged with the district administration and was referred to the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-restaurants-sealed/article34619193.ece
22 May 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘Send final-year paramedical students to intern at govt. medical college hospital’||Collector S. Divyadarshini held a consultative meeting with the principals and registrars of private institutes and private colleges teaching paramedical courses including pharmacy and health inspectors at the Collectorate on Friday with regard to COVID-19 supportive management. The Collector called upon the various institutes and private colleges offering paramedical courses through BSc, MSc, BGM, ANM, Pharmacy and health inspectors to send their final year students as supportive staff to the government medical college hospital as per their field of study. According to the Collector, the principals and registrars should prepare the final year students for practical training by interning at the hospital that is currently overwhelmed by admissions of COVID-19 infected patients. In its wake, the final year students might come in handy as a support staff to an overworked and understaffed medical college hospital vis-à-vis the patient-medical staff ratio. Certificate The final year students, upon completion of their internship at the hospital, will be given a certificate of completion recording their work during the pandemic, according to the Collector. Sub-Collector M. Prathap and Deputy Director of Health P.R. Gemini among others were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/send-final-year-paramedical-students-to-intern-at-govt-medical-college-hospital/article34619178.ece
22 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination centre at Erode GH closed||The vaccination centre functioning at the District Headquarters Hospital here was closed and people were asked to get vaccinated at the 10 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) functioning in the Corporation limits. The vaccination drive for health workers began at the centre on January 16 after which other frontline workers were vaccinated. Also, people above 60 and 45 years were vaccinated at the centre for the past three-four months. With a spike in COVID-19 cases, 150 beds were converted to treat positive patients in the last one month. Since persons coming to vaccinate had to wait in long queue where the COVID-19 block was located, the district administration closed the centre. Health Department officials said people who need to get vaccinated could visit the 10 UPHCs in the Corporation limits and also the Primary Health Centres functioning in rural areas. With the vaccination drive for the 18 - 44 age group set to begin, an exclusive centre for vaccination could also be opened in the city, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-centre-at-erode-gh-closed/article34619186.ece
22 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||More community food pantries serve the needy in Erode||With the concept of community food pantry that was started first in Gobichettipalayam catching up, more such pantries have come up across the district to provide food to thousands of people every day during the lockdown. To serve the needy and the poor, Clement Premkumar of Gobichettipalayam placed food packets on a push cart in front of the bus stand in Gobichettipalayam from May 6 with a message on a display board “If you feel hungry, take the food, no need (for) money”. Poor people, conservancy workers and other needy picked up the food packets in the afternoon and it served over 300 people a day in the area. Hence, he started placing food packets on carts opposite Taluk Office and Modachur in Gobichettipalayam serving 400 people a day. The concept caught on across the district as many volunteers started placing food packets at Nambiyur, Kavindapadi, Sathyamangalam, Bhavani, Perundurai and Chennimalai, serving over 1,000 people every day during the pandemic. “The idea inspired many and more pantries were started not only in the district, but also across the State”, Mr. Premkumar told The Hindu . R. Karuppasamy, Director, Rights Education and Development Centre (READ), an NGO based at Sathyamangalam, said they were distributing food packets to over 200 persons every day at the bus stand in Sathyamangalam. “Many are contributing to the noble cause that provides food to the needy”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-community-food-pantries-serve-the-needy-in-erode/article34619184.ece
22 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||SSI suspended after video goes viral||After a video went viral on social media showing a special sub-inspector attached to Arachalur police station beating a vehicle driver, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai placed him under suspension. Kumaravel (56) was involved in a vehicle check near Palayakottai on Wednesday night when he intercepted a commercial autorickshaw, driven by Srinivasan. The SSI questioned him whether he had done e-registration and the driver displayed the certificate on his mobile phone. But, the SSI questioned why he did not have the hard copy of the certificate and beat him up. A motorist at the spot had shot the video that went viral on social media. An inquiry was conducted and the special sub-inspector was placed under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-suspended-after-video-goes-viral/article34619199.ece
22 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three held for murder||In a case related to the murder of a 27-year-old woman, the police arrested the victim’s husband and his parents here on Friday. R. Dhivya Bharathi of Kamaraj Nagar in Vellode was married to Rawuthkumar (32) of Kumaravalasu in Vilakethi for two years and has a one-year-old son. She told her father C. Natarajan (62) that she will be coming home on Thursday to celebrate the son’s first birthday. On Thursday, Natarajan called her, but she did not pick up the call. Later, he called Rawuthkumar’s father C. Sadasivam (57), who said that they were in the farm and would reach home soon. Sadasivam called Natarajan over the phone and said that Dhivya Bharathi was lying unconscious in the room. Natarajan arrived at her house and found injuries and blood stains on her face. He lodged a complaint with the Sivagiri police. The police picked up Rawuthkumar and his parents Sadasivam and S. Eswari (54), who confessed that they had murdered the woman. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai told The Hindu that both were working in Bengaluru and after marriage, they returned to the village and Rawuthkumar was involved in farming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-murder/article34618920.ece
22 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant electrocuted||A 35-year-old tusker was electrocuted after it came into contact with an electric fence erected by a farmer at Kongarpalayam, near T.N. Palayam Forest Range, here on Friday. The patta land, owned by Karthikeyan (38), is located near the forest area and the farmer had erected electric fence as wild elephants were destroying the crops. On Friday morning, villagers found the carcass of the elephant and alerted forest officials. A team, led by K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinarian of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), carried out post-mortem and samples of vital organs were lifted and sent for laboratory analysis. After autopsy, tusks were removed and the carcass was buried. Officials said that the elephant attempted to enter the field and came into contact with the live wire and got electrocuted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-electrocuted/article34618919.ece
22 May 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Get vaccinated: Karti||People must get themselves vaccinated against COVID-19 on their own volition, instead of giving any credence to videos circulating on the social media to the contrary, said Congress MP Karti Chidambaram. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, he said that considering the surge in COVID-19 cases, the State government should extend the lockdown at least by another week to contain the spread of the pandemic. People also should remain at home and should not venture out unnecessarily. Only through their cooperation, the chain could be broken. According to doctors, he said, many people who had not taken the vaccine (both doses) had tested positive and some among them even required oxygen. There were also instances where people who had taken both the doses but still tested positive, but the infection was mild. So considering the merits, people, especially those above 45 years, should take the vaccine, he said. The Centre should be transparent in declaring deaths due to COVID-19, as demanded by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/get-vaccinated-karti/article34619298.ece
22 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. hospitals asked to set up oxygen audit committees||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has asked the private hospitals in the district to conduct an audit on the use of medical oxygen. At a consultative meeting held at the Collectorate, the hospitals have been asked to form an in-house committee to audit the usage of oxygen and submit a report to the district administration. In Krishnagiri, 25 private hospitals are covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Medical Insurance Scheme for COVID-19 treatment. Therefore, the public may avail treatment for up to Rs. 5 lakh covered through the insurance in the designated private hospitals. Further, the private hospitals were also asked to appoint a liaison officer to guide patients seeking COVID-19 care through the CM’s health insurance scheme and ensure that treatment was provided immediately. The private hospitals should collect only the fees defined by the government for COVID-19 testing and treatment, the Collector said. The hospitals should also ensure the fire and rescue wing was adequately equipped and trained to respond to any accidents. Further, the hospitals should see to that the ambulance services did not charge beyond the tariffs defined by the government. The private hospitals should ensure the patients were treated with care, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pvt-hospitals-asked-to-set-up-oxygen-audit-committees/article34619179.ece
22 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospital at Thoppur gets 200 oxygen-supported beds||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Friday inaugurated 200 new oxygen-supported beds at the COVID-19 Health Centre inside the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine campus at Thoppur near Madurai. The beds were part of the first phase of scheme for increasing oxygen-supported beds at the Centre. In the next phase, 300 oxygen-supported beds are expected to be set up. Each bed has an oxygen concentrator, a steam inhaler and a pedestal fan. Currently, all government hospitals in the district, including Government Rajaji Hospital, have 1,101 oxygen-supported beds and 646 non oxygen-supported beds. Private hospitals in the district have 1,131 oxygen-supported beds and 794 non oxygen-supported beds. Chairman of Thiagarajar Mills Karumuttu Kannan and Executive Director Hari Thiagarajan spoke to the CM regarding erecting an oxygen plant for Rs. 50 lakh at Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur. The plant will help to provide oxygen for 50 beds round-the-clock. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy, Cooperation Minister I. Periasamy, Finance Minister P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan, Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan, Thoothukudi MP M.K. Kanimozhi, and District Collector Aneesh Sekar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hospital-at-thoppur-gets-200-oxygen-supported-beds/article34618990.ece
22 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||27 deaths recorded in Madurai||Madurai district recorded 27 new COVID-19 deaths on Friday, making it the highest number of COVID-19 deaths recorded in the district on a single day. Out of these deaths, 16 deaths were recorded in Government Rajaji Hospital. According to the bulletin, a 22-year-old female without any comorbidities and a 25-year-old female without any comorbidities died at the GRH due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The deaths recorded on Friday, increased the district's toll to 757. A total of 1,355 new COVID-19 positive cases were recorded in Madurai on Friday, increasing the total number of cases in the district to 53,243. A total of 787 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 12,306. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district recorded the highest number of COVID-19 deaths of 13 on a single day that has taken up the death toll to 317. The district also recorded the highest number of positive cases of 850 in single day on Friday. Among the dead are six men and seven women. This included six persons aged 50 years or less and seven above 50. Two of the men were 31 years and 37 years old. After 255 patients got discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 4,794. The total number of positive cases is 29,140 and the number of discharged patients was 24,029.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-deaths-recorded-in-madurai/article34618992.ece
22 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||79.30 MT of liquid oxygen arrives||Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan and Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy inspected the four tankers which had come from Rourkela in Odisha carrying 79.30 MT of medical liquid oxygen at Vadipatti railway station here on Friday. District Monitoring Officer for COVID-19 B. Chandra Mohan, Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan and Collector Aneesh Sekar were present. A press release from the district administration said that the State government was taking several steps to bring liquid oxygen from other States and countries through tanker lorries to give uninterrupted oxygen supply to COVID-19 patients who were under treatment at hospitals. One of the tankers has a capacity of 15.76 MT and six MT was sent to Ramanathapuram district, 6.76 MT for Sivaganga district, and 3 MT for a private oxygen production unit in Thoppur. The second tanker has a capacity of 13.56 MT, and 7.05 MT was sent to Theni district, and 6MT for another private oxygen production unit in Madurai. The third tanker has a capacity of 17.04 MT, and it was sent to Government Rajaji Hospital and Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine. The fourth tanker has a capacity of 15.88 MT, and 5.88 MT was sent to Dindigul district, and 10 MT for Karur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7930-mt-of-liquid-oxygen-arrives/article34618994.ece
22 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Criminal proceedings against cartoonist Bala quashed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed the criminal proceedings against cartoonist G. Bala that was instituted in 2017. He had been booked on charges of allegedly defaming then Chief Minister (Edappadi K Palaniswami), Tirunelveli Collector and Police Commissioner in a caricature following the usury related self immolation of a family in Tirunelveli. Justice G. Ilangovan observed that there was no criminality involved in the cartoon drawn by the cartoonist and quashed the first information report registered against him by Tirunelveli police based on the complaint by the then Tirunelveli Collector. The court observed that the petitioner wanted to express his anger, grief and criticism. The court said that the cartoonist wanted to express his anger on the inability of the administration in containing the collection of exorbitant interest by money lenders. This cannot be construed as an intention to defame, the court said. The incident claimed the lives of four people on the premises of Tirunelveli Collectorate. The caricature does not contain any criminality but ethical questions may be involved. The court cannot teach ethicality to people, the judge added. It was for the society to evolve and follow ethical standards. In a democratic country, freedom of thought, expressions and speech were the foundations upon which democracy survives, the judge said. But freedom has its own limitations. It was not boundless and whether a particular criticism by cartoonists was well within bounds has to be decided only in the context of the particular issue. The context was the determining factor. Words spoken and cartoon drawn if taken away from the context, would lose its soul and life, the judge said. In 2017, a labourer set himself and his family ablaze at the Tirunelveli Collectorate. He had submitted repeated petitions to the Collector on the harassment made by a money lender. After cartoonist Bala drew the caricature, Tirunelveli police had registered the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/criminal-proceedings-against-cartoonist-bala-quashed/article34619297.ece
22 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes FIR against cartoonist Bala||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed the criminal proceedings against cartoonist G. Bala that was instituted in 2017. The cartoonist had been booked on charges of allegedly defaming then Chief Minister [Edappadi K. Palaniswami], the Tirunelveli Collector and the Police Commissioner in a caricature drawn by him following the usury related self immolation of a family in Tirunelveli. Justice G. Ilangovan observed that there was no criminality involved in the cartoon drawn by the cartoonist and quashed the first information report registered against him by the Tirunelveli police based on the complaint by the then Tirunelveli Collector. The court observed that the petitioner wanted to express his anger, grief and criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-fir-against-cartoonist-bala/article34618875.ece
22 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Girl found dead||M. Suresh Kumar, 25, who went to the District Police Office to lodge a complaint of assault, was found lying unconscious here on Friday. Police said the youth from Karaikulam near Kariapatti was in love with a girl. He had complained that her relatives had assaulted him. Even as he was asked to wait to hand over his complaint to the officials, he fainted. He was rushed to Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital where he had reportedly confessed to have consumed poison. Madurai Meanwhile, in a different case reported in Madurai, a 15-year-old girl, was found dead in her house in Villur near Kallikudi on Thursday. Police said the girl, studying 10th standard, was in love with one M. Packiyaraj. After her parents scolded her for her friendship with the boy, the girl is said to have eloped with him on Tuesday but was brought back to the house by the boy. The boy refused to marry the girl and his family members had abused the girl and her family members. Later, the girl was found hanging in the house. The police have booked six persons, including Packiyaraj and his parents for abetment of suicide of a child. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-attempts-to-end-life-in-virudhunagar-police-office/article34619304.ece
22 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Safeguard railway men from pandemic’||Demand for providing additional safety measures for railway employees so as to ensure their safety during the pandemic has increased after the death of a railway gatekeeper on Wednesday. Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union said that had the railway administration taken adequate precaution the life of gatekeeper, Muthukaruppan (32), could have been saved. A father of two children, he was deployed at a railway level crossing near Tiruppuvanam railway station. “We demand that the administration takes safety measures on a war-footing,” said DREU divisional secretary, R. Sankaranarayanan. He charged that the administration that had provided masks, gloves, face shields and sanitisers to the railway staff during the first wave of COVID-19, had failed to take similar measures during the second wave that was claiming more lives. He said that railway men were working round-the-clock, even putting their lives at risk, during the pandemic to transport foodgrains, medical equipment, oxygen tankers and fertilizers to prevent shortage of the essential commodities.  “We demand that all these working railwaymen are vaccinated irrespective of their age on a priority basis so as to safeguard them,” Mr. Sankaranarayanan said. Similarly, they should be provided N95 masks. “The most important demand is that the officials should not allow workers to work in large groups so as to prevent spread of the infection,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safeguard-railway-men-from-pandemic/article34618996.ece
22 May 2021||Madurai/Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Eveready Spinning Mills gives Rs. 1 cr. as relief||Donations for COVID-19 relief continued to pour in on Friday. The Director of Eveready Spinning Mills, Tiruppur, handed over a cheque for Rs. 1 crore to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. The Confederation of Indian Industry, Salem zone, made a contribution of Rs. 1 crore to the relief account of the district administration. A release said CII Salem zone, with the support of CII members, including the Young Indians (Yi) and the Indian Women Network (IWN), took up the initiative to contribute the amount from their CSR allocation to the relief fund. T.J. Varghese Vaidyan, chairman of the Nilgiri Planters’ Association, handed over a cheque for Rs. 54 lakh at the office of Minister K. Ramachandran. Sudhakar of Sudha Hospitals presented a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh. Paramount Private Mills Limited Director M. Ram donated Rs. 30 lakh. A.B.S. Sanjjay, vice-chairman, CII Salem zone, made a contribution of Rs. 30 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund and handed over the cheque to the Chief Minister during his visit here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eveready-spinning-mills-gives-rs-1-cr-as-relief/article34618892.ece
22 May 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Call officials for delivery of food, medicine||Migrant labourers and home quarantined COVID-19 patients may contact the following officials for food and medicine during lockdown. An official statement said R. Murugan at 94440 94288 or R.B. Shaji at 94440 94289 may be contacted for food or medicine. Volunteers interested in delivering food or medicine to the patients in home quarantine may contact Michael Antony Fernando, Project Director, Mahalir Thittam, and Nodal Officer, NGO Management and Distribution of Benefits at 94440 94287. Mr. Michael said volunteers distributed food and other essential commodities to migrant labourers in Kuzhithurai municipality on Friday. He said ‘kabasura kudineer’ powder, fever, vitamin and zinc tablets and immunity boosters were handed over to Collector M. Aravind on behalf of Kuzhithurai Roman Catholic Diocese on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-officials-for-delivery-of-food-medicine/article34619294.ece
22 May 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||May close down markets to prevent crowding: Collector||District Collector K. Megraj said they might consider closing down markets and conduct sales through mobile vehicles to prevent crowding. Mr. Megraj along with Namakkal MP A.K.P. Chinraj and other senior officials launched the functioning of a COVID-19 Care Centre with medical oxygen support at Rasipuram. The centre will have 180 beds including 40 beds with oxygen support. Mr. Megraj said the centre was set up to reduce the burden on Rasipuram government hospital and necessary healthcare staff required for the centre would be hired. An additional 250 oxygen beds would be set up in the district in the next few days, he added. Talking to presspersons, Mr. Megraj said there had been minimal effect of lockdown in the daily load of cases in the district as motorists continued to move around for unnecessary reasons. During a recent vehicle check, he found that 80% of motorists were moving unnecessarily. The Collector said they were considering closing down markets and small shop operators would be taken for sales through mobile vehicles. The Collector said that till date, no case of black fungus disease had been reported in the district and the district had sufficient medicines to treat the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/may-close-down-markets-to-prevent-crowding-collector/article34619188.ece
22 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pro-tem Speaker appointed||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday appointed K. Lakshminarayanan the Pro-tem Speaker of Puducherry’s 15th Assembly on the recommendations of the Chief Minister, Assembly Secretary R. Mounissamy said in a communication. The appointment of the Pro-tem Speaker would pave the way for the swearing-in of the newly-elected legislators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pro-tem-speaker-appointed/article34618876.ece
22 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Tension at village||Tense moments prevailed at Veeramangalam village in the Aranthangi taluk in the district on Friday over the passage of an ambulance carrying a body of an aged man belonging to Scheduled Caste community to the cremation ground through the main road of the village. Members of an intermediate caste group objected to the use of the main road by the oppressed community. The body of Kannan (70) was kept inside the ambulance for more than three hours. The relatives of the deceased complained that the alternative route was muddy and hence they had to use the main road. Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan, Aranthangi Sub Collector Anand Mohan and other officials ensured the passage of the ambulance to the cremation ground through the main road. Orders were issued to convert the mud road into a proper tar road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-at-village/article34619315.ece
22 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Six patients with symptoms of black fungus at Salem GH||Six patients with symptoms of black fungus disease are undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. The hospital is the tertiary care centre for COVID-19 treatment in the district and patients even from neighbouring districts arrive at the hospital for treatment. Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of the hospital, said that there are six patients with symptoms of mucormycosis under treatment at the hospital and a separate isolation ward has been set up for treating them. Dr. Sathyamoorthy said, “a special team with doctors from general medicine, eye and ENT departments have been formed for their treatment. The disease occurs mainly in diabetic patients. The disease is found in those who have recovered from COVID-19. She added that there were sufficient medicines for treatment of the disease here and they have requested for additional stocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-patients-with-symptoms-of-black-fungus-at-salem-gh/article34618924.ece
22 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Minister reviews works at COVID-19 treatment centre||Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji on Friday reviewed the progress of works at the COVID-19 treatment centre near Salem Steel Plant and discussed measures to expand facilities. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday dedicated a 500-bed COVID-19 treatment centre near Salem Steel Plant for the public and advised officials to expand the facility with another 500 beds and finish works within 10 days. The treatment centre has been set up by the district administration, Salem Steel Plant, JSW industries and other service organisations here. Mr. Balaji held discussions with Collector S. Karmegam, City Police Commissioner Santosh Kumar and other senior officials and MLAs here. Mr. Balaji visited the site for setting up the centre and held discussions with health officials and district administration on the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-reviews-works-at-covid-19-treatment-centre/article34619189.ece
22 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Free food for COVID-19 patients||The Rotary Club of Salem Green along with a group of volunteers is providing free food for COVID-19 patients under home quarantine here. According to a release, as COVID-19 patients will find it difficult to prepare food, they can contact 97908 34612, 95785 79720 for getting free food delivered at their doorsteps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-food-for-covid-19-patients/article34619190.ece
22 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Flight operations to resume on Sunday||Airport authorities said that flight operations would resume at the Salem Airport from May 23. According to the officials, operations of Trujet flight services between Chennai and Salem would resume from Sunday. The flight would depart from Chennai at 7.15 a.m. and reach Salem by 8.15 a.m. The flight would depart from Salem at 8.35 a.m. and reach Chennai by 9.35 a.m.    A grocery shop owner was allegedly robbed of Rs. 50 lakh from his residence. Mohankumar runs a grocery shop at Shevapet and he had employed four workers from Rajasthan at his shop. Om Prakash, one of the workers stayed back while others returned recently, police said. On May 19, Om Prakash along with his accomplices attacked Mohankumar and allegedly took away Rs. 50 lakh.    A 75-year-old woman was found dead on the railway track in Somanahalli on Thursday. The victim Mangai, of Kaatampatty village in Palacodde is suspected to have committed suicide over fears of COVID-19. Those with suicidal tendencies are advised to contact suicide helpline – 044-2464 0050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flight-operations-to-resume-on-sunday/article34618921.ece
22 May 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Five SHGs in Sivaganga get vehicles to sell vegetables||With the aim to prevent crowding at markets, five new vehicles have been given to women self-help groups who will sell vegetables, fruits and greens at the doorstep of people in Vaniyangudi, Kanchirangal, Idayamelur and other places in Sivaganga district. Collector P Madhusudan Reddy said here on Friday that the vehicles had been given to the SHGs on subsidy under Rurban scheme. A SHG member in Vaniyangudi said that they procured vegetables, fruits and greens from farmers in the region with the assistance of agriculture officials. They buy the fresh produce and sell them at the doorstep of people the same day. A Mahalir Thittam official said that the SHGs were responsible for maintenance of the vehicle, appointment of driver and maintenance of accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-shgs-in-sivaganga-get-vehicles-to-sell-vegetables/article34619302.ece
22 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers fear delay in Mettur water release||Delta farmers are keeping their fingers crossed as they anticipate delay in the opening of shutters of Stanley Reservoir well beyond the scheduled date of June 12. They expected that the government would consider their views regarding the water release for kuruvai and samba cultivation when they attended a meeting convened by senior Ministers recently. However, they were disappointed when they were told that the decision on the date of the opening of Mettur dam would be finalised and announced by the Chief Minister M.K.Stalin on a later date. In fact, the demand opening of the shutters on the scheduled date of June 12 formed the baseline of the suggestions from farmers’ representatives. But, participants with political background focussed their attention on execution of desilting work and other matters such as financial support for cultivation activities in the form of ‘kuruvai/samba packages’ and assistance for mechanisation activities in agriculture. Those who had to depend on surface water for irrigation referred to government order dated May 17, 2021, issued by the Public Works Department with respect to the work of removing shoals and desilting the bed in discrete stretches of the Cauvery and its tributaries, channels, canals, surplus courses and drains in Tiruchi, Karur, Ariyalur, Pudukottai districts and delta districts - Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayilduthurai - at a total cost of around Rs. 62.91 crore. The G.O. had directed the Chief Engineer, Water Resources Department, Tiruchi Region, to initiate necessary steps for completing the works numbering around 590, identified in eight districts coming under its domain “well before the release of water for irrigation from Mettur and subsequently from Grand Anicut.” What has added to the worries of the farmers fearing delay in water release from Mettur dam is the commencement of bridge construction work across the ‘Puduaaru’ (the Grand Anicut Canal) at Adappanpallam, located in the vicinity of the Grand Anicut Canal branching off from the ‘Kallanai’ dam, a small bridge at Seyyamangalam and laying of a temporary road on the Vennar riverbed. Criticising the timing of these works, the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam and the Tamil Nadu Vivasaya Thozhilalargal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Thanjavur district, staged a demonstration on the Vennar riverbed at Seyyamaangalam on May 21 urging the officials to expedite the works or make necessary arrangements so that the progress of these works did not hinder the free flow of water for irrigation, to be released from the Grand Anicut during this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-fear-delay-in-mettur-water-release/article34619316.ece
22 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Kin welcome withdrawal of cases||The withdrawal of cases against the anti-Sterlite protesters and handing over of appointment orders to the kin of the firing victims based on their educational qualification has fulfilled the long-standing demand of the protesters and smoothed the ruffled feathers of the affected families. The appointment letters were given ahead of the anniversary of the May 22, 2018 firing incident, after cancelling the Village Assistant posts given to them on compassionate grounds by the previous AIADMK government. While 16 of them received the appointment orders as ‘Junior Assistants’ from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in Madurai on Friday, one person got the order as ‘SUV driver.’ Coordinator of the Thoothukudi District Anti-Sterlite People’s Confederation M. Krishnamurthy welcomed the State Government’s decision to withdraw the cases filed against the protesters. “At the same time, the government should clarify further this decision so that the protesters can know the cases that will be withdrawn,” he said. Mr. Krishnamurthy said the government should pass a resolution in the Assembly for the permanent closure of Sterlite Copper unit and ensure appropriate punishment for those who “hunted down” the protesters. “Moreover, the government should establish a memorial in the heart of Thoothukudi for the firing victims,” Mr. Krishnamurthy said. He said the third anniversary to remember the firing victims would be organised in various parts of the town wherein the people would offer floral tributes to the portraits of the victims between 6.30 a.m. and 10 a.m., considering the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kin-welcome-withdrawal-of-cases/article34618997.ece
22 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||2 detained under Goondas Act||Collector K. Senthil Raj has ordered the detention of two brothers from Kovilpatti, who were arrested recently for hoarding Remedsivir, the medicine being used for treating COVID-19 patients, under the Goondas Act. A raid was conducted in a pharmacy on Mettukaliamman Temple Street in Kovilpatti on May 13. The officials seized 42 vials of Remdesivir from the shop owned by Shanmugam of Gandhi Nagar and his brother Ganesan. On being grilled, the brotherstold the police that they bought the drug from Tirunelveli and Madurai for Rs. 16,000 and were selling it for Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 30,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-detained-under-goondas-act/article34619293.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Temporary market too is crowded||Fear of rapid spread of COVID-19 due to crowding at Gandhi Market was the reason for relocating the retail and wholesale traders to the West Boulevard Road. But, officials of the City Corporation are unable to do much about the crowding at the relocated venue which was chosen after a month-long haggle by the traders who were not prepared to shift to the G. Corner grounds along the Chennai Bypas Road. With effect from Sunday night, vendors have been utilising the stretch of WB Road from Kamaraj Arch to Vellamandi corner to transact their business. While wholesale sales would be permitted at night, retailers would be allowed to operate between 6 a.m and 10 a.m. However, it looked like caution was thrown to the wind as the people continued to throng the markets to purchase vegetables and fruits on Friday morning. "Many buy in bulk for a week. They come before the weekend and stock up on the vegetables. This is a common pattern even when we were located in Gandhi Market," a vendor said. The vendors were happy that their veggies and fruits were being sold. "We did not want to go to G. Corner market as our trade would be severely hit there," the vendor said. But then, people continued to flout social distancing norms and mask-wearing, pulling it down to smell the freshness of veggies and to talk to vendors. "At this rate, this could become a hotspot too. We need to be careful," one customer said. M. Muthu, who purchased vegetables for his home from the Gandhi Market on a weekly basis said that the temporary markets arranged by the Tiruchi City Corporation last year at different locations would be more effective. "For one, people can go to their nearest market and purchase. The traders, too, would get a fair opportunity at sales in different areas," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-market-too-is-crowded/article34619318.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic may delay railway electrification project||The completion of the overhead electrification project on the Tiruchi - Pudukottai broad gauge section is likely to get delayed due to spike in COVID-19 cases. The pace of the ongoing work taken up on the nearly 60 km stretch, which were proceeding swiftly till last month, has apparently come down. Many migrant labourers who were deployed for the project had left for their respective States in the wake of the lockdown. The Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) has been entrusted with the task of electrifying the Tiruchi - Pudukottai - Karaikudi - Manamadurai - Virudhunagar broad gauge section following sanction from the Railway Board, New Delhi. The project began in right earnest on the Tiruchi - Pudukottai - Karaikudi stretch. Electric poles were installed on the entire stretch from Tiruchi to Pudukottai and wiring works connecting the masts were also on. However, the pace of the project had now got reduced. The project was being carried out with available labourers. The CORE had initially planned to complete the overhead electrification works on the Tiruchi - Pudukottai stretch by June. However, in view of the present scenario the completion of entire works up to Pudukottai was likely to get delayed by a month. The works were expected to get over in July, the sources added. The CORE was simultaneously carrying out electrification works on the Pudukottai - Karaikudi stretch. Nearly 50 % of the mast installation works on this stretch had been completed so far, said the sources and added that the entire works up to Karaikudi from Pudukottai were likely to get over in three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-may-delay-railway-electrification-project/article34619321.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||4,723 new cases in central districts||The central region reported 4,723 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. As many as 52 deaths were reported, the highest extent of casualties witnessed in the region so far. Nagapattinam reported 16 deaths. Tiruchi too reported a high number- 15 deaths. Thanjavur reported 10 deaths, while Karur reported eight. One death each was reported in Perambalur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur. As many as 1,331 patients reported COVID-19 positive on Friday. Thanjavur district reported 824 patients testing positive, while Tiruvarur recorded 731. Due to the increased admissions, the availability of ICU beds and oxygen-support beds declined over the last few days. On Friday, only 18 ICU beds and 42 oxygen-support beds were available in Tiruchi, and 30 ICU and 119 oxygen beds in Thanjavur. In Nagapattinam, 585 fresh cases were reported. In Pudukottai, a slight spike was reported with 423 fresh cases. Karur recorded 344 fresh cases, while similar trends were also reported in Ariyalur and Perambalur, with 283 and 202 fresh cases respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4723-new-cases-in-central-districts/article34619320.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Psychologists extend support to COVID-19 patients||A year after Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital initiated tele-counselling for COVID-19 patients, there have been nearly 15,000 beneficiaries. A team of psychologists attends the phone calls and address the needs of the patients admitted to the hospital, officials said. At the Department of Psychiatry in the MGMGH, a team of five to six doctors make calls to patients who have been admitted at the GH, COVID positive patients, recovered patients and those with suspected COVID-19. “We call positive patients thrice a week. Similarly, we also call patients who have been discharged as a follow-up 15 days later, a psychiatrist in the team said. The calls address three important things – anxiety, phobia and loneliness. "The patients will need to give their basic details, including their health condition, which ward they are admitted to etc. In this initial round, we enquire about their food intake, if they are sleeping well, and if they have any complaints," Niranjana Devi, Head of Department of Psychiatry, MGMGH said. From April 2020 to December 2020, 9,744 calls were made and from January to May 2021, 6,652. Between April 1, 2021, to May 20, 2021, 2,841 calls were made in the last two months. The work is in coordination with the general physicians and the specialists at the isolation wards. “We convey any physical distress to the doctors and they, in turn, let us know if any patient requires help,” the psychiatrist said. To reach the Department of Psychiatry, citizens can call 0431 – 2771465 with the extension number 714. Except for a handful of patients, not too many patients have been in severe distress, Dr. Niranjana said. "Only this year have we reported some cases of hypoxia. Last year it was negligible," she said. Patients too have been cooperative, Dr. Niranjana said. "We had only one patient who argued and fought with the doctors. Most patients listen to the doctor's instructions and follow them properly," she said. While healthcare workers at the hospital have not been given any group counselling, they have been instructed to contact the Department of Psychiatry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/psychologists-extend-support-to-covid-19-patients/article34619314.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Crackdown on motorists for lockdown violations||Continuing their drive against those found flouting rules during the lockdown period, law-enforcers in Perambalur and Karur districts seized over 300 vehicles - a vast majority of them being two-wheelers after the riders were found roaming in public places without any genuine reason on Friday. A total number of 260 cases were booked against two-wheeler riders and four other cases against four-wheelers in Karur district. All the vehicles were confiscated by the police which had been conducting intensive vehicle checks across Karur district in an effort to contain the spread of COVID-19. Cases were also booked against those found not wearing masks in public places and for failing to ensure personal distancing. A police press release said the number of cases booked against those found roaming on vehicles in public places without any genuine reason in Karur district was around 1,377 from April 24 to May 21. The release further said stern action as per law would be taken against those found roaming in public places without any bonafide reason during the lockdown period. In Perambalur district, the police seized a total number of 71 two-wheelers on Friday after the riders were found roaming in public places in violation of the lockdown rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crackdown-on-motorists-for-lockdown-violations/article34619323.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.84 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,907 cusecs and the discharge 2,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34619325.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 872.45-crore river linking project to be completed soon||The linking of Tamirabharani – Karumeniyar – Nambiyar, being executed on an outlay of Rs. 872.45 crore to take the surplus waters to the southern regions of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts by digging a 73-km-long flood carrier channel, will be completed before the northeast monsoon, Assembly Speaker M. Appavu has said. Speaking to reporters here on Friday after inspecting the fourth phase of the river-linking project at Ponnakudi, Perumal Nagar, Munanjipatti and a few more areas on Friday, he said the fourth phase of the project started in August last year and would be completed before the northeast monsoon (October-end). About 80% of the work, which was started in 2008 – 2009, had been completed. Since two bridges across the Tirunelveli - Kanniyakumari highway at Ponnakudi and a rail overbridge nearby had to be built as part of this project, tenders worth Rs. 15 crore had been floated. “Even as the final stage works in the tail-end regions of this project is expedited, construction of these two bridges will begin shortly so that the flood carrier channel will be ready for take the surplus water of the Tamirabharani,” Mr. Appavu said. Cost of delay Though the project outlay was pegged at Rs. 369 crore in 2009, the delay jacked it up to Rs. 872.45 crore. Those who had given land for the project would get the compensation without any delay, he said. Tirunelveli MP S. Gnana Thiraviam, Nanguneri MLA Ruby R. Manoharan and Southern Railways and Public Works Department officials accompanied him. The project envisages diversion of surplus waters of the Tamirabharani from Kannadiyan Channel at Vellankuzhi near Cheranmahadevi in Tirunelveli district up to M.L. Theri near Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. Now, 13,758 million cubic feet Tamirabharani water is being emptied into the Gulf of Mannar every year as there is no reservoir downstream of Srivaikundam dam, the last check dam across the river, to store the flood waters. The plan to link Tamirabharani, Karumaniyar and Nambiyar was mooted to divert at least 2,765 million cubic feet water of this 13,758 mcft to dry regions. When the three rivers are linked, 33,298.07 acres of lands in Palayamkottai, Nanguneri and Radhapuram Assembly segments and 23,610.73 acres of lands in Srivaikundam Assembly constituency in Thoothukudi district will get water for irrigation. In other words, 32 villages in Tirunelveli district and 18 hamlets in Thoothukudi district will get immensely benefited. Moreover, the water flowing in the channel will recharge water level in 252 ponds and 5,220 wells en route.  For parched lands   It starts from Vellankuzhi near Cheranmahadevi and ends at M.L. Theri near Sattankulam 33,298.07 acres of lands in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts will get water for irrigation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-87245-crore-river-linking-project-to-be-completed-soon/article34619300.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed as lorry overturns||Two persons were killed and at least nine others injured when a lorry carrying steel channels and the workers of TANGEDCO overturned in the Western Ghats beyond Manimuthar Dam on Friday night. Police said the lorry which was coming from the TANGEDCO’s station in Upper Gothaiyar beyond Kuthraivetti in the Western Ghats, with a few workers and steel channels on Friday night, overturned in a turning. As the steel channels fell on them, 9 persons sustained injuries and two of them died on the spot. The identity of the deceased and the injured were not available immediately. The injured were taken to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-as-lorry-overturns/article34619303.ece
22 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Appoint ASHA workers for COVID-19 works: Tiruppur MP||Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan wrote to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday suggesting that the State government must appoint Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers in COVID-19 preventive measures to increase the number of healthcare workers. In the letter, he said that around 2,700 ASHA workers and their supervisors were currently present in the rural parts of the State, who could be appointed by the State government as nurses or in other positions as per their educational qualification on a permanent basis. Mr. Subbarayan also urged improving the infrastructure and appointing additional personnel at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital “on a war footing.” With COVID-19 cases rising in Tiruppur district, he said the Corporation must reach out to the residents in all 60 wards to prevent the further spread of the virus and to decongest the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. The MP also alleged in his letter that private hospitals across the State continued to fleece COVID-19 patients and recommended that the government must take over the administration of private hospitals “at least temporarily” considering the situation in the State due to the pandemic’s second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appoint-asha-workers-for-covid-19-works-tiruppur-mp/article34619194.ece
22 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Officials crack down on alleged bribery for burial||Following reports of alleged bribery for burying the bodies of those who died of COVID-19 near Udumalpet, Revenue Department officials on Friday initiated a crackdown against those involved. Sources in the Revenue Department said that a man who owned an earth mover allegedly demanded Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 10,000 to bury the bodies of COVID-19 patients in Kanakkampalayam near Udumalpet. Following investigations by the Revenue Divisional Officer, the Village Administrative Officer of Kanakkampalayam lodged a complaint at Udumalpet police station on Friday seeking action against the accused. Police sources said that a case would be registered after due investigation into the matter. Arrangements were made for the public to bury the bodies in an alternative location in Kanakkampalayam, the sources added. Meanwhile, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan told The Hindu on Friday that all Revenue Divisional Officers along with Tiruppur District Police had been instructed to initiate action on complaints of bribery for the last rites of COVID-19 patients. People can alert officials through COVID-19 district helpline 1077 and 0421-2971133/99, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-crack-down-on-alleged-bribery-for-burial/article34619198.ece
22 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ooty flower show to be virtual event due to COVID-19||For the second consecutive year, the annual flower show held at the Government Botanical Garden in The Nilgiris will be a virtual flower show, with people being allowed to view the floral arrangements online. The flower show, the marquee event of the annual summer festival, draws lakhs of tourists to the district each year. The show has been cancelled for the second consecutive year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, floral arrangements have been made at the garden and videos of the arrangements have been uploaded to video-streaming platforms. No visitors will be allowed into the garden due to the pandemic. On Friday, Forest Minister and Coonoor MLA, K. Ramachandran inaugurated the virtual flower show. According to officials from the Department of Horticulture, the biggest and most significant floral arrangement this year features a message promoting vaccination against COVID-19. Sivasubramaniam Samraj, Joint Director of Horticulture, Nilgiris district, said that he hoped that people will see the floral arrangement, made with arranging thousands of flowering plants. “We wanted to emphasise the message that only through vaccination can we fight the pandemic and hope to return to some semblance of normalcy. Hopefully, everyone will get vaccinated and we can organise the annual flower show and allow visitors from next year onwards,” he said. More than 25,000 plants have been arranged with more than five lakh flowers this year at the garden. The plants include liliums, dahlias, delphiniums, salvia, daisies, violas, varieties of verbena, asters petunias and a variety of other colourful, flowering plants. Also present at the inaugural were Ooty MLA, R. Ganesh, Gudalur MLA, Pon Jeyaseelan, and Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ooty-flower-show-to-be-virtual-event-due-to-covid-19/article34618916.ece
22 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Three injured in clash over fishing rights||Two groups of people from different villages clashed in which three persons of a family, including a woman, were injured in Tiruchuli in Virudhunagar district on Friday. Police said that B. Gnanasekaran, 28, his brother Senthil Kumar, 25, and their mother Pandiammal, 46, of Ambaneri were fishing in the village tank on Friday morning. The leasee who had fishing rights had stopped rearing fish on the tank owned by the Public Works Department. Later, villagers from neighbouring Semponnerinchi, belonging to a different community, also came to catch fish there. When Gnanasekaran objected to this, the other group claimed rights as they too had agricultural land irrigated by the same tank. A wordy quarrel worsened and the woman and his two sons were beaten up. While Gnanasekaran was admitted to the Government hospital in Tiruchuli, others were treated as outpatients. Police are on the lookout for K. Ukkirapandi and others for the assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-injured-in-clash-over-fishing-rights/article34619295.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination for 18-44 age group yet to commence in Coimbatore||A day after Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurated the COVID-19 vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group in the State, the vaccination slots for this age group remained closed in Coimbatore district on Friday. Sources in the Health Department here said that they have been awaiting instructions from the State government to allow beneficiaries of the 18-44 age group for vaccination. The reason for the delay was not clear. As of Friday, Coimbatore district had 48,000 doses of Covishield and 7,000 doses of Covaxin in stock, according to the sources. More centres The Health Department has proposed setting up 10 government vaccination centres for Coimbatore district, including five centres in Coimbatore Corporation limits and the remaining in Thondamuthur, Sulur, Pollachi, Periyanaickenpalayam and Mettupalayam. These might be revised based on requirement and has not been finalised as of Friday, the sources noted. Pvt. hospitals to directly procure vaccines Under the initiative of the Tamil Nadu State branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to procure the Covishield vaccine directly from the Serum Institute of India in Pune, around 50 private hospitals in Coimbatore district are likely to receive vaccine doses, said president of IMA – Coimbatore branch, V. Rajesh Babu. As of Friday, nearly 150 private hospitals across the State have registered through the IMA State branch to receive the vaccine doses from SII directly after paying the amount as per their requirement, he said. “For the past 20 days, [private hospitals] were not able to get the vaccines [from State government],” Dr. Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-yet-to-commence-in-coimbatore/article34619180.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 3,243 cases||Coimbatore district reported 3,243 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, which took the overall tally to 1,31,744. The Health Department said that 25 more persons died of the disease, which took the district’s toll to 967. A total of 29,345 patients were active cases. While 1,01,432 patients recovered from COVID-19 in total, 2,244 of them were discharged on Friday. Coimbatore district had 458 vacant beds (34 oxygen, 419 non-oxygen and five ICU beds) in government and private hospitals and 470 vacant beds in COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) as of Friday. Tiruppur reported its highest single-day caseload with 1,796 new cases on Friday, which took the overall tally to 44,000. The district reported 10 deaths between May 15 and May 20 as the toll touched 300. The number of active cases breached the 10,000-mark as 10,132 patients were undergoing treatment for COVID-19. No oxygen or ICU beds were reported vacant in the government and private hospitals in Tiruppur district as only 79 non-oxygen beds were vacant. As many as 921 beds were vacant at CCCs, according to the Health Department. In the Nilgiris, 357 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 14,429. The toll stood at 67 on Friday while 2,702 people are undergoing treatment. Erode reported 1,656 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 40,254. While 812 persons were discharged, 9,722 persons continue to be under treatment. Eleven persons died, raising the toll to 226. As many as 725 positive cases were reported in Salem, of which 307 were reported in the Corporation limits. Nallathambi (54), a television journalist from Edappadi succumbed to the disease on Friday. He was undergoing treatment for the disease from May 18 at the Edappadi government hospital. He was shifted to a private hospital and died on Friday. The district reported 13 deaths. In Namakkal, 405 cases and eight deaths were reported. Krishnagiri saw 739 fresh cases and three deaths on Friday. The number of active cases stood at 7,444. A total of 26,455 cases were reported in the district so far. Dharmapuri reported 387 fresh cases and two deaths. There were 2,793 active cases. As of date, a total 15,113 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-3243-cases/article34619196.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin hints at extension of lockdown in Tamil Nadu||Mr. Stalin, however, said there were some issues in vaccine supply to the State. There was a mismatch between demand and supply. Steps were being taken to increase the supply. DMK parliamentary party leader T.R. Balu had met the Union Ministers concerned in New Delhi and presented memoranda seeking an increase in oxygen and vaccine supplies to the State. On oxygen shortage at various hospitals, Mr. Stalin said that when he assumed office on May 7, there was a severe shortage. He received a number of calls at midnight. About 100 ambulances carrying patients lined up at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai for oxygen beds. The number had been brought down to three or four. The State required 470 metric tonnes of oxygen a day. The units in the State produced 400 metric tonnes a day. The shortage of 70 tonnes was being managed with gas sourced from Odisha and other States. The issue would be sorted out within three days. Mr. Stalin was here to open a COVID Care Centre on the premises of the National Institute of Technology. He came to Tiruchi after inspecting pandemic management in Coimbatore, Tirupur, and Madurai. He inspected the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. He inaugurated 200 oxygen beds at a COVID-19 centre on the campus of the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur, near Madurai.  There is a mismatch between the demand and supply of vaccines in the State. Steps are being taken to increase their supply M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-hints-at-extension-of-lockdown-in-tamil-nadu/article34618886.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Summer special||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/summer-special/article34619328.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not many takers for oxygenated beds in CCCs||A fortnight ago, 27-year-old Padmavathi, who had COVID-19, found herself struggling to breathe late at night. Her blood oxygen saturation levels had dropped, but she could not find a hospital bed. “I was referred by a friend to a COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) run by the BBMP where oxygen concentrators were available. I walked in and was administered oxygen, and taken good care of. The next day, I got a bed in a hospital,” she said. Padmavathi was in the ICU for a week, recovered, and was discharged recently. “It was timely care and oxygen given at the CCC that saved my life,” she recounted with gratitude. However, even while people are desperately seeking admission in hospitals, a large number of oxygenated beds at the civic body’s CCCs remain unoccupied. Of the 1,000-odd oxygenated beds at 49 CCCs and triage centres, more than 700 were vacant on Friday evening. This is in line with the low occupancy rate at CCCs, which is just over 30%. Most of these beds come with oxygen concentrators – a critical emergency resource for patients whose oxygen levels are dipping even while they are searching for a bed in a hospital. In cases where the infection is mild, patients using them can make a full recovery without the need for hospitalisation. Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in charge of CCCs, said people were not aware of this infrastructure. However, the number of walk-ins with requests for oxygenated beds has improved after the recent publicity given to these centres in the media, and appeals by the BBMP. “Walk-ins are allowed at these centres,” Mr. Khan reiterated. Easy hospital admission The larger problem with the CCCs and triage centres was that patients admitted at these centres are not given preference over new patients in allotment of hospital beds should their condition worsen. However,the BBMP is in the process of fixing that. “Once a patient is admitted to a CCC, their health will be the responsibility of the civic body,” he said. Each CCC is now being tagged with a nearby hospital for beds and a diagnostic lab for further tests like chest CT scans. “We are now working towards reserving beds for those admitted to our CCCs, in case escalation in treatment is needed. These beds will likely be removed from the BBMP bed allocation pool,” Mr. Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-many-takers-for-oxygenated-beds-in-cccs/article34618829.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Put exams on hold, start new semester’||With the academic schedule for colleges and universities thrown out of gear owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan has said that educational institutions should begin online classes for the next semester with immediate effect. A circular to this effect was issued on Friday. Those universities and colleges that have not completed odd semester examinations of undergraduate (UG) programmes should also continue online classes for even semesters (2nd, 4th, 6th, and 8th) as there is a carry-over system in most of the programmes, said Dr. Narayan in a press release on Friday. The examination for odd semesters can be kept on hold and conducted once the number of COVID-19 cases drop. In some courses such as engineering, where there are some restrictions on the carry-over system, the Minister has directed the Vice-Chancellors/Principals to work out the details in consultation with the Karnataka State Higher Education Council. However, in universities where odd semester classes are not completed, online classes should be conducted. If the COVID-19 situation does not allow the conduct of the examination, universities should start even semester classes immediately after completion of odd semester classes, stated the release. The decision on when classes can resume on campus will be taken once the pandemic situation eases. While the same direction will apply to postgraduate programmes as well, admission to first semester courses has been delayed inmost universities and colleges as final year UG examinations have not been conducted. However, private universities have finished conducting exams for students in final year undergraduate courses. Students, faculty upset The move has irked students and faculty members who are unsure if they should continue to study for the old or the new semester. “We are stuck in a horrible situation as we also have to study for the old semester examination that can be announced any time. It is utter chaos,” said a second year B.A. student of a government college in Bengaluru. The Vice-Chancellor of a State-run university acknowledged the problems that students would face but said they had no option but to continue with online classes for the next semester.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/put-exams-on-hold-start-new-semester/article34618854.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 20% of total vaccine doses given in Bengaluru||Although Karnataka is one of the few States that has administered more than one crore doses of vaccine to various categories of beneficiaries so far, there is a considerable gap between urban and rural areas. Till Thursday (May 20), the State administered 1,17,94,907 doses. This includes 92,23,948 first doses and 25,70,959 second doses. Over 20% of the total doses have been administered in Bengaluru. This includes 18.73% in BBMP areas apart from 2.75% in Bengaluru Urban limits. This is followed by Mysuru, where 7.05% of the total doses have been administered. Kodagu and Yadgir have seen the lowest with 1.07% and 1.4% of doses administered respectively. According to an analysis by The Hindu ’s data team, while Bengaluru Urban has seen 26.4 doses administered per 100 persons till May 20, districts in the rest of Karnataka have seen 18 doses per 100 persons. This disparity is more pronounced in administering the second dose. While 6.59 doses have been administered per 100 persons in Bengaluru Urban, it is 3.77 in other districts. While vaccination was initially allowed only on prior registration on the CoWIN portal, the government allowed walk-in registrations subsequently. However, following shortage of vaccines, the clause of prior registration is again being followed in almost all vaccination sites, except in some private hospitals. Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who is also the head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, attributed the poor response in rural areas mainly to the digital divide between urban and rural areas and lack of microplanning. “We need detailed microplanning, a plan for social mobilisation, and allaying misconceptions. It is unfortunate that we have not done enough microplanning before starting the drive to ensure no area is deprived of the benefits of vaccination,” Dr. Babu said. Referring to prior registrations on CoWIN portal being made mandatory, Dr. Babu said: “Although people have smartphones now, most do not know how to register on the portal. Only a small proportion of the privileged will end up getting vaccinated,” he said, adding that walk-in registrations should be the norm.  C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said: “With the surge now shifting from Bengaluru Urban to the districts, intensifying the drive in districts has become all the more important. With more deaths being reported from districts other than Bengaluru now, people should be sensitised and the drive should be further intensified there,” he said, emphasising the need for uninterrupted supply. However, V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation for SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, argued that the distribution of vaccines in districts has been equitable so far based on the population. “Bengaluru is the most populous city with one-sixth of the State’s population. With the density of infection high here, the distribution of vaccines is also obviously high here. However, the clause of vaccination only with pre-registration is a hindrance in rural areas,” added Dr. Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-20-of-total-vaccine-doses-given-in-bengaluru/article34618838.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power cuts: Patients on tenterhooks||The power supply in Karnataka, more so in capital Bengaluru, has been constant fodder for humour; its unreliability inspiring memes and witty one-liners. This increased last year when lakhs of employees were forced to work from home and were at their wits end whenever there were unscheduled power outages. But now, it’s more than just a minor inconvenience. With the State government admitting that a ferocious second wave of COVID-19 has seen an unprecedented number of people dependent on oxygen, intermittent power supply has led to people appealing to Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) and sending out SOS messages on Twitter. On Tuesday, a resident tweeted that while he experienced power failure at 6 p.m., he was able to connect to customer care only by 4 a.m. on Wednesday. “It is pathetic. Bescom should understand that there are many homes which may need power for medical support reasons during COVID-19,” he tweeted. A resident of Indiranagar also appealed to Bescom on social media as he had a patient at home who was dependent on an oxygen concentrator. There have been many such calls to attend to repairs with urgency, especially among people who are dependent on oxygen. In frustration, people are reaching out to MPs and MLAs for help. A resident of Bilekahalli urged the government to sensitise Bescom about this. “It’s a request not to stop power supply as there are people with oxygen concentrators and it is a very very risky situation,” said one Twitter user. Earlier this month, COVID-19 patients in some areas of Subramanyanagar had a harrowing time after a 90-minute power outage. While most people appeared to have received responses on Twitter, ever since the Bescom helpline number 1912 was deployed to be used for COVID-19, there have been complaints of difficulty in getting through with regard to power issues. Now, with rains already setting in and the countdown to the monsoon beginning, people are seeking a resolution. A resident of Whitefield took to Twitter to complain about the lack of response from the helpline despite a 12-hour power cut. “I tried to contact BESCOM1912 customer care but I didn’t get any response. May I know the reason why it’s happening?” he asked. While Bescom managing director M.B. Rajesh Gowda was unavailable for comment, another senior Bescom official defended the grievance redressal system, saying the 1912 helpline was only jammed in case of heavy rain. “The line may get jammed because of the rain. But the calls are transferred to the respective zones. COVID-19 duties are not affecting the helpline functioning as 60 people are taking calls for COVID-19 and 30 for Bescom,” said the official, adding that people could reach out to Bescom on other avenues such as social media or SMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-cuts-patients-on-tenterhooks/article34618831.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP turns to trash booms to prevent flooding in SWDs||The recent spate of rains has residents worried not just about power cuts but also flooding and health hazard posed by stagnant water. One of the main reasons for flooding is stormwater drains clogged with garbage that obstructs flow of water. To combat this, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is looking to install trash booms, which are barriers to collect garbage and debris to prevent them from obstructing the flow of water. A Germany-based social enterprise has come forward to install trash booms and trash blocks in 30 different locations in the Vrishabhavathi Valley free of cost. According to BBMP Chief Engineer (Stormwater Drains) Prahlad B.N., two trash booms were installed at Cholurpalya and Chalukyanagar in Govindarajanagar earlier in May. “The social enterprise, Plastic Fischer, is conducting a survey to identify 28 other locations,” he said, and added that the objective, apart from enabling free flow of water in drains, was also to prevent garbage, particularly plastic, from entering rivers. According to Harish Shenoy from Plastic Fischer, the company uses low-tech solutions, focusing on tributaries, to prevent plastic from entering rivers and eventually the oceans. The low-tech solutions have been implemented in Indonesia, Vietnam, and in Varanasi in India. “In Varanasi, three trash booms are operational in different tributaries of the Ganga, and six more will be operational in June,” he said. Explaining how it works, Mr. Shenoy said plastic waste is collected, and sorted into recyclables and non-recyclables. The recyclables are sold while the non-recyclables are incinerated .  Mr. Prahlad said that the civic body would check the efficacy of the low-tech solution before taking a call on implementing it across major choke points in the city’s stormwater drain network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-turns-to-trash-booms-to-prevent-flooding-in-swds/article34618824.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic body sacks doctor||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has terminated the services of Dr. M.K. Pushpita, who was arrested for allegedly stealing Covishield vaccine from Manjunath Nagar Primary Health Centre, where she was deputed. She stored the vials in her friend Prema’s house, where she also administered the vaccine to citizens for Rs. 500 per shot. Dr. Pushpita had been recruited on contract basis under the Union government’s National Health Mission Scheme. She’s not the only doctor who was caught for malpractice. A doctor, Ajaykumar Yadav, working in Maruti Hospital in Bagalur, was allegedly trying to sell Remdesivir, which is used in the treatment of COVID-19, in the black market. The police recovered several vials of the drug from the doctor. According to sources, he was selling each vial for Rs. 11,000, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-sacks-doctor/article34618827.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Will move privilege motion: Siddaramaiah||Miffed with denial of permission to hold meetings with Deputy Commissioners on COVID-19-related issues, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday said he would move a breach of privilege motion against the State government during the coming session of the Legislative Assembly, for curtailing his rights to seek information. Speaking to reporters at the party office after participating in the death anniversary of the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, Mr. Siddaramaiah said he had planned to obtaininformation through videoconferences on availability of beds, ventilators, ICU beds, oxygen supply, and other medical equipment in district hospitals for providing treatment for COVID-19 patients. Leader of the Opposition is a Constitutional post and by denying permission to seek information, the government has breached his privileges, he argued. “Is this democracy?” he asked. In 2009, the then BJP government too had denied permission to hold meetings with the Deputy Commissioners, he said. The Congress leader claimed that he had written 12 letters to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking details on the management of the pandemic, but he had not received any reply. Like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Yediyurappa had decided not to reply to letters written by Opposition leaders, he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah claimed discriminatory treatment was being meted out to Karnataka by the Centre. While announcing Rs. 1,000 crore compensation to cyclone-hit Gujarat, Mr. Modi had “not promised a paisa” to Karnataka, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-move-privilege-motion-siddaramaiah/article34618845.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medical literary conference||With many doctors and healthcare workers experiencing high levels of stress and burn out during the second wave of COVID-19, the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) is organising a ‘Kannada Medical Literary Conference’ (Kannada Vydyakeeya Sahitya Sammelana) this weekend to help them relax and take a break. At a press conference on Friday, S. Sacchidanand Vice Chancellor RGUHS said they have asked medical and nursing colleges in the State to encourage their staff to participate in the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-literary-conference/article34618832.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 96 new double mutant cases||The State on Friday recorded 96 new double mutant (B.1.617) cases taking the total number of cases with this strain to 244. This is apart from the 109 U.K. strain and six South African strain cases reported so far. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, told The Hindu that 82.9% of the new variant cases are from Bengaluru Urban. “Of the total 359 new variant cases in Karnataka, 11.5% are U.K. variant, 0.6% South Africa, and 10% B.1.617 more popularly known as double mutant. The double mutant has two groups – B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 – and the latter group is spreading at a rapid pace contributing over 16% of the total new variants in Bengaluru,” he said. This variant is slowly taking over and replacing other circulating strains in many of the Southern States in the past four weeks. It is one of the main reasons for the ongoing surge in Karnataka, he said. Detected first in India, the double mutant COVID-19 variant B.1.617 has been reported in 44 countries now. World Health Organisation has declared it as a Variant of Concern. Meanwhile, Karnataka on Friday reported 32,218 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 23,67,742. Of these, 9,591 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 353 deaths, the toll rose to 24,207. This is apart from 20 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-96-new-double-mutant-cases/article34618835.ece
22 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Greens in Malnad region recall Bahuguna’s visit||Environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna of ‘Chipko movement’ fame, who succumbed to COVID-19 on Friday, is fondly remembered by the people of Maland region. Mr. Bahuguna and his wife, Vimala Bahuguna, had visited Hassan in 2009, extending support to environmentalists fighting against the Gundia hydel power project in Sakleshpur taluk. Already in his 80s then, he had inspired youngsters to continue their fight against the project. He had also visited Ambuteertha, near Thirthahalli, in January 2005 to inaugurate a march from Ambuteertha to Honnavar, organised by environmentalists to save the Sharavati. The State government, led by B.S. Yediyurappa, had announced the Gundia project despite protests by local people and environmentalists who argued that it could harm the Western Ghats, a biodiversity hotspot. Leaders of Malnad Janapra Horata Vedike, who were protesting against the project, contacted Mr. Bahuguna and sought his support for their struggle. “We contacted him through Panduranga Hegde, who had led the ‘Appiko’ movement in Karnataka. He visited Hassan and then the proposed project site,” recalled Kishor Kumar, president of the vedike. Mr. Bahuguna was in Hassan on December 21, 2009, and addressed a gathering at Ambedkar Bhavan and later visited Gundia. “He had stressed the need for conserving nature and that man could never manufactureair, water, and soil. His words boosted our morale to continue our struggle against the project,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Bahuguna and his wife stayed at Mr. Kumar’s house at Hongadahalla, an idyllic village in Malnad, that day. “He liked the place very much and we enjoyed his company,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/greens-in-malnad-region-recall-bahugunas-visit/article34618853.ece
22 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Irate villagers stop forest officials from travelling amid lockdown||Residents of Santaveri in Chikkamagaluru taluk stopped vehicles of senior officers of the Forest Department on Thursday alleging that they were on the way to a guest house for a party, violating lockdown guidelines in the district. However, authorities have insisted that it was an official visit. Chikkamagaluru district administration has imposed stricter lockdown with effect from Thursday. Additional Chief Secretary Sandeep Dave, PCCF Sanjai Mohan, and other senior officers were on their way to an anti-poaching camp near Santaverion Thursday afternoon when they were stopped. As the convoy entered the village, the villagers stopped them and asked them to return. They argued that the number of COVID-19 cases was on the rise in the locality and entry of people from outside the district had been restricted. When common people had been stopped from holding any events, how could officers gather in big numbers, they wanted to know. They maintained that one could understand if a couple of senior officers travelled by one or two vehicles for any official purpose. But the long convoy prompted them to doubt their intention. The officers, who could not convince the villagers, returned from the place. The officers on the visit included the Conservator of Forests (Chikkamagaluru Circle) Sunil Panwar, and Director of Bhadra Tiger Reserve Takat Singh Ranawat and subordinate staff. Mr. Sunil Panwar, speaking to The Hindu over phone, said it was an official inspection by senior officers and the villagers mistook it. “The ACS and other officers were on a three-day official visit to Chikkamagaluru. They were here to inspect conservation reserve project areas of Mullayyanagiri and Kemmangundi,” he said. On the first day, the officers visited Mullayyanagiri and stayed at the forest guest house at Seegekhan in Bhadra wildlife area. On the second day, they had planned to reach an anti-poaching camp located near Santaveri by vehicleand from there walk up to Kemmangundi, which is about 5-6 km, as part of the inspection. “As the villagers stopped our vehicles, we took an alternative route to reach Kemmangundi. The plan to walk was dropped,” Mr. Panwar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/irate-villagers-stop-forest-officials-from-travelling-amid-lockdown/article34618847.ece
22 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan sees eight more deaths, 1,448 fresh cases||Hassan reported eight more deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,448 fresh cases of the infection on Friday. With that, the number of deaths increased to 891 and the total number of cases to 70,309. Of the fatalities, three are from Hassan taluk, two from Holenarasipur taluk, and one each from Sakleshpur, Arsikere, and Channarayapatna taluks. So far 55,035 have recovered from infection and 14,375 are under treatment. Among them, 130 are in the intensive care units. Of the fresh cases 476 are from Hassan taluk, 235 from Belur, 195 from Arsikere, 150 from Channarayapatna, 119 from Arkalgud, 117 from Sakleshpur, 98 from Holenarasipur, 57 from Alur, and one more from outside the district, said a bulletin issued by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-sees-eight-more-deaths-1448-fresh-cases/article34618908.ece
22 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Additional CCCs will be set up, if necessary’||Deputy Commissioner of Gadag M. Sundareshbabu has directed officials to set up additional COVID Care Centres (CCCs) in the district if necessary and make requisite arrangements for timely and required treatment for positive patients. Chairing the review meeting on COVID-19 control with taluk officials through videoconference in Gadag recently, he emphasised the need for strict implementation of guidelines and other requisite measures to curb the spread. He specifically asked the officials on the need for shifting positive patients from villages to the nearest COVID Care Centres. The Deputy Commissioner asked them to identify various hospitals under departments of Social Welfare, Backward Classes and Minority for conversion into care centres. Block education officers had been appointed as nodal officers for monitoring these centres, he said. Highlighting the need for continuous monitoring and inspection of the centres for checking availability of medicines and attending to treatment issues, he said involvement of Panchayat Development Officers, village accountants, ASHAs, and anganwadi workers was crucial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-cccs-will-be-set-up-if-necessary/article34618909.ece
22 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad DC’s appeal to public||After having announced a complete weekend lockdown, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil on Friday appealed to the public to strictly adhere to the guidelines to make the lockdown successful. The complete lockdown has been announced from 6 a.m. on Saturday to 6 a.m. on Monday, barring essential services. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Patil said that time would be given from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday to purchase milk products, fruits, and vegetables only. Grocery stores and hotels will be closed and construction activities were barred. Only food processing units, those dealing with perishable goods, and specific industries were permitted to operate apart from movement of transport goods, government vehicles, and those on COVID-19 duty, he said. To a query, he clarified that the farmers would be permitted to purchase seeds and fertilizer from shops nearer to their villages or hoblis within the permitted time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-dcs-appeal-to-public/article34618906.ece
22 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Residential hostel converted into CCC||As cases of COVID-19 continue to rise; the Kalaburagi district administration has transformed the 500-bed girls residential hostel into a COVID Care Centre of the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). District Health Officer Sharanabasappa Ganjelkhed, on Friday, inspected the hostel building which was lying vacant due to the closure of these academies., He said that at present 50 beds were utilised for the centre and it would be increased depending on the admission of patients. The necessary infrastructure, manpower, and oxygen generating units have been provided at the centre. Asumptomatic patients isolating at homes and those with mild symptoms will be admitted at this centre. “At present, we have 36 oxygen concentrators. A pharmacist has been assigned at the centre. An ambulance has been provided to shift the patients to hospitals during critical conditions. Three doctors, six staff nurse, and six Group D employees will be working in three shifts,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residential-hostel-converted-into-ccc/article34618898.ece
22 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police officers’ postings||Manish Kharbikar, Inspector-General of Police (North Eastern Range), has been placed in concurrent charge as Inspector-General of Police, Ballari Range, with immediate effect. Meanwhile, Kalaburagi Police Commissioner N. Satish Kumar has been transferred as Inspector-General of Police, (Northern Range) Belagavi, until further orders. Y.S. Ravi Kumar, Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Recruitment), Bengaluru, has been posted as Deputy Inspector-General and Commissioner of Police Kalaburagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-officers-postings/article34618899.ece
22 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Give priority to vaccinate those returning to West Asia for work’||Several non-resident Indians in Dubai, Bahrain, and Kuwait on Friday asked the State government to give priority for vaccinating people from Karnataka who are returning to work in West Asia.  They said this during ‘Samanvaya’, a webnair interaction of NRIs with Mangaluru Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar. Praveen Shetty, the president of NRI Association from United Arab Emirates (UAE), said by June the U.A.E and other countries in West Asia will start allowing people back. Karnataka has second highest number of expatriates from West Asia and many of them are from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. Mr. Shetty said the countries will allow those with resident visas and those who have taken both doses of vaccine. “We urge the government to give priority for vaccinating expatriates,” he said. Mansoor, a resident of Bahrain, said those going to Saudi Arabia and other places travel through Bahrain. Nearly 2,000 people are stranded in Bahrain as they have not taken vaccine. Surendra, a doctor from Kuwait, said apart from vaccination, these expatriates should also be made to carry rapid testing kit for COVID-19. Mr. Kumar said he will place suggestion made by the NRIs before Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. When Hidayat, who is associated with a welfare organisation in the U.A.E, asked how the city police helpline [9480802300] will be helpful for NRIs, Mr. Kumar said the city police will help in reaching out to people in distress in the city that the NRIs point out. “We will pass on details to organisations and officials, who will address the concerns,” he said. To questions by Raj Bhandary from Kuwait, Ronald Lewis from Hong Kong, and Anjana Devi from Germany about action being taken against those spreading panic about COVID-19, Mr. Kumar said the social media cell of the city police was keeping a close watch and action was being taken. The social media handle of the city police is spreading positive information about COVID-19, he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar, Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner Madan Mohan, and Mangaluru City Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Administration) G. Santosh Kumar took part in the webnair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/give-priority-to-vaccinate-those-returning-to-west-asia-for-work/article34618905.ece
22 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Madhwaraj seeks bailout package for fishermen hit by COVID-19 restrictions||Former fisheries Minister Pramod Madhwaraj on Thursday alleged that the BJP that came to power in the State and at the Centre with the help of fishermen has ignored the community when it was hit hard by COVID-19. Notwithstanding whether the sops announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday would reach the targeted group, it was painful that a large proportion of vulnerable sections in society, including the fishermen, have been ignored, he said. Marine fishing has been the backbone of the three coastal districts and its woes have only amplified after the lockdown. ‘No subsidy’ Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Madhwaraj said fishermen have not received diesel subsidy since six months while it was K. Abhayachandra Jain, who as the fisheries Minister in the Siddaramaiah government had facilitated direct benefit transfer of subsidy. The COVID-19 restrictions have only amplified their woes, he said. The BJP had emotionally used the community to come to power. The governments instead have brought fishing gears under GST, he regretted. Ancillary industries depending upon marine fishing too was in distress with non-availability of raw material and bringing many products under the GST. Export subsidies too had been removed thereby affecting frozen fish industries, fish mills and others, he said. The situation of inland fishing sector and inland fishermen too was no different and in fact, poor fishermen were more affected compared to marine fishermen. The Congress government’s efforts to allocate the right of fishing in inland reservoirs to fishermen community was stalled through a court stay and the present government did not make any efforts to get the stay vacated, Mr. Madhwaraj said. Loan waiver Though the BJP government recently waived loans taken by fisherwomen, the benefit did not reach many. The rule that those availed loan waiver facility could not avail fresh loans was condemnable, he said. The Congress urges the government to rush to the rescue of fishermen by extending the loan repayment period by six months, immediately releasing subsidy, and offering them a package, he demanded. Mr. Jain, DK Youth Congress president Mithun Rai and others were present.  The Congress urges the government to rush to the rescue of fishermen by extending the loan repayment period by six months, immediately releasing subsidy, and offering them a package, said Former fisheries Minister Pramod Madhwaraj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/madhwaraj-seeks-bailout-package-for-fishermen-hit-by-covid-19-restrictions/article34618911.ece
22 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MCC: Take waste segregation at source seriously||With its continued appeal to segregate waste at source, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) on Friday asked people to take it seriously to contain the spread of COVID-19 to sanitary workers. Addressing presspersons, Mayor Premananda Shetty said that the Karnataka Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and the Mangaluru City Corporation Solid Waste Management Bylaws, 2018, made it mandatory to segregate waste at source. The corporation can impose fine up to Rs. 25,000 on those who failed to do so. It can also file criminal cases against such persons. People should not give scope for the civic body to resort to such extreme steps, and segregate waste at source on their own. The Mayor said that people should not mix used masks, gloves, and other sanitary/medical waste, especially now when the spread of COVID-19 is yet to come under full control. People should give medical/sanitary waste separately by wrapping it up in papers or in yellow colour bio-bags. Some sanitary workers at the waste processing unit of the corporation at Pachchanady have already contracted the infection. Many more are under the risk of getting COVID-19. Commissioner of the corporation, Akshy Sridhar, said that four sanitary workers have now contracted COVID-19 at Pachchanady unit. Mr. Sridhar said: “Leaving the rules apart, people should use their common sense. It is the duty of all to segregate waste at source and it is the need of the hour. It takes only a few minutes. Segregating waste at source is also a part of lifestyle change.” The Commissioner said that the civic body will give appreciation certificate as the ‘Best Practicer’ to those who did it seriously. If there are any complaints on solid waste manage people can complain by calling the toll free number 155313 or can send messages to the WhatsApp number 9449007722 with details. Mr. Sridhar said that if people handed over segregated waste, the landfill site disasters like in 2019 in Pachchanady could be avoided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-take-waste-segregation-at-source-seriously/article34618902.ece
22 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MCC launches mobile swab collecting teams||The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has formed mobile swab collection teams in the jurisdiction of each of 10 urban primary health centres in the city, according to Mayor Premananda Shetty. Addressing presspersons here on Friday, the Mayor said that the teams will collect the swabs of the primary contacts of COVID-19 patients and of those with COVID-19 symptoms from their doorstep. People can reach out to these teams by contacting the primary health centres of their area. In addition, if the services of those teams are required people can also call the toll free number of the corporation over 155313. The teams have already begun collecting the swabs, Mr. Shetty said. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar said that the ward-level task force committees have been constituted to identify the primary and secondary contacts and make them to undergo the swab test. In addition, nodal officers have been appointed for each ward. Mr. Sridhar said that to supervise the functioning of ward-level committees, nodal officers have been appointed for each of the urban primary health centres. The corporation has also begun pasting “this house is under observation” stickers on the houses of COVID-19 patients to prevent the spread of infection. The commissioner said that the civic body has also begun distributing ‘home isolation health kits’ to take care of the health of COVID-19 patients under home isolation. The civic body is also giving food to the poor in five Indira Canteens thrice a day. The response to the food distribution is good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-launches-mobile-swab-collecting-teams/article34618903.ece
22 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||1,719 new cases in DK. Udupi||Fourteen COVID-19 patients died and 1,719 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada on Friday. Seven patients died and 855 cases were reported in Udupi district. With 1,223 patients discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 5,960. In Dakshina Kannada, seven deaths and 864 cases were detected. With discharge of 1,166 patients, the active cases in the district stood at 10,398, said the Dakshina Kannada district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1719-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34618913.ece
22 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Former Speaker Krishna passes away||Krishna (80), former Speaker and three-time Krishnarajpet MLA, passed away at his residence in the city on Friday due to age- related illness. Born at Kothamaranahalli in Mandya district, Mr. Krishna studied law after completing his graduation from Maharaja’s College in Mysuru. He entered politics in 1978 and became a member of the taluk board at K.R. Pet and was closely associated with the then Janata Party.  In 1985 Known for his simplicity, Mr. Krishna was elected as an MLA from K.R. Pet constituency in 1985 and became Minister of Sericulture and Animal Husbandry in 1988 when S.R. Bommai was the Chief Minister. He was re-elected in 1994 but resigned from the post as he was elected as an MP from Mandya on the Janata Dal ticket in 1996. He returned to State politics and was fielded from K.R. Pet in the 1999 Assembly polls. He lost the election but was elected again from the same constituency in 2004. He was appointed Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, a post which he held till June 4, 2008. He left the Janata Dal (Secular) to join the Congress in later years but remained out of active politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-speaker-krishna-passes-away/article34618851.ece
22 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||The Chamarajanagar district administration has invited applications from NGOs, agencies, and companies to conduct the last rites of patients who succumb to COVID-19. A release said those interested can submit the application. The agency/NGO has to abide by the prevailing protocol and ensure either burial or cremation as per the wishes of the family members of the deceased. The last date for submitting the application is May 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article34618848.ece
22 May 2021||Rishikesh Bahadur Desai,KARNATAKA||Farmers complain of banks knocking on the door||While the government on Wednesday announced deferment of loan recovery, farmers associations have complained that banks and cooperative societies are already collecting farm loans and interest on them, despite the lockdown. Banks that have advanced farm loans and primary agriculture cooperative societies in the villages are issuing notices to farmers asking them to repay loans before May 29. Or else, they will be charged an annual interest at the rate of 12.5%. Farm loans are issued at zero per cent interest rate. If they are repaid before the scheduled period, farmers are expected to repay only the principal amount. Farmers say they are unable to repay loans in the background of rising fertilizer prices, and an unstable market for farm produce due to the lockdown. “Since 2019, we have not got remunerative prices for any of the crops, including cash crops such as sugarcane, oil seeds and tobacco, due to the lockdown. Before 2019, we were badly hit by the floods. We have no means to repay the loans, at least of now. Not even the large farmers will be able to repay the loans if the government demands them,” said Jayashree Gurannanavar, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader. “This is the plight of farmers across the State,” Sidagouda Modagi, Krishik Samaj leader, said. He warns that if the State government does not settle the issue this month, farmers will suffer as they will not be able to get fresh loans for the Kharif season. According to the district lead bank, 6.71 lakh farmers have taken loans of over Rs. 6,200 crore in Belagavi district. If the government charges 12.5 per cent interest on it, farmers will have to cough up Rs. 750 crore. Another issue bothering farmers is the limit of one beneficiary from one family under the interest waiver scheme on old farm loans. “I have three brothers who have lands in different survey numbers. But we live as a joint family with one ration card. The State government has mandated that only one survey number can be tagged with one ration card,” said Vinay Patil, a farmer from Ramdurg. Cooperative Department officers said they are yet to get any letter from the State government on loan repayment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-complain-of-banks-knocking-on-the-door/article34618900.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Villagers keen on jab, but vaccine in short supply||Nandur (B) Primary Health Centre (PHC), about 10 km from Kalaburagi, caters to a population of around 32,000 spread across 10 villages and hamlets around it. The cluster has so far reported 543 positive cases so far. Local health activists such as Yeshwantaraya Ashtagi say that the actual numbers are higher, given the proximity to Kalaburagi town. However, vaccination here is moving at a very slow pace in the PHC cluster, largely owing to short supply. As per medical officer Girijadevi, less than 1,200 people have been vaccinated and only 59 of them have got the second dose. “After the government announced the free vaccination for 18-plus age group, youth are increasingly turning up at the PHC centre and sub-centres at Kusnoor, Nandur (K), Khanadal and Nandikur. We are sending them back showing the government guidelines,” Dr. Girijadevi told The Hindu . The government has prioritised certain vulnerable groups within the 18-44 year age group. “Supply of vaccine is the biggest problem. Yesterday, I had to fight with my seniors to get two vaccine vials to vaccinate Gram Panchayat members. Earlier, people showed little interest in vaccination despite our week-long awareness programmes and persuasion. Now, people are increasingly coming to our PHC sub-centre and demanding vaccine and we are not able to vaccinate them,” Nagaraj Itagi, Junior Health Assistant attached to Kusnoor Health and Wellness Centre, said. Kusnoor village has reported 19 cases and two deaths (in a Kalaburagi hospital) in May alone and only 190 people were vaccinated as of Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villagers-keen-on-getting-jabs-but-vaccine-is-in-short-supply/article34618833.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Change in home isolation protocol||Based on the revised guidelines issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department, the BBMP has decided to shift COVID-19 patients, who are in home isolation or home quarantine, to COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) if they do not have the required facilities at home. A release from the BBMP stated that patients will be allowed to isolate themselves at home only if they have a separate room with good ventilation and access to a separate toilet. They should be able to isolate themselves from other family members, especially those with co-morbidities, heart or kidney ailments, cancer patients or people suffering from other serious illnesses. If home isolation does not meet these criteria, they will be shifted to CCCs. Health officials in the city have been asked to strictly follow the rules and take necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-in-home-isolation-protocol/article34618830.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rain expected on weekend||Yellow alert, indicating heavy rain, has been issued for certain parts of Karnataka for Saturday. While many districts across sub-divisions were given a similar warning for Friday till Saturday morning, all areas that have been warned about heavy rainfall on Saturday are in South Interior Karnataka, including Chikkamagalur, Hassan, Kodagu and Ramanagaram. On Friday, apart from these districts, yellow alert had been issued for Kolar, Mysuru, Chikkaballapura, Chamarajanagar, Bengaluru Urban and Rural, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts. India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) C.S. Patil said the major rainfall on Friday was in Kolar, Bhatkal, Dakshina Kannada, and Anekal (Bengaluru). “Till May 25, coastal Karnataka is expected to experience fairly widespread rains. North Interior Karnataka is expected to experience isolated rainfall, and South Interior Karnataka is very likely to experience fairly widespread rainfall till May 23. Thereafter, there is likely to be a temporary decrease in rainfall. Southern districts like Bengaluru Rural and Urban, Ramanagaram, Kolar, Chamarajanagar and hilly districts of South Interior Karnataka are very likely to experience very heavy rainfall, for which yellow alert has been issued for May 21 and 22,” he said. Bengaluru is likely to receive rain in the next two days, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-expected-on-weekend/article34618825.ece
22 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Minor ease in lockdown curbs||District Collector H. Dinesan has announced minor relaxations in lockdown curbs in the district. As per a new order, textile and jewellery shops are allowed to remain open for one hour daily with limited staff. However, only online and home delivery of items are allowed. Marriage parties are allowed to spend one hour in the shops. GST practitioners and institutions related to tax consultancy can function on Thursdays and Fridays. Works related to mobile connections can be done. All other curbs remain the same, said a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minor-ease-in-lockdown-curbs/article34619310.ece
22 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Two oxygen generator plants for Wayanad||The government has sanctioned Rs. 2.8 core to set up two oxygen generator plants, which operate on PSA (pressure swing absorption) technology, in Wayanad district. At Mananthavady The Kerala Medical Services Corporation would install one of the plants with a capacity of 1,500 lbs at Mananthavady district hospital and the other with a capacity of 1,000 lbs at the general hospital here. 35 plants The corporation would set up 35 such plants across the State at a cost of Rs. 38.55 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-oxygen-generator-plants-for-wayanad/article34619016.ece
22 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Anxious family awaits information about rigger||It has been six days since the family members of Saneesh Joseph, a resident of Eruvessi in Kannur district, have been anxiously waiting to hear anything about him. Saneesh, a rigger employed with a Mumbai-based company, Mathew Associates, is one among the 26 people, who are still missing after the barge P-305 with 271 men onboard, sank off the Mumbai coast during Cyclone Tauktae. “Since he was working in the rig, he hardly got time to make a call. The family last heard anything from him on May 15, which was his birthday,” said Aneesh Joseph, elder brother of Saneesh. “Though he was busy with his work, we exchanged birthday greetings and he responded through a voice message by evening, said Mr. Aneesh. Saneesh has been working with the company for the past eight years. When the news of the cyclone sinking the barge broke, the relatives tried several times to reach him by sending messages. But they were not delivered. They could not contact him or anyone else in his office. Mr. Aneesh said one of his friends, who was rescued by the Navy after he jumped along with Saneesh into the sea had said that Saneesh was swept away by huge waves. They had jumped into the sea after 8-metre-high waves hit the barge and it was about to sink.  Mr. Aneesh said that police, local MLAs and Ministers were trying to help them with getting some information about Saneesh. Meanwhile, Kannur MP, K. Sudhakaran, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention to help the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anxious-family-awaits-information-about-rigger/article34619018.ece
22 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Five taluk hospitals in Kannur to get oxygen plants||The district administration has decided to install large capacity medical oxygen generating plants at five government taluk hospitals in Kannur to mitigate the shortage of oxygen. District Collector T.V. Subhash told The Hindu that the move was in view of the increasing demand for oxygen owing to a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. The plants using pressure swing absorption technology would be set up at the five taluk hospitals of Payyannur, Mangattuparambu Women and Children Hospital, Koothuparambu, Taliparamba, and Iritty. He said the plants would come up at an estimated cost of Rs. 8 crore. Work on an 800-LPM (litres per minute) plant was in the final stages at the Government Medical College Hospital. With the help of Bharat Petroleum, a 600-LPM plant and 5MT cryogenic tank with aid of CARE India were in the final stages of installation at the District Hospital. A 200-LPM plant had been completed in Thalassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-taluk-hospitals-in-kannur-to-get-oxygen-plants/article34619014.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3,102 new cases in Ernakulam, TPR at 24%||With 3,102 new COVID cases on Friday, Ernakulam recorded a test positivity rate (TPR) of 24.18%, when 12,831 tests were done. A total of 50,522 people are recovering from the infection, either at home or at COVID treatment facilities. Eleven health workers, one police officer, and seven CISF personnel were among those who tested positive on Friday. Of those who tested positive, 115 were from Thrikkakara, 89 were from Palluruthy, 85 from Vengola, 75 each from Elamkunnapuzha and Maradu, 73 from Thripunithura, 70 from Fort Kochi, and 66 from Pallipuram. Chellanam recorded 63 new cases on Friday. As many as 3,118 people were considered to have recovered, and 307 were discharged from hospitals and other treatment facilities. A total of 1,08,409 people remain in quarantine. A total of 547 people are admitted in ICUs, a marginal drop from 554 on Thursday. As many as 217 new admissions were made to hospitals and other treatment centres on Friday. While 42,665 people are recovering at home, 2,347 are admitted in private hospitals, and 1,639 are at domiciliary care centres and first- and second-line treatment centres. Of the 2,639 beds available for COVID treatment at government facilities, 1,563 are at domiciliary care centres, 475 are at first-line treatment centres, 250 are at second-line treatment centres, and 369 are at government hospitals. So far, a total of 657 people have succumbed to the infection in the district, according to the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3102-new-cases-in-ernakulam-tpr-at-24/article34619023.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bereavement due to COVID poses mental health concerns||Recently, a woman in her late 40s lost her husband to COVID-19 while she herself was undergoing treatment for the disease in a hospital. Since she had already gone through the trauma of having seen her mother succumb to the virus, relatives could not muster the courage to break the news of another tragedy to her. In another incident last Saturday, a 41-year-old housewife at Kalamassery, who had recovered from COVID-19 a few months ago, woke up with a jolt and gasping for breath in the early morning hours. “She hugged her two children and husband as if she had a premonition of imminent death while being rushed to the hospital,” said her 30-year-old younger brother who still could not come to terms with the loss of his sister. At Moothakunnam, a 45-year-old man died of post-COVID complications just days after his mother’s demise, leaving a young family orphaned. The surge in COVID-related deaths, which hit a record high of 128 in the State on Thursday, has given rise to a complicated mental health issue. “It is high time we had a special advisory for the bereaved on how to cope with COVID-19 deaths in the absence of the usual mechanism of grief resolution like participatory grieving and ritualistic funerals. With the virus pre-empting even a last hug and a parting kiss for the dear ones, there is no vent for the pent-up emotions. That the victims are relatively younger makes the sudden and unexpected demises more difficult to cope with for many,” said C.J. John, a noted psychiatrist. He called for the drawing up of an internal mechanism by families with the aid of technology for expression of grief whereby the bereaved accept the reality rather than being in denial. Seized of the matter, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has intensified its mental health support mechanism for medical practitioners and health workers. “There is the hospital-level mechanism, while the IMA is organising webinars with experts on how to stave off stress. Equally stressful is working in PPE kits, recognising which duty hours of those working in such kits are now being almost halved from the previous eight hours,” said IMA State secretary P. Gopikumar. Helpline The IMA, in coordination with the Indian Psychiatric Society, has also set up a round-the-clock helpline (0484-7199638) offering succour to those affected by the pandemic, in addition to localised helplines at IMA branches. There has been a spurt in distress calls received by Maithri, a Kochi-based NGO. “Anxiety has soared amid deaths all around, and calls reflecting the mental, financial, health and academic-related anxieties triggered by the pandemic are on the rise,” said Thampi Mathai, director, Maithri. (Maithri helpline - 04842540530)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bereavement-due-to-covid-poses-mental-health-concerns/article34619028.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy assists in fire safety audit||The Southern Naval Command (SNC) deployed five teams on May 14 to conduct fire safety audit at various hospitals in Ernakulam, consequent to a request from the Chief Secretary. An additional 22 teams were deputed on May 17 to undertake audit of hospitals in the remaining 13 districts. An audit of 101 out of the 140 government / taluk hospitals and other treatment centres / infrastructure handling COVID-19 patients has been completed, and the teams are expected to complete the audit of the remaining hospitals by May 30. Detailed report Teams from INS Zamorin and the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala were deputed to conduct audit of hospitals in Kasaragod, Kannur and Kozhikode districts, and those from INS Agrani in Coimbatore were deputed for audit in Palakkad. The preliminary findings and recommendations have been forwarded to the respective hospitals and the State government. A detailed report will be prepared on completion of audit of all designated hospitals, said a Navy release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-assists-in-fire-safety-audit/article34619030.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||He went beyond the call of duty||Dr. E.C. Babukutty, a dedicated doctor and teacher, who succumbed to COVID-19 in November last year, was known to willingly extend a helping hand and make a difference wherever he could. Dr. Babukutty was head of the department of orthopaedics at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Ernakulam, a tertiary care facility for COVID patients in the district. He was 60. A workaholic, he was always adamant about taking care of family and the community, said Dr. Deepak Babu, his son. “He prized education because it brought him out of utter poverty. We come from a Scheduled Caste community, and the need to help people around him was important to him,” Dr. Deepak Babu said. Along with his friends, he had set up Phoenix Charitable Trust that offered scholarships and other assistance to students who were finding it difficult to continue with their studies, though he went about it quietly, without much publicity, he added. While Dr. Babukutty was initially under treatment at the MCH in Alappuzha, he was later shifted to a private hospital in Kochi, where he passed away on November 26 last year. He was on ventilator for 21 days. It was emotionally taxing for the family, since the progression of the disease had crests and troughs in his case. “He was not symptomatic when he was admitted. He would get better for a few days and then get worse,” said Dr. Deepak Babu, who specialises in sports medicine. He was involved with COVID treatment at the MCH and had performed surgeries on COVID patients, said Dr. Ganesh Mohan, Resident Medical Officer, MCH, adding that Dr. Babukutty was a good teacher, besides being a friendly and pragmatic person. His wife, Dr. Letha, is an anaesthetist at the MCH in Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/he-went-beyond-the-call-of-duty/article34619024.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No vaccination till Monday||Since stock of the two vaccines has depleted in Ernakulam, no vaccination centres will function till Monday. Vaccination sessions were not conducted on Friday either and only few centres were operational on Thursday. The system has been shifted back online entirely now, said Dr. M. G. Sivadas, nodal officer for immunisation. For a few weeks, online slot bookings had been suspended in the district to facilitate administration of the second dose, since several beneficiaries were due to take the second shot. Now, walk-in registrations will not be permitted and prior slot booking will be necessary for both first and second doses. On whether the district administration was making any efforts to make registration and online slot reservation more accessible to people who might not be able to use online facilities, Dr. Sivadas said that the onus was on the local bodies to help people register for vaccination. Advance booking Mobile units had been operating for a few weeks to provide doses to people who cannot make it to centres, including people in homes for the elderly. But the working of these units had been suspended since vaccination was now being administered only after prior booking. Private hospitals had also not been permitted to conduct home visits for vaccination. Additional doses allocated by the Union government were expected to arrive in the district on Saturday. So far, in the 18 to 45 age category, applications were received from 8,000 people with specific co-morbidities, Dr. Sivadas said. So far, a total of 9.62 lakh doses of the two vaccines have been administered in the district, going by the daily vaccination bulletin released by the State Health Department. Of the 11.76 lakh people over the age of 45, a total of 6.06 lakh people have taken the first dose and 1.21 lakh have taken the second dose, which means that 20% of the population in this age category is fully vaccinated. Going by the bulletin, 3,742 people in the 18 to 44 age category have taken the first dose.  Permanent centres The district has a population of 14.70 lakh in the 18 to 44 age bracket. A total of 120 permanent vaccination centres have been readied at government facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-vaccination-till-monday/article34619021.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Denying parent child’s affection cruelty: HC||The Kerala High Court has held that any action on the part of one parent denying the other parent the love and affection of their child amounts to mental cruelty. The court observed that parental alienation was a process through which a child becomes estranged from a parent as the result of the psychological manipulation of other parent. It occurs when one parent undermines or prejudices the contact and relationship between the child and the other parent without well-founded reasons. The purpose of this strategy was to damage the child’s relationship with the other parent and to turn the child’s emotions against that person. A child had the right to get the love and affection of both the parents. Similarly, the parents had the right to receive the love and affection of the child. Any act on the part of the one parent to deny the love and affection of the child to the other parent by alienating the child from him/her amounted to mental cruelty. The court made the ruling while granting a husband a decree for dissolution of marriage on the ground of cruelty under the 13(1)(a) of the Hindu Marriage Act. The court added that the acts of the mother in wilfully alienating the child from the father, no doubt, constituted mental cruelty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/denying-parent-childs-affection-cruelty-hc/article34619031.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Executive cadre staff of KMRL form association||An employees’ association has been formed to represent members of the executive cadre of KMRL, it is learnt. An official announcement will be made shortly, sources said. The metro agency has a registered workers’ union encompassing personnel of the non-executive cadre. The development comes in the wake of alleged concerns over vast sections of employees and officials holding senior posts being on different pages on many issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/executive-cadre-staff-of-kmrl-form-association/article34619027.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. to operate 8 auto ambulances||The Kochi Corporation, in collaboration with the Ernakulam District Autorickshaw Drivers’ Co-operative Society, is readying eight autorickshaw ambulances in the city. The autorickshaws that will be used to take COVID patients to hospitals, will be equipped with oxygen, pulse oximeters, thermometers and medication for emergency aid. They will be available round-the-clock, one in each of the eight zones of the corporation – Edappally, Palluruthy, Central zone, Palarivattom, Vyttila, Pachalam, and two zones in West Kochi. The initiative is part of the Indo-German green mobility partnership and is being organised with technical and financial help from GIZ (German Agency for International Cooperation), besides cooperation from the State government, the National Health Mission, the Motor Vehicles Department, the Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development, Coronasafe Network and Technovia Info solutions. A training session was held for 18 auto drivers on Friday at the Ernakulam Town Hall. They were trained to provide emergency medical aid and take adequate precautions. The rickshaw ambulances are expected to begin operating from early next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-operate-8-auto-ambulances/article34619025.ece
22 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Dengue-causing viruses put Kollam on alert||The Health Department issued an alert on Friday after four types of viruses causing dengue fever were found in the district. The department has also urged the public to step up dengue preventive measures, including source eradication, as Aedes mosquito spreading the disease thrives most wherever there is stagnant water. Since open vessels, utensils, tiers, flowerpots, and terraces can be potential mosquito breeding sources, the authorities have instructed the residents to observe May 23 and all upcoming Sundays as dry days to destroy breeding sources in houses and farms. Symptoms High fever, shivering, headache, joint pain, and skin rash are the primary symptoms of dengue. “Dengue fever with bleeding can be very dangerous and those who develop the above mentioned symptoms have been advised to seek medical assistance at the earliest,” says District Medical Officer R. Sreelatha. Since continuing rain has formed swamps in several parts of the district, the department has directed the public to take necessary precautions against the possible spread of leptospirosis (rat fever) transmitted by rodents, cattle and other animals. Stepping into water or soil contaminated with the urine or excreta of the infected animals will cause the disease in human beings, according to experts. High fever, shivering, headache, muscle pain, and discomfort in eyes due to light exposure are the primary symptoms of leptospirosis. “Persons who develop the symptoms after coming into contact with contaminated water should go to the nearest health centres and take preventive medicines,” says the DMO. Highest number of cases Places in the district that reported the highest number of cases of leptospirosis, including Kollam Corporation and Nedumbana, Thrikkovilvattam, Vilakudy, Kadakkal, and Kalluvathukal panchayats, have been asked to stay alert. “Seeking treatment in the initial stage itself is very important as the disease can affect internal organs and be fatal,” she adds. The Health department has strengthened fever surveillance in all hospitals in the district. It has also decided to provide precautionary treatment to all those in the high-risk category.  The department has also directed the public to take necessary precautions against the possible spread of leptospirosis (rat fever).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dengue-causing-viruses-put-kollam-on-alert/article34619311.ece
22 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Steps to counter slowdown: Balagopal||The State government will soon put in place a comprehensive strategy to counter the COVID-19-induced slowdown and revive the deflating finances of the State, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. The legislator from Kottarakara, who has taken over the crucial portfolio, plans to implement multiple measures to tide over the crisis and restore various pandemic-battered sectors. “It will be a continuation of the Kerala alternative introduced by the previous Left Democratic Front government that gives maximum impetus to health and welfare. At the same time, specific projects to see through the setback and stagnation will be launched,” Mr. Balagopal told The Hindu . Tough spot At present, the State’s finances are in a precarious position due to the enormous outlay for health-care coupled with a considerable dip in revenue. “The pandemic situation has put us in a tough spot and all possibilities to mobilise additional resources will be explored with the help of the public,” he says. Health will remain the top priority while employment generation will be another area of focus and work-from-home initiatives will be promoted. “In the coming days, we will formulate more programmes to improve the economy and protect the livelihood and income of people in different segments, including agriculture.” Mr. Balagopal says the Centre has thrown the State into a tricky situation by creating hassles in mobilising resources. “When we switched to Goods and Services Tax (GST) from our earlier tax system, the revenue of the State recorded a dip as all major areas of resource mobilisation went to the Centre. Lowering the borrowing limit and not releasing the funds will affect the finances of not just Kerala but all States.” The Minister says the government will also have to brace for a major crisis when the GST composition scheme for the State expires in 2022 and there will be no option to fill the gap of thousands of crores. “It will create a financial crisis and if petroleum and alcohol are also brought under the purview of GST, it will put the States in more and more distress,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-counter-slowdown-balagopal/article34619040.ece
22 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Camp for residents of children’s homes||The district child protection unit, District Legal Services Authority and Prakash Kalakendram are jointly organising Catharsis, a seven-day camp for the children residing in various government homes. Artists from different fields, including theatre, art, literature and new media will lead the camp and 323 children will attend the online sessions. Additional district and sessions judge N. Harikumar inaugurated the camp here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/camp-for-residents-of-childrens-homes/article34618976.ece
22 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited for PG Diploma course||The College of Engineering, Kallooppara, under the IHRD, has invited applications for its PG diploma course in Cyber Forensic and Security. The last date for accepting applications is June 15. Visit www.ihrd.ac.in or www.cek.ac.in. For details, contact 9447402630, 0469-2677890, 2678983, 8547005034.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-pg-diploma-course/article34618977.ece
22 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode logs 2,382 new cases||The district recorded 2,382 more COVID-19 cases on Friday. As many as 2,345 people were infected through local transmission and the source is unknown in 20 cases. Fifteen patients had recently arrived from abroad and two from other States. There were 2,450 recoveries on the day. The test positivity rate was 21.32% when 11,650 samples were tested on Friday. At present, 31,686 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. For quarantined Meanwhile, the district administration, with the help of the National Health Mission, has launched Jagratha COVID mobile medical units for the first time in the State in Kozhikode. The medical units are especially for those patients in home quarantine and others who are unable to reach hospitals. More units will be made available in local bodies where the test positivity rate is high, based on the requirement and priority list issued from local control rooms. The mobile units will be functional at the Corporation, municipality, block panchayat and grama panchayat level. Each unit will have a medical officer, a staff nurse and a health worker. The National Health Mission will ensure the availability of staff in the units while the local bodies will ensure availability of vehicles. At the panchayat-level, the units will have a nurse and a health worker, who will be appointed by the panchayat. The services of a doctor will be made available using telemedicine facilities. 82 new units At present, there are 82 such mobile units in the district. Including the 14 medical units of the National Health Mission that were launched earlier, 96 units are functional in the district. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao requested the public to make use of the facility and avoid hospital visits as much as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-logs-2382-new-cases/article34619009.ece
22 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Intensive vehicle checking to prevent non-emergency trips||A three-day special vehicle checking drive is under way in Kozhikode city to ensure that all motorists follow lockdown regulations. The drive ordered by District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George will ensure that no non-emergency service enters the city limits in the wake of the heightened vigil against the pandemic. A team of Assistant Commissioners and Station House Officers will lead the drive and instantly impound vehicles used for non-emergency purposes. Such impounded vehicles will be released only after the lockdown period on payment of the pre-fixed fine. The squads will also ensure that no emergency services are interrupted during the flash checking hours. In Kozhikode city limits, the squads are now active at 51 points to verify the travel details of passengers. Apart from deploying patrol vehicles, police officers will remain alert along National and State highways to track pleasure riders. Action will be taken on the basis of visuals collected from various surveillance cameras, drones and camera-mounted control room vehicles if the drivers do not stop vehicles at check points. Patrol squads have been asked to cover various bypass roads where the violation of safety regulations is rampant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/intensive-vehicle-checking-to-prevent-non-emergency-trips/article34619010.ece
22 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Gaza ceasefire comes as relief for NRIs in Gulf||Non-resident Indians (NRI) in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations have heaved a sigh of relief after Israel and Hamas agreed on the Gaza ceasefire, ending 11 days of fighting. The truce has come as a comfort to the large population of the expat community. “It is a very good initiative by Egypt and Qatar, after days of mediation and mounting international pressure. Both Israel and Palestine have been suffering due to the conflict,” said Bernad Mendez, an entrepreneur in Bahrain. Welcoming the truce, Mohammed Hashim, an NRI in Dubai, expressed the hope that the decision would pave the way to ending further violence in the region. The United Nations, United States, the European Union and nations in West Asia should work together for peaceful coexistence of both the Arabs and the Jews, he said. Two-fold blow Ashraf Padanna, a journalist with the U.A.E.-based Gulf Today , said the Israel-Palestine conflict had become a two-fold blow to the Indian diaspora in the region. “The fighting has been a double whammy of sorts for expatriates at a time when many have lost their jobs, people are stranded, families separated and flights restricted due to COVID-19-induced lockdown. The ceasefire will be a relief for Keralites in the Gulf countries,” Mr. Padanna said. Incidentally, the recent conflict had erupted when the strengthening of Israel’s relationship with many GCC countries could have helped reactivate the stalled Israeli-Palestine peace process. But now, NRIs are also nervous about the violence and death in Gaza and the impact on GCC nations. “We feel that the economy has been ailing due to the pandemic and drop in oil revenues. Such tensions in West Asia could bring havoc on national security and economy,” said Manoj Pillai, a Bahrain-based consultant. However, many feel that only a political solution would bring lasting peace. “The ceasefire is just temporary, which is a relief. But this will flare up again unless the basic issues are resolved,” said Anil Gopinath, an NRI in Saudi Arabia. Sayeed Mohammed, a businessman in a GCC nation, said long-lasting peace was essential in the region to avoid the war-like situation spilling over to other countries. “There has been wide condemnation of Israel’s actions in Jerusalem and Gaza from all Arab states. Previously, the Abraham Accords, ratified by the U.A.E and Bahrain, was a major diplomatic breakthrough in the Arab-Israeli relations. This should continue. But the question on Palestine statehood remains unanswered,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gaza-ceasefire-a-relief-for-nris-in-gulf/article34619004.ece
22 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pre-monsoon cleaning begins on war footing in Kozhikode||Despite the unexpected hurdle posed by the Tauktae cyclone, the Kozhikode Corporation has resumed its pre-monsoon cleaning in most of the wards with increased vigour, to face the fast approaching south-west monsoon. The activities had begun earlier this month, but could not be completed in most places before the low pressure-induced rain last week and as a result, some parts of the city suffered from waterlogging. “We have a map of places that are susceptible to waterlogging and activities have been planned in every ward accordingly under the leadership of the ward councillors and the rapid action teams for disaster management”, said S.Jayasree, Health Standing Committee Chairperson of the corporation. Rapid action teams consisting of 25 persons have been formed in each ward and they are mostly skilled workers such as plumbers, electricians, and even fishermen, who are being trained by Trauma Care Kozhikode to respond to emergency situations. The corporation has allotted Rs. 2 lakh per ward for pre-monsoon cleaning of which Rs. 50,000 has already been sanctioned. Official launch Mayor Beena Philip will officially launch the year’s pre-monsoon activities at Palayam market on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pre-monsoon-cleaning-begins-on-war-footing-in-kozhikode/article34619007.ece
22 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Puja fraud: temple names removed from portal||Following an investigation by the cyber cell, the names of temples listed illegally by operators of a suspicious website to attract online payments for poojas and related services were removed from the portal on Friday. Complaint Functionaries of the Malabar Devaswom Board, who filed a petition with the city police, had complained that the website was engaged in “cheating the faithful” by offering online payment options for conducting poojas in prominent temples under its jurisdiction. According to them, no third party agencies or websites had been granted permission to operate such a service. The operators had reportedly charged between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 65,000 for the services. There were also images of prominent Kerala temples and deities on the website to lure the faithful, they said. In a press release issued here on Friday, Malabar Devaswom Board president M.R. Murali said the police had intervened to end the trickery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pooja-fraud-temple-names-removed-from-portal/article34619011.ece
22 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||A daunting task awaits new Health Minister||Journalist-turned-politician Veena George takes charge of one of the most vital institutions of Kerala at a time when the State is grappling with the second wave of COVID-19. As she strives to fill the shoes of K.K. Shailaja, a much-celebrated Health Minister, extraordinary hopes will be pinned on Ms. George to act decisively and deliver at these times of uncertainty. The mild-mannered, pragmatic politician has always stayed calm even in the face of adversities — be it the Sabarimala protests of 2018 or the consequent defeat in the Parliament elections a year later — and kept on strengthening her base across the segment. That quiet resolve is expected to serve Ms. George well as she sets off to deal with the State’s biggest health crisis. The 45-year-old politician, a former Students Federation of India activist, completed her postgraduation in physics and a bachelor’s degree in education before getting into journalism. Having worked in several prominent Malayalam news channels, she was one of the five Indian journalists selected for covering the U.S. presidential elections of 2012. She went on to become the first woman executive editor of a news channel in the State. Many laurels She is a recipient of several awards for her contributions as a journalist and a legislator. A trained classical dancer, she had participated in the State School Arts Festival and won the first prize in mono-act competition in 1992 at Tirur. She is married to George Joseph, former secretary of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, and the couple has two children. Ms. George is known for her excellent working relationship with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, a fact evident during her selection as the anchor of ‘Naam Munnottu,’ a weekly public relations exercise by the previous Left Democratic Front government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-daunting-task-awaits-new-health-minister/article34619036.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Students to help peers keep off drugs||A student of a prominent higher secondary school in Ernakulam recently finished five ‘very useful’ sessions on peer education training as part of a National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction. The one-hour online sessions, he says, aided his understanding of the deleterious effects of drug abuse on the mind and the body. More importantly, he learnt how to look out for signs of drug abuse among fellow students, listen to them and motivate them to seek help. With NIMHANS The peer education training programme is being implemented in Kerala by the Social Justice Department in collaboration with the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, in the wake of increase in drug abuse, particularly among adolescents. The programme is being piloted in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Malappuram, and Kozhikode districts. A total of 600 students are trained in 12 batches of 50 students each. The sessions are led by mental health professionals. The focus is on drug abuse prevention rather than rehabilitation. Bino Thomas, assistant professor at NIMHANS, says conventional strategies such as impressing on children the impact of drug abuse have had limited success. There is a need to adopt other methods such as peer education, an internationally recognised approach, to reduce students’ drug use rates. Skill-based programme After consultations with students who had stopped using drugs, school counsellors and teachers, it was felt that a skill-based training programme that empowers a student to identify other students who use drugs, or those vulnerable to drug abuse by observing them for various indicators, was needed. The student, or rather the peer educator, will then motivate the drug users to kick the habit and seek help. “The peer educators are not counsellors, they are facilitators who will observe and identify drug users, empathise and persuade them to seek help from school counsellors or the police or the Excise Department,” says Mr. Thomas. They are also trained not to fall into any potential traps. The peer educators are also taught to be on the lookout for behavioural changes in students, development issues and learning disabilities so as to provide them suitable help, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-to-help-peers-keep-off-drugs/article34618978.ece
22 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||4,151 new cases in capital||The capital district’s COVID-19 caseload shot up by 4,151 cases on Friday. With the test positivity rate (TPR) dipping to 23.1%, triple lockdown restrictions will be lifted from Saturday morning. General lockdown regulations, however, will apply till May 30. The TPR in the district had been as high as 31.6% on May 8. The COVID-19 death toll rose to 1,387 with 45 deaths which occurred between May 13 and May 18 attributed to the infection on Friday. The deceased included 23 males and 22 females aged between 42 and 91. At present, 21,963 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram district. Local transmission accounted for 3,836 of the 4,151 new cases. The district also reported 4,584 recoveries on Friday. Friday’s list also included 10 health workers who tested positive, according to data released by the district administration. As many as 5,715 more people have been quarantined, taking the number of people under surveillance to 91,404. In all, 6,737 people completed quarantine on Friday. Vaccination The vaccination programme is progressing in the district. Vaccination (Covishield) will be available for people above 45 years of age at 77 centres on Saturday. Covishield vaccination for pre-approved beneficiaries with comorbidities and frontline workers in the 18-44 age group will be available at 16 centres and Covaxin for this group at three centres on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4151-new-cases-in-capital/article34618985.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State mulling possibility of producing vaccine||The State government is again contemplating the prospects of vaccine production in the State and has initiated discussions with experts in the area of vaccine manufacturing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Friday. The government is exploring whether branches of vaccine manufacturing firms could be opened on the campus of the Institute of Advanced Virology in the capital, he added. A webinar is being hosted to discuss the possibilities of taking this project forward, in which experts in the area of vaccinology, IAV scientists as well as the State Council for Science Technology and Environment will participate. He said the State had run out of the vaccines given by the Centre and that the matter had been intimated to the Health Ministry. The State is exploring all means of making more vaccines available, including direct purchase from manufacturers as well as importing vaccines. The government would make arrangements for providing vaccines to those who are going abroad for job or higher education if vaccination certification is compulsory for them. He said the Kerala Medical Services Corporation had given orders for 50,000 doses of the anti-viral drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s (DRDO) Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences. The drug, which claims to stop viral replication, had the approval of the Drugs Control General of India and is expected to be available for use in the State by June, Mr. Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-mulling-possibility-of-producing-vaccine/article34619043.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||29,673 new cases, TPR falls to 22.22%||Kerala reported 29,673 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 1,33,558 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) showed a decline at 22.22%. On Friday, the State added 142 recent deaths to the official toll, taking the cumulative fatalities to 6,994. The active case pool has been declining steadily and now has 3,06,346 patients — a significant decline from 3,17,850 cases of the previous day. On Friday, 41,032 persons were reported to have recovered from their disease, taking the cumulative recoveries to 19,79,919. Hospital admissions continue to remain high. On Friday, 3,524 persons were newly admitted to hospitals. The number of hospitalised cases which had shown a slight decline on Thursday again went up on Friday to 38,709. Total ICU admissions were 3,899, while the number of those on ventilator support showed a slight decline at 1,492. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 4,151, Malappuram 3,499, Ernakulam 3,102, Palakkad 3,040, Kollam 2,745, Thrissur 2,481, Kozhikode 2,382, Alappuzha 2,072, Kottayam 1,760, Kannur 1,410, Idukki 1,111, Pathanamthitta 878, Kasaragod 650 and Wayanad 392.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/29673-new-cases-tpr-falls-to-2222/article34619046.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Be front-line warriors in battle against COVID, teachers told||All teachers should work as front-line warriors in the battle against COVID-19, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said He was speaking after inaugurating here on Friday the State-level distribution of pulse oximeters purchased by the Kerala School Teachers’ Association (KSTA) through a pulse oximeter challenge. The Minister praised the social responsibility displayed by the KSTA during the pandemic. The pulse oximeter challenge was launched to address the shortage of pulse oximeters in the second wave of COVID-19 transmission in the State. Exceeds target Though the KSTA had targeted to hand over pulse oximeters to the tune of Rs. 1 crore in the first phase, the response had been so positive that it exceeded the target, a KSTA office-bearer said. The KSTA State committee launched the challenge across the State in the wake of acute scarcity of pulse oximeters, including in homes of their students. Teachers took up the challenge and sponsored oximeters for distribution to those infected by COVID-19 in the area they lived in. Oximeters were also handed over to those in need through people’s representatives and ASHA workers, besides health workers and hospitals. The challenge is being taken up under the umbrella of the 14 district committees of the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/be-front-line-warriors-in-battle-against-covid-teachers-told/article34618979.ece
22 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Milma presents a ‘milk challenge’||Buy three sachets of milk from Milma stalls in the capital city on Saturday, and you stand to get a 200 ml sachet free. The Thiruvananthapuram regional union of Milma has introduced the offer as part of its ‘milk challenge’ for helping dairy farmers affected by the fall in milk procurement and sales due to the lockdown. In Milma stalls The offer would be available to consumers who buy milk from Milma stalls under the Thiruvananthapuram Dairy at Ambalathara, Pattom, Kowdiar, Poojappura and Thekkekotta, the union said. “‘Have a little more milk, save our dairy farmers’ is the theme of the drive, with a call to buy at least half-a-litre more milk a day, which will save dairy farmers from slipping into deeper crisis,” Milma’s Thiruvananthapuram Regional Co-operative Milk Producers Union (TRCMPU) said in a statement.  Offer aimed at helping dairy farmers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-presents-a-milk-challenge/article34618982.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Union Minister slams LDF govt. for ignoring Soumya’s family||Union Minister of State for External Affairs K. Muraleedharan on Friday slammed the State government for “disregarding” the plight of the sorrowing family of Soumya Santosh, who was killed in a Hamas mortar attack in Israel last week. Mr. Muraleedharan had called on Soumya’s family at her ancestral home at Keerithodu in Idukki. He spend time with Soumya’s husband Santosh and her son Adoni. Mr. Muraleedharan told the family that he had come as the emissary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The country shared their grief. The Central government had expedited the transfer of Soumya’s mortal remains from Israel to India. In contrast, the Kerala government had shunned Soumya’s family. No State government representative had visited them or offered their sympathies. When pressed for a reaction, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government was with Soumya’s family. The BJP had attempted to hijack Soumya’s death to berate the government. Such ploys would not impress the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-minister-slams-ldf-govt-for-ignoring-soumyas-family/article34619034.ece
22 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to handle Welfare of Minorities portfolio||In a significant move, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has taken over the portfolio of Welfare of Minorities. The decision not to entrust the portfolio to Ministers hailing from the minority community is a political move in the light of criticism, especially by the Syro-Malabar Church, that benefits such as minority scholarships were being appropriated by the Muslim community. The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) was quick to react hailing the decision to take over the portfolio that was handled by K.T. Jaleel in the last Left Democratic Front Ministry. Dr. Jaleel had to resign after the Kerala Lok Ayukta found him guilty of nepotism. First CM Mr. Vijayan is the first Chief Minister to handle the department since its creation 13 years ago. Jacob G. Palyakkapilly, deputy secretary general, KCBC, said: “A large section of the minority community had been demanding that the Chief Minister should handle the portfolio.” Later at a press meet, the Chief Minister said no one needed to be anguished over the decision that had been welcomed by all quarters. Asked whether it was based on the demand from any community, Mr. Vijayan said it was based on general opinion. “The Muslim community comes under minority communities. They have faith in me and the Left Democratic Front. The Indian Union Muslim League does not have monopoly over the community,” the Chief Minister said. Nodal agency Formed under General Administration Department in 2008, the department is the nodal agency for implementing both Central and State schemes and projects. The Kerala State Minority Commission, Kerala State Minority Development Finance Corporation, Madrasa Teachers Welfare Fund, and Coaching Centre for Minority Youth come under the department. The department also implements projects and programmes for the welfare of Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, Sikhs, Jains and Parsis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-handle-welfare-of-minorities-portfolio/article34619041.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mucormycosis declared a notifiable disease||Kerala, following a directive of the Union Health Ministry, has declared mucormycosis or black fungus infection a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 as it seems to be emerging as a new threat among COVID-19 patients, especially those who are on steroids (as part of COVID treatment) and whose blood sugar levels are dis-regulated. It is thus mandatory on health facilities to report all suspected/ confirmed cases of mucormycosis to the Health Department and the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). Kerala has so far reported 20 cases of mucormycosis this year, with one confirmed death. The number of cases currently reported in the State during the pandemic is not more than the background rate of the disease (rate of naturally occurring disease). Mucormycosis is an opportunistic infection normally seen in patients in an immunocompromised state such as HIV, those on long-term steroid treatment, and those diabetes patients with poor glycaemic control. It is not a contagious disease.  Though prolonged ICU stay can make patients more vulnerable to this infection, most of the cases reported in Kerala are not in COVID patients in ICUs but in patients with diabetes, who recovered from mild/moderate COVID and had been on steroids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mucormycosis-declared-a-notifiable-disease/article34619032.ece
22 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DMO cautions pregnant women||District Medical Officer (DMO) K.S. Shinu has urged caution among pregnant women in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases in the district. Dr. Shinu advised them to practice double masking even at home. They should not frequent public areas and ideally confine themselves to rooms with attached bathrooms. Pregnant women must report any discomfort to health workers, but should visit hospitals only when necessary. The e-Sanjeevani tele-medicine facility must be utilised as much as possible. Health-related enquiries can be made by contacting 1056, 104, 0471 2552056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dmo-cautions-pregnant-women/article34618975.ece
22 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Community kitchen to be opened today||The city Corporation will on Saturday open its tenth community kitchen to provide food for the needy during the lockdown. With this, free food can be provided across all the hundred wards of the Corporation. The package of providing food three times a day at a cost of Rs. 60 from Janakeeya restaurants will continue along with this. In coastal wards Mayor Arya Rajendran said special consideration would be given to coastal wards in providing food through community kitchens in view of the increasing sea erosion. At present, community kitchens are functioning at Poonthura, Kazhakuttam, Kadakampally, Vizhinjam, Valiyasala, Mudavanmughal, Nanthancode, Medical College and Vanchiyoor wards, with each of them catering to around 10 wards each. Individuals and organisations had been contributing cash and material for the running of community kitchens in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-kitchen-to-be-opened-today/article34618981.ece
22 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Repair roads before the rains: Riyas||Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has asked officials to carry out repair works of roads before the onset of monsoon. Addressing officials of the Public Works Department through videoconference on Friday, he directed the officials to give focus on roads damaged by rain. Precaution should be taken to prevent recurrence of damage in stretches which get damaged regularly. He sought a report on such roads. Pointing out that most of the officials were hard-working, he said the employees could work with confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/repair-roads-before-the-rains-riyas/article34619044.ece
22 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Final scrutiny of poll expenses||The final scrutiny of the expenditure incurred by candidates in the district in the 2021 Assembly polls will be held at the Collectorate from May 25 to May 27. The scrutiny of the expenditure of candidates in Varkala, Attingal and Chirayinkeezhu, Nedumangad, Vamanapuram and Aruvikkara Assembly segments will be held on May 25; Kazhakuttam, Thiruvananthapuram, Vattiyurkavu and Nemom on May 26 and Parassala, Kattakada, Kovalam and Neyyatinkara on May 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/final-scrutiny-of-poll-expenses/article34618983.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||K.K. Ragesh is CM’s private secretary||The government has appointed K.K. Ragesh, ex-MP and Communist Party of India (Marxist) State committee member, as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s private secretary. R. Mohan, former IRS officer, is the Chief Minister’s officer on special duty and CPI(M) State committee member Puthalath Dinesan is the political secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kk-ragesh-is-cms-private-secretary/article34619037.ece
22 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||2,481 test positive in Thrissur||There were 2,481 fresh cases in the district on Friday while 6,814 patients recovered from the pandemic. The test positivity rate was 25.43% on the day. Four local bodies in the district had a TPR higher than 50% on Friday. The local bodies with high TPR are: Madakkathara (59.72); Vadanappilly (58.82); Kadappuram (61.45); and Thekkumkara (65.79). Active cases in the district are 26,130 and 87 people from the district are undergoing treatment in various other districts. So far, 2,16,884 COVID-19 cases were reported from the district and 1,89,500 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 2,468 people, including eight health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of them, 375 people are above the age of 60 and 202 children are below the age of 10. In all, 19,779 people are under home-care. In all, 6,11,932 people have taken the first dose of COVID vaccine while 1,61,681 people took the second dose. Counselling A psycho-social team has been constituted in the district to provide support for people who suffer mental stress during the pandemic. The service of counsellors functioning under various departments is available. People can contact 0487 2383155, 8129701884 for psycho-social support. Meanwhile, sanitisation using drones has started in public places in the Thrissur Corporation limits to reduce the spread of COVID-19. In the first phase, drones will be used to sanitise public places such as Sakthan Bus Stand, North Bus Stand, markets and the corporation office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2481-test-positive-in-thrissur/article34619020.ece
22 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SIB posts Rs. 6.79-crore profit in Q4||The South Indian Bank has announced the Q4 results with a net profit of Rs. 6.79 crore as against a loss of Rs. 143.69 crore during the corresponding period of the previous year. The net profit for the current financial year is Rs. 61.91 crore as against Rs. 104.59 crore of the previous financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sib-posts-rs-679-crore-profit-in-q4/article34619015.ece
22 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||M.A. Baby bereaved||Paul Luis, 56, brother-in-law of CPI(M) leader M.A. Baby, died during post-COVID treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, on Friday. He was hospitalised 25 days ago, after he tested positive for COVID-19. He later developed severe lung infection. He is survived by wife, Rashmi, and daughter Sradha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ma-baby-bereaved/article34619038.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lying low||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lying-low/article34619312.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Just the essentials||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/just-the-essentials/article34619292.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Warm welcome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/warm-welcome/article34619013.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Govt.’s assurance to fisheries sector welcomed||The Joint Christian Council (JCC) has welcomed the State government’s announcement that priority will be accorded to improve the quality of life of fishers. This comes as a ray of hope during a perilous time when fishers are battling COVID-19, apart from sea erosion and a steep fall in catch owing to climate change. In such a situation, each family engaged in fishing must urgently be given Rs. 10,000 as interim aid to tide over the crisis, said JCC president Felix J. Pulloden. Sadly, various district administrations are indifferent to the plight of fishermen, although they can provide succour under the Disaster Management Act. Steps must also be taken to prevent sea erosion and coastal flooding, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govts-assurance-to-fisheries-sector-welcomed/article34619026.ece
22 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||9 being treated for black fungus in Anantapur GGH||Nine COVID-19 patients, who, after recovering, returned to the Government General Hospital here with severe symptoms of headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion, and partial loss of vision, were diagnosed with mucormycosis, also known as black fungus. While five patients had come to the hospital on Thursday, four were admitted on Friday. “All of them are being treated with oral drugs, as the injectable drugs, which are more effective, are unavailable anywhere in the State. These drugs are likely to reach the teaching hospitals that are designated for treating black fungus cases on Monday,” GGH Superintendent K.S.S. Venkateswara Rao told The Hindu . “The condition of all the patients is serious. Lack of knowledge and awareness about the fungal infection is delaying patients from approaching the doctors or hospitals,” Dr. Venkateswar Rao said. “Awareness needs to be created on the fungal infection as it affects the sinuses, the brain, and the lungs, and can be life-threatening in people who are diabetic, or have suppressed immunity,” he said. Journalists vaccinated Meanwhile, in a special drive, the district administration vaccinated 386 journalists, irrespective of their age, against COVID-19 in the district. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu formally launched the special one-day drive conducted in association with the Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists. “Six journalists have succumbed to the virus in the district in the last one month. Hence, we requested the District Collector to organise a vaccination drive for journalists in all the mandals,” union president Lakshminarayana and secretary Payyavula Praveen said. District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad was present.  All of them are being treated with oral drugs, as the injectable drugs, which are more effective, are not available anywhere in the State. K.S.S. Venkateswara Rao GGH Superintendent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9-in-ap-being-treated-for-mucormycosis/article34618729.ece
22 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka govt. clarifies to HC on burials on private land||A certificate from the jurisdictional village accountant is mandatory for proof of burial or cremation of COVID-19 victims on private land/ farms owned by their relatives, the State government clarified to the High Court of Karnataka. Directive The government also made it clear that the hospital where death occurs due to COVID-19 must certify the cause of death in the prescribed form under the Registration of Births and Death Act and the Rules in cases of death at health institutions. And a private doctor will have to certify the cause of death in the prescribed form in case of deaths at home (domiciliary deaths). A clarification issued in this regard by the Principal Secretary of Revenue Department (Disaster Management) on May 18 was submitted before a Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar. Revised guidelines The Bench had asked the government to clarify requirement of certificate from hospital/ medical practitioner due to confusion created in the notification issued by the government on April 21, 2021, allowing burial or cremation of COVID-19 victims on private lands/farms and the “revised guidelines on dead body management in the context of COVID-19”, issued way back on August 6, 2020. The guidelines stated that certificate in the prescribed format mandatory only in case of inter-district or inter-State transportation of bodies of the victims. Death certificate The government also clarified that the relatives of COVID-19 victims will have to, on burial or cremation of bodies on private land/ farms, submit certificates issued by the hospital or medical practitioner along with the certificate from the village accountant to the Registrar of Births and Deaths to secure death certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-govt-clarifies-to-hc-on-burials-on-private-land/article34618730.ece
22 May 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Members nominated to Kalakshetra board||Renowned Carnatic vocalists Sudha Ragunathan and Neyveli Santhanagopalan and flautist Shashank Subramanyam have been nominated as members of the governing board of the Kalakshetra Foundation. The Central government, in an order on Friday, appointed 12 eminent artistes and musicians to the board of the prestigious institution. Kuchipudi exponents Pasumarthy Kesava Prasad and Veena Murthy Vijay too have been nominated to the board. Others on the board include Anupama Hoskere, Bhairu Singh Chauhan, Mukund Marathe, Jayaraman Mahadevan, L. Venkatesh, Renjini Suresh and Aneesh Raghavan. Industrialist M.M. Murugappan and former Director-General of Police R. Nataraj have also been nominated to the governing board. Dhakshayani Ramachandran, Vrushali Dabke and Srikantham Nagendra Shastry have been nominated as members of the Academic Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/members-nominated-to-kalakshetra-board/article34618744.ece
22 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulance operators told to adhere to normal rates||In the wake of complaints from the public regarding exorbitant rates charged by ambulance operators, the Chittoor police on Friday held a meeting with them and asked them to strictly adhere to normal tariff. Deputy Superintendent of Police(Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told mediapersons that it has come to their notice that operators were charging four-to-five times the usual rates. While usually, shifting a patient to the Christian Medical College in Vellore(40 km from here) would cost one around Rs. 5,000, the fee has now gone up to Rs. 25,000. The rates are higher if one wishes to go to Bengaluru or Tirupati. “On top of that, if it is a COVID patient, the exploitation goes up manifold,” the DSP said. “We have fixed a tariff chart for the ambulance rates for prime routes for the convenience of the patients and their family members,” he added. The chart is put on display at the Government Hospital and all vital junctions in Chittoor, while steps would be taken to erect the boards at government area hospitals in the district, Mr. Sudhakar Reddy said, adding that action would be taken against the operators if they continued to fleece patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambulance-operators-told-to-adhere-to-normal-rates/article34619332.ece
22 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Punganur hospital will treat COVID-19 cases: Minister||Minister for Panchayat Raj P. Ramachandra Reddy on Friday said the Government hospital at Punganur would be converted into 80-bed COVID hospital with oxygen and ventilator facilities in view of the increasing COVID cases in the western mandals. Inspecting the hospital at Punganur, the Minister said steps to convert the hospital for COVID patients would be completed on a war-footing. As a parallel step, a 100-bed COVID Care Centre would also be set up in Punganur. He said that in view of the large-scale return of the migrant families from the neighbouring States to the native places in several parts of the western mandals, COVID cases had been on the rise. The Minister said steps would be taken to set up more number of COVID Care Centres in the western mandals of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/punganur-hospital-will-treat-covid-19-cases-minister/article34619330.ece
22 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancellation of parishad polls unfortunate: Sajjala||YSRCP general secretary and Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that the State High Court order cancelling the elections conducted for the ZPTCs and MPTCs in April is unfortunate. “The elections were conducted with much difficulty. Many government personnel risked their lives in performing electoral duties. Such decisions could undermine the democratic process, and people could lose faith in the electoral process. The voting percentage was high even amid COVID-19 restrictions. We see no reason in cancelling the process,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy told the media on Friday. Stating that the State Election Commission had conducted the parishad elections as directed by a similar Division Bench of the High Court, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said it was unfortunate that the judgment ignored the people’s decision. “Elections are a part of democracy. The government had conducted the elections keeping the COVID-19 crisis in view, as the elected people’s representatives will be available to serve the public better during the pandemic,” he said. He expressed confidence that the YSRCP would win any election, as people were on its side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancellation-of-parishad-polls-unfortunate-sajjala/article34619348.ece
22 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Apex court ratified contents of FIR filed by CID in MP’s case’||The allowing of the “due process of law” by the Supreme Court in the case relating to YSRCP MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju is a vindication of the serious charges levelled against him by the Crime Investigative Department (CID), according to YSRCP general secretary and Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy. The CID had charged Mr. Raju under IPC Section 124 (A) and other IPC sections for “sedition and inciting tempers and disaffection against the government.” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy told reporters at the party central office here on Friday that the apex court judgment had, prima facie , recognised and ratified the contents of the FIR. “The party respects the judgment of the apex court in granting conditional bail to Mr. Raju, while restraining him from speaking to the media, or airing his opinion on other social media platforms,” he said. “Everyone knows that Mr. Raju’s utterances are intended to create disaffection and incite violence between different communities,” he alleged. “Mr. Raju has repeatedly crossed the ‘Lakshman Rekha’, but we have never taken it personally,” he added. But, when he began making hate speeches, trying to incite communities, the CID had taken up investigation, said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. The CID had taken all measures in accordance with the law, he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apex-court-ratified-contents-of-fir-filed-by-cid-in-mps-case/article34619343.ece
22 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Village-level task forces set up to deal with pandemic’||District Collector Vivek Yadav has asked the village sarpanches and panchayat secretaries to take steps to contain the spread of COVID-19 and ensure that people get access to good medical care. In a teleconference held with sarpanches and secretaries held on Friday, Mr. Yadav said the health department should ensure that fever surveys were conducted at all mandals. The rapid antigen testing kits had been supplied to all villages and 104 and 108 ambulances had also been placed at the disposal of secretaries. “Ensure all protocols regarding testing, setting up micro containment zones, triaging, hospital admissions are done. We have set up 929 village committees with the sarpanch as chairman and ward members and staff of village secretariats as members. Ensure people follow social distancing and set up COVID Care Centres at government schools, function halls and community halls and also raise awareness on 104 call centre,” said Mr. Yadav. The Collector said that based on the findings in the fever survey, the committee should ensure that all positive persons stayed indoors and, if necessary, moved to COVID Care Centres or to hospitals. A review would be done after a week, he added. Joint Collector, Ward and Village Secretariats, Development A.S. Dinesh Kumar said all assistance would be provided to COVID committees. Awareness should be created through prayer halls. Home isolation kits should be provided to all those tested positive and in isolation, she said. Medical services Later, the Collector reviewed the medical services at Government General Hospital, Guntur, with the Mr. Joint Collectors Dinesh Kumar and P. Prasanthi, doctors and nodal officers. A decision had been taken to use the premises of AC College as a triaging and testing facility. Biomedical engineers had been appointed to oversee oxygen pipeline supply. A decision to take feed back from patients has also been taken and an oxygen audit is being done daily. Mr. Kumar said that oxygen leaking points had been identified and repairs were conducted. Special training had been given on oxygen usage by anaesthesia to the nursing staff and oxygen audit committees are providing details of oxygen availability and usage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-level-task-forces-set-up-to-deal-with-pandemic/article34618790.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long wait for that elusive jab||If you have managed to get fully vaccinated against COVID-19 with both doses completed, consider yourself lucky. For, it appears to be taking forever for those awaiting that elusive jab. It has been almost a week since Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao announced a temporary suspension in the vaccination drive due to insufficient supply of doses, and there is no word on when it will resume. Citizens are desperately checking the Co-WIN app, some even calling up hospitals, doctors, officials, police, newspaper offices and others seeking help. With the Centre increasing the time interval for two Covishield doses to 12-16 weeks from the earlier 6-8 weeks, the Telangana government has stated that there are no eligible beneficiaries for the second jab. For Covaxin, the demand stands at 3 lakh doses, but only 50,000 vials are available. Then, there are some others in the 45-plus age category waiting for their first dose. Sputnik’s arrival The launch of Russian vaccine, Sputnik, raised hopes. However, informed sources made it clear that the shots would be available only after June 15. “The parameters of this vaccine are totally different from the other two (Covishield and Covaxin) in terms of refrigeration and transport. Moreover, both shots are said to be identical so the plan is to dose up entire staff of the pharma firm to test the mechanism before allowing the general public to get it through the Co-WIN app,” they said. These doses are directly imported, and indigenously-produced Sputnik doses are likely to be available after two months. Telangana government has 1.90 crore citizens in the 18-44 years age group, but could manage to procure 4.90 lakh only. Like several other States, it had raised a global tender for procuring 10 million (1 crore) doses.  However, highly placed sources in the vaccine industry say the task is quite challenging and cumbersome. It could easily take up to three months or more before the first supplies of Pfizer or Moderna could be imported or made here, they affirm. “Vaccines are not available to be purchased off the shelf. The only hope is to secure vaccines bought and stockpiled in United States, Canada and countries in Europe due to hesitancy or because of having procured in advance more than the required numbers, etc. Focused approach with right lobbying could get these within a month, but with many States raising global tenders, it is going to be messy. Ideally, the Centre should have taken the lead and worked out payments with respective States,” the sources say. Kishan’s letter to CM Meanwhile, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, also Secunderabad MP, wrote to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao urging him to vaccinate the railway staff as they are “frontline workers”. The Chief Minister’s Office, already racking their heads over procurement of sufficient vaccine supplies, surely must have been taken aback at the buck being passed, again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/long-wait-for-that-elusive-jab/article34619260.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homoeopathic treatment protocol for black fungus||The Department of Ayush has come out with a homoeopathic prescription for patients recovering from COVID-19, known to be diabetic or found to be diabetic during the course of treatment with steroids, as they have been found to be vulnerable to Mucormycosis (Black Fungus). Director of Ayush, Alagu Varsini told a press conference at J.S.P.S Government Homoeopathic Medical College, Ramanthapur, on Friday that for convalescing patients in severe debilitating state with extreme prostration, Mucormycosis can be prevented by giving the following medicines — Arsenic-Alb 200 (daily two times, six pills each time for 5 days) and Five. Phos 6x tablets (twice daily, three tablets each time for 30 days). Since Homoeopathy is a system of medicine based on individualisation and Mucormycosis is not an exception, one must go through individualistic presentation of each case strictly. The following medicines as per the indications can be used individually one medicine at a time on the advice and under supervision of qualified Homoeopathic physician in the treatment of Mucormycosis, she cautioned. For Rhinocerebral Mucormycosis, drug prescribed is Arsenic-Alb, Kali Bich, Merc.Iod. Rubrum, Merc. Iod. Flavum, Merc. Sol, Cinnabaris, Thuja, Carbo Animalis; 200 potency, daily two times 6 pills each time for 5 days. For Pulmonary Mucormycosis, drug is Arsenic-Alb, Phosphorous, Bryonia, Carbo Animalis, Ant.Tart; 200 potency, daily two times 6 pills each time for 5 days. In case of Cutaneous Mucormycosis, it is Arsenic-Alb, Sulphur, Merc. sol, Anthracinum; 200 potency, daily two times 6 pills each time for 5 days while for Gastrointestinal Mucormycosis, it is Arsenic-Alb, Phosphorous, Nitric Acid; 200 potency, daily two times 6 pills each time for 5 days. These apart, any other medicine or potency can be prescribed based on symptom similarity in a given case, other speakers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayush-comes-out-with-homoeopathic-treatment-protocol-for-black-fungus/article34619264.ece
22 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thousands shifted to care centres in E.G. dist.||Thousands of COVID-19 patients are being sent to ‘Village COVID Care Centres’ (V-CCCs) in the rural pockets of East Godavari district, as they are unable to isolate themselves properly in their homes due to lack of space. The initiative will help prevent further spread of the disease among family members, officials said. By Friday, over 25,000 patients of the 31,673 active cases were in ‘home isolation’ and a majority of them are in the villages. The remaining patients are at hospitals and CCCs. In the villages, home isolation facility is a luxury for many patients. All the patients cannot be accommodated at CCCs unless they need to be under monitoring by doctors. “The V-CCC initiative has been launched on Thursday in all the villages. Schools are designated as a V-CCC which is monitored by the staff of the respective Primary Health Centre. The patient will be shifted to the CCC or hospital only if further medical care is required,” said Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha who inaugurated V-CCCs at Peddapuram and Rajanagaram on Thursday. “In the coming days, thousands of patients needing home isolation will be shifted to the V-CCC. It will address woes in finding isolation space in the houses in the rural areas. It will also prevent further spread of the disease within the family. The patients can also get food from their home on a daily basis if they wish,” Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy told The Hindu . Panchayat authorities and ward secretariats have been told to join the medical and health authorities to run the V-CCCs. “A total of one lakh posters have been supplied to local authorities. They contain details of COVID-19 and are pasted on the door of the patient, alerting the others not to visit the respective house,” Mr. Muralidhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thousands-shifted-to-care-centres-in-eg-dist/article34618792.ece
22 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth killed in accident||Two youth were killed on the spot when two-wheeler on which they were travelling was knocked down by a lorry on the national highway at Sarivela village in Chintoor Agency of East Godavari district. The victims have been identified as D. Hemanth Vara Prasad (20) of Gokavaram mandal in Chintoor Agency and R. Krupa Sagar (20) of Rangareddy district in Telangana. The duo was proceeding to Hyderabad when he accident occurred. Case registered A case has been registered and the bodies have been sent to Chintoor government hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-youth-killed-in-accident/article34618791.ece
22 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Translocation of 49 old trees begins in Kakinada||The translocation of 49 trees, which are three decades old, is in full swing on the campus of the Kakinada Municipal Corporation office. The trees are being translocated in order to make space for construction of new buildings. Launched on May 19 on a pilot basis, the initiative is being taken up under the aegis of the Kakinada Smart City Corporation Limited (KSCCL). KSCCL authorities have roped in Visakhapatnam-based Balaji Nursery for the translocation of the 49 trees. “We are determined not to fell the old trees for any proposed developmental works,,” Kakinada Municipal Corporation Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar told The Hindu on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/translocation-of-49-old-trees-begins-in-kakinada/article34618793.ece
22 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases surpass 42,000 in South Coastal Andhra||There was no relief for people from coronavirus in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as 19 more patients succumbed to the infection while 2,542 persons contracted the disease in a span of 24 hours. For the first time in the second wave of the pandemic, the two districts collectively reported 19 deaths(10 in Prakasam and 9 in SPSR Nellore) in a period of 24 hours, taking the toll to one short of 1490 in the region. Meanwhile, the recovery rate fell to a new low of 79.04%. With over 2,000 cases every day for the past few days, the active caseload crossed the 42,000 mark in the region. On Friday, 1,296 persons in Prakasam district and another 1,246 persons in SPSR Nellore district tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Friday, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Friday night. With this, the overall coronavirus cases tally crossed the 2.07 lakh mark. While hospitals overflowed, pressure on health professionals increased as more and more people rushed to designated hospitals in a critical condition. New infections outnumbered recoveries by over 700 as only 1,320 patients in Nellore district and 484 patients in Prakasam district were cured of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-surpass-42000-in-south-coastal-andhra/article34619334.ece
22 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caseload breaches 1 lakh-mark in Srikakulam district||Srikakulam district continued to bear the brunt of the COVID-19 pandemic, as active cases climbed to 12,672 and the total caseload went past the 1-lakh mark on Friday. The district was one of the last to be affected by COVID-19 in the past year. The total caseload now stands at 1,00,812. Of the active cases, 1,729 patients have been admitted to hospital while 915 persons are being treated at COVID Care Centres. As many as 10,028 patients who have mild symptoms are in home isolation, and are being contacted by the Medical and Health Department regularly for updates on their health. Of the 7,013 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, 1,143 persons tested positive. Recoveries too went up, with 1,457 persons who had contracted the virus testing negative. The death toll stood unchanged at 550. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas told The Hindu that the district administration managed to provide beds to each and every new patient with the improvement of facilities at RIMS and other hospitals. “We have set up a 15-bedded triage at RIMS hospital. The transit facility helps administer medical care to patients before getting admission to hospital. Oxygen and other medical support will be provided soon. The air-conditioned triage will be a big help for patients,” he said. The Collector said 1,400 beds with oxygen support are available in the district. Facilities at COVID-19 wards are almost at par with intensive care units, he said, advising doctors to monitor the condition of the patients on an hourly basis.  Fever survey “The fever survey being conducted in villages and urban areas is helping identify new positive cases quickly. Around 2,000 fever cases are being identified daily and among those cases, nearly 1,000 are turning out to be COVID cases. The district administration is trying to get COVID-19 test reports quickly to ensure quicker treatment for the patients,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caseload-breaches-1-lakh-mark-in-srikakulam-district/article34618788.ece
22 May 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bouquets or brickbats, KGH docs putting their best foot forward||What could be more awful for a doctor, a nurse or paramedic staff to watch a patient dying in front of the entire medical team as they stand helpless. This has been the situation day-in and day-out for the young team of doctors led by Dr. M.V. Vijaya Sekhar, in-charge of the CSR block of King George Hospital (KGH), ever since the city has been hit by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. During the first wave last year, things were different as the death rate was not that high and so was the demand for beds with oxygen facility. But this time, the death rate is phenomenally high and the infection rate is rising, leaving a very little time for the doctors to do something. The scramble for a vacant bed with oxygen facility ICU or ventilator support is four times higher, some doctors say. “No doctor would like to see a patient under his or her care die. We do their best to ensure that the patients recover. But at times, we stand helpless as despite our best efforts, we cannot save the patient. It is a big challenge to deal with it psychologically and we face it on a daily basis,” say Dr. Deepthi Chandrika and Dr. G. Pratyusha, both general-duty medical officers. It is even more difficult, when the patient is a friend, colleague or a close relative. It is really depressing, they add. Dehydration While getting over the mental agony is one thing for the doctors and other health care staff, handling the physical challenge needs real nerves. Donning a personal protective equipment (PPE) for more than eight hours in the day shift and 12 hours in the night shift, is no mean task. With the plastic sheet wrapped around one’s entire body and mask and shield on the face, there is very little space for fresh air reaching the skin. “A normal person would dehydrate in a hour, but we have to wear it and bear with it for 8 to 12 hours, at a stretch. It is one among the biggest physical challenges that doctors, nurses and paramedics are facing in COVID hospitals and wards as they have to stay hydrated by minimum intake,” says Dr. P. Manoj, Assistant Professor Community Medicine and Dr. Ranjit Kumar Yadav, general duty medical officer, at the CSR block. What keeps them going Despite these odds, what keeps them going? “For me, it was the smile of a 80-year-old after she recovered, and the happy patients and their family members when they are discharged from the hospital after recovery. That is enough to keep us going amid all negativity associated with the deaths,” says Dr. Tripti Yerramilli, an assistant anaesthetist at the CSR Block. “When patients leave after recovery, the word ‘thank you’ works like some ‘miracle pill’ on our psyche and we start afresh despite knowing the risk,” says Dr. M.S. Bharathi, an assistant professor of plastic surgery who is now on deputation at the CSR block. The doctors say that it is not easy for the people who have lost their family members and kin to the virus to come to terms with the deaths. However, people should also realise that we are working in a highly constrained environment. The doctors, nurses and staff are not only risking their own lives, but also putting their family members, at stake. According to Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) and district COVID Special Officer Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, the CSR block was built to serve the cancer patients, but it was inaugurated last year and converted into a COVID block. “It has the best facilities and the best team of doctors. It has got doctors from various disciplines and they all work as a team,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bouquets-or-brickbats-kgh-docs-putting-their-best-foot-forward/article34619357.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||No consensus on CLP leader in Kerala||Conflicting factional equations seemed to have complicated the selection of the next Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader in the State. The ‘I’ group led by Ramesh Chennithala arguably dominates the CLP. It purportedly commands the allegiance of an estimated 12 out of the 21 Congress legislators. V.D. Satheeshan, another contender to the post, is also reckoned to be an ‘I’ group leader. ‘A group veteran P.T. Thomas is also in the running for the post along side Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy heads the ‘A’ group. Mr. Chandy has not revealed his choice. Nevertheless, the opposing camps have claimed his silent support. Mr. Satheeshan's bloc maintained that legislators, primarily youngsters, had crossed factional lines to name him their CLP leadership choice. The Chennithala camp suggested that it had the upper hand in the CLP and the tacit support of United Democratic Front (UDF) allies. Pressure of precedent A party insider said that pressure of precedent might fetter Mr. Chennithala's chances. Mr. Chandy had quit as CLP leader after the UDF lost the 2016 Assembly elections, paving the way for Mr. Chennithala's ascension as Leader of the Opposition. On the contrary, Mr. Chennithala's track record of digging out official corruption and bringing them to public notice might stand him in good stead in front of the Congress national leadership. Both Mr. Satheeshan and Mr. Thomas had also spearheaded high-profile Opposition forays against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in the previous Assembly. A party insider said a panel headed by Ashok Chavan is likely to visit Kerala soon to discuss the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) reorganisation. He said any change in CLP leadership was likely to reflect in the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee hierarchy sooner or later. The move to name the CLP leader has gained urgency with the first session of the 15th Legislative Assembly to convene in Thiruvananthapuram on May 24. Generational shift K. Muraleedharan, MP, told reporters on Friday that a decision was likely in the next two days. He said a generational shift in leadership was imperative to take the party forward. Mr. Muraleedharan said he was willing to make way for the next generation. Group equations should not govern leadership choices. Rajmohan Unnithan, MP, also voiced a comparable opinion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-consensus-on-clp-leader-in-kerala/article34618739.ece
22 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala, Karnataka extend lockdown||Tamil Nadu recorded a high number of deaths due to COVID-19 on Friday with 467 more persons succumbing to the infection, taking the toll to 19,598. The State added 36,184 fresh cases to its tally. Though the daily cases dropped below 6,000 in Chennai, the number of fatalities hit 100. A total of 5,913 persons tested positive and 109 persons died. The city had reported 6,000-plus cases for eight consecutive days. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 17,70,988. The State had 2,74,629 active cases. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said the government was extending the State’s COVID-19 lockdown till May 30. However, the government eased the stringent triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Thrissur districts after new cases dropped. Malappuram district would remain under triple lockdown regulations. Kerala reported 29,673 new cases on Friday. The test positivity rate (TPR) showed a decline at 22.22%.  In the wake of COVID-19 continuing to spread and claim lives, particularly in rural areas, Karnataka extended the lockdown by two more weeks, till June 7. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said existing lockdown restrictions would be in force till June 7. But restrictions on inter-State and intra-State movement of people was relaxed. There would be no curbs on goods vehicles. Many people were moving on the roads unnecessarily after the 10 a.m. deadline, and police had been told to take action. They would seize such vehicles. Karnataka on Friday reported 96 new double mutant (B.1.617) cases, taking the total for this variant to 244. This was apart from 109 of the U.K. variant and six South African variant cases. Karnataka also reported 32,218 new cases, 9,591 of them from Bengaluru Urban. With 353 more deaths, the toll was 24,207. Andhra Pradesh reported more than 100 more deaths and 20,000 infections. On Friday, it added 104 deaths and 20,937 infections. There were 2,09,156 active cases. The daily TPR dropped to 20.67% as 1,01,281 samples were tested. Chittoor reported 15 new deaths, Prakasam and Vizianagaram 10 each, East Godavari, Nellore and Visakhapatnam nine each, Krishna eight, Anantapur, Guntur, Srikakulam and Kurnool seven each and West Godavari six deaths. Cases showed a decline in Telangana, along with reduced testing. On Friday, 3,464 cases were detected from 65,997 samples. Deaths rose to 25 from Thursday’s 23. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation continued to be on top with 534 new cases.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-karnataka-extend-lockdown/article34618747.ece
22 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pinarayi Vijayan retains Home, Veena George gets Health||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has retained the Home and Vigilance and IT portfolios held by him in previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) Ministry and has entrusted the crucial portfolios of Finance to K.N. Balagopal, Industries and Law to P. Rajeeve and Health, Family Welfare and Women and Child Welfare to Veena George. K. Rajan will look after the portfolios of Land Revenue and Housing; M. V. Govindan Master heads Local Self Governments, Excise; K. Radhakrishnan has Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes, Devaswom and Parliamentary Affairs; and V. N. Vasavan heads Cooperation and Registration. Roshy Augustine heads Irrigation; K. Krishnan Kutty heads Electricity and ANERT (Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology); A.K. Saseendran heads Forests and Wildlife; Antony Raju heads Transport; P. A. Mohamed Riyas heads Public Works Department and Tourism; P. Prasad heads Agriculture; G.R. Anil heads Food and Civil Supplies, Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology; and Saji Cherian will look after Fisheries, Harbour Engineering, Fisheries University, and Culture. R. Bindu has been entrusted with Collegiate Education and Technical Education; V. Sivankutty heads General Education and Labour; and J. Chinchurani heads Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development, Milk Co-operatives, Zoos, and Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pinarayi-vijayan-retains-home-veena-george-gets-health/article34618735.ece
22 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandal gets a new role||The 80,000-square feet pandal constructed at the Central Stadium in Thiruvananthapuram for the swearing-in ceremony of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government on Thursday has now been turned into a COVID-19 vaccination centre. With the closure of the mass vaccination centre at Jimmy George stadium earlier this month, vaccination camps were conducted mostly through the hospitals in the city. “We started the vaccination camp at the Central Stadium from Friday morning. It is mainly meant for those belonging to the prioritised categories in the 18 to 44 age group and with prior online registration. This will include frontline workers as well as those with various co-morbidities. On the first day, we expect to vaccinate 150 persons here. From Saturday, we hope to vaccinate 300 persons daily at this camp. The numbers are being limited since the vaccine stock is limited. We currently have only the stock purchased directly by the State government,” District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu told The Hindu . S.S. Lal, who contested as the Congress candidate in the Kazhakuttam Assembly constituency, had on Thursday made a public appeal that the massive pandal constructed at the stadium for the swearing-in ceremony should not be demolished and rather be re-purposed into a vaccination camp. Ideal venue The pandal, which is spacious and has good ventilation, would ideally serve as a venue for a mass vaccination camp, especially since the stadium was not being used for any sporting activity during the pandemic period, he had said. The Kerala government seemed to have heeded this positive suggestion, which came from the Opposition camp. The pandal could accommodate 5,000 persons. The district health authorities wound up the mass vaccination camp at the Jimmy George Stadium on May 4, as the volunteers had been finding it hard to control the crowd, including those who had not registered online. With hardly any vaccine stock being allocated by the Central government, the decentralised vaccination camps run by the city Corporation in various wards were also wound up. Now, vaccination was being done mainly through eight government hospitals in the city. The lack of ample space for vehicle parking would be one of the issues for those trying to get vaccinated at the Central Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandal-gets-a-new-role/article34618740.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TUDA to build parks, crematoriums||Tirupati will soon have 16 family parks and four gas-fired crematoriums on the lines of ‘Govindadhamam’, with the Tirupati Urban Development Authority (TUDA) giving the nod for the same. The parks will come up in 16 major Panchayats, while the Swarnamukhi river area, near Thondavada in Chandragiri mandal, will be developed into an eco zone. Two each crematoriums will be built in Tirupati urban and Tirupati rural mandals, as the existing ‘Govindadhamam’ on Karakambadi road is running to its full capacity. Addressing the media later, TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy said Chandragiri stood ahead in the district in terms of vaccination coverage, with nearly 70,000 taking the jab. The constituency was also meeting the needs of the COVID patients through the two COVID Care Centres at Tiruchanur and Thondavada, with a collective strength of 1,400 beds. “Another centre with 250 beds is under consideration”, Dr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tuda-to-build-parks-crematoriums/article34619335.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for five health centres in Tirupati||In a major development towards improving the health infrastructure in the city, the Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) has decided to build five urban health centres with a financial outlay of Rs. 4 crore. MP M. Gurumoorthy, MLA B. Karunakar Reddy, Mayor R. Sireesha and MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha participated in the ground breaking ceremony here on Friday for the construction of the centres coming up at Tirumala Reddy Nagar, Madhava Nagar, Auto Nagar, Tata Nagar and Muthyala Reddy Palle (old Panchayat office) under the National Health Mission. Government land was identified for their construction and the proposal was forwarded to the State and Central governments, which gave the nod. “While there are already eight such centres, construction of these additional five will ensure that any denizen can reach a health centre within fifteen minutes of walk,” observed Mr. Gireesha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stone-laid-for-five-health-centres-in-tirupati/article34619337.ece
22 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work apace on 10 KL oxygen plant at Ruia||Work on the installation of a 10KL oxygen plant is on at a brisk pace at Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia Government General Hospital. Assistant Collector (Chittoor) Abhishek Kumar, who inspected the project site here on Friday, enquired with Nodal Officer Hari Krishna about the arrival of oxygen tankers, in the wake of the incident at the hospital in which eleven people died ten days back. Interacting with the hospital Superintendent K. Bharathi, Mr. Abhishek Kumar sought details of the functioning of the help desk, the triage centre established at the hospital and the problems faced, if any, by the administrators as well as the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-apace-on-10-kl-oxygen-plant-at-ruia/article34619336.ece
22 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen: Jagan tells officials to make COVID-19 hospitals self-sufficient||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday directed officials to make COVID-19 hospitals with more than 50 beds self-sufficient in terms of oxygen stock, in the next four months. Addressing a review meeting on the pandemic situation, Mr. Jagan said the move was important in the wake of predictions that the State’s oxygen requirement would increase in the days to come and the imminent threat of the third wave, which could target children. Calling for a dedicated oxygen generator in every hospital, Mr. Jagan said the hospitals should produce oxygen at least to the extent of meeting their own requirements. He said the State would install such facilities in government hospitals and it would offer attractive incentives or subsidies to encourage managements of private hospitals to follow suit. “We cannot afford to depend on external sources for our survival. We should think of ways to become self-sufficient,” he emphasised. Pointing to the fact that experts had been voicing concern over the third wave’s likely impact on children and that the unavailability of vaccines for this age group was only adding to the problem, the Chief Minister asked the health authorities to ramp up facilities for children with a focus on paediatric ICU facilities. Health scheme Mr. Jagan said the government was providing free treatment to 77% of the people infected by COVID and those suffering from black fungus, under YSR Aarogyasri scheme. Of the 38,763 people who were being treated in the State, 28,189 were receiving treatment under Aarogyasri. The officials informed the Chief Minister about the measures taken to control the impact of black fungus. An expert committee was formed to monitor, allocate and advise on the drugs and other facilities and orders had been placed for all the drugs prescribed by the doctors to ensure that there was no shortage in the future. Seventeen hospitals had been identified in the State for treatment of black fungus, based on the availability of the expertise, they said. 104 service The total number of calls received till date (since April 16th) are 3,86,407. Doctors are making at least 30,000 outbound calls everyday to people in home isolation. This not only gives them the medical guidance they need but also helps in the process of reducing crowds at the hospitals, as people are feeling assured after speaking to a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-jagan-tells-officials-to-make-covid-19-hospitals-self-sufficient/article34619351.ece
22 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fuel prices hit a new high in State||The prices of fuel have reached an all-time high in the State. Petrol is now priced at over Rs. 99 per litre, while the price of diesel is Rs. 92 per litre. The per-litre price of the premium variety of petrol has already breached the Rs. 100 mark. The price of petrol was about Rs. 74 per litre as on May 21, 2020. Similarly, the diesel price was about Rs. 68. A week ago, the prices of petrol and diesel were Rs. 97 and Rs. 90 respectively. According to information, the prices vary from city to city in the State. The average price of petrol in the State is Rs. 99.06 a litre. However, its price in Visakhapatnam is Rs. 98 per litre, Rs. 98.78 in Vijayawada, Rs. 99.21 in Guntur, and Rs. 99 in Kurnool. The Steel City is at an advantage because of the location of a refinery there. Vijayawada too enjoys an advantage because of the location of a storage terminal at Kondapalli. Compared with the prices in Vijayawada, and to the exception of the prices in Visakhapatnam, the fuel costs will be a bit higher in other cities in the State. In July 2020, their prices in Vijayawada stood at Rs. 84.82 per litre and Rs. 80.94 per litre. Considering the prices in Vijayawada, the cost of petrol and diesel has increased by about Rs. 13 and Rs. 11 per litre respectively since July 2020. What the G.O. says The State government had in July 2020 issued a G.O. reverting to the tax regime that prevailed from 2015 to 2018, to partially offset the loss of revenue caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Going by this, the prices of petrol and diesel should have been Rs. 79.26 a litre and Rs. 71.43 a litre respectively, which were the highest that had prevailed between January 2015 and March 2018, according to sources. Fuel prices differ from State to State, depending on the levy of local taxes such as VAT. The State government is currently levying 31% VAT in addition to Rs. 4 as additional tax per litre of petrol and diesel. In neighbouring Telangana, the cost of petrol is Rs. 2 less than in Andhra Pradesh, according to sources. The prices, which have not been increased since February 27, are shooting up again since the last one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fuel-prices-hit-a-new-high-in-state/article34619342.ece
22 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition hails HC order||The A.P. High Court’s order cancelling the MPTC and ZPTC elections conducted in April gave a fresh lease of life to democracy, Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan said in a release on Friday. He stated that conducting the elections on the basis of the notification issued a year ago was a clear violation of rules. The JSP had demanded that a fresh notification be issued. It had also demanded that enough time be given to the candidates. At least now, the government should conduct the elections as per the rule book, he said. ‘SC directive ignored’ Senior TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the court had stated that the State Election Commission (SEC) had not followed the Supreme Court directions. “So, the government should not go for an appeal before the apex court,” he said. BJP State general secretary Vishnuvardhan Reddy said, “Fresh elections should be conducted. The expenses should be met from the salaries of the Chief Secretary and the SEC.” CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said the order was a slap in the face of the government. The SEC did not consider the suggestion by the CPI not to issue the notification in haste, he said. ‘Victory for democracy’ Special Correspondent in Ongole writes: APCC vice-president Sripathy Prakasam termed the cancellation of elections as a “victory for democracy.” The verdict showed that the authorities concerned had not followed the principle of issuing notification four weeks before the elections, said Mr. Prasakam, who is also a noted lawyer. He was speaking after paying floral tributes at the statue of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, near ABM College, on his death anniversary. “Rajiv Gandhi had strengthened democracy at the grass roots by facilitating the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments,” Mr. Prakasam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-hails-hc-order/article34619345.ece
22 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP to protest against State’s ‘anti-people’ policies tomorrow||The BJP will stage protests across the State on May 23 against the government’s “anti-people policies” and its “failure to contain the spread of COVID-19,” according to party general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy. Addressing the media on Friday, Mr. Reddy asserted that much of what the government had said about the COVID-19 control measures turned out to be “empty rhetoric.” The government made wrong claims that it reserved beds for patients in 514 private hospitals. Neither the Chief Minister nor the Ministers were concerned about the plight of the patients in the government hospitals, which lacked the required bed strength, and their exploitation in the private hospitals. Particularly, poor people had nowhere to go in the current scenario, he said. Mr. Reddy alleged that life-saving drugs were being sold at exorbitant rates in the black market, and the government was reluctant to take over the private hospitals as a majority of them were owned by MPs, MLAs, or their relatives. The government boasted of its 2021-22 Budget as people-oriented in spite of the meagre allocations to several sectors, he said, adding that the High Court had rightly cancelled the MPTC and ZPTC elections as norms were flouted blatantly and the elections were marred by violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-to-protest-against-states-anti-people-policies-tomorrow/article34619353.ece
22 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State being pushed into a debt trap: TDP||The TDP organised a ‘mock Assembly’ on Friday and discussed the annual State Budget presented by the government for the year 2021-22. Participating in it, party Polit Bureau member and former Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said that the Budget, which was pegged at Rs. 2.29 lakh crore this year, would likely be 2% more during the 2022-23 fiscal. “By that time, Andhra Pradesh will probably have to pay half of its Budget towards loan repayment. The previous year, a mere Rs. 227 crore had been spent on checking spread of COVID-19 and no funds were allocated for vaccination. This reflected the utter neglect of public health in the State. This year, a meagre Rs. 500 crore each was allocated for containing the spread of virus and vaccination,” he said. Terming the Budget a jugglery of numbers, TDP members Payyavula Keshav, Y. Sambasiva Rao and others criticised Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy for presenting a Budget that defied rational explanation. “The Women and Children budgets are aimed at misleading and cheating the people,” they said. The agricultural production showed a negative growth (-3.9%), they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-being-pushed-into-a-debt-trap-tdp/article34619349.ece
22 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agri Budget is Rs. 31,256.36 cr.||The State government has allocated Rs. 31,256.36 crore for the agriculture and allied sectors for the financial year 2021-22. Proposals to this effect were tabled in the Legislative Assembly by Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu on Thursday. It was erroneously reported in these columns on Friday that it was a Rs. 68,000-crore budget. In fact, Rs. 68,000 crore was the total financial assistance extended to the farmers under different schemes in the last 23 months and various dues cleared during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agri-budget-is-rs-3125636-cr/article34619354.ece
22 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare corporations set up for communities||The State government on Friday issued separate G.O.s for the establishment of a Reddy Welfare and Development Corporation, Kamma Welfare and Development Corporation and Kshatriya Welfare and Development Corporation under the A.P. Societies Registration Act, 2001. It was stated in the G.O.s issued by Special Chief Secretary (BC welfare) G. Anantha Ramu that though a few individuals in those communities (known as OCs) possess large land holdings with assured irrigation facilities, a majority of them are small and marginal farmers. The lack of assured irrigation facilities and vagaries of monsoon and persistent drought affect crop yields. Besides, the increasing cost of agricultural inputs and unremunerative prices led to dwindling incomes and ultimately pushed them into poverty. They are also forced to sell or mortgage their agricultural lands for their children’s education on which greater emphasis is being laid as a tool to eradicate poverty. On the whole, economic disparities within the communities are growing leading to economic unrest, it was said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welfare-corporations-set-up-for-communities/article34618789.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INS Rajput sails into the sunset||As the sun set over the Vizag sky, the Tricolour, Naval Ensign and Decommissioning Pendant were lowered for the last time on the INS Rajput — the Indian Navy’s first Kashin-class destroyer — at the Naval Dockyard here on Friday. The warship was decommissioned after serving for 41 years in the Navy, in the presence of Vice-Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Eastern Naval Command. A Special Postal Cover was released by the ENC chief in recognition of the yeoman service rendered to the nation by the ship. INS Rajput was commissioned on May 4, 1980, at Poti, Georgia (erstwhile USSR), as the lead ship of the Rajput-class Destroyers of the Indian Navy with Capt. (later Vice-Admiral) Gulab Mohanlal Hiranandani as the first Commanding Officer. During her service, the ship had the distinction of being part of both the Western and Eastern Fleets. She was based in Mumbai till June 1988 and thereafter was re-based at Visakhapatnam as part of the Eastern Fleet. Considered to be a formidable ship in her class, she was equipped with an array of weapons and sensors which included surface-to-surface missiles, surface-to-air missiles, anti-aircraft guns, torpedoes, and anti-submarine rocket launchers. INS Rajput was also the first ship to be fitted out to fire the supersonic cruise and long-range BrahMos missile. She was also the first Indian Naval ship to get affiliated with an Indian Army Regiment, the Rajput Regiment. Apart from participating in various naval operations, she also took part in a number of relief operations which include cyclone relief operations off the Odisha coast in 1999, relief operations in the wake of the 2004 tsunami in the Andaman & Nicobar islands and the HADR mission after the earthquake at Jakarta. During her glorious service to the nation, the ship has been helmed by 31 Commanding Officers. The ship has sailed a distance of over 7,87,194 nautical miles which is equivalent to navigating around the world 36.5 times and 3.8 times the distance from the Earth to the Moon. The decommissioning ceremony was attended by a small number of officers and sailors from the Eastern Fleet and other organisations of the ENC whilst adhering to COVID-19 protocols. The event was live-streamed on the internet and Naval intranet for the benefit of a larger audience such as serving personnel, veterans, and outstation ex-crew who had served aboard the ship. The virtual attendees included Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee, former commanding officers and officers and sailors of the commissioning crew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ins-rajput-sails-into-the-sunset/article34618795.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIA files chargesheets against seven ‘Maoist operatives’||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the case against alleged Maoist operatives in Andhra Pradesh, has filed chargesheets against seven persons for their alleged role in “conspiring, supporting and furthering” the activities of the CPI (Maoist), a banned terrorist organisation. The accused persons are Pangi Naganna; Akkiraju Haragopal alias RK alias Ramakrishna, a member of the Central Committee of the CPI (Maoist) and adviser, and in-charge of the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) area; Boppudi Anjamma of Amarula Bandhu Mitrula Sangham (ABMS); Rela Rajeshwari of Chaitanya Mahila Sangham (CMS); Anduluri Annapurna of Pragatisheela Karmika Samakhya (PKS); Manukonda Srinivasa Rao of Virasam; and Jangala Koteshwar Rao alias Koti of PKS. The accused have been charged under various IPC Sections, which included 120B and 39 of UA (P) Act, 1967, Sections 4 & 5 of the Explosives Substances Act, and Section 25 (1A) of the Indian Arms Act. Pangi Naganna had been arrested by the Munchingput police of Visakhapatnam district, and a case was registered against him on November 23, 2020. Naganna had been intercepted by the police while he was allegedly carrying Maoist literature and other incriminating material. On his disclosure, a large cache of explosives and arms, which he was supposed to hand over to the members of the CPI (Maoist), had been recovered. Later, the NIA had taken over the case and re-registered it on March 7, 2021. The NIA, in a release, said that investigation revealed that ABMS, CMS, PKS, Virasam, and PKM were frontal organisations of the CPI (Maoist), and were floated in pursuance to the Tactical United Front strategy of the banned organisation. Five of the accused leaders used to meet Akkiraju Haragopal and other leaders in the forest along with Pangi Naganna, who, in the guise of a journalist, used to organise meetings and appointments with senior leaders of the CPI (Maoist). During the meetings, the leaders of frontal organisations used to discuss the strategy for organising agitations and other activities against the government in order to spread Maoist ideology, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chargesheets-against-7-maoist-operatives/article34618840.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1,886 new cases, 9 deaths||As many as 2,413 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the COVID-19, have recovered in the last 24 hours, while 1,886 persons have tested positive in the same time period, as on Friday morning. This is for the second time in three days, the daily recoveries have outnumbered the daily infections. With the new cases, the cumulative tally has increased to 1,23,190. In the last 72 hours, 6,321 COVID-19 affected persons have recovered, according to the health bulletin released by the officials. The total number of recoveries has crossed the one lakh-mark and now stands at 1,02,029. The death toll has also increased to 818 as nine more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. The total number of deaths reported this month has breached the 200-mark and stands at 207. The number of active cases as on Friday morning was 20,343.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-1886-new-cases-9-deaths/article34619362.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Development programme launched||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana has initiated Sustainability and Resilience Programme (SRP) as part of the United Nations Development programme (UNDP-GoI) Project, which aims at supporting the city in institutional strengthening, governance and various developmental activities to achieve long-term sustainability. She said that the programme will be implemented by the ‘Sustainability and Resilience Unit (SRU)’ and its upcoming four cells, Environment Cell, Climate Cell, Disaster Management (DM) Cell and Human Resource Development (HRD) Cell. Additional Commissioners Asha Jyothi and V. Sanyasi Rao will be involved as the nodal officers for the programme, while other officials and corporators will play an important role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/development-programme-launched/article34619363.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Negligence will not be tolerated, Collector warns hospital staff||District Collector V. Vinay Chand warned that negligence in COVID-19 treatment will not be tolerated. Doctors and other staff of the hospital should be available at the wards and constantly monitor the health condition of the patients. He was speaking during a review meet organised at the Collectorate with the superintendents of various hospitals and other health staff. Mr. Vinay Chand instructed District COVID-19 Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar to recruit adequate number of staff nurses in the chest and the ENT hospitals. The Collector instructed the officials to admit patients having oxygen saturation levels from 90 to 94 in various teaching hospitals providing COVID-19 treatment and to admit serious cases to Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) and King George Hospital (KGH). He also asked the officials to provide treatment for black fungus cases only in KGH. Mr. Vinay Chand also instructed the officials to continue raids on private hospitals providing COVID-19 treatment and check about the bed availability and services offered. Meanwhile, Mr. Vinay Chand inaugurated a new oxygen generation plant which was set up with a budget of Rs. 3.4 crore near the nursing college hostel at KGH premises here on Friday. He enquired about the storage and supply procedure of the plant with the officials. Nodal officer and Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Officer S. Venkateswar on Friday said that Rani Chandramani Devi Government Hospital will offer COVID-19 services to the patients from May 22. He inspected the hospital on Friday and asked the officials to arrange a ward with 30 beds. He assured to provide two ambulances to the hospital. He later inspected Regional Eye Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/negligence-will-not-be-tolerated-collector-warns-hospital-staff/article34619365.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone alert: control room to be opened||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has directed the officials of all the departments concerned to be prepared, in view of the cyclone alerts issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The Collector directed the District Revenue Officer(DRO) to open a control room at the Collectorate and appoint revenue officials and staff to man it. He also suggested preparation of a disaster management plan for hospitals. A backup plan should be prepared to ensure continuous power supply to the hospitals in view of breakdowns due to rains. There should be at least 10 to 15 linemen under the control of each Tahsildar to take up power restoration on a war-footing, if required, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyclone-alert-control-room-to-be-opened/article34619359.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LVPEI opens hotline on black fungus||Mucormycosis (black fungus) is another emerging threat and the need of the hour is early diagnosis and timely treatment. To minimise the delay in accessing timely treatment, LV Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI) has introduced a hotline number – 18002002211, according to Oshin Bansal, ophthalmologist and oculoplasty specialist. Needy persons can call any time on this number between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. from Monday to Saturday for any queries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lvpei-opens-hotline-on-black-fungus/article34619360.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,160 kg ganja seized, two arrested||The district police seized about 2,160 kg ganja from two persons while they were allegedly transporting it in a lorry near Makavarapalem area on Thursday night. According to the police, the accused – one from West Bengal and another a local person – procured the ganja from interior parts of Sileru in Visakhapatnam district and were allegedly trying to shift it to Maharashtra. In order to escape from the police, the smugglers have dumped rice grains on the ganja in the lorry. Based on a credible information, the police teams intercepted the vehicle and seized the ganja. According to a senior official from the district police, the seized ganja would be worth over Rs. 2 crore in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2160-kg-ganja-seized-two-arrested/article34619367.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||267 children rescued||As many as 267 children, including 51 girls, were rescued by the city and the district police in the last three days as part of ‘Operation Muskaan’ launched by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/267-children-rescued/article34619366.ece
22 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant: relay fast continues for 99th day||The relay hunger strike, being observed by the workers of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), opposing privatisation of VSP continued for the 99th day on Friday. The committee leaders from MMSM, STM and SBM departments and workers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-relay-fast-continues-for-99th-day/article34619358.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In the net||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-the-net/article34618749.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anti-COVID drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anti-covid-drive/article34618799.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adding to the troubles||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adding-to-the-troubles/article34619339.ece
22 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SCCL speeds up setting up of 5 oxygen plants||In the midst of the virulent second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has expedited the process of setting up five oxygen generator plants in the company-run hospitals at an estimated cost of Rs. 3.60 crore to meet the growing oxygen requirements of the SCCL hospitals with a futuristic perspective. The surge in demand for medical oxygen in these times of pandemic has prompted the government-owned coal mining company to ramp up oxygen supply to the six company-run hospitals, including the Singareni main hospital in Kothagudem, on a war-footing. The SCCL has initiated a slew of COVID control and prevention measures to protect its workforce from coronavirus infection and provide prompt treatment to its employees, retired personnel and their family members. According to SCCL sources, the company had so far spent Rs. 71 crore on a wide spectrum of initiatives to prevent and control the pandemic, including testing and treatment services. Of the SCCL’s total workforce of 44,000, around 783 employees had tested positive and are presently undergoing treatment at the area hospitals and the empanelled COVID care health facilities, sources added. The company’s 11 coal mining areas reported a little over 1,575 active COVID-19 cases. These include 1,211 family members of the SCCL employees and retired personnel besides 364 contract workers. To cater to the growing demand for oxygen in the company’s hospitals, the management has purchased 370 additional oxygen cylinders at a cost of Rs. 1.28 crore and made them available in the main and area hospitals of the company. To achieve self-sufficiency in oxygen supply in the company-run hospitals, the SCCL management has given its nod to set up five oxygen generator plants in the SCCL hospitals. Four oxygen generator plants of 12 cubic metres per hour capacity will be set up, one each in Singareni main hospital in Kothagudem and area hospitals in Bhupalpally, Ramakrishnapur of Mancherial district, and Bellampalli of Komaram Bheem. SCCL Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar has directed the company officials concerned to ensure speedy installation of the oxygen generator plants within three to four weeks. The company management has initiated the tendering process for setting up of a 45 cubic metres capacity oxygen generator plant in Ramagundam area soon, sources added. An amount of Rs. 3.15 crore has already been released to purchase the requisite medical equipment, including 15 ventilators, 42 room oxygen concentrators, 200 oxygen flow meters, 31 multi-para monitors and 28 high-flow nasal devices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-speeds-up-setting-up-of-5-oxygen-plants/article34619290.ece
22 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Tough measures to check fleecing of patients at labs||The district health authorities have scaled up surveillance to curb alleged malpractices, including overcharging of patients by some errant private healthcare providers, amid the second wave of the pandemic. The district administration has already appointed a special officer to monitor the functioning of private hospitals notified as COVID care centres and ensure their strict compliance with the stipulated norms governing the treatment tariff. Acting on a specific complaint, a team of health officials led by special officer Dr. Sujatha raided a private laboratory on Thursday. The officials found the organisers of the lab conducting COVID-19 tests without valid permission and subsequently sealed the lab, sources added. The raid followed allegations of fleecing of patients by some errant private healthcare facilities by taking advantage of the huge demand for COVID-19 testing and treatment services in the district. There have been persistent demands from several elected representatives of the Agency mandals to ramp up COVID-19 testing at the designated test centres. Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah sought sanction of more COVID-19 testing kits to scale up testing at the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam town to effectively combat the pandemic in tribal areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tough-measures-to-check-fleecing-of-patients-at-labs/article34619289.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dip in daily caseload, tests||The number of COVID-19 cases continue to show a decline along with reduction in the number of tests conducted. On Friday, 3,464 positive cases were detected with 65,997 samples being examined as against the previous day’s figures of 3,660 infections and 69,252 tests. While results of 2,227 tests were awaited, number of deaths, however, showed a rise to 25 from Thursday’s 23, taking the total number of fatalities to 3,085. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, in the daily official bulletin, informed that the number of active cases in Telangana is 44,395, taking the overall figure to 5.48 lakh. Recoveries on Friday declined to 4,801 from 4,826 the previous day, taking the total number of those recovered to 5.03 lakh. GHMC leads table Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation continues to be the top contributor to the viral load with 534 cases. The number of positive cases in neighbouring districts of Rangareddy was 243 followed by Medchal -Malkajgiri at 219. Other districts with over 100 cases were Khammam 217, Nalgonda 150, Karimnagar 136, Mahaboobnagar 135, Vikarabad 125, Bhadradri-Kothagudem 115, Warangal-Urban 111, Nagarkurnool 111 and Warangal-Rural 109. Adilabad reoported 14 cases , Nirmal 15, Khomarambheem-Asifabad and Narayanpet 28 each. There has been a signficant surge in cases in Khammam from 203 to 217 and in Suryapet from 21 to 51 Dr. Rao has urged citizens to call helpline ‘104’ for any grievances and telemedicine or WhatsApp to 9154170960 about any complaints with regard to the private hospitals or laboratories. For real time COVID Hospital bed status, click on below linkhttps://health.telangana .gov.in/ Vulnerable age groups continue to be children less than 10 years of age and elders above 60 years of age and hence, advised to avoid going outdoors unless mandatory. Since, there is high incidence of COVID disease in the age group of 20 to 50 years, people are requested not to go out, unless absolutely necessary like going for work/essential shopping with mandatory face mask, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dip-in-daily-caseload-tests/article34619266.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Long wait for employees to get revised pay||The agonising wait of employees to take home the revised salaries continues as the government is yet to complete the formalities for implementation of the revised pay scales. The last date for the preparation of bills for submission to the Pay and Accounts Office and Treasuries at the district level expired on Thursday, but formal orders on the implementation of the new scales are yet to be issued. As a result, employees who are waiting for the implementation of the new pay scales since July 1, 2018, will have to wait for one more month. The file pertaining to the new pay scales with 30% hike in fitment is reportedly cleared by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, but orders translating it into action are yet to be released. The Chief Minister gave his consent for implementation of new pay scales with a fitment hike of 30% for all categories of employees and an assurance was given that pay scales of contract and outsourcing employees too, would be revised in tune with the rising costs of living. As against the 7.5% fitment hike recommended by the Pay Revision Commission headed by retired bureaucrat C.R. Biswal, the Chief Minister had announced a hefty hike in the pay scales of all categories of staff. While implementation of the recommendations made by the PRC would have costed the State exchequer Rs. 2,232 crore annually, the enhanced fitment hike at 30% would entail an additional expenditure of close to Rs. 1,000 crore a month. The announcement came at a time when the State is facing tough conditions financially in the aftermath of the outbreak of coronavirus, which continues to cast its adverse impact on the State’s economy. Senior officials said fixation of salary structure of employees in different categories was yet to be completed. The process starts with upgradation of service records of employees with respective new pay scales and this will be followed by preparation of reports by the drawing and disbursement officers in different departments. Employee-wise lists prepared department wise will thereafter be sent to the treasury offices or pay and accounts office. Once these details are recorded after due verification by the officials concerned, the government will be in a position to prepare salary bills of the employees. Senior officials said the process will be initiated after formal orders on the pay revision are issued. “Once the file is approved, it will take two weeks,” a senior official told The Hindu . Employees are also concerned that clarity is yet to emerge on the mode of payment of arrears for one year starting April 1, 2020. The government had assured that arrears for one year would be paid in cash, but had not outlined the mode of payment as to whether they would be paid in lumpsum or in instalments. Leaders of the employees’ unions said they should wait for one more month for the implementation of the new pay scales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/long-wait-for-employees-to-get-revised-pay/article34619285.ece
22 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stigma, touts, rain add to woes of families of COVID victims||The number of people dying either in ambulances and while waiting for beds has shown an upward trend over the past few days in Hyderabad putting pressure on voluntary organisations for disposal of bodies. “Finding beds has become a big challenge. We are losing a number of critical patients as their relatives struggle to find ICU beds or beds with ventilator facility,” says Mujtaba Askari of Helping Hand Foundation (HHF). His organisation has been responsible for helping families conduct funerals of their loved ones with dignity. “We have conducted about 150 funerals over the past few days,” he says. Complicating the problem, touts outside hospitals are demanding Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 50,000 to dispose of bodies of COVID victims, making it difficult for the next of kin. Multiple audio conversations with men posing as workers of the civic body are now available, showing how family members are being coerced to part with large sums of money for funerals. “The funerals are free if the government conducts them. But these touts are spreading a canard about unknown bodies being cremated. So, families are reaching out to us,” says Sai Teja Katragada of Feed The Needy. “The private hospitals are asking families to take home the bodies of COVID victims which is not correct due to COVID protocol. We are being forced to hire freezer boxes after shelling out Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000 per day,” says Mr. Katragada, whose organisation has conducted 375 funerals till now. “The biggest problem we are facing is cremating the bodies of Hindus. We are forced to pay Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 25,000. Families are being asked to pay between Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 45,000. The rain over the past few days has further aggravated the problem,” says Syed Jalaluddin Zafar whose organisation, the Youth Welfare Telangana, has conducted 1,900 funerals across the State over the past few months. “Two days ago, we were called by an autorickshaw driver whose mother had passed away. He had Rs. 7000 and the ambulance driver asked for Rs. 8,000 to transport the body to the burial ground. When we arranged the transport, his younger brother who lived next door refused to open the door. The autodriver, his three daughters and my men carried the body and carried out the funeral rites as per the family’s tradition,” says Zafar, a publisher of textbooks. He began working on COVID relief during the first phase by distributing food to the needy. But it changed one day when he received a call for help from a girl who father passed away and her brother ran away fearing the stigma. From that fateful day till now, Mr. Zafar and his team have battled greedy graveyard caretakers, cremation ground managers and stigma to ensure dignified funerals.  The funerals are free if government conducts them. But touts are spreading a canard about unknown bodies being cremated. Sai Teja Katragada, Feed The Needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stigma-touts-rain-add-to-woes-of-families-of-covid-victims/article34619275.ece
22 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Isolating and treating mild cases within the community||When someone living in an apartment complex or a gated community tests positive for COVID-19, an immediate concern is to curb the infection from spreading to the other family members. A vacant apartment or a house within the complex can serve as an isolation centre. In July 2020, the Ministry of Health of Government of India had issued guidelines for gated communities that wish to set up isolation facilities for mild cases of COVID-19. In Hyderabad, this trend has caught on, in the wake of the spurt in cases during the second wave. A vacant four-bedroom villa in Rolling Hills, Gachibowli, serves as an isolation facility for anyone within the 100-villa gated community testing COVID-19 positive with mild symptoms. The clubhouse at Aparna Hillpark Gardenia, Chandanagar, has been converted into an intermittent isolation care centre. The resident welfare associations have drawn up checklists — rooms with ample cross ventilation and bathrooms, a refrigerator, frequent sanitisation, essentials such as thermometer, pulse oximeter, glucometer, gloves, masks, PPE kits, IV cannulas, IV fluids, portable ECG machine and a nebuliser. There’s a standby oxygen cylinder or concentrator in these facilities. Resident volunteers provide food for those who are isolated. Doctors living in the vicinity help by offering tele-consultations and monitor the patients from time to time. Architect and water conservation advocate Kalpana Ramesh mooted the initiative in Rolling Hills, turning the vacant house owned by her family into an isolation centre: “Resident welfare associations in the city are doing the best they can in terms of safety protocols and helping families in need. This could be an additional measure to curb the spread of infection within families and to reduce the load on hospitals. Patients are also likely to feel more comfortable to isolate within the neighbourhood than in a hospital,” she reasons. The facility is available for those with mild symptoms. If required, their plan is to shift patients to Project Aashray’s 50-bed Early Stage COVID-19 Care and Isolation Facility in Cyberabad or to a hospital. Speaking on behalf of Gardenia, obstetrician and gynaecologist Dr Vinatha Puli avers that an isolation facility is the need of the hour: “A few other neighbouring communities had begun establishing similar facilities and we felt it was essential too. When the idea was mooted, it was met with enthusiasm. There are 10 doctors within the gated community; other resident volunteers have been eager to help by providing food and other help required.” With the clubhouse remaining out of bounds during the second wave, it was feasible for one of the well-ventilated rooms to be turned into an interim isolation bedroom; the spa’s changing room and washroom were an added bonus. According to the guidelines issued by MoH, these isolation facilities are not meant for the elderly, young children or pregnant/lactating mothers. At the isolation centre, contact numbers of doctors and ambulance service providers need to be displayed prominently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/isolating-and-treating-mild-cases-within-the-community/article34619270.ece
22 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held for ‘selling’ Black Fungus vials||Three persons, who were selling anti-Black Fungus vials in the black market, were apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force team of the North Zone on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off, the North Zone team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao, laid a trap at a house near Delhi Sweet House, Punjagutta, and apprehended the accused persons who were in possession of five vials of Amphotericin B Injection. Each vial was being sold for Rs. 50,000, while the MRP was Rs. 305, Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P Radha Kishan Rao said. “Amphotericin B injection is being used to treat for Black Fungal infections. The antiviral drug is currently in high demand,” he said. The accused were identified as Falaram Kashaiah, 23, drug supplier from Punjagutta, Sugali Vinod Kumar Naik, 23, a private employee from Madhapur, and Mohd Khaja Nizam, 30, a medical shop owner from Yerragadda. Police also seized three mobiles from the possession of the accused. They along with the seized material were handed over to Punjagutta police for further investigation.  Two nabbed Meanwhile, forty vials of Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate and 12 vials of Remdesivir were recovered from the possession of two persons, including a woman, who were apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) team here on Friday for selling the antiviral drugs in black market.   The accused are Dalapati Bhuvaneshwar Raju, 37, a civil contractor from LB Nagar, and Kanneganti Manasa, 32, a private employee from Sanathnagar. The team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao laid a trap near Nimantran Hotel, Secunderabad, and intercepted the accused persons. They were selling the anti-viral drugs for Rs. 15,000 per vial, Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P Radha Kishan Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-held-for-selling-black-fungus-vials/article34619277.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||General insurance agents seek aid from PSU insurers||A general insurance agents’ body has appealed to the four public sector general insurers to declare a compensation of at least Rs. 10 lakh each to the families of agents who have died of COVID-19. It also wanted the four companies, namely National Insurance, New India Assurance, Oriental Insurance and United India Insurance, to extend interest free loans to agents hospitalised due to the virus. Seeking support from the companies for the agents, General Insurance Agents’ Federation Integrated (GIAFI) president Rapolu Sudhakar said payment of the compensation will immensely help families of the agents. Many agents are unable to afford the cost of treatment for self and family members. Under such circumstances, grant of interest free loans to those hospitalised would provide some relief. The loan can be recovered in instalments from the commission payable to them. The companies may also consider covering the lives of the agents under a group insurance policy, he said. Mr. Sudhakar said with an estimated two lakh general insurance agents in the country, including private insurers, the insurance regulator, IRDAI, can consider permitting the companies to create a fund for their welfare. In support of the demands raised by GIAFI, which has a membership of around 21,000 agents, he referred to the interest free advance, of up to Rs. 50,000, Life Insurance Corporation of India had issued last year to eligible agents. The life insurer, he said, has started recovering the advance. Private general insurance companies have announced certain measures for their agents in the wake of the pandemic, but not compensation, sources said. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company is providing its agents and their dependants access free of cost to doctor consultation on an app. In the event of death of agents, the company has said it will help an eligible dependant become an insurance advisor or offer him/her a full time job. Bajaj Allianz General as well as SBI General Insurance have also announced vaccination for their agents and their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/general-insurance-agents-seek-aid-from-psu-insurers/article34619283.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Anti-fungal drug from MSN stable launched||Drugmaker MSN Laboratories has launched Posaconazole, a drug used in the treatment of Mucormycosis, or Black Fungus as the fungal infection is also known. Stating that Posaconazole is a triazole antif-ungal agent, an MSN statement on Friday said the company has launched the product under the PosaOne brand as 100 mg Delayed Release tablets and 300 mg injections. The active pharmaceutical ingredient and the formulation of PosaOne have been developed at the in-house research and development and manufacturing units, it said. The price of the tablet is Rs. 600 each, while that of the injection is Rs. 8,500 per vial. A rare fungal infection, Black Fungus cases are on the rise in recent weeks in several parts of the country, primarily among those recovering from COVID-19. The increase in the number of Mucormycosis cases has sent the demand for this and other drugs used in the treatment of the infection soaring. MSN said it has already launched Favilow (Favipiravir) and Oselow (Oseltamivir) that are used in treatment of COVID-19. It recently entered into a licensing agreement with Eli Lilly for another drug, Baridoz (Baricitinib).  The price of the tablet is Rs. 600 each, while that of the injection is Rs. 8,500 per vial||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anti-fungal-drug-from-msn-stable-launched/article34619268.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Socio-religious body does its bit for the poor||Socio-religious organisation, Safa Baitul Maal, which has busied itself in philanthropic activities for years, is now been helping COVID-19 positive patients by given them access to oxygen concentrators. According to Maulana Ghayas Ahmad Rashadi, who is an office-bearer of the organisation, the organisation has been giving oxygen concentrators and oxygen cylinders to families of patients so as to ameliorate their health situation. A large number of these patients belong to the weaker sections of the society, he said. So far, oxygen concentrators and cylinders worth approximately Rs. 70 lakh have been obtained, a large number of which have already been given to those in need. The funds are a result of a large number of generous donors, the organisation stated. For over a year, Safa Baitul Maal has also organised health camps and COVID-19 counselling initiatives. On board are as many as 120 volunteers and around 35 doctors. Those who are in need of counselling can contact the organisation on: 7306600600. Safa Baitul Maal volunteers are working with other organisations at Gandhi Hospital, District Hospital, King Koti, and TB and Chest Hospital where they are engaged in providing relief to those in need, before they are admitted in these hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/socio-religious-body-does-its-bit-for-the-poor/article34619279.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Drive thru COVID-19 testing facility’||Mapmygenome launched a ‘Drive Thru COVID-19 testing facility’ at Cyient Foundation MP Primary & ZP High School in Gachibowli on Friday. People seeking COVID tests can enter the school premises and follow the markings for parking spots. There are standees with barcode for the registration form, which can be filled online. Apart from names, contact details, and age, this form also requires an individual’s ID proof. Sample collection executives will approach the car and collect oropharyngeal and nasopharyngeal swab samples. Payment can be made online or to the executive. At every step, all COVID protocols and precautions are being followed. Reports are sent online. Mapmygenome has two other COVID testing labs – one at RGIA and one at their corporate headquarters in Madhapur. Both labs operate 24/7. A sample collection facility is also available at Kukatpally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drive-thru-covid-19-testing-facility/article34619271.ece
22 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man dies after overeating his favourite ice cream||A 20-year-old man from Nacharam reportedly died of overeating his favourite strawberry flavoured ice cream in the wee hours of Friday. Police said that Sai Sampath, who worked for an app-based food delivery aggregator, ordered a one-litre strawberry flavoured ice cream pack on Thursday night. He left only a few spoons and went to bed. In the middle of the night, around 2.30 a.m., he experienced breathlessness and tried calling his parents. As he was unable to speak, he made loud noises, and soon his father Mallesh went to his rescue, police said. Sampath started puking and fell unconscious. The paramedical staff of the ambulance, which his father called for, pronounced him dead. Based on the complaint lodged by Mr. Mallesh, Nacharam police of Rachakonda registered a case and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-dies-after-overeating-his-favourite-ice-cream/article34619280.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RT-PCR negative certificate mandatory for rail travel||The SCR said Maharashtra govt. has made it mandatory that all passengers coming from outside the State and detraining in stations falling in the State must carry RT-PCR negative certificate which will has to be issued from up to a maximum of 48 hours before the time of entry and which will be valid for 7 days. Passengers were also advised to visit IRCTC website http://contents.irctc.co.in/en/stateWiseAdvisory.html before commencing journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rt-pcr-negative-certificate-mandatory-for-rail-travel/article34619272.ece
22 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three found dead||Three siblings were found dead at their residence at Chandrakapuram under Hussainialam police station limits in old city here on Friday. The victims, Madhu Babu, 45, an LIC agent, his sister Premalatha, 37, and brother Sandeep, 35, died by hanging themselves from a ceiling fan in the wee hours over financial issues. Police said that the victims’ parents passed away when they were children. The investigators did not find any suicide note. (Roshni, Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre: +914066202000 and 6666 1117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-found-dead/article34619273.ece
22 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Close gatherings, regular travel causing mass spread of virus||Official reports from three different primary health centres (PHCs) have indicated spread of coronavirus among groups of people and doctors blame lack of social distancing and absence of COVID appropriate behaviour. In the case of Ramayampet municipal limits, which fall under the D Dharmaram Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC), a group of people from a community had organised a week-long celebration in which people from Hyderabad to Kamareddy had participated in large numbers. Though the officials do not have exact data of how many had participated, doctors in that area report that the event has become a COVID super spreader. The doctors got alerted to the event only after they tried to trace the source of infection following an upsurge in COVID symptomatic cases. “We conducted house-to-house survey during which several symptomatic cases were reported. Many symptomatic patients were handed over medicine kits, but they were unwilling to use the medicines till they undergo a test. Unfortunately, the government has ordered the number of tests to be brought down and they are limited to 20 per day,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity. The case of Shankarampet R. is something different. Even here the number of cases is high and the reason being attributed is to migrant workers who are staying away from their families and are put up in shared accommodation. “There are more than 3,000 workers from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Maharashtra working in some 10 industries in the region. Majority of them are staying away from their families and are living in shared accommodation. If one of the residents gets infected, the chances of all the people sharing the accommodation getting infected are high. Further, these people don’t have an option of staying in isolation as there are no facilities and many of the employers are unwilling to support the workers,” Shankarampet R. Medical Officer Dr. Sravani said. The number of cases in Shankarampet A. has come down considerably at present. This is being attributed to the ongoing lockdown. “People from here travel up and down regularly to cities and other areas for their work. The extensive exposure to people in other areas is one of the reason for higher number of cases in the past. Since the lockdown has been imposed the travel has come down and so have the number of cases. We have to break the 14-day link and there is a need to extend the lockdown further,” said another doctor on condition of anonymity. All the doctors wanted the authorities to establish isolation centres in rural areas and convince people to stay there till the stipulated quarantine period was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/close-gatherings-regular-travel-causing-mass-spread-of-virus/article34619287.ece
22 May 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Ruckus over COVID patient’s death in hospital||A man becoming emotional and damaging a door at a government hospital in Siddipet has become viral on social media. The incident took place on Thursday night and the video went viral by Friday afternoon. According to sources, a 50-year-old woman died of COVID at the hospital at 10 p.m. on Thursday. Hearing the news, her son Muneer lost control and started abusing the doctors and nurses charging them with negligence leading to the death. He even damaged a door at the hospital before taking his mother’s body for the final journey. On Friday afternoon, BJP Mahila Morcha leaders Aruna Reddy, Padma and Balamani barged into the COVID ward of the hospital and interacted with patients despite objection by doctors and nurses. They reportedly used objectionable language against the doctors and nurses. Police registered cases against Muneer and the BJP leaders. Following this incident, a round-the-clock security was arranged at the isolation ward with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ruckus-over-covid-patients-death-in-hospital/article34619288.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Many inoculation sites remain shut due to vaccine shortage||A number of inoculation sites across the Capital remained shut on Friday due to vaccine shortage. Meanwhile, volunteers at a few other sites said the centres, where people in the 18-44 age group were being given the jabs, are now vaccinating only those above 45. Despite vaccination banners and notices put on its gates, Ishani Government Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Saket remained closed for inoculations on Friday. ‘Closed since May 14’ A guard at the school said: “The school has been shut for vaccination since May 14. There were four sites in this school and Covaxin was being administered here for the 18-44 age category. However, due to unavailability of vaccines, the sites are closed for over a week now.” Delhi government schools across the city, which had been converted into vaccination sites, saw a steady rush of people. With controlled crowds, civil defence volunteers and police personnel in place, these sites paved the way for several people to get vaccinated over the past few weeks. The Gargi Government Sarvodaya Girls Senior Secondary School in Safdarjung Enclave was another site where the vaccination process for the 18-44 age category has been discontinued, said police personnel stationed at the gates. “Till Thursday, Covishield was administered to people in the 18-44 age category. However, on Friday we did not see anyone from this category probablybecause there were no slots available. At the four sites inside the school, vaccines for the above 45-year category is being administered now. People in this category can walk in directly and do not require prior appointments,” a policeman at the school said. Outside one of the government schools in Malviya Nagar, where the vaccination process for both categories were being conducted, those receiving the shots said they felt relieved to have received at least one dose. Waiting outside the Government Boys Senior Secondary School in the area, South Delhi resident Gaurav Chauhan, said: “I am here for my daughter’s vaccination process. All these days getting an appointment and a slot was proving to be difficult. However, in the last few days, reports of the shortage of vaccine had really made us tense. We saw how young people got affected in the second wave and now I am glad that my daughter will at least get her first dose. Hopefully, the supply chain will normalise soon.” Civil defence volunteers present at the school said: “The vaccination drive has been going without a hitch in this school. As of Friday, Covishield is being administered to both categories of people and those above 45 can simply walk in.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/many-inoculation-sites-remain-shut-due-to-vaccine-shortage/article34619243.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wrestler’s death: more police deployed at stadium||Delhi Police has deployed an armed reserve police force at the entry gate of Chhatrasal Stadium and all security guards at the gates have been replaced with new ones. The move came after a brawl broke out inside the north-west Delhi stadium that led to the death of a wrestler earlier this month. A senior officer said the deployment of a reserve police force is part of a precautionary measure. After the incident, the police had a meeting with the management of the stadium over security measures. New security agency “There was a recommendation to change the private security guards at the stadium gate because, on the day of the incident, the earlier ones didn’t inform the police about the brawl immediately. A new private security agency has been given the charge of security at the main gate and it has been briefed by the management over the entry of visitors,” said the officer. Meanwhile, a police team reached Bhatinda in Punjab after wrestler Sushil Kumar was spotted in the city. “The Delhi Police team, along with Punjab Police, questioned the man who was identified after scanning ID through which a SIM card was activated. We have got some leads stating that Sushil was spotted in Mohali on Friday afternoon,” said the officer. More than 15 police teams are on the lookout for Mr. Kumar in four States. “Delhi Police raided several gyms [akharas] in Haryana in search of Sushil’s associates. His father-in-law was also questioned. We are gathering details of the properties owned by Sushil in Delhi-NCR. The brawl that happened inside the stadium was over a property dispute,” added the officer. On May 17, the police had announced a reward of Rs. 1 lakh to help catch the Olympic medalist and Rs. 50,000 for co-accused Ajay. Kumar, employed with Indian Railways, was presently on deputation as an Officer on Special Duty at Chhattrasal Stadium, where the brawl allegedly took place on May 3 and 4 midnight. Wrestler Sagar Dhankar, 23, died while three others suffered injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wrestlers-death-more-police-deployed-at-stadium/article34619241.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Labourer held for killing wife in north-east Delhi||A man has been arrested for allegedly killing his 42-year-old wife in north-east Delhi’s Sonia Vihar on Friday morning, the police said. DCP (North-East) Sanjay Kumar Sain said the accused has been identified as Ram Shanker Sharma, a labourer, who allegedly killed Anita using a mattock. The police said they received a PCR call at 9 a.m. stating that a woman had been killed in Sonia Vihar. “On reaching the spot, the police found the woman lying dead. She had head injuries and a mattock was found near the body. Her husband, who was near her at that time, confessed to the crime, ” the officer said. During investigation, the police found that the couple had a matrimonial dispute going on between them. “Victim had filed a domestic violence case against her husband in Karkardooma court. She had disowned her husband, alleging him of bad character,” DCP said, adding that the couple has three children. A murder case has been registered and further probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/labourer-held-for-killing-wife-in-north-east-delhi/article34619240.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Delhi prof. Dinesh Mohan succumbs to COVID-19||Honorary professor at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi Dinesh Mohan died on Friday morning due to COVID-19 related complications. Prof. Mohan, 75, was the Founder of the Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Programme (TRIPP) and an expert on traffic safety and human tolerance. IIT, Delhi director V. Ramgopal Rao said Mohan was being treated at St. Stephen’s Hospital after he tested positive. Prof. Mohan, started his career with the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety in Washington DC, USA and had since 1976 been with IIT Delhi’s Centre for Biomedical Engineering and did pioneering work through the establishment of TRIPP. He was a recipient of several distinctions and awards, including the Distinguished Alumni Award from IIT Bombay and the University of Delaware and was on several committees nationally and internationally on traffic safety and injury prevention. Prof. Mohan had authored and co-authored several books and articles in scholarly journals on policy related to the safety of individuals and safe designs of passenger vehicles. “He was a great humanist and fervent supporter of individual rights. The Delhi Declaration on People’s Right to Safety is one such example. He was also a leading columnist and commentator on issues related to the public interest. It is a huge loss for all the faculty, students and staff at TRIPP, IIT Delhi and all those known to him at the Institute and the Traffic safety community in India,” IIT, Delhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iit-prof-dinesh-mohan-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34618943.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Foreign national nabbed for duping many people on pretext of supplying Remdesivir||A 41-year-old Nigerian has been arrested from Dwarka’s Khanpur for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of supplying them Remdesivir injections at a higher price, the police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) S.K. Meena said the accused, Chieuikem Daniel P.E., was arrested from his rented house. The police said they received a complaint from a man that he was in urgent need of three Remdesivir injections for his acquaintance, who was suffering from COVD-19.  ‘Rs. 25K for one injection’ He found the accused’s number on social media and when he called, the accused agreed to provide the injection for Rs. 25,000 each and also asked for Rs. 10,000 advance. The victim then paid the accused but did not get the injection. During probe, call detail records of the accused were analysed following which he was nabbed on Wednesday.  During interrogation, the accused allegedly told police he had come to India from Nigeria three-four years ago on a medical visa. His visa has expired but he along with his other associates indulged in cheating people on the pretext of custom clearance. However, during the ongoing pandemic, they also started cheating people on the pretext of providing medicines and injections required for treatment of COVID, the DCP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/foreign-national-nabbed-for-duping-many-people-on-pretext-of-supplying-remdesivir/article34619238.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three held for slaughtering cows in Ranhola||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly slaughtering cows in Outer Delhi’s Ranhola, the police said on Friday. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said the accused have been identified as Shanu (23) from Sambhal, Tanjeem (23), and Mohseen (30) — both from Shamli. Two FIRs were lodged when remains of the cattle were found in Ranhola. Shanu resides in Uttam Nagar in Delhi and has one previous criminal involvement while Tanjeem and Mohseen live in Nangli dairy. “A vehicle and some knives have been recovered,” Mr. Singh said. The gang has eight members in total and teams are looking for the remaining five. Sources said a few gangs in, and outside Delhi are active in slaughtering cows. “They work in a chain. There are people who identify the cattle and then they are brought to a vacant place where they are slaughtered and thereafter, cattle are transported to areas where they are consumed,” said an officer said, adding that gangs are active from Mewat to Meerut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-held-for-slaughtering-cows-in-ranhola/article34619239.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||If COVID cases surge again, COVID beds at IHBAS will be increased: Delhi govt, institute to HC||The Delhi government and the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) on Friday assured the Delhi High Court that if there is another surge in COVID infections, the number of beds in the institute’s COVID facility for patients suffering from neurological problems would be increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/if-covid-cases-surge-again-covid-beds-at-ihbas-will-be-increased-delhi-govt-institute-to-hc/article34619235.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Summer special||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/summer-special/article34619237.ece
22 May 2021||Mumbai,||HC disposes of petition seeking Sudha Bharadwaj’s medical bail||The Bombay High Court on Friday disposed of the medical bail plea filed by Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, after her lawyer said she had received medical treatment. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and S.P. Tavade was hearing a criminal petition filed by Ms. Bharadwaj’s daughter Maaysha Singh seeking interim medical bail for her mother who was lodged at Byculla jail and had several co-morbidities and was therefore very susceptible to contracting COVID-19. Advocate Yug Chaudhry, representing Ms. Singh, said this was a petition for medical bail and Ms. Bharadwaj was taken for numerous medical tests after the petition was filed. He said, however, prisoners had a right to get their medical records under Article 21 (Right to Life) of the Indian Constitution and all prisoners should be provided their medical records. This would also cut down a lot of litigation, he said. Mr. Chaudhry also urged the court to allow Ms. Bharadwaj to talk to her family members and lawyer after a hospital visit. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the National Investigation Agency probing the case, said, “This is for the State to consider because the prison is under the State. But I do not think that lawyers should be allowed; what will lawyers do for treatment? I understand family and doctor.” The Bench passed an order saying, “In our view, prisoners have the right to medical records under Article 21. All medical records, including tests and medicines, can be given to the petitioner (Ms. Bharadwaj). We go a step further to say this order should apply to all prisoners.” “A prisoner is entitled or allowed to make a phone call with an approved family member after a visit to the hospital by following the hospital protocol. This facility in our view apart from the petitioner should be made available to other prisoners,” the HC said and disposed of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-disposes-of-petition-seeking-sudha-bharadwajs-medical-bail/article34618963.ece
22 May 2021||Mumbai,||Question marks over Mumbai’s pre-monsoon works||Waterlogging in several areas of Mumbai following heavy showers caused by Cyclone Tauktae has yet again raised doubts over the civic body’s preparedness to tackle the upcoming monsoon. With the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) workforce largely deployed for COVID-19 relief measures, pre-monsoon works of the civic body have come under scrutiny. On April 16, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had chaired a review meeting of top BMC officials and directions had been issued to complete all pre-monsoon works before May 31. Pre-monsoon works by municipal corporations were included in the essential category by the State government in its first order of lockdown issued on April 13. “As a result, all those works continued unabated,” an official from the civic body said. Now despite the preparedness, flooding at several parts of Mumbai and non-functioning of water pumps have led to a show cause notice being issued to three BMC engineers. Samajwadi Party MLA and councillor Rais Sheikh has written to Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal highlighting that despite its claims of being prepared several water pumps did not work and the storm water drain department failed to prevent flooding. According to civic officials, the work on cleaning nullahs and clearing of silt had begun in October 2020 as the administrative procedures for issuing tenders were completed earlier. An official from the BMC’s storm water drain department told The Hindu that 406 spots within Mumbai had been identified for possible waterlogging and work had begun on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/question-marks-over-mumbais-pre-monsoon-works/article34618965.ece
22 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Girl’s body found off Palm Beach Road||The body of a girl, suspected to be aged around 15-18 years, was found in a steel drum off Palm Beach Road at Nerul on Friday. “The accused, taking advantage of the bad weather, is suspected to have dumped the body on the pathway that leads to a temple. Due to the cyclone and rain, nobody had visited the temple for around four days,” Suresh Mengde, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, said. After the murder, the body was wrapped with a piece of cloth and tied with a nylon rope before being put inside the drum. A devotee going to the temple noticed the drum and found the body. The drum has names engraved as ‘Ashok’ gifting it to ‘Archana’ on the occasion of Bhaubeez and the date mentioned is of November 13, 2015. A Crime Branch team along with the Nerul police are trying to identify the deceased. The post-mortem report is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/girls-body-found-off-palm-beach-road/article34618966.ece
22 May 2021||Pune,||Cyclone Tauktae: Uddhav hopes Modi will stand by Maharashtra||Stating that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a sensitive man, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday expressed hope that the PM would stand by Maharashtra while stressing that the State government would do everything it could to provide succour to the populace of Cyclone Taukte-ravaged Konkan. The Chief Minister said that he did not believe in announcing ad hoc packages and that a relief package would be announced over the next few days once a comprehensive assessment had been carried out in the affected areas. Mr. Thackeray was on a day-long tour to assess damage in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. “Today, I have only come to console those afflicted by the cyclone…while we have already begun giving relief as per the Central guidelines, we will announce a package once the panchnamas of the exact damage caused by Cyclone Taukte is completed. This is expected in the next couple of days…all help will be provided, no one will be deprived,” the Chief Minister said. The cyclone hit five taluks in the Konkan particularly hard, while destroying more than 3,000 hectares of mango, cashew and coconut orchards in these districts besides other fruits and crops. “We have conveyed to the Prime Minister that we [Maharashtra] expects a big package… The PM is a sensitive person, and we hope he will not leave the State in a lurch. The help should be increased. I do not want to politicise the relief issue,” he said. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister’s brief visit drew criticism from the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Pravin Darekar mocking Mr. Thackeray’s three-hour tour and comparing it to a veritable cyclone. “The Chief Minister might have taken the review at the Mantralaya in Mumbai itself…Instead of holding a review meet at pandals erected at landing zones here, he ought to have visited the afflicted fishermen, fruit growers, farmers, and people of the Konkan,” said Mr. Darekar, who himself is on a tour of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cyclone-tauktae-uddhav-hopes-modi-will-stand-by-maharashtra/article34618970.ece
22 May 2021||Pune,||ASHA workers demand better amenities to battle pandemic||With rural areas of Pune and Maharashtra witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases, the role of ASHA workers in tackling the pandemic has never been more critical. However, with a few public transport options owing to the lockdown, many workers are compelled to walk six-eight kilometres in hilly areas to monitor and check on villages and hamlets. These workers have been demanding that the administration provide them with two-wheelers to assist them in their door-to-door monitoring and help screen potential cases. “Every demand made by ASHA and Aanganwadi workers is justified. At a time when the second wave has led many authorities to keep to their homes, these underpaid ASHA personnel have been soldiering,” Pune Zilla Parishad member Rani Shelke said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/asha-workers-demand-better-amenities-to-battle-pandemic/article34618968.ece
22 May 2021||GAZA CITY,||Clashes erupt in East Jerusalem after ceasefire comes into effect||Scattered clashes have broken out between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound in Jerusalem hours after a truce in Gaza went into effect. Palestinians hurled stones and Israeli police fired stun grenades and tear gas shortly after Friday prayers. Clashes at the holy site, which is revered by Jews and Muslims, were one of the main triggers for the Gaza fighting. Immediately after Friday prayers, hundreds of Palestinians had held a celebratory demonstration at Al-Aqsa, in which they waved Palestinian flags and banners of the militant Hamas group ruling Gaza. It was unclear what set off the clashes. Palestinians rallied by the thousands early Friday after a ceasefire took effect, with many viewing it as costly but clear victory for Hamas. Israel vowed to respond with a “new level of force” to any further hostilities. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has faced criticism from his hawkish base for ending the offensive prematurely, said Israel had done “daring and new things, and this without being dragged into unnecessary adventures.” He added that Israeli forces had caused “maximum damage to Hamas with a minimum of casualties in Israel.” Both sides claim victory Like the three previous wars between the bitter enemies, the latest round of fighting ended inconclusively. Israel claimed to have inflicted heavy damage on Hamas with hundreds of bruising airstrikes but once again was unable to halt the rockets. Hamas also claimed victory, despite the horrifying toll the war took on countless Palestinian families who lost loved ones, homes and businesses. The ceasefire was brokered by neighbouring Egypt after the U.S. pressed Israel to wind down the offensive. Mr. Netanyahu announced that Israel had accepted the proposal late on Thursday, while emphasising that “the reality on the ground will determine the future of the campaign.” U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken plans to visit the region in the coming days “to discuss recovery efforts and working together to build better futures for Israelis and Palestinians,” the State Department said. The U.S. initially backed what it said was Israel’s right to self-defence against indiscriminate rocket fire. But as the fighting dragged on and the death toll mounted, the Americans increasingly pressured Israel to stop the offensive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/clashes-erupt-in-east-jerusalem-after-ceasefire-comes-into-effect/article34618667.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||What did Israel achieve in Gaza?||After 11 days of airstrikes on and rocket attacks from Gaza, Israel and Hamas agreed to an Egypt-mediated ceasefire on Thursday night. The truce appears to be holding on Friday with Palestinians taking out celebratory gatherings across the occupied territories and Israel removing the emergency restrictions in areas hit by rockets. Pressure from all sides Unlike in 2014, when the last major fighting between Israel and Hamas occurred, the Israeli troops were wary of launching a ground invasion this time. In a ground attack, Israel could inflict more damage on Hamas, but the risk of losing Israeli soldiers would also be high. This time, the focus of Israel’s military campaign, which started on May 10, was on causing maximum damage to Hamas’s militant infrastructure through airstrikes. In the first 10 days of the fighting, Israel carried out more than 1,800 airstrikes on Gaza, according to the UN. But one issue with offensives that are heavily dependent on air power is that they need a quicker exit strategy. Airstrikes will leave disproportionate civilian casualties. And disproportionate airstrikes, which was Israel’s strategy, will have even greater damage. While Israel tried to sell the narrative that it’s a victim of terror (which has buyers), the fact remains that Israel is the only sovereign power in this conflict, which continues the occupation of Palestinian territories in violation of UN Security Council resolutions, international laws and norms. So, when civilian casualties mounted in Gaza, even those countries that initially supported Israel’s “right to defend itself” started calling for a ceasefire. In the UNSC, most countries, including India, backed an immediate ceasefire. The Biden administration, which was facing intense pressure from the liberal wing of the Democratic Party, issued a strong statement on Wednesday asking for “a significant de-escalation”. Israel was also facing internal pressure as its streets were gripped by riots between Jewish vigilantes and Arab mobs. Protests were spreading in the West Bank and rockets were coming from the Lebanon border. Amid intensifying pressure from all sides, the Israeli Security Cabinet unanimously accepted a “unilateral and mutual” ceasefire with Hamas on Thursday night. The militants immediately confirmed the truce. What were the goals? During the course of the attack, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said there were two ways to deal with Hamas — one, to conquer Hamas and the other to establish deterrence. The Prime Minister said his aim was “forceful deterrence”, but conquering was “an open possibility”. Israeli military leaders have claimed that they have killed 225 members of Hamas and Islamic Jihad — a contested claim as the Gaza Health Ministry says 243 Gazans were killed, including 66 children. Israel has also claimed that it has destroyed Hamas’s elaborate tunnel network and military and intelligence infrastructure. ‘We have set Hamas back by years,” said Mr. Netanyahu. It’s true that Hamas has suffered far greater damage than what its rockets inflicted on Israel, where 12 people were killed, including one child and three foreign nationals. But it will be clearer only in the coming weeks, months or years whether the Israeli campaign has established deterrence. The facts on the ground tell us that despite the heavy losses Hamas suffered, it continued to fire rockets into Israel till the last moment. On the 11th day, Hamas fired some 300 rockets into Israel. Hamas’s strategy As soon as the ceasefire was announced, Palestinians took to the streets “celebrating the resistance”. Senior Hamas officials called it “the euphoria of victory”. By launching the rocket attacks on May 10, hours after Israeli forces stormed Al-Aqsa Mosque in East Jerusalem, Hamas was seen to be making a political point — it is the real defender of Jerusalem. In effect, Hamas was trying to tap the growing Palestinian resentment towards Israel’s high-handedness. The political messaging appeared to have gone down well with the Palestinians as Israel faced unprecedented protests and riots both in the occupied West Bank and Israeli cities when the Gaza attack was under way. Militarily, Hamas, despite the heavy losses it suffered, demonstrated its growing rocket fire capabilities. Hamas launched at least 4,000 rockets in 11 days, more than the 3,383 rockets it fired during the 50 days of conflict in 2014. By launching barrages of rockets within minutes, it also managed to overwhelm Israel’s Iron Dome defence system. For example, in one day last week, Hamas launched more than 1,000 rockets. In 2014, its daily total never crossed 200. And Hamas rockets killed more civilians in Israel in 11 days this time than the total number of civilian deaths during the seven weeks of 2014, which is a matter of grave concern for Israel. What’s next? Ceasefires can be fragile. In 2014, after the ceasefire was announced, Israel attempted to assassinate Hamas’s shadowy military commander Mohammed Deif, but failed. This time, too, the truce is tenuous. Hamas says it accepted truce after Israel promised “to lift their hands off Sheikh Jarrah (where Palestinians face eviction from their houses) and Al-Aqsa Mosque. The Israeli side has denied any such promise and emphasised that the ceasefire was unconditional. Egypt says concerns in Jerusalem will be “addressed”. Israel has already removed some restrictions it had imposed on Al-Aqsa, which it says was a temporary security measure. Hamas could take credit for the same. But Sheikh Jarrah is a more complicated matter. The Supreme Court of Israel is supposed to give a final ruling on the eviction of Palestinians in the neighbourhood. If Israel goes ahead with the eviction process, there could be more protests and violence. Israeli leaders say there won’t be lasting peace as long as Hamas has rockets. Hamas says there will be rockets as long as the occupation continues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/what-did-israel-achieve-in-gaza/article34618670.ece
22 May 2021||Washington,||Biden hails truce, says it’s an opportunity towards peace||President Joe Biden on Thursday hailed theceasefire between Israel and Hamas, saying he sees a “genuine opportunity” towards the larger goal of building a lasting peace in West Asia . Mr. Biden credited the Egyptian government with playing a crucial role in brokering the ceasefire and said he and top White House aides were intensely involved in an “hour by hour” effort to stop the bloodletting. “I believe the Palestinians and Israelis equally deserve to live safely and securely and enjoy equal measures of freedom, prosperity and democracy,” Mr. Biden said. “My administration will continue our quiet, relentless diplomacy toward that.” The ceasefire was announced one day after Mr. Biden told Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in a telephone call thathe expected “significant de-escalation”of the fighting by the day’s end, according to the White House. However, Mr. Netanyahu came right back with a public declaration that he was “determined to continue” the Gaza operation “until its objective is achieved”. Hours before the ceasefire agreement was reached, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the Israelis had “achieved significant military objectives” in their strikes intended to degrade Hamas military capabilities and reiterated that Mr. Biden expected the Israelis to start “winding down” their operations. Mr Biden, who studiously avoided extensive public comment about the Israeli military strikes, was facing mounting pressure from fellow Democrats to speak out against the Israelis as the death toll climbed in Gaza and tens of thousands of Palestinians were displaced by the aerial bombardment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-hails-truce-says-its-an-opportunity-towards-peace/article34618676.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||China offers $3 bn assistance, jabs for developing countries||China has pledged an additional $3 billion in aid for developing countries to assist their COVID-19 responses and suggested setting up a global forum on vaccines to ensure equitable distribution. This was proposed by President Xi Jinping on Friday as he addressed the Global Health Summit held by the G20 and European Commission. China, which has broadly curbed the transmission of COVID-19 at home and avoided a second wave, has been offering its vaccines and assistance, including in the neighbourhood, having organised a series of virtual dialogues with South Asian countries in recent months. Beijing has offered $2 billion in aid to developing countries as well as free vaccines to 80 countries with 43 other nations importing its vaccines, Mr. Xi said. “The past year and more have seen repeated resurgence and frequent mutations of the coronavirus. The most serious pandemic in a century is still wreaking havoc,” he said. “It is imperative for us to reject vaccine nationalism and find solutions to issues concerning the production capacity and distribution of vaccines, in order to make vaccines more accessible and affordable in developing countries.” China “will provide an additional $3 billion in international aid over the next three years”, he said, “to support COVID-19 response and economic and social recovery in other developing countries.” “Having already supplied 300 million doses of vaccines to the world, China will provide still more vaccines to the best of its ability,” he added, suggesting “setting up an international forum on vaccine cooperation for vaccine-developing and producing countries, companies and other stakeholders to explore ways of promoting fair and equitable distribution of vaccines around the world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-offers-3-bn-assistance-jabs-for-developing-countries/article34618671.ece
22 May 2021||Paris,||NATO to fund Kabul airport operations||NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said on Friday the alliance would provide funding to help run Kabul airport and train Afghanistan’s special forces abroad after its withdrawal from the country. “First, we plan to provide advice and capacity support to Afghan security institutions, as well as continued financial support to the Afghan security forces,” Mr. Stoltenberg said. “Second, we are planning to provide military education and training outside Afghanistan. And third, we are planning to fund the provision of services, including support for the functioning of Kabul airport.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nato-to-fund-kabul-airport-operations/article34618668.ece
22 May 2021||Dhaka,||Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka nearly out of Covid vaccines: officials||Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka are close to running out of COVID-19 vaccines, authorities in the three countries said on Friday, and are hoping China and Russia will bolster South Asia’s efforts to tackle a devastating pandemic wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-nepal-and-sri-lanka-nearly-out-of-covid-vaccines-officials/article34618672.ece
22 May 2021||Beijing,||China slams EU's 'confrontational approach' after investment deal blocked||China on Friday rejected European Parliament demands that it lift sanctions against EU legislators in order to save a trade deal between the two sides. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said the sanctions were justified and demanded that the bloc abandon its “confrontational approach.”AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-slams-eus-confrontational-approach-after-investment-deal-blocked/article34618674.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Invading virus, ill-equipped villages||“Ganga has revealed the truth!” exclaims Vishwambhar Nath Mishra, head priest of the Sankat Mochan temple in Varanasi. Located in the heart of the ancient city, the temple is where the faithful come to seek an end to their problems. But the region has been witness to a grisly sight over the past week. Semi-decomposed and bloated bodies have been found floating in the sacred river. Mishra, who is also a professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-BHU, says this indicates that the COVID-19 situation in rural Uttar Pradesh is far worse than it appears. Ever since the bodies were discovered, police personnel have been patrolling the waters and ghats. They have set up pickets in at least seven districts and even offered a support sum of Rs. 5,000 to those who cannot afford wood for cremation, to dissuade them from immersing bodies in rivers. The State police have so far admitted to having found 44 bodies floating in the rivers, mainly the Ganga, in the districts of Ballia, Chandauli, Ghazipur, Varanasi, Hamirpur and Kanpur. For residents of Ghazipur, where the bodies were first spotted in U.P., the sight was shocking. Balwant Singh Bala of Gahmar village says he has never seen anything like this before. “We are used to bodies floating in the river once in a while. But this time we knew that there was something very grave happening,” he says. A senior police officer, who led the clean-up of the ghats with lime powder, agrees. U.P. is officially yet to acknowledge that all or some of these were COVID-19 victims. Many observers suspect that these bodies could be of COVID-19 victims who were abandoned or disposed of in the waters by families due to lack of money for cremations, the waiting lines at cremation grounds, or the social stigma attached to the disease. Speculation intensified when countless shallow graves were found on the ghats of the Ganga in some districts, including Unnao, Prayagraj, Kannauj and Rae Bareli. At the Baksar ghat in Unnao, cleaners, priests, locals and attendants of the dead say that though bodies have been cremated and buried there according to customs, in April, when the wave was at its peak, the number of bodies arriving at the ghat for final rites reached 70-80 a day against the daily figure of 15-20. Those who could not afford to buy wood and fuel for cremation chose to bury the dead, they say. Since there is no way of knowing whether the bodies in the river are of COVID-19 victims, the question of uncounted COVID-19 deaths in the State still hangs in the air. Battling COVID-19 in the villages The pandemic has put tremendous strain on the fragile health infrastructure in U.P. and exposed the lack of preparedness in urban areas. Every day, there are desperate pleas for hospital beds, essential medicine and oxygen cylinders. Crematoriums and graveyards are packed. But now, the focus has shifted to the rural areas after the discovery of the bodies in the Ganga and the alarms raised in the wake of the recently conducted panchayat polls. According to official figures, the daily number of positive cases and deaths has drastically dropped over the last three weeks. On April 30, the State had 3.1 lakh active cases. On May 21, this dropped to over a lakh. On April 24, the State had recorded 38,055 new cases out of 2.25 lakh samples tested, while on May 21, it recorded 7,735 out of the over 2.89 lakh samples tested. The recovery rate in U.P. is now 92.5%. However, the spread of the infection in rural areas is alarming. During a testing drive in 89,512 villages, 28,742 villages (32%) reported positive cases, says Amit Mohan Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Health. Prasad, however, chooses to look at the bright side. “Sixty-eight percent of our villages are still safe from the infection,” he says, adding that the government’s focus is to keep testing in rural areas. Even after aggressive testing, new cases have been decreasing while recoveries are increasing, a government official says. All these numbers offer little consolation to the bereaved. In Mau district, nursing staff Deepak Yadav’s experience encapsulates the tragedy of battling COVID-19 in the hinterland where medical infrastructure is poor. After his parents tested positive (they were tested at home with a rapid antigen test kit), Yadav desperately searched for a hospital bed in Mau and in the neighbouring districts of eastern U.P. without success. He then arranged for oxygen cylinders at home. When his mother’s health continued to deteriorate, Yadav dialled for an ambulance but the oxygen cylinder that came with it ran out in five minutes, he says. The local community health centre in Dohrighat was shut. The family then went to a private hospital across the Ghaghara river in Barhalganj in Gorakhpur but was told that it had no oxygen. In panic, Yadav tried to move his mother to his workplace in Deoria. Meanwhile, the private hospital which had rejected him earlier called him back following the intervention of a politician, he says. The entire episode lasted more than three hours, of which the family spent an hour stuck on a 3-km stretch of road in a traffic jam, which Yadav’s brother, an Army jawan, frantically tried to clear. Yadav attempted resuscitation in the ambulance meanwhile, but by the time they reached the hospital, his mother had died. His father, who was also hospitalised for a few days, is critical at home. Barring two or three members, everyone is his house has tested positive for COVID-19. Yadav, who was busy during the panchayat polls and vaccination drive, cannot explain how his parents who live a rural life got the virus. “It means the virus has spread in the villages,” he says. While a large part of the media’s focus was on the worst-affected urban centres of the State such as Lucknow, Varanasi city, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Meerut, the pandemic steadily crept into the semi-urban and rural areas. In several districts, the death count doubled and even tripled within a fortnight in April. Largely rural and backward districts like Chandauli, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Basti, Ghazipur and Sonbhadra have recorded a high number of deaths, between 230 and 320 each, indicating the devastating impact of COVID-19 in the rural areas of U.P. Problems with testing Bihari Lal, a journalist in a Hindi daily in Chandauli, is among the dead. His son Ashutosh Jaiswal, who serves in the Railways, says his father faced no shortage of oxygen supply, but was not treated well at the private hospital where he was admitted. The family did not take Bihari Lal to a government centre as they do not trust government hospitals and found it easier to find a bed in a private centre, Jaiswal says. Bihari Lal, who also served as an LIC agent and ran a photo editing store, had developed a cough and fever after moving about during the panchayat polls, his family says. Initially, a local doctor prescribed some antibiotics for him. Then a blood test revealed that he had typhoid. While his fever subsided, Bihari Lal’s oxygen levels continued to drop and he was admitted in hospital. A CT scan revealed that he had lung infection. Three-four days later, a rapid antigen test showed that Bihari Lal was COVID-19 positive. Jaiswal feels that the initial delay in starting COVID-19 treatment may have cost his father precious time. According to a senior district official, this is a common concern as people rely on quacks and are slow to start precautionary treatment for COVID-19 as per the guidelines issued by the State. For many days after his initial symptoms, Bihari Lal’s family relied on the usual care and steam treatment as they believed that he was getting better. “People are taking the fever and cough lightly and going to doctors for usual treatment. When the doctor says the patient has COVID-19, they are unable to understand what to do,” says Jaiswal. Despite raising a flag on the district portal, Jaiswal says no sanitation work was carried out in his house in Purwa village after his father tested positive. Similar complaints were raised by people in other districts as well. The State government says it is conducting a massive testing and door-to-door surveillance drive in 97,000 villages. This included a special drive from May 5 to 9. However, representatives of several villages have alleged that the administration has provided minimal facilities for testing. Testimonies from rural areas show that deaths and positive cases may be much higher than recorded as not all symptomatic or suspected cases are being sent for tests. This is due to infrastructural issues such as shortage of manpower and equipment, lack of accessibility and urgency, or hesitancy on behalf of the people. In Unnao, front-line ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers, who go door to door to trace cases in villages, say they are at high risk as many of them do not have the necessary instruments to measure temperature or oxygen levels. They are not even provided sanitisers, they say. Veermati Singh, an ASHA worker, says all she was given was a medicine kit with some strips of tablets, mainly for fever; a face mask; and a pair of gloves. “People don’t take us seriously. Why would they when I cannot even record their temperature and oxygen levels,” she says. Many who had COVID-19 symptoms and lung infection, detected through CT scans, say they did not get RT-PCR tests done. If they did have COVID-19, they would not have been officially counted in the State’s daily case count. Inspecting deaths On May 10, Seema Jaiswal, the Pradhan of Sauram village in Ghazipur, not too far from the Ganga, wrote to the district magistrate stating that the number of people dying due to COVID-19 in her gram sabha was increasing by the day. She attached a list of 16 persons who had died. Manoj Kumar Jaiswal, her husband, says three more people have died since, including a six-month-old girl. Though he is not sure if they died of COVID-19, he says the symptoms could not have been anything else. “ Bas khasi aur bukhar (Just cough and fever)! Some had it for 2-4 days and died. Others had it for barely 12-24 hours and died,” he claims. However, he is quick to add, “We can’t say that they died of COVID-19. Only after testing will we be able to say that.” Jaiswal alleges that no tests were carried out in the village till his wife wrote the letter. The Chief Medical Officer of Ghazipur, Girish Chandra Maurya, visited the village to inspect the deaths. He says two-three people did die in the village but due to “age and natural process” or some other illness, not COVID-19. The administration then held testing camps in two sessions. Of the 142 persons with symptoms, four were found positive through rapid antigen tests. They were put under quarantine. Medicine kits were distributed among the others. Three sacks of bleaching powder were provided to the village head for sanitisation. Maurya admits that “more people are dying” in the rural areas in the second wave. This has scared the rural folk and has forced many to come forward to get tested, he says. “Now more people are also wearing masks. They feel they need to get tested and treated on time,” says Maurya. The district had a target of conducting 2,000 tests per day but was testing 8,000 samples, he says. He adds that teams are especially being sent to the villages for testing drives. Neighbouring Chandauli was testing only 1,500-1,700 samples, says an official. In Baghpat’s Lumb village, the headman released on social media a list of 34-37 persons who had allegedly died of COVID-19 over the past month. After carrying out a survey, officials said the reports were false. The teams did not find any death due to COVID-19, says the Chief Medical Officer, R. K. Tandon. Officials say though fever was reported in a couple of cases, it was not correct to say that all deaths in the village were due to COVID-19. In the last two months, 20-25 persons had died, but due to other illnesses, says Tandon. He also rubbished claims that no tests were being carried out. The administration tested 362 persons through RT-PCR and 428 through rapid antigen tests and found 21 persons positive for COVID-19. All of them have recovered, he says. The role of Panchayat polls The spread of the pandemic in rural U.P. has coincided with the panchayat polls, which many have blamed for the spike in cases and deaths. Despite guidelines being issued, it was impractical to imagine social distancing and proper safety norms being followed in the tightly contested rural polls which had around 13 crore registered voters, over 2 lakh voting booths and 80,762 voting centres, and over 2.43 lakh officials and staff on polling duty. While the government says that it conducted the polls on the instructions of the Allahabad High Court, it ignored several warnings, including by its own legislators, to defer the process of voting as well as counting when the second wave hit its peak. The counting could lead to a “super explosion” of COVID-19 cases in rural areas, wrote the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Hardoi district, Madhvendra Pratap, to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Concerned about the deaths of those on polling duty, teacher unions had declared that they would boycott the counting process on May 2. However, after the Supreme Court allowed the counting process to go ahead, on assurances by the State government that proper COVID-19 safety norms would be followed, the unions called off their boycott. The counting centres across U.P. presented a worrying picture. Social distancing went for a toss. Large numbers of people, mostly men, gathered outside or lined up at the gates of the centres in close physical proximity to one another. The U.P. Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, a union of primary teachers, alleged that 1,621 teachers and staff died of COVID-19 after being assigned duty in the panchayat polls and control rooms for the pandemic. The Allahabad High Court, which has taken note of the issue in regular hearings, reprimanded the State over the deaths and said the Rs. 30 lakh compensation offered to the kin of the dead was not enough. It suggested that the amount be increased to Rs. 1 crore. However, the government left the teacher unions fuming after it announced that it had confirmed only three deaths due to COVID-19. The kin of the deceased and the Opposition parties say this is a ploy by the government to avoid paying huge sums of compensation. Lawyer Satyam Rai, whose father Pankaj Rai, a school principal, died on April 24 after serving in the second phase of the panchayat polls in Azamgarh, says the election could have easily been deferred given the surge in cases. Pankaj Rai, though he tested negative in a rapid antigen test, was diagnosed with “typical COVID-19” in his CT scan. He died before the RT-PCR test could be conducted and will perhaps not be counted among the 18,760 persons who have died in U.P. till May 21. “A person does not develop symptoms and die immediately. The government’s figure is pure eyewash,” says Satyam, still reeling from his loss. He is referring to the explanation offered by the State Basic Education Department, which said that only three teachers had died on polling duty. Citing the rules of the State Election Commission, the Education Department said that an official was considered to be on election duty only from the period he or she left their residence for training, polling and counting work till they reached their residence after work. Dinesh Chandra Sharma, president of the union, which is at the forefront of the fight for the deceased teachers, says this guideline does not make sense since people develop symptoms and die days or weeks after exposure. “This is a scam of deaths,” says Sharma, claiming that 80% of the teachers who had died had either RT-PCR or antigen test reports taken. “They have to change the rules for COVID-19. Saying that someone didn’t die on the spot... how does that make sense,” he asks. Following the furore over the issue, Adityanath instructed officials to amend the guidelines. Learning from the urban areas As U.P. tackles the surge in rural areas, the Allahabad High Court recently said, “So far as the medical infrastructure is concerned, in these few months we have realised that in the manner it stands today, it is very delicate, fragile and debilitated.” Adityanath, however, is confident. He said the results of “ gaon-gaon, ghar-ghar (village to village, door to door)” screening and testing have shown that the rural areas are “safe to a large extent”. At the same time, he has asked officials to further improve medical facilities in rural areas. Neeraj Mishra, president of the United Resident and Doctors Association, U.P., who is himself recovering from post-COVID-19 complications, feels that the government should have judiciously used the experience in the urban areas to prevent the spread in the villages. “The administration should have been vigilant and active. But they left people to fend for themselves. There needs to be accountability,” he says. Meanwhile, in Ballia, Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada says no new bodies have been found floating in the Ganga after the initial phase. Nine police teams in the district are out on patrol. The final rites of the bodies found were carried out according to customs, the police say. However, five police constables in Ballia were suspended for insensitive behaviour after an unclaimed body was cremated with petrol and tyres on a ghat. As the State takes fresh measures to arrest the growth of the virus in its villages and the debate over the bodies in the Ganga rages on, Mishra says there is no religious sanction for the disposal of bodies in the Ganga. Even the jal samadhi ritual for seers is done through a specific process of encasing the body in a box with stones, he points out. Highlighting the religious significance of the river for Hindus, he says, “The Ganga is not meant for this purpose. She is the giver of mukti and bhukti .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/invading-virus-ill-equipped-villages/article34618665.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Trumping majoritarianism in the Hindi heartland||The landslide victory of the All India Trinamool Congress in the West Bengal Assembly elections and the pushback of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have given rise to a pervasive belief that right-wing politics can be defeated by regional assertions. Undoubtedly, regional and cultural assertion in these States acted as an effective bulwark against the BJP’s expansionary plans in southern and eastern India. The regional-cultural tropes deployed by Mamata Banerjee, for example, worked so well that at one point, Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah was even forced to clarify that if the BJP is elected, someone from Bengal would be the Chief Minister. This underlines the effectiveness of regional culture and politics in trumping communal politics. However, this claim needs to be tempered by the realism that it cannot work in the Hindi heartland, which is dominated by caste and communal politics, and has so far not seen any serious ideological and political challenge to politics based on these identities. Encompassing nine States whose official language is Hindi, namely Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) and Uttarakhand, this region retains a central position in the electoral strategies of the BJP and its larger political imagination. The party’s stunning show in these States propelled it to power in the 2014 and 2019 parliamentary elections. Its continued political dominance in the heartland will neutralise its losses now as well as in future in States where it has been bested by regional players. I will focus here on U.P. to illustrate the limits of the regional assertion.  Dimensions in the heartland The Hindi heartland is clearly different. There are at least four important dimensions of this difference. First is the absence of regional identity in States such as U.P. This is evident from the debate on States reorganisation and the reorganisation of Uttar Pradesh in the 1950s. The compulsions of nation-oriented identity emerged very clearly from the discussions in the States Reorganisation Commission on suggestions for the division of U.P. for administrative convenience. U.P. leaders argued for a large and powerful State in the Gangetic valley as a guarantee of India’s unity. In this sense, U.P. was considered the backbone of India and the centrepiece of political identity in modern India. Importantly, it was supposed to provide the chief bulwark against growing regionalisation and fragmentation elsewhere. Instilling a sense of regional pride, an essential part of Congress strategy in southern and coastal India, was not followed in U.P. U.P. was seen as the political heartland in contrast to Punjab and Bengal for instance, which were splintered and incorporated into two different nation states. As is well known, the bases of this post-colonial identity varied from its location in the freedom struggle to staking claim as the cultural homeland of Hindi and Hinduism. In both cases, it was centred in the idiom of the nation-state and strong central authority. Second, although U.P.’s cultural homogeneity remains a matter of disagreement, the idea of the heartland had great resonance among the political elite who opposed the demand for U.P.’s reorganisation. The long-standing traditions of composite cultural identity and shared plural cultures began to yield place to a singular homogenised identity. The Hindi-Urdu divide, which mirrored the communal cleavage of U.P. society, played a crucial role in this process. Urdu was excluded as it was seen to symbolise Muslim cultural identity in independent India, while Hindi was boosted to promote the development of a Hindi-Hindu heritage for this region. The project of homogenisation of Indian/U.P. culture as Hindu culture was quickened in later decades. Even though it would be hard to assume a direct link between Hindi dominance and communal politics of subsequent decades, it is nevertheless a fact that all political parties in the State used it as an ingredient of social and cultural differentiation and a means to consolidate political dominance. Role of communal politics Third, it is clear that communal politics and communal movements have played a key role in U.P.’s modern history which in turn have diluted other identities. In some respects, this process gained momentum in the wake of Partition which cast its long shadow upon political institutions and culture in U.P. and to a great extent affected the perspectives of Hindus and Muslims alike. Hindu nationalism was marginalised within the Congress party but many of its ideas were accepted in framing party policies. The State leadership was instrumental in forging a conservative consensus in the State under Chief Minister G.B. Pant who steered the affairs of the state for eight years after Independence. The intensification of communal politics took a new turn with the mass mobilisation for the construction of a Ram temple at Ayodhya which was deftly used by the Hindu right to establish a major presence in U.P. and to facilitate the political reconstruction of U.P. through the promotion of a collective Hindu identity. The crusade for the appropriation of disputed shrines is central to the communalisation of politics and short circuiting the more complex process of political expansion for the BJP. Importantly, this has laid the groundwork for building permanent electoral majorities through the deployment of ascriptive symbols in U.P. which, given its huge size, helps it to establish a strong base in the Hindi heartland to offset the appeal of countervailing identities elsewhere in India. Caste politics too Finally, caste politics which was expected to counter Hindutva expansion has failed to do so; in fact, caste politics has become a building block for the BJP’s expansion. The party has reached out to Dalits, actively mobilising them and other backward castes to assimilate them into the Hindutva meta-narrative. Instead of erasing caste from electoral politics, the BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has sought to court fragments of castes as a way of undermining broad-based political movements and opposition to it. It has used the wider appeal of Hindu nationalism to co-opt backward castes and Dalits who are keen to align themselves to the larger narrative of Hindu nationalism. A reset is needed While regional parties will continue to be significant in various States of the Union, the principal challenge of overcoming majoritarianism lies in the Hindi heartland, especially in U.P. Oppositional electoral alliances, notably the formation of a federal front, are important strategies in this battle but it is no less important to challenge the ideological foundations of the majoritarian project through progressive and inclusive politics. This requires a reset of the basic political mindset in U.P. which can only be done by reviving the splendid heritage of the national movement in which this region played a central role and in which Gandhiji and Nehru played a heroic part. Invoking the spirit of the Bhakti movement which was the first major challenge to the religious orthodoxy of Hinduism would also help in resetting the cultural clock. This must, however, combine with much greater concern for the fundamental social and economic issues of the State, and making the struggle between communal and secular forces the central issue through public campaigns that address the problems of religious traditionalism and the cultural underpinning that this provides to the push to make India a Hindu state. Zoya Hasan is Professor Emerita, Jawaharlal Nehru University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/trumping-majoritarianism-in-the-hindi-heartland/article34618659.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The AIDS fight offers a COVID vaccine patent pathway||In order to achieve global herd immunity and prevent new strains of COVID-19 from emerging, possibly for years to come, vaccines need to be affordable and available in massive quantities throughout the globe. This can happen through patent owners voluntarily licensing their products to other companies, especially Indian producers who are experienced at mass-producing low-cost medications. This can also be done by temporarily suspending patent rights for COVID vaccines, an option that is being pursued by India and South Africa through the World Trade Organization (WTO) and one that is legal in the event of a public health emergency, according to that organisation’s own rules. One way or the other, India and the world need several Indian pharmaceutical companies, not just the Serum Institute of India, to gain the right to make these vaccines if we are going to see an end to this pandemic any time soon. Turning point in the HIV fight Decades of struggles over patent rights and access to medications for HIV/AIDS demonstrate that it is possible to navigate patent restrictions using something called “voluntary licenses” where a patent holder decides to license a product to other producers. The United Nations’ Medicines Patent Pool and the World Health Organization’s COVID-19 Technology Access Pool are important tools in an effort to promote voluntary licensing for COVID products that so far have been ignored by pharmaceutical producers. Sharing patent rights through voluntary licensing would need to involve India’s large pharmaceutical sector whose production capacity helped make treatments for AIDS more affordable in low-income countries and helped mitigate that pandemic. In the 1990s, the WTO began implementing a global intellectual property regime known as the Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights agreement, or TRIPS. While TRIPS alarmed public health experts because of its potential to raise the price of essential medicines, voluntary licensing agreements between pharmaceutical producers were able to bring down the price of AIDS medications despite the TRIPS regulations. Responding to anti-TRIPS activism from low-income countries and realising they would not be able to profit off of low-income markets anyway, some manufacturers placed licensing agreements to produce AIDS drugs for which they owned patent rights in the UN-affiliated Medicines Patent Pool. Several India-based companies then used these voluntary licences to manufacture these drugs on a massive scale and sold them at prices they determined. In the case of Gilead, which placed more products in the Patent Pool than any other producer, their licences required the licensee to pay Gilead a royalty of 3% of the sales of the drug and limit sales to low-income countries. This effort brought down the price of key AIDS medications in these countries. Most significantly, tenofovir, a first-line treatment for HIV/AIDS, has come down in price from $200-$500 per person per year to $39 per person per year in low-income countries now that 13 India-based pharmaceutical companies are producing it. Context of health emergency It is also possible for governments to issue what are called “compulsory licenses” which override patent rights to allow local production or import of drugs by generic manufacturers in the event of a public health crisis. Since 2003, this right has been enshrined in the Doha Declaration addendum to the WTO’s TRIPS agreement and this is what India and South Africa are lobbying for, having recently been joined by the United States though not as of yet the European Union (EU). The Doha addendum, Section 5c, offers AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis as examples of what qualifies as a health emergency. By this standard, COVID-19 should easily qualify. In fact, not invoking Doha exemptions in this unprecedented health crisis would make this agreement meaningless. We may thus find compulsory licences being issued in several countries for vaccines and treatments for COVID-19, although manufacturers in India say they prefer to work with voluntary licences because there is more good will between companies while compulsory licences often come with a legal battle brought by the patent holder. Voluntary licences also enable production to begin more expeditiously as they usually are accompanied by “technology transfer” meaning that the patent holder reveals to the licensee how to manufacture the medication, sparing the licensee the lengthy and costly process of figuring out how to reverse engineer the product. The COVAX option Some favour ensuring access to COVID-19 vaccines through the COVAX programme, which was established to purchase vaccine doses and donate them to low-income countries but does not involve modifying patent rights. Similar ventures during the AIDS crisis were chronically underfunded and had only minor effects on that pandemic compared to the voluntary licensing and mass production of antiretroviral drugs from Indian producers. COVAX is also currently underfunded and the Director-General of WHO, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, warned that people in the lowest-income countries might have to wait until 2022 to get vaccinated through this programme, which may actually be optimistic since COVAX has shipped around 68 million doses so far. Similar concerns to those presented here were raised in last year’s annual meeting of WHO which established a patent-sharing pool for COVID products, the COVID-19 Technology Access Pool. So far, no patent holders have joined this effort which is why India and South Africa called on the WTO to temporarily waive patent protections for COVID-19. Meanwhile, the UN Medicines Patent Pool stands ready to accept voluntary licences having added a placeholder for COVID-19 on the list of diseases they address. Hopefully, the EU will join the efforts by India and South Africa at the WTO, and pharmaceutical producers will realise, as some did during the AIDS pandemic, that voluntary licensing comes with better public relations and that they are not going to make money off low-income countries regardless of patent enforcement. A key step Furthermore, the billions of dollars in government aid given to companies to help develop COVID-19 treatments should entail an obligation to enable the mass production of affordable vaccines. After all, as legal scholars have long explained, patents are not ironclad ownership rights. They are a temporary contract that balances the public interest with the claims of the innovator. This is not just a question of social justice and ensuring life-saving therapies are available to the world’s poor. It is a necessary step to prevent deadlier, more contagious and possibly vaccine-resistant variants of COVID-19 from proliferating in an under-vaccinated world. Murphy Halliburton, Professor of medical anthropology at Queens College and the Graduate Center, City University of New York, is the author of ‘India and the Patent Wars: Pharmaceuticals in the New Intellectual Property Regime’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-aids-fight-offers-a-covid-vaccine-patent-pathway/article34618661.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Extending safety||Pursuing a policy of spreading the interval between two doses of vaccine, the Centre has now outlined more scenarios of second dose deferment. While lactating women are now encouraged to get vaccinated, those who have recovered from an infection ought to be getting vaccinated three months hence — the recommendation earlier was four to eight weeks. Those inoculated but who have tested positive should defer their second dose by three months after clinical recovery from COVID-19. The recommendations follow from earlier ones that advise increasing the interval from 12-16 weeks for Covishield, the more widely available vaccine. But there are two underlying principles behind these recommendations, the first being a vaccine shortage. Until early April, India had a very different scheme for its vaccination roll-out, appearing to take stock of availability as well as prioritising those at greater disease risk. It was the ferocity of the second wave that caused the government to panic and ‘free up’ vaccine supply applying a ‘to each his own’ approach. While this benefits a fraction of the privileged, it has not improved access as seen by the stagnation in daily inoculations and a fall in second dose recipient numbers. The second principle is that the timing of the second dose for an optimal boost to the immune system is not clear. A general policy for childhood vaccines in India is a four to eight-week interval. However, clinical trials of the AstraZeneca vaccine in the U.K (18-55 years) showed that binding antibodies (the ones that actually block viruses) were nearly twice as high in those who got their shots 12 or more weeks apart than in doses had within six weeks. The vaccine also appeared to be more protective in those above 18 with a longer dose interval. While antibody levels are a key marker of protection, they are not the only ones. Cell-based immunity, whereby the immune system confers long-lived immunity, counts too. Given that SARS-CoV-2 has been around for less than 20 months, there is uncertainty about the duration of protection. There are also documented cases of breakthrough infections as well as deaths even after a second dose. Though they fall within expected statistical boundaries so far, it is only more inoculations from now that will shed greater clarity on the degree of protection. Put together, these recommendations do buy policy makers time to stagger doses until more vaccines become available from August. On the other hand, the toll from India’s second wave continues to surpass similar daily figures from the U.S. and Brazil. Given that many Indians have still not been exposed to the virus and newer threatening variants abound, there is no reason to be complacent that people will be protected from future waves. The aim of vaccines is to prevent severe disease and death and all policy recommendations must be geared towards that goal. There is no room for knee-jerk reactions that can compromise this objective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/extending-safety/article34618653.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Fitful approach||The Centre’s recent notice to messaging service provider WhatsApp to withdraw its updated privacy policy is an avoidable intervention into what is a legitimate business decision. WhatsApp, early this year, updated its privacy policy, according to which users would no longer be able to stop the app from sharing data (such as location and number) with its parent Facebook unless they delete their accounts altogether. WhatsApp initially proposed a February 8 deadline. But an intense backlash against this decision, triggering an exodus of its users to rival platforms such as Signal, forced WhatsApp to push the update to May 15. Eventually, it decided not to enforce this as well, preferring to, as a spokesman told this newspaper, “follow up with reminders to people over the next several weeks”. WhatsApp has over two billion users in the world, about half a billion of whom are in India, and who use it for free. Its privacy updates are designed to make the business interactions that take place on its platform easier while also personalising ads on Facebook. That is how it will have to make its money. In its affidavit in the Delhi High Court, WhatsApp has reportedly said that it is not forcing users to accept the updated privacy policy. They have an option — to delete their accounts. And if WhatsApp is ready to take the risk of users abandoning it, why should the government intervene in the process? The Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) has sought a response from WhatsApp within seven days. In doing so, MeitY has made a charge that WhatsApp has discriminated against its Indian users. Its letter to WhatsApp reportedly states that given that Indians depend on it to communicate, “It is not just problematic but also irresponsible, for WhatsApp to leverage this position to impose unfair terms and conditions on Indian users, particularly those that discriminate against Indian users vis-à-vis users in Europe.” First, it can be argued that there are enough alternatives to WhatsApp in the market. But more importantly, it has to be pointed out that Europe’s citizens are protected by strong data laws that go by the name of General Data Protection Regulation or GDPR. Where is the Indian equivalent of such laws? When will they be implemented? These are questions that the government should answer. These questions become even more pertinent because WhatsApp has reportedly said in its affidavit that it is being singled out, and that its policy is not different from those of private apps such as Google, BigBasket, Koo, as well as public apps such as Aarogya Setu, Bhim, IRCTC, and others. A fitful approach to issues concerning the user may do more harm to India’s approach to data protection and freedom than anything else.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fitful-approach/article34618654.ece
22 May 2021||Chennai,||Wheels India posts Q4 net of Rs. 25.5-cr. as revenue rises 57%||Auto parts maker Wheels India on Friday reported a standalone fourth-quarter net profit of Rs. 25.54 crore, as against a profit of Rs. 4.62 crore in the year-earlier period, and said it expects demand for tractors to be stable as all the major factors driving rural demand continue to remain strong despite the second wave of the pandemic. “If the rural side gets hit, definitely there will be an impact [on tractor sales] but if you look at all the factors that drive demand, they are still very strong,” Srivats Ram, MD, Wheels India said. “The MSPs [minimum support prices] are strong, the water levels are fairly good, there is an expectation of good to normal monsoon, finance availability is there for the segment,” he said. “So, given all these factors we believe that demand for tractors will continue to at least be stable if not strong,” he added. “One domestic segment that has done outstandingly well last year is the agricultural tractors business,” Mr. Ram said, addressing a virtual press conference to announce the financial results. “We saw fairly strong growth in the tractor industry, and we were able to grow our business not only in the domestic but also in the exports market,” he added. Standalone revenue grew by 57% from a year earlier to Rs. 853 crore (Rs. 545 crore) in the January-March quarter. Mr. Ram said that the contribution of exports to total sales rose to 25% in the full financial year, from 20% in the previous fiscal period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wheels-india-posts-q4-net-of-rs-255-cr-as-revenue-rises-57/article34618636.ece
22 May 2021||MUMBAI,||SBI Q4 net rises 80% to Rs. 6,451 cr.||State Bank of India’s (SBI) reported fourth-quarter net profit surged 80% over the year-earlier-period to Rs. 6,451 crore on account of an improvement in all parameters, Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said. “There was an improvement in all areas and we expect the momentum to continue,” Mr. Khara said at a virtual conference. “We are hoping the second wave [of COVID-19] will wane soon.” Mr. Khara, however, did not give any guidance for FY22 saying the current situation was fluid. He said the bank managed to bring its expenses, other than employee costs, under control. For FY21, net profit rose 41% to Rs. 20,410 crore. Mr. Khara said the asset quality for the year was ‘better than expected.’ The board declared a dividend of Rs. 4 per equity share for FY21. For the fourth-quarter, net interest income rose 19% to Rs. 27,067 crore. Interest income increased by almost 4% to Rs. 65,102 crore. Loan-loss provisions reduced 16.6% to Rs. 9,914 crore. Gross advances increased 4.8% to Rs. 25,39,393 crore even as large corporates reduced their borrowings as most shifted to corporate bond markets to mobilise resources. However, mid corporates and MSMEs continued their borrowings, bank executives said. Total deposits grew 13.6% to Rs. 36,81,277 crore. Gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) dropped 15.2% to Rs. 1,26,389 crore. Net NPAs were down 29% to Rs. 36,810 crore. Slippages surged to Rs. 21,934 crore. Credit cost as at the end of FY21 declined 75 bps YoY to 1.12%. Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) improved by 68 bps YoY to 13.7% as on March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-q4-net-rises-80-to-rs-6451-cr/article34618640.ece
22 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Hindalco Q4 net profit triples to Rs. 1,928 crore||Hindalco Industries Ltd. reported its fourth-quarter consolidated net profit rose threefold to Rs. 1,928 crore from Rs. 668 crore in the year-earlier period, on the back of improved volumes and operational efficiencies. Consolidated revenue for the quarter stood at Rs. 40,507 crore as compared to Rs. 29,318 crore, a 38% year-on-year rise. For FY21, consolidated profit after tax (PAT) for continuing operations increased 38% to Rs. 5,182 crore. “The results were driven by a strong performance by Novelis and India aluminium business, supported by higher volumes and better product mix, lower input costs, stability in operations and cost saving actions,” the company said in a regulatory filing. Novelis reported an all-time high EBITDA as a result of continued demand for innovative, sustainable aluminium solutions and outstanding operational performance across its expanded business, the company said. “Our record Q4 results have strengthened our balance sheet even further, absorbing the Aleris acquisition and restoring consolidated net debt to EBITDA ratio to pre-acquisition levels,” Hindalco MD Satish Pai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hindalco-q4-net-profit-triples-to-rs-1928-crore/article34618638.ece
22 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex surges 2% as banks, financials gain||Equity benchmarks rose about 2% on Friday led by gains in banking and financial stocks. The S&P BSE Sensex gained 975.62 points, or 1.97%, to 50,540.48. In the Sensex pack, only Power Grid was a laggard. The NSE Nifty 50 index rose 269.25 points, or 1.81%, to 15,175.30. Markets rebounded sharply tracking firm global markets and supportive local cues, said Ajit Mishra, VP, research, Religare Broking Ltd. Other than banking and finance, realty and auto stocks rallied, he added. “We feel global cues will continue to dictate the trend in the near future.” “The easing COVID concerns, appreciation in Indian rupee and the recent positive global data helped the market,” said Vinod Nair, head of research, Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-surges-2-as-banks-financials-gain/article34618642.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rules for insurance firms’ control tweaked after FDI ceiling raised to 74%||Indian promoters of insurance joint ventures with foreign partners will no longer be able to nominate a majority of the board members, as per the new rules notified under the Insurance Act. This follows the recent amendments to enhance the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the sector to 74% from 49%. However, a majority of board members, key management persons (KMP) need to be resident Indian citizens, as should at least one of the three top positions — the chairperson of the board, the MD and CEO. Applies to all JVs This new norm will apply to all insurers, irrespective of the stake held by the foreign partner, said legal experts. The Finance Ministry has also specified further conditions on the composition of the board for firms where foreign investors’ stake exceeds 49%. “In an Indian insurance company having foreign investment exceeding 49%, not less than 50% of its directors shall be independent directors, unless the chairperson of its board is an independent director, in which case at least one-third of its board shall comprise independent directors,” state the Indian Insurance Companies (Foreign Investment) Amendment Rules, 2021, notified by the Finance Ministry. Ceding control “The significant change introduced is the deletion of the requirements pertaining to Indian ownership and control, irrespective of whether the insurer has majority foreign ownership or not,” said Shailaja Lall, partner at law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. “Previously, Indian promoters or investors were required to nominate a majority of the Board. This deletion is being seen favourably by foreign investors proposing to hold stakes in insurance companies,” she added. “However, the requirement to have a majority of the board and KMP comprised of Indian resident citizens will mean that foreign investors will have to continue to rely on Indian citizens who are resident in India to man key roles in the insurance company and its board. Therefore, while the FDI limit in insurance companies has been increased to 74%, the government has sought to provide adequate protection for insurance companies,” she added. While the rules are a step forward for enabling fresh investments in the insurance sector, more changes are needed before transactions can begin, PwC said in a note. Further amendments are now expected in Foreign Exchange Management (Non-debt Instruments) Rules, 2019, and IRDAI guidelines on Indian ownership and control, the advisory firm added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rules-for-insurance-firms-control-tweaked-after-fdi-ceiling-raised-to-74/article34618646.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||JSW Steel Q4 profit leaps to Rs. 4,191 crore||JSW Steel on Friday posted a manifold jump in its consolidated net profit to Rs. 4,191 crore for the quarter ended March 31. The company had clocked a net profit of Rs. 188 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year, JSW Steel said in a BSE filing. Total income in January-March 2021 rose to Rs. 27,095 crore, compared with Rs. 18,009 crore in the year-earlier period. Total expense rose to Rs. 20,752 crore, against Rs. 17,056 crore the year earlier. On a standalone basis, JSW Steel’s net profit grew to Rs. 4,018 crore from Rs. 242 crore a year earlier. Standalone total income during the quarter was at Rs. 24,593 crore from Rs. 15,423 crore in the same period of FY20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jsw-steel-q4-profit-leaps-to-rs-4191-crore/article34618648.ece
22 May 2021||Mumbai,||RBI fixes gold bond issue price at Rs 4,842 per gram; subscription opens on May 24||The issue price for the second tranche of the sovereign gold bond issue has been fixed at Rs. 4,842 per gram, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said on Friday. The Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme 2021-22 - Series II or the second tranche will be open for subscription from May 24 to 28. The government has decided to issue the bonds in six tranches from May to September. The RBI will issue the bonds on behalf of the Government of India.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-fixes-gold-bond-issue-price-at-rs-4842-per-gram-subscription-opens-on-may-24/article34618647.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||Sebi doubles overseas investment limit of AIF, VCF to USD 1,500 mn||Markets regulator SEBI on Friday doubled the overseas investment limit of alternative investment funds and venture capital funds to $1,500 million. The decision was taken in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), SEBI said in a circular. SEBI-registered alternative investment funds (AIF) or venture capital funds (VCF) are currently permitted to invest overseas, subject to an overall limit of $750 million.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-doubles-overseas-investment-limit-of-aif-vcf-to-usd-1500-mn/article34618649.ece
22 May 2021||Mumbai,||‘With no baggage, Indians might do extraordinarily well’||As head coach of the Indian women’s team over the last couple of years, W.V. Raman enjoyed success guiding the side to the final of the T20 World Cup in 2020. Last week, he was replaced by Ramesh Powar. Being a seasoned coach, Raman has moved on. However, he is always ready to talk about cricket. In a chat with Sportstar , Raman talks about the road ahead for the Indian women’s team and what they should keep in mind ahead of the tour of England and Australia. Excerpts:  India will be playing a Test after seven years. Do you think that this is the right time for this team to venture into the longer format again? There is no such thing as the right timing or whatever. When the girls are doing well and there is a lot of interest being generated, I think perhaps the administration feels that it is the right time to try and engage them in the Test format. As far as the girls are concerned, it is a case of opportunity for them to try and gauge their skills, test themselves and prove themselves about how good they are in this format as well. What are the challenges that the players will face? They will have the benefit of being allowed a lot of follies to be committed because they are playing after a long time. They will have that cushion because people will understand that it is not going to be easy for them to play Test cricket after seven years and that too, an away game, especially in England, where the ball can perhaps seam. I am not saying that they will not do well, but if in the event, they can’t do as well as expected, they will always have that leeway. How do you see the fact that a lot of players will be playing red-ball cricket for the first time, that too, without practice games? That’s a good thing. They will not have any baggage in their heads, they might probably go out and do extraordinarily well. Everything is a matter of perception. The thing is, it’s like the case of a bumble bee being told that it can’t fly because aerodynamically, it’s not built to fly. But it flies because nobody has told it that you can’t fly. Similarly, we do not have to tell too many things to the players who are young and have not played in a Test. Ahead of the England tour, if you are asked for one suggestion, what will that be? The most important thing is that they should live in the present. What is happening is something that will happen then. Gathering and talking to people who have played in England in the past is one thing, but going meticulously about what is told to them by people who have played this format, may also not be a great way to go about things. They have to go out and find out things for themselves. After the England series, the Indian team will play a pink-ball Test against Australia. In a format where even the men’s team has struggled, will it be too big a challenge for the women? Look, it’s like damned if you do, damned if you don’t. Let them have some experience. Why are we even taking it for granted that the girls will also find it difficult or they will have a bad game? Let’s see how it pans out. Let them gain the experience, let them play and then only we can talk about it. Why are we even thinking of repairing something when it is not even needed. Let it all happen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/with-no-baggage-indians-might-do-extraordinarily-well/article34618761.ece
22 May 2021||Chennai,||Bala relishing her time in Scotland||Bala Devi is back to making headlines. After becoming the first Indian woman footballer to score a goal in a professional European League, Bala’s 30-yard wonder goal last week has garnered global attention. The 31-year-old struck the stunning long-ranger during Rangers Women FC’s 5-0 win over Spartans FC in the Scottish Premier League last Sunday. “As a striker, it is very important to be able to decide in a fraction of a second. When I got the ball, I decided that I would shoot and I scored. The team-mate who gave the assist was very happy, she perhaps did not expect me to score from so far out,” said Bala at a virtual interaction on Friday. Bala, who joined Rangers on an 18-month contract in January 2020, is relishing her time in Scotland. Good ball control “I have the opportunity to play as a striker and as a No. 10 as well. I see it as an advantage because I can score and pass while playing as a No. 10. The support staff feel that my passing and vision are good and I can play both roles,” the Manipuri forward said. “We discuss the qualities of each player and everyone mentioned that I am good in one-vs-one positions and that my ball control is good.” Bala admitted that it was a little challenging to understand the Scottish accent initially. “It was very hard initially. My English was not as good and it was difficult when I came here. However, it does not impact our communication on the field as we take cues from each other’s running position and make signs.  “The ideas are the same, only the terms used are a little different here. I have got accustomed to it now. For example, we say “throw in” but they use the word “bounce,” she revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bala-relishing-her-time-in-scotland/article34618808.ece
22 May 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Wizards eliminate Pacers||Washington Wizards showed its ability to bounce back by rolling over Indiana Pacers 142-115 in the NBA’s play-in tournament to grab the eighth and final seed in the Eastern Conference post-season on Thursday. Russell Westbrook and Bradley Beal were back in top form, combining for 43 points and leading a 16-0 second-quarter run in the dominating win that came two days after a frustrating 118-100 loss to Boston Celtics in the play-in opener. Beal finished with 25 points and Westbrook delivered 18 points, 15 assists and eight rebounds for Wizards, who reached the post-season for the first time since 2018 when they lost in the first round to Toronto Raptors. It was 34-34 early in the second quarter when Wizards went on their run. Robin Lopez scored six points during the burst. Wizards move on to play the top-seeded Philadelphia 76ers, with the first game scheduled for Sunday. The loss eliminated Pacers and ended the franchise's streak of five consecutive playoff appearances. Beal made four three-pointers and also had five rebounds and four assists while playing 28 minutes. He sat out the final quarter of the one-sided game to rest his strained left hamstring. Rui Hachimura scored 18 points, Daniel Gafford had 15 points, 13 rebounds and five blocked shots, and Raul Neto added 14 points. Anthony Gill had 10 points. For Pacers, Malcolm Brogdon scored 24 points and Domantas Sabonis recorded 19 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wizards-eliminate-pacers/article34618811.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mairaj delighted to be training with Ennio||It is the final stretch of preparation for the Tokyo Games despite all the chaos due to the pandemic. Mairaj Ahmad Khan is happy to be training with coach Ennio Falco, the 1996 Atlanta Olympics gold medallist, at his range in Capua, Italy. “It was smooth travel. I reached here last week, flying through Paris and Rome. I am delighted to be training with Ennio after about two years,” said the 45-year-old Mairaj, who had missed the skeet final of the 2016 Rio Olympics in a shoot-off. Having lost his father recently, Mairaj faced a tough time, but took things in his stride. Recovery break “I have not lost any training. I am taking it as a good recovery break for the hectic training coming up from now till the Olympics. Ennio’s range in Capua is the base for me till the Olympics. I will go to Tokyo from here. Before that, I will take part in a few local competitions in Italy,” said Mairaj. Mairaj had also trained for a week at the Dr. Karni Singh Range in Tughlakabad before boarding the flight to Rome. Being based in Europe could be the best thing at the moment, especially with a World Cup in Osijek, Croatia, scheduled just before the Games. “We will decide next week about shooting in the World Cup after Ennio has a good look at what I need,” said Mairaj. Going into the 2016 Olympics, Mairaj had shot brilliantly in the World Cup in Rio that year, with 122 in qualification and missed a gold in a shoot-off. After such a high, in the run-up to the Games, it was not easy to maintain that intensity during the Olympics. Interestingly, Marcus Svensson of Sweden who beat Mairaj to the gold in the Rio World Cup, went on to bag the silver in the Rio Olympics. Mairaj is glad the National federation and Sports Authority of India (SAI) made all arrangements for him in a professional manner. With trainer Jitender Arya to assist him in physical conditioning, Mairaj is confident of preparing well and making an impact at the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mairaj-delighted-to-be-training-with-ennio/article34618813.ece
22 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Rafi joins his favourite team||Muhammed Rafi has always been a fan of Gokulam Kerala. So he was delighted when Gokulam became the first ever team from Kerala to win the I-League a couple of months ago. That joy is now doubled: he has been signed by Gokulam. “It is great to join one’s own favourite team,” says Rafi over phone from his home at Muvattupuzha on Friday. “I was hoping to be picked by a professional club and I am thrilled that Gokulam is that club.” It was his fine performance, for Mar Athanasius College (Kothamangalam), at the recent Kerala Premier League (KPL) that attracted the attention of Gokulam. “I had viewed KPL as an opportunity for me to graduate to the higher level,” the 20-year-old says. “So I was glad that I could do well in the tournament.” Making a mark Rafi had made a mark before the KPL, though. He was part of the Indian team that emerged as champion at the SAF U-18 championship in 2019. “It was nice being part of what was a strong Indian team,” he says. “We had trained hard under coach Floyd Pinto and it was great to finish as the champion, after beating Bangladesh in the final.” He was at the time with the Bengaluru FC Academy. “Most of my teammates at the SAF tournament became part of Indian Arrows and played at the I-League,” he says. “Unfortunately I could not, as my club didn’t release me. That disappointment is now gone though, after getting picked by Gokulam.” He is particularly looking forward to catching up with one of his former teammates at Gokulam — Emil Benny, who was named the emerging player of the I-League. “I was with him at the MSP Football Academy at Malappuram and am not at all surprised with his success,” says Rafi. “It would be great to play alongside him at Gokulam.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rafi-joins-his-favourite-team/article34619002.ece
22 May 2021||TOKYO,||Tokyo Games will go ahead even if there’s a state of emergency: IOC VP Coates||The IOC vice-president in charge of the postponed Tokyo Olympics said on Friday that the Games would open in just over two months even if the city and other parts of Japan were under a state of emergency because of rising COVID-19 cases. John Coates, speaking from Australia in a virtual news conference with Tokyo organisers at the end of three days of meetings, said this would be the case even if local medical experts advised against holding the Olympics. “The advice we have from the WHO (World Health Organisation) and all other scientific and medical communities is that all the measures we have outlined, all those measures we are undertaking are satisfactory and will ensure a safe and secure games in terms of health,” Coates said. “And that’s the case whether there is a state of emergency or not.” Public opinion in Japan has been running at 60-80% against opening the Olympics on July 23, depending on how the question is phrased. Coates suggested public opinion might improve as more Japanese get fully vaccinated. That figure is now about 2%. “If it doesn’t then our position is that we have to make sure that we get on with our job,” Coates said. “And our job is to ensure these Games are safe for all the participants and all the people of Japan.” IOC officials say they expect more than 80% of the residents of the Olympic Village, located on Tokyo Bay, to be vaccinated and be largely cut off from the public. Around 11,000 Olympic and 4,400 Paralympic athletes are expected to attend. Coates said about 80% of spots in the Olympics would be awarded from qualifying events, with 20% coming from rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-games-will-go-ahead-even-if-theres-a-state-of-emergency-ioc-vp-coates/article34618763.ece
22 May 2021||Hyderabad,||Monetary assistance for Tejaswini Bhai||Former Asian Games kabaddi gold medallist V. Tejaswini Bhai has been sanctioned Rs. 2 lakhs from the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay National Welfare Fund for sportspersons on Friday. Tejaswini led the Indian team and has been with South Central Railway till she moved over to Karnataka. She also received the Arjuna Award in 2011 and was a gold medallist in the 2010 and 2014 Asian Games. The financial assistance is covered under the ongoing jointly collaborated initiative from the Sports Authority of India, Indian Olympic Association and MYAS to support ex-international athletes and coaches amid ongoing Covid-19. Husband passes away It may be mentioned here that Tejaswini and her husband contracted COVID-19 on May 1. While she recovered at home, her husband Naveen passed away on May 11. “Naveen was just 30 but he was panicking a lot after the death of his father. It was the fear and stress that took his life,” Tejaswini mentioned in the SAI release on Friday. “Sports Ministry, SAI and IOA took very prompt action to take this decision of giving us the assistance,” she said. “This is the first time that we have been given such support. Many people like us have financial problems and if we get the proper help, it feels good,” she said. Tejaswini said that this was possible due to the initiative of former Karnataka Sports Committee member and Arjuna Awardee Honnaappa Gowda and that she wants to invest the money to safeguard the future of her child. “I have to take care of my five-month-old baby and will have to do something for my child,” Tejaswini said. Her former Railways coach Dhanam Reddy from Hyderabad also expressed gratitude to the Union Sports Ministry, IOA and the SAI for the “wonderful gesture”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/monetary-assistance-for-tejaswini-bhai/article34619250.ece
22 May 2021||Dhaka,||Bangladesh expects a tough fight||Bangladesh captain Tamim Iqbal urged his team to give the maximum as they bid to maintain their home dominance against Sri Lanka in the one-day series starting on Sunday. Bangladesh has a strong record at home, winning all but one of its 12 matches since October 2018, though all of the victories were against struggling Zimbabwe and Sri Lanka. However, it lost 3-0 to Sri Lanka the last time they met in a one-day series, in Colombo in 2019. “We have played with most of the Sri Lanka players. We know that they are a quality side,” Tamim told a virtual press conference on Friday, ahead of the three-match series. We won’t have anything easy, and we have to give more than 100% to win games against them.” Bangladesh has welcomed Shakib Al Hasan back after the all-rounder missed its previous series against New Zealand for the birth of his third child. Shakib was also absent from the Test tour of Sri Lanka in April as he was playing in the Indian Premier League. Tamim confirmed that the all-rounder would bat in his favourite No. 3 slot after Bangladesh jettisoned batsman Najmul Hossain. Shakib starred at one-down in World Cup 2019, scoring 606 runs, the third-highest in the tournament after Rohit Sharma’s 648 and David Warner’s 647. He also took 11 wickets. The remaining two matches are on May 25 and May 28, also at Dhaka’s Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-expects-a-tough-fight/article34618754.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||WTC is like World Cup: Umesh||Over the past few years, India’s fast-bowling arsenal has risen through the ranks to be counted as one of the best in international cricket. With the UK tour coming up — World Test Championship (WTC) final against New Zealand and five Tests against England — fans will once again expect the pace-bowling department to rise to the occasion. India speedster Umesh Yadav is looking to put up a match-winning performance when the opportunity presents itself. He says he would like to win the World Test Championship (WTC) which, he feels, is equal to winning the World Cup. In an interaction, Umesh opened up about his preparation ahead of the WTC final, and the role of skipper Virat Kohli in developing such a potent pace attack. “The only preparation going on right now, during the lockdown, is of individual physical fitness and being strong mentally. “We are all trying to stay positive and just looking forward to playing in the World Test Championship final. We are all training individually now so that when we come together, we are even better,” said Umesh. Big influence About Kohli and head coach Ravi Shastri, Umesh said: “Virat and Ravi bhai have worked really hard. The way Virat has handled the team, and the freedom and confidence the captain and coach have given to the players has been amazing. “When the players step on to the field, there is a feeling of backup and support. All 11 players are in sync with each other. So, the coach and captain deserve credit for that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wtc-is-like-world-cup-umesh/article34618757.ece
22 May 2021||COLOMBO,||SLC and top players locked in pay dispute||Sri Lanka's top cricketers, led by Test captain Dimuth Karunaratne and a host of seniors, including Dinesh Chandimal and Angelo Mathews, have refused to sign the central contracts offered by the board which they believe is far less compared to what the other countries offer. If the dispute is not sorted out soon, it could affect Sri Lanka’s bilateral series against India in July, where six limited-over matches are expected to fill the coffers of the cash-strapped board of the island nation. A statement from the attorney representing almost all the top players said that the remuneration proposed to the players is one third compared to a few other cricket-playing nations as per a Federation of International Cricket Association (FICA) report. The SLC this week said that 24 of the top players had been offered contracts under four categories and had been time till June 3 to sign them. Only six players are in Category A and their annual pay ranges between $70,000 to 100,000. Batsman Dhananjaya de Silva draws the highest — $100,000 — while the rest of them were to receive $70-80,000. The Sri Lankan players said in a joint statement that they were “shocked and dismayed” by SLC's decision to go public with the payment details of the players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/slc-and-top-players-locked-in-pay-dispute/article34618764.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||TTFI announces financial help||In a commendable gesture, the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) has finalised financial assistance to its COVID-affected players and coaches. The TTFI’s Executive Board meeting, chaired by TTFI President Dushyant Chautala on Monday, decided to consider all the players ranked among the top-16, at any time, and those coaches who have accompanied the National teams to be the beneficiaries. Mr. M.P. Singh, who took charge as the Advisor to TTFI after completing his term as the Secretary General in February this year, said, “These are tough times for mankind and each one has lost someone dear to the pandemic. “We, in TTFI, have tried to make a small difference to those from our fraternity by finalising Rs. 1 lakh assistance to those on oxygen support, Rs. 2 lakh for those more seriously affected or on ventilator, and Rs. 3 three lakh to the families of those who have suffered fatality.” The affected families may write to the state association with all the relevant documents. “We expect to disburse in excess of Rs. 1 crore after considering every single case. “The TTFI, in consultation with the states, will ensure speedy payments to all the affected families,” was the assurance from Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ttfi-announces-financial-help/article34618769.ece
22 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Boxing coach Bharadwaj passes away||Legendary boxing coach Om Prakash Bharadwaj, the first from the discipline to be honoured with the Dronacharya award in 1985, passed away on Friday following prolonged illness and old-age issues, said a Boxing Federation of India (BFI) source. He was 82. Bhardwaj had lost his wife about 10 days ago. Bharadwaj, who coached the National team for several years up to the early 90s, played a crucial role in starting the boxing course at NIS Patiala in 1975. Under his guidance, Indians won medals in major sporting events such as the Commonwealth Games, Asian Games, Asian championships and South Asian Games. Friendly person THE Former Indian Amateur Boxing Federation (IABF) secretary general Brig. (retd.) P.K.M. Raja remembered Bharadwaj as a good coach and a friendly person. “Bharadwaj began as a physical training instructor in the Army Physical Training Corps before becoming a boxing coach. Since Services boxers dominated the Indian boxing scene from 1970 to 1990, Bharadwaj also rose in stature as a coach and trained many medal winners. “He also got the Best Coach in Asia award around the 1990s,” said Brig. Raja. “As a chief instructor at NIS Patiala, he trained many well known coaches,” added Brig. Raja. Ashok Gangopadhyay, who was the secretary general of IABF during the 1980s and worked with Bharadwaj, said, “He had good control over his voice and was good at coaching. “Mostly he would make the boxers do hard training and get the best out of them.” V. Devarajan, who was part of the Indian team to the South Asian Games in Colombo in 1991 with Bharadwaj as the chief coach, said, “Bharadwaj Sir was a good motivator.” “Bharadwaj inspired a generation of boxers and coaches. “His work as a selector was unparalleled,” said BFI president Ajay Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boxing-coach-bharadwaj-passes-away/article34618800.ece
22 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Shivlal to represent HCA at BCCI SGM: Vijayanand||N. Shivlal Yadav will be back in action in the administrative affairs of the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) with secretary R. Vijayanand’s announcement on Thursday that the former would attend BCCI’s virtual Special General Meeting on May 29 as their representative. “This has been done in accordance with the resolution passed at the last AGM under Rule No. 8 (j) of the HCA Constitution where Mr. Shivlal’s name as HCA representative was unanimously approved,” the secretary said. “We have communicated to the BCCI requesting it to send the password to facilitate Shivlal attending the meeting. We have also informed Shivlal in this regard.” This move comes after HCA president Mohd. Azharuddin questioned the Apex Council’s decision to appoint a Chief Executive Officer. In an open letter to the HCA members, Azhar termed the selection process of CEO as illegal and that neither he, the players representative in the HCA nor the CAG representative were kept in the loop. “This is why I repeatedly say that the bulldozing nature of these people is with an intent to run the HCA as a proprietorship concern,” Azhar said. “The HCA Constitution laid down certain requirements for hiring of the CEO because his role in HCA involves decision-making and leadership similar to that of the CEO of a company,” he said. “There is no fairness and no transparency in the process followed in naming the CEO.” However, the HCA secretary countered on Friday that the criticism by Azhar is “unwanted and uncalled for”. “We, the Apex Council members, have taken the decision on the selection of the CEO knowing fully well the rules pertaining to the appointment under Rule 23 (1), 3 and (4),” Vijayanand said. “It is unfortunate that questions are being raised to discredit the qualification of the CEO and procedures followed while we should be actually welcoming induction of qualified and experienced professionals into our set-up for the betterment of HCA.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shivlal-to-represent-hca-at-bcci-sgm-vijayanand/article34619248.ece
22 May 2021||KOCHI,||Doctor who led AFI’s fight against doping passes away||A couple of weeks ago, long jumper M. Sreeshankar had phoned Dr. Arun Kumar Mendiratta in Delhi regarding his COVID-19 vaccine. “The doctor did not answer the call but after a few minutes, he sent a message which said, ‘I’m not able to speak, I’ve been hospitalised due to COVID and I have a throat block,” said the national record holder. Mendiratta, the chairman of the Athletics Federation of India’s medical commission, passed away in Delhi owing to COVID-related complications. The doctor, who was also associated with the Asian Athletics Association for over 25 years, was 60. “He led AFI’s relentless fight against age-fraud and doping. He was also the architect of our no-needle policy. Soft-spoken and genial, Dr. Mendiratta will be missed by the athletics community,” said Adille Sumariwalla, the AFI president. He was supposed to go to Tokyo as the chief medical officer of the Indian contingent for this July’s Olympics. He had accompanied Indian teams at various World championships, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and the Olympics during his long career with Indian sports. He had also gone to many national junior and youth championships to oversee the weeding out of athletes who attempted to fudge their age. “I used to call him frequently, whenever I took vitamins or medicines, I used to consult him,” said Olympian K.T. Irfan, the country’s leading racewalker, from Bengaluru. “ It’s a big loss, I don’t know whether we will get another doctor like him.” Asian Games champion Jinson Johnson said Mendiratta was very helpful. “If we had doubts regarding anything, he used to explain things patiently. Nobody expected this to happen,” said the middle-distance star. Meanwhile, Hima Das tweeted that Mendiratta had helped her a lot. “Deeply pained... he helped me a lot during Commonwealth Games 2018 and Asian Games 2018,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/doctor-who-led-afis-fight-against-doping-passes-away/article34618751.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit heads a strong field||Grandmaster Vidit Gujrathi heads a strong field of 19 players battling for the lone Indian quota for the upcoming World Cup. The event — All India Chess Federation Online Selection Tournament for World Cup — will take place from May 26 to 30 following a round-robin format. The winner qualifies for the World Cup at Sochi, Russia, from July 10. “Since the prevailing pandemic ruled out Indian participation in the ongoing Asian championship, the FIDE allowed India a quota spot. “The AICF had asked for two spots since the Indian players had won four spots last time. We are still hopeful of an additional spot before the list is finalised early next month,” said Bharat Singh Chauhan, the AICF secretary. “Viswanathan Anand indicated he would not play in the World Cup but I expect P. Harikrishna to make the field on the basis of world ranking,” said Chauhan and confirmed the names K. Humpy, D. Harika, Padmini Rout, Bhakti Kulkarni and R. Vaishali for the Women’s World Cup. Considering the COVID situation in the continent, the Asian championship in classical time-format, was planned online with the participants playing under the supervision of FIDE arbiters from designated venues in their country.   The participants: Vidit Gujrathi, B. Adhiban, S.P. Sethuraman, Surya Shekhar Ganguly, S.L. Narayanan, Abhimanyu Puranik, D. Gukesh, Deep Sengupta, P. Iniyan, C.R.G. Krishna, Vishnu Prasanna, P. Rahul Srivatshav, Aditya Mittal, Raja Rithvik, S. Nitin, Vatsal Singhania, Soumya Swaminathan, P. Saravana Krishnan and Vinay Kumar Matta .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-heads-a-strong-field/article34618752.ece
22 May 2021||KOLKATA:,||Ashok to officiate in Tokyo||Ashok Kumar will be the only referee from India to officiate in wrestling matches of the Tokyo Olympics. He was named in the officials’ list released by United World Wrestling on Thursday. Ashok, who will officiate in his second consecutive Games, has officiated in more than 100 international events, including World and Asian championships and Commonwealth Games. Referees’ educator He is a UWW referees’ educator as well. Ashok, who is employed with the IAF, is also a qualified coach from NIS Patiala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashok-to-officiate-in-tokyo/article34618802.ece
22 May 2021||London,||‘No official request’ for Test rejig: ECB||The England and Wales Cricket Board says there has been “no official request” from India to move the dates of the five-Test series due to take place in August and September. It follows reports that alterations to the schedule have been broached on an informal basis. The postponement of the Indian Premier League as a result of the country’s coronavirus crisis has created a fixture crunch. Reports in the Indian press suggested officials at the Board of Control for Cricket in India had considered bringing forward their series in England, which is due to begin on August 4 and end on September 14 to create a viable window. “We have had no official request to change dates,” said an ECB spokesman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-official-request-for-test-rejig-ecb/article34618755.ece
22 May 2021||BARCELONA,||Messi to miss Barcelona’s last match of the season||Lionel Messi will miss Barcelona’s final La Liga game of the season against Eibar on Saturday in order to “enjoy a rest” before the Copa America, the club announced. The Argentine, who is still in contract negotiations with Barcelona, was given permission to miss training on Friday by coach Ronald Koeman and, with the club now out of the title race, will not play in the away fixture against Eibar. “The striker can enjoy a rest before next month’s Copa America,” Barcelona said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-to-miss-barcelonas-last-match-of-the-season/article34618801.ece
22 May 2021||GENEVA,||Ruud meets Shapovalov||Casper Ruud, after three successive semifinal losses, reached his first final of 2021 with a dominant 6-3, 6-2 win over Pablo Andujar at the Geneva Open on Friday. The World No. 24 had fallen in the last-four stage at Madrid, Munich and Monte Carlo. All 12 of the Norwegian’s semifinal appearances have come on clay. The 22-year-old has had a stellar season so far with a 19-6 record and four wins over top-20 opponents Ruud, the third seed, will now face second seed Denis Shapovalov, a 6-4, 7-5 winner over Pablo Cuevas.  The results (semifinals): Casper Ruud bt Pablo Andujar 6-3, 6-2; Denis Shapovalov bt Pablo Cuevas 6-4, 7-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ruud-meets-shapovalov/article34618765.ece
22 May 2021||Sao Paulo,||Colombia not to co-host Copa America||South American football body CONMEBOL has announced that Colombia will not co-host next month’s Copa America, a decision reached less than a month before the opening match. CONMEBOL said in a statement it was impossible to postpone the tournament to November and assured it will inform “on the next days about the relocation of the matches which should be played in Colombia.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/colombia-not-to-co-host-copa-america/article34619003.ece
22 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Olympian boxer Shakti Mazumdar passes away||Shakti Mazumdar, a boxer who took part in 1952 Helsinki Olympics, passed away here on Friday, according to a release from the Bengal Amateur Boxing Federation. He was 90 and was suffering from old age-related problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympian-boxer-shakti-mazumdar-passes-away/article34618804.ece
22 May 2021||GENEVA,||Bopanna & Skugor lose in quarterfinals||Rohan Bopanna, seeded fourth in partnership with Franko Skugor of Croatia, was beaten 6-3, 3-6, [13-11] by Ariel Behar and Gonzalo Escobar in the doubles quarterfinals of the €481,270 ATP tennis tournament here. The Indo-Croatian combination had got a walkover in the earlier round. The two collected 45 ATP points and €4,710.  Other results:   Pre-quarterfinals: Skugor & Bopanna w/o Pablo Cuevas (Uru) & Guido Pella (Arg) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-skugor-lose-in-quarterfinals/article34618814.ece
22 May 2021||Bucharest,||Halep pulls out of French Open||Third-ranked Simona Halep withdrew from the French Open on Friday because of a calf injury. The 29-year-old Romanian, who won the title at Roland Garros in 2018, tore a muscle in her left calf at the Italian Open and said it needs more time to heal. The French Open begins on May 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/halep-pulls-out-of-french-open/article34618767.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Saiva Agamas explained||Thirumoolar was chosen by Lord Siva to be the recipient of the knowledge of Saiva Agamas. Thirumoolar, in turn, wrote the Thirumandiram, setting out philosophical truths. He says Lord Siva is beyond words and understanding. He is the only Truth. All other tattvas are maya, and will perish, says Thirumoolar. He says he will talk about this Siva, who is beyond comprehension, in the 3,000 verses, which constitute the Thirumandiram. Thirumoolar talks about the jnana which should be sought and also about the seeker of such jnana, elaborated R. Narayanan in a discourse. Saiva Siddhanta talks about pasu, pati and paasam. Pasu is the jivatma, searching for the Ultimate Truth. Pati is Lord Siva, and pasam refers to the ties that keep a person under bondage, preventing him from reaching the feet of the Lord. These concepts too are contained in Thirumoolar’s work. Jnana is Siva’s sakthi. Thirumoolar refers to his work as a seed, which contains all the eternal truths. He has explained therein, everything about the Saiva Agamas. Just as a seed, though small in size, contains what is needed for a tree to grow from it, so does his work contain the entire knowledge of the Saiva Agamas. Saiva Agamas are vast, but Thirumoolar has summed them up in his work, simplifying them for us. Thirumoolar refers to himself as a teacher who came from Kailasa. He says he was in the state of jeevan mukti, when he gave this work to the world. What he has said are not his words, he clarifies. They are the words of Lord Siva. Humility is a characteristic trait of all great sages, and here we find that Thirumoolar is no exception. He took no credit for his work. And in any case, the Saiva Agamas were revealed by Lord Siva to his chosen devotee Thirumoolar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/saiva-agamas-explained/article34618710.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 07:36 IST,||Sudoku — May 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-22-2021/article34619448.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||All set to shine||A post on Aishwarya Lekshmi’s Instagram sees her holding a poster in a charming curio store, with the caption, “Portkey.. I need a Portkey! Somebody, anybody... now would be great.” For non-Potter fans, a Portkey is a magical object bewitched to instantly transport anyone touching it to other locations. “That was the state of my mind during these lockdowns. Having a Portkey right now would be so great, no?” she sighs. “But I’m actually a much calmer person now. I have spent almost a year with my parents and dog at home; it has not happened since I was a student. I am happier now and more at peace,” smiles Aishwarya, as we begin to talk about the Karthik Subbaraj-directorial Jagame Thandhiram , slated to première on June 18 on Netflix. The doctor-turned-actor has emerged as a breath of fresh air since her debut in the Malayalam film Njandukalude Nattil Oridavela (2017). She followed that up with lead roles alongside the likes of Fahadh Faasil and Tovino Thomas in Varathan and Mayanidhi respectively; the latter catapulted her to fame and established her as a true-blue talent to look out for. Though just three years old in the industry, Aishwarya boasts of an impressive repertoire of upcoming films that includes Mani Ratnam’s Ponniyin Selvan . Connecting from Kerala, the actor talks about the Tamil film industry and learning multiple aspects of filmmaking, and how her bucket list came full circle after interacting with Mani Ratnam. Excerpts: How did you get to be a part ofJagame Thandhiram? Even though I only played a small role in my Tamil debut, Action , it gave me the confidence to act in other industries as well. So I auditioned for Jagame… and then was told the project was put on hold as Karthik [Subbaraj] had Petta with Rajinikanth sir. I thought they were just letting me down easy, and had chosen somebody else. I moved on, and changed my phone number without informing them. After a year, they resumed Jagame… and they spent two weeks trying to reach me! Thankfully, it worked out.  What can you tell us about the film?  The crew was absolutely brilliant. They are a bunch of committed youngsters. It was also my first time visiting London, and I was like, “Yes, now I have really made it as a movie star!” I can’t reveal much except that it is a gangster drama, as you already know from the trailer. I don’t have any action scenes as such, but I did have a lot of running to do. I didn’t interact with Dhanush too much, but my favourite memory was when we all went to watch Asuran in Canterbury. It was this really classy place but we were all cheering and clapping, giving it a whole FDFS-vibe! When Manju (Warrier) chechi came on screen, I screamed and Dhanush was like, “Oh, you will shout for her intro and not for me, no?” I had so much fun that day. You are also part of the epic Ponniyin Selvan . How has it been working with someone like Mani Ratnam?  It has been just magical. I spent around a month and half on the sets of Ponniyin... in 2019, and we were shooting in Krabi, Thailand, early 2020 when the first lockdown was announced. When Mani sir called me for the meeting, I started reading the books beforehand to prepare. I am proud that now I have finally reached the fifth and last part ( laughs ). It was a hectic two months and I had to lose weight, so I took up swimming and Bharatanatyam, but I loved it. During the shoot, when I couldn’t deliver what he expected, Mani sir would understand and not push too hard. That really helped me as an actor. Because if a scene goes for multiple takes, I get very robotic. He recognised that and knew how to extract the best out of me. We did a bit of filming this year, if not for the second wave and it is currently on hold. For me, working with Mani sir is right on top of the bucket list... I could stop acting after this and be happy forever.   We watchedAsuran[Dhanush’s previous film] in Canterbury. It was a classy place but we were all cheering, giving it a whole FDFS-vibe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-set-to-shine/article34618925.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to the roots||Cinema Bandi , streaming on Netflix, is the new Telugu film to have endeared movie buffs. With a tinge of surprise, debut director Praveen Kandregula acknowledges the appreciation the film has been getting from viewers in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, apart from Telangana (TS) and Andhra Pradesh (AP). In this indie film produced by Raj and DK, villagers in Gollapally village try to make a feature film when one of them chances upon a high-end camera. The village folks become the cast and crew and use indigenous props for filmmaking. Imagine a pushcart in place of a crane, and you get the drift. Their motive — to make a film that will fetch them enough money to solve power, water and infrastructure issues in the hamlet. There has been a spurt in Telugu films set in semi-urban or rural backgrounds, written and directed by new storytellers and starring actors who represent native cultures and dialects. Colour Photo (Machilipatnam and nearby villages of Krishna district, AP), Middle Class Melodies (Tenali and Guntur, AP), Mail (Kambalapally, Warangal district, TS), Jathi Ratnalu (Jogipet, Sangareddy district, TS), Uma Maheshwara Ugra Roopasya (Araku valley, AP), Raja Vaaru Rani Gaaru (Kapileswarapuram, East Godavari, AP), Palasa 1978 (Palasa, Srikakulam district, AP) and the much-appreciated Care of Kancharapalem (Kancharapalem, Vizag, AP). These films have been made by emerging writers and directors who either grew up in the regions where the stories are set, or have been acquainted with the regions through close friends. For many of these projects, theatre actors and locals from the respective regions have been roped in to play significant parts. Telugu cinema is considered larger than life, more so in the post- Baahubali  era, but alongside, there is a steadily-growing audience for indie-spirited projects. Uday, whose Mail has been selected for the New York Indian Film Festival, attributes this change to Internet penetration and blurring of language barriers: “Until there are a couple of hits, producers hesitate to back offbeat projects. Initially, when I pitched Mail to a few producers, there were suggestions to include an item number. Later, I got lucky to find Swapna Dutt, who understood what this story needed.”  Mail is the story of Kambalapally in Telangana warming up to email in the mid-2000s, and Uday says the narrative style was inspired by Iranian cinema he watched during college days: “I liked how Iranian films with simple storylines were narrated in a realistic manner.” Contemporary Malayalam cinema often hogs the limelight for its hard-hitting storylines representing different regions, cultures and social strata, followed by Tamil cinema. Emerging Telugu filmmakers have taken a cue from this. In addition to this unmistakable inspiration, there is also a throwback to fuss-free and endearing Telugu cinema of the 1980s — films of Bapu, Jandhyala and those starring Rajendra Prasad, for example. “We have always had good small films in Telugu. Even a decade ago, films like Anand and Aithe fared well in theatres. What’s happening now is a resurgence and the quick appreciation is thanks to digital platforms,” says Praveen. Venkatesh Maha, whose Care of Kancharapalem (2018) was a trendsetter for the hyper-local setting of a story, points out that the diversity in these semi-urban/ rural stories makes them appealing to viewers. He says, “ Mail, Middle Class Melodies, UMUR, and Cinema Bandi are different from each other in the stories and cultural milieu. Filmmakers with new voices have so far evaded the trap of predictability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/back-to-the-roots/article34618930.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Degree of gratitude||Not many folks know I actually went to college. I don’t blame them. I haven’t given anyone the impression of having been to one. This piece is about that difficult time in my life, and is actually a belated thank you to that one person who was the sole reason I have a degree certificate, my proudest possession, in my cupboard today (sitting right next to my third-place certificate in the lemon-and-spoon race in Class 3, the cease-and-desist order from one of my editors, and my grandfather’s Padma Bhushan.) At the end of my third year, on the very last working day, when I went to the staff room to submit my final assignment — all that stood between me and a degree — the professor looked at me, and the beautifully bound 100-page assignment (which he didn’t as yet know contained select sections of the Madras Telephone Directory, 1986 edition, interspersed with the screenplay of Enter the Dragon ) I had delicately placed on his table, and asked me a question teachers don’t normally ask third-year students: who are you? I told him. ‘In these three years, I’ve never once seen you in my class,’ he said. That wasn’t entirely true. I had gone to one. It was the first period on the first day of the first year. And had left midway using a technique US marines use in tropical jungles. Not having a proper verbal response handy, I did what any self-respecting young man proud of his East Godavari heritage would do under such circumstances. I gracefully swan dived for the professor’s tiny Quo Vadis-clad feet. I was escorted away by the peon and two assistant professors with my assignment still tucked under my arm and my legs backpedalling the air in vain. College closed. For an entire week, my father, not a man easily fooled, kept giving me one particular look that appeared disturbingly familiar. When I realised it was the exact same look Sivaji Ganesan gives Srikanth in Thangappathakkam when he finds out he’s a smuggler, I figured something needed to be done. I didn’t fancy having a premature end at the hands of my own father as he recited a nursery rhyme. Using my underworld connections, by which I mean the college peon, I found out where the professor lived. The next day, sporting copious amounts of penitent vibuthi on my forehead (actually, Johnson’s Prickly Heat Powder), I landed up at the professor’s doorstep at about 7 am. Taking a deep breath, I rang the doorbell. There was no response. I waited a decent interval and rang again. The door opened. It was a girl. She was about my age, dressed in a cotton nightie. ‘IsSaar... er ... Daddy at home?’ I said. ‘ Whose Daddy ?’ the girl said. ‘Yours?’ I said tentatively. ‘ Ennango ,’ the girl called out, turning back. ‘Someone for you.’ The professor appeared. He was wearing a towel and a sleeveless Bisonbanian. There was still a bit of toothpaste foam around his mouth. He looked at me and made a sound like a bird of prey being garrotted. ‘ Ullae po, di ,’ he yelled. She had already done that. Channelling my inner Ekalavya, I just short of knelt, and held out my assignment. The professor took it without a word. ‘Thank you, sir,’ I said. ‘Er... does anyone else know where I live?’ he said. ‘Not a soul, sir,’ I said. I got 76% in my assignment. So, guardian angel in a nightie, wherever you are today, consider this my official, if much delayed, thank you. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/degree-of-gratitude/article34619201.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Biryani, with heart and soul||Remember the time we thought we’d celebrate Holi with gusto? But the coronavirus hung around nastily, and we had to call off all plans of sitting together over a potluck lunch of mutton curry and rice. Then I thought the April festivals would bring in cheer. But the virus, we realised last month, was going nowhere, so we postponed the festivities some more. There is always Eid, I told myself. But Eid, too, was quiet, with depression swirling around us. And then, like the proverbial light at the end of the tunnel, I got to hear that there was a dip in the number of new cases in the city. And along with that came a WhatsApp message. ‘Could we send you some food for Eid?’ it asked. I humbly said yes, for the message came from a food outlet I have full faith in. It is called Sassy Begum, and the food that it serves is largely Hyderabadi. Hyderabadi Muslim food, its dishes packed with flavour, is among the best cuisines that you can get. Sassy Begum (Ph: 9999122999) has four branches in Delhi: in Greater Kailash, Rajouri Garden, DLF Phase 1 Gurugram, and in Select Citywalk Mall, where it has a restaurant in the food court. If you place your order on the website, you get a 20% discount. When the hamper arrived, I found that it contained mutton biryani (Rs. 745), mutton haleem (Rs. 675), Andhra prawns (Rs. 550), galouti kebab (Rs. 465), harabhara kabab (Rs. 295), salan and sheer khurma . There was vegetarian haleem (Rs. 345), too, along with vegetable biryani (Rs. 395). We shared the meal with some dear friends of ours, one of whom, after years of demolishing meat and chicken, has turned into a fish eating ‘vegetarian’. He really enjoyed the vegetable biryani and the harabhara kebab, prepared with spinach, cottage cheese, raisins and nuts, but didn’t think much of the vegetable haleem . Who would? After days of gloom, this meal gladdened my heart. I started with the galouti kabab atop a small ulta tawa ka paratha . The kabab was smooth, as it should be, and whetted my appetite for the next course, the biryani. The Hyderabadi biryani was surprisingly light, and I relished its mild flavours. The meat was tender, the rice aromatic. The salan , spicy, yet not overly so (despite the presence of a giant green chilli in it) went deliciously well with the biryani. I enjoyed the coastal-style prawns, crisp and hot, cooked with onions, tomato, curry leaves, pepper and lime juice. But what stole my heart was the haleem . The lamb, cooked with wheat over long hours (and I am told with some special spices), had a creamy consistency. The meat had soaked in the spices and had just the right smoothness. It wasn’t very spicy, perhaps because people are increasingly opting for lighter versions of the spice-heavy food that they enjoyed in their salad days. I ended the meal with some divine sheer khurma — sevaiyan — which was velvety and full of nuts. After that happy meal, I recalled a few lines that a friend had sent me that very morning: This Eid Stay home, stay closer to the close ones… Celebrate the day Celebrate every moment, every breath Because this Eid Is not the same. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/biryani-with-heart-and-soul/article34619214.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A cocktail of genres and films||“Are we going back to cinemas?” was the question on everyone’s mind during the recent virtual press conference of the 50th edition of the International Film Festival Rotterdam (IFFR) 2021. Given the circumstances and regulations in the Netherlands, festival director Vanja Kaludjercic had a more rational response. “It is hard to predict, now that things are changing every day. But if cinemas are open, then IFFR will be there. Even otherwise, we have made the festival available online with a 72-hour window,” she said, while announcing the plan for the closing portion of this year’s festival, slated from June 2-6 both online and physical screenings in Netherlands. The June programme will open with The World to Come , an intimate period drama about two women directed by Norwegian filmmaker and actress Mona Fastvold. With a spread of 139 features including short, mid-length and VR films, movies will be screened under four main categories: Harbour, Bright Future, Cinema Regained and Short & Mid-length. “From the rediscovery of arthouse classics to celebrate IFFR’s history to the latest futuristic genre-bending TV series, there will be a wide range to choose from. All this in a way that captures the energy and excitement that has long been at the heart of IFFR, while adhering to the latest governmental regulations,” said Kaludjercic, adding that the closing film will be the European premiere of animated Japanese feature Poupelle of Chimney Town by Hirota Yusuke. The 50th edition of Rotterdam Film Festival was split into two parts with the festival’s opening portion taking place in February. It must be noted that the Tamil indie feature, Koozhangal , directed by P.S. Vinothraj won the Tiger Award, which is the top prize.  For details about screenings, visit www.iffr.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-cocktail-of-genres-and-films/article34618926.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A new voice||Tamil film music is winning hearts at Twitter Spaces, a new audio-only platform that is seeing a lot of patronage among social media users. The last week or so had popular musicians dish out their hit numbers, providing comfort to those at home buffeted by relentless COVID-19 updates. Leading the pack was singer Chinmayi, who enthralled fans in two different sessions by performing more than 100 songs. Thrilled listeners trended the hashtag #WeWantChinmayiBack, in a bid to communicate to the film industry that they wanted to hear more songs from her. Meanwhile, singer Pradeep Kumar also got fans excited as he dished out many of his superhit and independent songs in one session. Composers Santhosh Narayanan and Vijay Antony interacted with music fans through this platform. Music is certainly a balm in these troubled times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-new-voice/article34618929.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Ranipet toll gate: Fauna and portraits of people now greet those passing by Ranipet toll gate, near Vellore. Under Nippon Paint India’s CSR initiative, 47,341 sq ft of National Highway 46 features art on the theme, Living in Harmony with Nature. The project includes Ranipet bridge, and lockup rooms in police stations at Ranipet, Arakkonam and Sholinghur. @nipponpaintindia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/instapick/article34619202.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Definitive Dylan||Clinton Heylin’s new biography, The Double Life of Bob Dylan: A Restless, Hungry Feeling (1941-1966), dives into the personal archives of over 6,000 items that Dylan sold in 2016. This promises to be the definitive story of his life. Rs. 3,023. Find the recipe for the white soup from Pride and Prejudice in Martha Lloyd’s Housebold Book: The Original Manuscript from Jane Austen’s Kitchen , to be published in June. Featuring recipes from the Austen family. Rs. 3,000, bodleianshop.co.uk||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/definitive-dylan/article34619203.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||For those connected||Starting June, you can experience music in a new way on Apple Music. The company is rolling out two features at no extra cost to subscribers: lossless audio and spatial audio with support for Dolby Atmos (which promises an ‘immersive’ listening experience). Amazon India, on the other hand, has launched miniTV, a free video streaming service available within the Amazon app. Watch curated content across web series, comedy shows, tech news, and more. Presently, only on Android.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/for-those-connected/article34619204.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Architecture biennale||The 17th International Architecture Exhibition, How will we live together?, opens today. Curated by scholar Hashim Sarkis, and organised by La Biennale di Venezia, it includes participants from 46 countries. Till November 21. labiennale.org. Speaking of living spaces, the recently-held NYCxDesign Awards had unusual choices, such as Aryaman Giri Gundala’s Perforated Lamp design in the Student Design category. Inspired by Bauhaus cut paper projects, he has optimised it for 3D printing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/architecture-biennale/article34619205.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||BTS: There seems to be no way but up for BTS! The Korean pop septet’s highly-anticipated second English single, ‘Butter’, dropped on the morning of May 21 (IST), garnering 2 crore views in one hour. The band is also part of the upcoming Friends: The Reunion special.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/talking-point/article34619206.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Comedy track||Listen toThe Expertwho knows nothing but also everything. Comedian Sorabh Pant gives you his take on everything from politics and Bollywood to world news and sports. The show, which promises to be interactive, will have a new episode every Saturday. From May 22 onwards, 8.30 pm. Rs. 299. in.bookmyshow.com. Or there’s the special by actor-comic Vipul Goyal, of Humorously Yours (web series) fame. May 23, 30. Rs. 599. in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/comedy-track/article34619207.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Photos and readings||Photo prints by Madhavan Palanisamy and others are part of CPB Foundation’s initiative to raise Covid relief funds. chennaiphotobiennale.com. For young readers, NLF Imaginary Lines has interactions with authors Kate DiCamillo (May 25) and Joseph Bruchac on (May 28). neevliteraturefestival.org. Prabha Khaitan Foundation’s The Write Circle launches in Chennai virtually with author Amish Tripathi and Vidya Gajapathi Raju Singh. May 28, 6 pm. On Facebook Live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/photos-and-readings/article34619208.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Pink: parent, performer, pacesetter||Michael Gracey is obsessed with Bollywood. Speaking over a video call from New Zealand, the Australian director says he grew up watching Akshay Kumar films. “Bollywood is the greatest example of musical storytelling.” Gracey should know, having directed the multiple-award winning The Greatest Showman and his latest documentary, P!nk: All I Know So Far . “I am passionate about musical storytelling as a narrative form,” he says. “The way I put sequences together is music driven, but that doesn’t necessarily mean it is a musical. Films such as Cinema Paradiso or The Mission , or Tarantino’s films, are music driven but are not musicals; people are not breaking into song.” Gracey met American singer-songwriter Pink when she recorded ‘ A Million Dreams ’ for The Greatest Showman: Reimagined album. “She asked if I would do the music video for her single, ‘ Walk Me H ome ’. When it came time to capture her Wembley concert [in London, in 2019], we thought of finding a unique approach to make sure it was not another documentary of a concert. The one thing that I had seen, spending time with her, was her amazing juggling act between family life and being a rock star. She didn’t seem to separate those two things, they just seem to exist for her at the same time. I thought that was an incredibly unique way to enter this film.”  Slice of life  Pink, 41, came up with the title, Gracey says with a laugh. “Over the course of the film... and the different variations of wisdom of being a rock star, a mother, her relationship with her children and her husband, [former motorcycle racer and BMX star] Carey Hart. It is not to say that there is not more to come, but just that this is a good snapshot of where she is in her life right now.” (Pink also released a song by the same name on May 7, directed by her longtime collaborator, Dave Meyers.) The documentary mixes behind-the-scenes interviews, on-the-road footage, and personal material (the singer keeps a journal and writes letters to her children, to read when they are older), as it follows the family of four and the crew across Europe on the ‘Beautiful Trauma’ world tour. Considering himself fortunate in the people that he has worked with, Gracey says Pink is an amazing performer and a very funny person to be around. “Collaborating with her was an absolute joy.” During the film, there is a scene where Pink’s two-year-old son, Jameson, sneezes so hard, he hits his head on the wall. “The fact that we captured it was amazing,” says Gracey. “There were also moving moments like when she reads a letter from a [lifelong] fan. They are the moments where you understand the impact that she has had on so many people. Every artist hopes that they make something that connects with people and impacts their lives for the better. There is no question that Pink is one of those people.”  The quiet and the spectacular  Having worked in advertising, feature films, music videos and documentaries, Gracey doesn’t play favourites. “They are all so different. The reason I was able to make the film I did was because of the years of shooting commercials [which are all about how you engage an audience, and keep them watching, even if it is just for 60 seconds]. Documentary filmmaking is another discipline, but to me all of these things are just about storytelling. It is more about the subject matter, about the story, and the best or most engaging way to tell that story.” The documentary, Gracey says, was going to be about Pink juggling being a rock star and a mum. “That was definitely the intention going in. I think what was discovered in the shooting was that she has that same bond and a sense of family with her crew. Also, I thought Jameson was going to be great fodder for the camera because he is such a personality. And yet it was her [eight-year-old] daughter, Willow, who fascinated me. She is quiet, introspective, thoughtful and deep. You don’t expect the quiet person to be great entertainment. The contrast between the circus going on around the tour, the production and the spectacle, and this quiet little girl in the corner just looking at her mum was fascinating.” P!nk: All I Know So Far    is streaming on   Amazon Prime Video .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/pink-parent-performer-pacesetter/article34618602.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Degree of gratitude||Not many folks know I actually went to college. I don’t blame them. I haven’t given anyone the impression of having been to one. This piece is about that difficult time in my life, and is actually a belated thank you to that one person who was the sole reason I have a degree certificate, my proudest possession, in my cupboard today (sitting right next to my third-place certificate in the lemon-and-spoon race in Class 3, the cease-and-desist order from one of my editors, and my grandfather’s Padma Bhushan.) At the end of my third year, on the very last working day, when I went to the staff room to submit my final assignment — all that stood between me and a degree — the professor looked at me, and the beautifully bound 100-page assignment (which he didn’t as yet know contained select sections of the Madras Telephone Directory, 1986 edition, interspersed with the screenplay of Enter the Dragon ) I had delicately placed on his table, and asked me a question teachers don’t normally ask third-year students: who are you? I told him. ‘In these three years, I’ve never once seen you in my class,’ he said. That wasn’t entirely true. I had gone to one. It was the first period on the first day of the first year. And had left midway using a technique US marines use in tropical jungles. Not having a proper verbal response handy, I did what any self-respecting young man proud of his East Godavari heritage would do under such circumstances. I gracefully swan dived for the professor’s tiny Quo Vadis-clad feet. I was escorted away by the peon and two assistant professors with my assignment still tucked under my arm and my legs backpedalling the air in vain. College closed. For an entire week, my father, not a man easily fooled, kept giving me one particular look that appeared disturbingly familiar. When I realised it was the exact same look Sivaji Ganesan gives Srikanth in Thangappathakkam when he finds out he’s a smuggler, I figured something needed to be done. I didn’t fancy having a premature end at the hands of my own father as he recited a nursery rhyme. Using my underworld connections, by which I mean the college peon, I found out where the professor lived. The next day, sporting copious amounts of penitent vibuthi on my forehead (actually, Johnson’s Prickly Heat Powder), I landed up at the professor’s doorstep at about 7 am. Taking a deep breath, I rang the doorbell. There was no response. I waited a decent interval and rang again. The door opened. It was a girl. She was about my age, dressed in a cotton nightie. ‘IsSaar... er ... Daddy at home?’ I said. ‘ Whose Daddy ?’ the girl said. ‘Yours?’ I said tentatively. ‘ Ennango ,’ the girl called out, turning back. ‘Someone for you.’ The professor appeared. He was wearing a towel and a sleeveless Bisonbanian. There was still a bit of toothpaste foam around his mouth. He looked at me and made a sound like a bird of prey being garrotted. ‘ Ullae po, di ,’ he yelled. She had already done that. Channelling my inner Ekalavya, I just short of knelt, and held out my assignment. The professor took it without a word. ‘Thank you, sir,’ I said. ‘Er... does anyone else know where I live?’ he said. ‘Not a soul, sir,’ I said. I got 76% in my assignment. So, guardian angel in a nightie, wherever you are today, consider this my official, if much delayed, thank you. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/degree-of-gratitude/article34618609.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Deep purple from Odisha||Chindi Varadarajulu, chef and owner of Chennai-based Pumpkin Tales, is delighted with the purple sweet potatoes she has sourced this summer. They have brought back memories of her childhood in Singapore, she says. The potatoes, a deep purple with a sweet fragrance when cooked, are from Mati Farms, a farming enterprise in Odisha — the state leading in sweet potato production across India. “I have been actively looking for them for the past year. They are versatile and lend vibrancy to the simplest recipes,” says Varadarajulu. Earlier this month, Delhi-based farming initiative Krishi Cress, that offers locally-grown exotic produce, also added these spuds to their list. A client, beauty columnist and influencer Vasudha Rai, immediately took to Instagram to share her experience — delicious breakfast bars with the sweet potatoes, Medjool dates, coconut oil and pistachio. Sanjog Sahu, the young farmer behind Mati Farms, couldn’t be more delighted. “Tie-ups with like-minded partners are gratifying, and have enabled us to tide over problems during these unprecedented times,” he says. Growing a revolution What started as a pilot project on Sahu’s one-acre farm on the banks of the Chilika lake in late 2016, grew into Mati Farms in 2018 — incorporating smallholder farmers into its initiative. Themātiin ‘Mati Farms’ is soil, in Oriya. “We refer to ourselves as Mati Farms in the plural. It’s because even when we were just one tiny farm, the goal was to always create an optimal model that could be quickly adopted by smallholder farmers for profitability and environmental resilience,” adds Sahu, 35, who discontinued a PhD at the University of Arizona and set up Mati Farms. “My research focussed on the relationship between agriculture and environmental change in the Eastern Ghats. During the course of my PhD, I interacted with the farmers there, and realised that I should be involving myself in something more actionable,” he says. The purple sweet potatoes are indigenously developed. “We conducted multiple trials to identify how it grows best, following which we expanded its production within our network of farmers. Our farmer group in northern Orissa, led by well-known organic mango farmer Lal Bahadoor Mohanta, has successfully grown purple sweet potatoes in summer, a feat unheard of,” says Sahu, about what is traditionally a winter crop harvested in September and March. As for its special fragrance, he calls it a “happy discovery”. According to the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI), purple sweet potatoes have a high anthocyanin content of 90 milligrams per hundred grams. “But we still do not know much about the flavour profile and are conducting independent tests to understand this better,” he adds. The farmer network Twenty three farmers are actively a part of Mati Farms, across the highland regions of Gajapati district, Koraput, the foothills and uplands of Daitari at the Jajpur-Keonjhar border in northern Odisha, and coastal regions. Sahu says, “We handhold our network of farmers right from the seed stage to harvest, with knowledge transfer, organic inputs and troubleshooting, and have an assured buyback at fair prices. The farmers contribute their time, labour and land.” The fact that sustainability is key here is what excites chef Varadarajulu. “There are so many locally grown vegetables and fruits that we don’t see anymore. If we do not cook with them, farmers will stop growing them and the younger generation will never know about the wealth of local produce,” she says.  Making travel plans  Sahu observes that while growing exotic vegetables was easy, marketing them in eastern India was another matter. “Odisha’s vegetable farmers are already good at growing what they do, leading the state to quietly become one of the largest producers of vegetables in the country. But the problem lay in finding a market for the perishables,” he says, having now ventured into setting up a vegetable processing plant at Jagatpur. Meanwhile, Varadarajulu plans to source more sweet potatoes in September. “I hope to convince vegetable markets to carry it. It will definitely be a big part of our menu as a seasonal vegetable,” she promises. Sahu, who prefers the sweet potatoes baked in their jackets, is amused at the reaction of his folks back home. “As it trends across the globe as a superfood, they are bemused as to what the fuss over the humble sweet potato is all about,” he concludes.  For details, visit matifarms.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/deep-purple-from-odisha/article34618607.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ismail Merchant’s legacy||Come May 25, it will be 16 long years since producer extraordinaire Ismail Merchant left us. The Indian-born producer was responsible for 44 films including Shakespeare-Wallah (1965), Heat and Dust (1983), A Room With a View (1985), Howards End (1992), and Remains of the Day (1993), along with his longtime collaborators, director James Ivory and screenwriter Ruth Prawer Jhabvala. I met Merchant only once, at the lobby of the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel, Mumbai, shortly before his death. A dear friend of mine had made his début feature and Merchant was one of the executive producers of the film. I was introduced to the great man, but was dismissed with a polite nod. His focus was on getting my friend to change the minimalist score of his film by firing his composer and hiring Zakir Hussain instead. If Merchant was an irresistible force, my friend was an immovable object and the meeting ended in a stalemate. Merchant flounced off, and lo and behold, there was a $20 note on the chair where he was sitting. Now, Merchant was famous for his thrifty ways, the main reason he could gather resources for impressively mounted films, so him leaving behind $20 was very unusual. Or, was it pocket change forgotten by an oil oligarch who’d occupied the chair earlier? The hotel lobby was bursting with them. We decided that the right thing to do would be to return the money to Merchant, if it was indeed his. But the producer had disappeared and we had no way of getting in touch with him. So we did the decent thing. We changed the $20 into rupees, got haircuts, shaves and head massages, and spent the rest on a slap-up Italian lunch. Yes, $20 could buy you all of that in the early 2000s. Cut to London, post Merchant’s passing. I had the great honour of attending his wake at the Curzon Mayfair cinema. Encomiums poured in from a virtual who’s who of the film industry. Helena Bonham Carter and Emma Thompson spoke affectionately of Merchant’s propensity to cut costs wherever possible and assuaging bruised egos by cooking a sumptuous feast. Following up on this actor and author Simon Callow said that Merchant epitomised the phrase ‘currying favour’. Felicity Kendal looked fondly back on her début as a young, impressionable girl swept off her feet by a dashing Shashi Kapoor inShakespeare-Wallah. Merchant’s closest friend, James Ivory, chose to reflect on his burgeoning career as a director, which was cut short by his untimely death. Merchant directed seven films including In Custody (1993), Cotton Mary (1999), and The Mystic Masseur (2001). Actor Saeed Jaffrey recited some of Merchant’s favourite Urdu poems. The highlight of the day was Ustad Zakir Hussain and Ustad Sultan Khan performing themes from Merchant-Ivory films along with a chamber orchestra. And when the first half of the day ended with a fond tribute film featuring Merchant’s lovable quirks, there wasn’t a dry eye in the house. The drinks reception that followed at the Washington Hotel was truly Merchant-ian in that it was a cash bar. Here, Salman Rushdie and Kazuo Ishiguro mingled with Tim Burton, Tina Turner, Shashi Kapoor, and renowned cinematographer Christopher Doyle who shot The White Countess , the last film Merchant produced. Ismail Merchant was the glue that held together diverse talents with a mixture of laughter, bonhomie, culinary skills and business acumen. Truly, one of a kind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ismail-merchants-legacy/article34618581.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Huma goes to Hollywood||There was a time not so long ago when Bollywood actors thought it was beneath them to audition for a role. But that’s changing and actors like Huma Qureshi belong to the new crop of artistes who are open to the idea. “I auditioned for every film until Dedh Ishiqya . I am used to the idea of entering a room where no one knows me or my work. Going into Hollywood, my mindset has been that I am walking into a different country or industry so I have to prove myself all over again,” Qureshi says over a Zoom call. One film at a time The actor, who made her Bollywood début nine years ago with Anurag Kashyap’s Gangs of Wasseypur , is now a part of Zack Snyder’s zombie heist action-thriller, Army of the Dead . In the Netflix release that also stars Dave Bautista and Tig Notaro, Qureshi plays Geeta, a single mother who lives in a quarantine camp outside a war-ravaged Las Vegas. She auditioned for the part while in Los Angeles pitching a television series that she’d written. “My agents [at CAA] asked if I’d want to meet a casting director who was working on a big film. I thought ‘might as well’.” She auditioned for the part on a Thursday and the following Monday signed up to be Geeta. “I was amazed at the speed at which Hollywood functions,” says Qureshi with a laugh. This is her first brush with Hollywood and the experience, according to the 34-year-old, was everything she had hoped for. One thing though, initially threw her off. “In India, we are used to working on multiple projects at the same time. For this film, they blocked two-and-a-half months of my time,” she says. Know one’s rights Long after the filming of Army of the Dead had ended, one of its stars, Chris D’Elia, was accused of exposing himself to multiple women and soliciting child pornography. When the allegations came to light, Snyder and his producing partner (and wife), Deborah, decided to replace the comedian with Notaro. While closer home there haven’t been many instances of abusers getting their comeuppance, Qureshi believes “there is a lot being done to set the proper systems in place”. “Things are happening at the contractual level. A lot of young girls, who work behind the camera and might have thought that they don’t have as much of a voice, are coming forward and telling people what’s acceptable behaviour and what’s not. I am doing a few films with Netflix and for each there is a call with a lawyer explaining your rights.” Making her work count Among Qureshi’s cinematic lineup is Dibakar Banerjee’s futuristic film, Freedom , and Vasan Bala’s Monica, Oh My Darling with Rajkummar Rao. Later this month, she’ll be seen in the political drama series, Maharani, on Sony LIV. Among her big screen releases are Tamil films Valimai alongside Ajith Kumar, and Bellbottom , also starring Akshay Kumar. Qureshi’s eclectic filmography across formats and languages is a reflection of her refusing to be pigeonholed. “My only yardstick for judging the work coming my way is the content. Is it making sense to me? I don’t think of the genre, format or the industry. As an actor it’s so exciting that I can go to LA and shoot a film there and then shoot another one in Chennai and a series in Mumbai,” she concludes. Watch Huma Qureshi in conversation with Karishma Upadhyay on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/huma-goes-to-hollywood/article34618597.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Man enough?||There are different lenses through which one can view masculinity in India, but one of the more straightforward ones is Bollywood, that reliable barometer of public sentiment. In the ’50s and the ’60s, the typical hero was a stoic figure, coping with his (and, metaphorically, the country’s) lack of resources, never showing a sign of visible vulnerability. Stoic silence soon gave way to red-hot rage: the era of Amitabh Bachchan and the ‘angry young man’ gave the average Joe a certain license to explode. And now, finally, we have heroes who aren’t afraid to cry: Vicky Kaushal’s famous weeping scene in Masaan and Ranbir Kapoor’s many teary moments across the last decade, are examples. Manhood in the making “More often than not, men are encouraged to keep their emotions to themselves,” says Deepa Narayan in one of the first episodes of her podcast, What’s a Man . For this 10-episode series, Narayan — who worked for the World Bank for over 20 years — and her team interviewed hundreds of middle and upper-class boys and young men, not to mention prominent men from different walks of life — including Retired General HS Panag, author Amish Tripathi, comedians Abish Mathew and Neville Shah, among others. Narayan, who has also been a senior adviser in the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management group from 2003-2008, is no stranger to how gender dynamics have a ripple effect on the economy. Countries where the wage gap is larger take that much longer to lift out of poverty, for example. In What’s a Man , therefore, she tries to connect the dots between ‘masculine’ modes of thought and action, and how they influence larger societal structures. Masculinity is a fraught topic in India. When people are not fixating on the physical attributes of political leaders (‘looks too old to be a youth leader’, etc) they are projecting their preferences on to their children. Male CEOs and Bollywood stars know that uploading a post-workout selfie on social media will win them a new legion of admiring young people. The film Gully Boy gave us the dictum ‘ bohot hard’, meaning fierce or formidable in a typically masculine way. The super-popular comedian Zakir Khan has cultivated a persona called ‘ sakht launda ’ (‘strict lad’, literally). From a young age, little boys know that there’s a certain set of physical and behavioural traits considered desirable in a man — and a corresponding, mutually exclusive set for a woman. Fighting the persona The interview responses that Narayan and her team (students from Ashoka University) elicited from children are worth listening to at length. For most kids, being a ‘powerful man’ meant being physically strong. “Your parents aren’t your only source of information when you’re seven or eight years old. In fact, they’re arguably not the most important source. A lot depends upon their teachers and classmates. Children are a quick study and they figure out which attitudes are likely to be rewarded by society,” she says. Remember Dhara Oil’s TV ad from the 1990s, where the little boy and girl fawn over their super-dad? He plays cricket with them, and he’s always quick to jump to the next high-energy endeavour. It’s a heart-warming ad, but remember that even this ad ended with the words, ‘My Daddy strongest!’, coupled with the father lifting his kids into his arms. ‘Strength’ is hard-coded into children’s brains; what we can do with the help of podcasts like What’s a Man? is to expand their idea of strength, to go beyond the merely physical, as it were. Stream the podcast on whatsaman.com   “I tell my children and my mentees that in order to be respected, you have to earn respect and give it as well. It cannot be a one-way street.”  Devraj Sanyal, Managing Editor and CEO, Universal Music Group.   “Men are very pampered (in society), which makes them feel very special. There’s a certain value still attached to being a man. But there are also other parts of him that feel very confused, depressed or weak. They are not allowed to be vulnerable.” Dr Ashis Roy, psychoanalyst and faculty at Ambedkar University   “I was the kind of unsympathetic, insensitive, stereotypical man who thought he could live his [your] whole life on testosterone alone. I used to think people who go to therapy are weak-willed, how can you not control your emotions et cetera.” Comedian Neville Shah   “ In our surveys and user-generated pieces, we found that men who had a relaxed (not shameful) relationship with the body also had quite positive sex lives .” Paromita Vohra, filmmaker and founder of Agents of Ishq||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/man-enough/article34618584.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Review Where’s the real Halston?||To review the new Netflix miniseries on the iconic American fashion designer Halston, let’s begin with a few facts that are missing in this presentation. The viewers of these five episodes are two to three generations removed from the culture that Halston represented. And unless you’re a fashion student or an avid enthusiast, it’s safe to assume you’re not familiar with his work, even though you may have heard the name. Roy Halston Frowick’s working years stretched from the 1950s to the early 1980s. In this time, he came to define American fashion, especially for the ’70s. He was the first designer of note to design for a department store (JCPenney), a move that was at the time considered beneath them. He was possibly the only American fashion designer who was admired in Europe even though he didn’t come from the pedigree of having assisted French couturiers in his younger years (like Oscar de la Renta did). Beyond that, he continued designing and approving designs for all license deals that he signed, unlike others who simply signed over their licenses to chase expansion. So what happens when an unfamiliar generation — one that has no direct link with Halston or his legacy of design — views a series that selectively centres his arrogance, drug abuse, and sexual life? The dead tell no tales In the timeline of biographical chronicling on film, the genre of fashion documentaries and OTT series is fairly new. It was only in 1995 that Unzipped , a behind-the-scenes film about American designer Isaac Mizrahi’s Fall 1994 collection, was released. Light-hearted as it was in its take, it set the tone for many such films to follow. You still see its echoes in the more recent Martin Margiela: In His Own Words (2019), The Gospel According to Andre (2017), and Dries (2017). Unzipped is widely regarded as the starting point for this kind of moviemaking because it opened the fashion world to an audience that did not have access to its inner workings or to its big names. At least not easily. A quarter century later, a divide has emerged when it comes to telling the stories of fashion’s great names whether it’s a movie or a series. And this divide plagues Netflix’s Halston all through its five episodes, as binge-worthy as they may seem. It manifests in the treatment of the subject matter. If you’re a designer who’s alive, you get to tell your story and have it recorded for posterity. André Leon Talley’s The Gospel According to André (2017) and Dries Van Noten’s Dries (2017) are examples of documentary features that centre on the subject’s voice. Once you’re dead, though, the way your story is told depends entirely on the screenwriters and directors. And Halston’s has not been treated with nearly enough respect and responsibility as it deserves. Half the picture The Halston miniseries suffers not for lack of talent or production value, but in its very concept. Ewan McGregor plays a tortured Halston who’s already set on the path of self-destruction from the opening episode. And if you’re the kind of viewer who takes pleasure in short-lived vindication, the series doesn’t disappoint. Drugs, sex with male prostitutes, botched relationships, a few high points, and then the ultimate dive into an AIDS-related death. It’s more predictable than sunrise. Moreover, the series almost completely ignores Halston’s personal and factual history, limiting it to flashbacks (very Coco Avant Chanel from 2009) of his mother being abused by his father, and then her death, which is given about as much importance as his discovery of the fabric Ultrasuede via designer Issey Miyake at a cocktail party in 1971, a fact that the series completely misses. All these were enormously important in his life, but exist here only to highlight his narcissism, drug abuse, sex, and partying. No amount of great acting by Krysta Rodriguez (playing Liza Minnelli), Rebecca Dayan (playing Elsa Peretti), and David Pittu (playing Joe Eula) can salvage the finger wagging moralising that this series represents. Halston, played rather drearily by McGregor, comes across as nothing but a party boy who, despite his abounding talent, couldn’t hustle hard enough to control his fashion empire. The even sadder part is that apart from its deeply researched production value in terms of costumes and sets (easily the highlights of the series), Halston utterly fails to capture the 1970s as a defining decade in American fashion and culture. And director Daniel Minahan had five full episodes to do that. See it if you really have nothing else to watch, but Pose Season 3 is up on Hotstar. Halston is currently   streaming on Netflix.      Varun Rana is a fashion commentator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/review-wheres-the-real-halston/article34618593.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaishali S: Striking a ‘cord’ in Paris||Paris Haute Couture Fashion Week has announced the return of physical fashion shows. And it’s especially relevant to India, as Vaishali S — of the diaphanous, wispy Chanderi and Khun fame — is set to showcase its first-ever couture collection, alongside powerhouses such as Chanel, Valentino, Givenchy, Dior and Schiaparelli. Vaishali Shadangule, 43, is only the second Indian, after Rahul Mishra, and the first woman designer from India to have her own show on the Haute Couture Calendar. (In 2018, Palak Shah of Ekaya had showcased a collection of ivory textiles as wedding dresses in collaboration with Fédération Française de la Création Couture Sur Mesure at PHCFW — it was a presentation and not a show.) This is not Shadangule’s first international foray though; she has previously shown at New York Fashion Week and is regularly stocked at boutique designer stores in London and Milan. For her SS21 digital fashion show at Lotus India, she showcased her signature cord technique and abstract silhouettes in Italy — moving from an opening shot outside the Duomo di Milano to the woods in the northern countryside. It was well thought out and quite deliberate, because establishing an international presence has been a big part of her strategy for a while now.  Ticket to Paris  Shadangule credits her in-house team of 45 for her decision to apply. After an arduous six-month process (which included several personal interviews), Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture, the French fashion industry governing body that decides which brands can be called couture, invited her as a ‘Guest Member’ (only French designers can be made permanent members). This means she can now showcase every season on the couture calendar, if she chooses to. Rahul Mishra has shown twice, establishing himself as a serious name in the couture market. “We had started prepping for the summer 2022 collection, keeping in mind the decision process timelines, but were pleasantly surprised to be invited for AW 21,” shares the designer, who is recovering from a severe bout of Covid-19 herself. Selecting Vaishali S, a brand that focusses on fabrics and Indian weaves, is confirmation that textiles — and not just embroidery or surface textures from the continent — are of international interest right now.  Eye on technique  For Shadangule, however, textiles have always been the main show. In over 20 years in the business, the designer, who hails from Vidisha, a small town in Madhya Pradesh where Chanderi weaves originate, has worked with, and supported, 900 families of weavers across seven Indian states, including the oft-ignored Northeast. Without wanting to give away much, she says her couture collection includes Merino wool (woven in Maheshwar), pashmina from Kashmir, khand from Karnataka and perhaps even some indigenous weaves from West Bengal, in dark tones, as the backbone of her collection. Her signature Chanderi (more appropriate for summer) may not be in focus this season but techniques like cording, which she has championed from the beginning, engineered deconstruction and texturing that is inspired by nature will be presented on international waters. The goal: Indian weaves that speak a global language. “International designers use our skills, but we are always behind the scenes. The idea was to put the Indian weave on the highest platform, in its purest form,” she concludes.  Paris Haute Couture Fashion Week is from July 4 to 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/vaishali-s-striking-a-cord-in-paris/article34618590.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Love notes and scented cards||What is your first memory of smell? Mine is of smelling my sister’s head the day she was born, August 16, 1979. I really liked that smell of a clean human scalp, talc, and also surprise. Forty years later, in late 2019, when people started losing their sense of smell at the start of the pandemic, in a collective anosmia, the question became even more pertinent. I also started asking it a lot as part of a project that I started in Goa last year, along with impresario Sacha Mendes. We called it called Dial-a-Perfume. A phone-based service to speak with people about their memories of smell in a world where the unthinkable was happening, where ‘loss of the nose’ had become a symptom. People would call and I would try and interpret their words into a fragrance, and sometimes even a unique hand ‘purificator’. These were called Oté , referring to hands in Japanese, a word that is believed to represent the final stages by which all actions become possible. To handle means to manifest, and hands create a passage from the conceptual to the real. We also use our hands for gestures that can, at times, be even more powerful than words, such as the mudra . The photos here are of me in my studio, playing with mudras in gloved hands, while taking breaks from making the fragrances. My longtime collaborator and close friend, artist Shivani Gupta, shot them. They felt so eerie at the time, and still do actually, that I was hesitant to share them.  The intimacy of perfumes  We set up a little perfumer’s table at Olaulim Backyards, nestled in the forests of the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary by the estuary of the Mandovi river, in the midst of frangipani trees, fragrant Konkan lime and cashew trees. And Mendes helped us create the link with the community over WhatsApp, as all our spaces were shut. Someone called us one Sunday and said that she would like to surprise her close friend in San Francisco. We chatted with her about her memories of happy smells and decided to make something. Of course, making an actual fragrance takes years, but for this project we decided to weave smells like a patchwork quilt, of streams of memories — the only thing that we could do in this complicated time. Then came the challenge of having to send something to San Francisco while being in a small village in Goa. Our studio and laboratory in Paris were shut at that time. Creating in the midst of global mayhem is not a simple thing; it demands a strong intuitive capacity, a love for the people calling, as well as the joint energies of many collaborators helping out. The lady talked at length about smoke, forests, leather seats and chalk, and we decided to send a perfumed letter to her friend (a lover, I presumed), but weren’t quite sure how to do it. None of the courier services were operating. In an ideal scenario, my perfumery should have been an online service where people could receive any fragrance they wanted with just a click. And, quite honestly, that is the reason why my perfume colleagues — such as those in Paris or, for that matter, any of the selective brands and even niche perfumeries, like my mentor and professor Marc Antoine Corticchiato — did so well despite the constraints. Because infrastructure was a lot more resilient where they were. But that is where being in a tiny village really helped us. One doesn’t realise how amazing India Post is. Martha, our neighbour down the street, worked there and very deftly packaged the fragrance and sent it off to San Francisco. It seems incredible right now that a love parcel from a tiny Goan village arrived safe and in time halfway across the world.  Come, smell with us  Most conversations with people who called us were highly emotional because smell does that — it makes every topic a poignant one. Never before had we received so many messages from people both in India and outside, asking us for our catalogue of creations which they intended to link to their travels as scented reminders, at a time when memories were all they had. It was less about a particular place and more about a celebration of their summer holidays in various places. Smells heal; they have that incredible capacity though we don’t exactly know how. In the midst of all this, both my parents living in New Delhi fell sick with Covid-19 in a very brutal way. While my dad was in the hospital, I created a card game to distract and help my mother convalesce with smells. Every card represented a mood, an emotion, and a state of well-being. The highlight of the day would be to pick a card, and its corresponding oil would be her fragrance for that day. I think these smells sustained her during that difficult period. My parents recovered and I went back to my riverside studio. Many of us now know what everyday life is without scent. Or when the sense of smell has been altered. It is a world where newborn babies do not have a smell, and where food tastes of nothing. Earlier, we had worked with a few people who were anosmic, but today this invisible disability is in the open and we can do something about it. Since March 2020, we have been conducting Smell Meditations with Minakshi Kanoongo, a Delhi-based yoga therapist, and sharing these meditations at large with whoever needs it. We still don’t know what we smell (there are contradictory studies about how smell molecules behave), and I so wish we could know that, but for those who have lost their sense of smell one thing is clear: everything or every time you smell, it builds a kind of muscle memory, similar to while dancing. So the most important thing is to keep smelling. Cut a lemon or an orange (citrus is the fruit of choice for the month of May), cut an apple, have a piece of ginger and smell it for a few seconds every day, consistently. *We recommend that all wellness routines be undertaken only after consulting a doctor   Smell Meditations are every Monday,   Wednesday and Saturday, on Google Meet. To sign up, DM the team @theperfumelibrary.     Jahnvi Lakhota Nandan is the perfumer-founder of The Perfume Library, a space dedicated to the design of perfumes and performances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/love-notes-and-scented-cards/article34618634.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Ranipet toll gate: Fauna and portraits of people now greet those passing by Ranipet toll gate, near Vellore. Under Nippon Paint India’s CSR initiative, 47,341 sq ft of National Highway 46 features art on the theme, Living in Harmony with Nature. The project includes Ranipet bridge, and lockup rooms in police stations at Ranipet, Arakkonam and Sholinghur. @nipponpaintindia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article34618611.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Definitive Dylan||Clinton Heylin’s new biography, The Double Life of Bob Dylan: A Restless, Hungry Feeling (1941-1966), dives into the personal archives of over 6,000 items that Dylan sold in 2016. This promises to be the definitive story of his life. Rs. 3,023. Find the recipe for the white soup from Pride and Prejudice in Martha Lloyd’s Housebold Book: The Original Manuscript from Jane Austen’s Kitchen , to be published in June. Featuring recipes from the Austen family. Rs. 3,000, bodleianshop.co.uk||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/definitive-dylan/article34618613.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||For those connected||Starting June, you can experience music in a new way on Apple Music. The company is rolling out two features at no extra cost to subscribers: lossless audio and spatial audio with support for Dolby Atmos (which promises an ‘immersive’ listening experience). Amazon India, on the other hand, has launched miniTV, a free video streaming service available within the Amazon app. Watch curated content across web series, comedy shows, tech news, and more. Presently, only on Android.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/for-those-connected/article34618615.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Architecture biennale||The 17th International Architecture Exhibition, How will we live together?, opens today. Curated by scholar Hashim Sarkis, and organised by La Biennale di Venezia, it includes participants from 46 countries. Till November 21. labiennale.org. Speaking of living spaces, the recently-held NYCxDesign Awards had unusual choices, such as Aryaman Giri Gundala’s Perforated Lamp design in the Student Design category. Inspired by Bauhaus cut paper projects, he has optimised it for 3D printing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/architecture-biennale/article34618617.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||BTS: There seems to be no way but up for BTS! The Korean pop septet’s highly-anticipated second English single, ‘Butter’, dropped on the morning of May 21 (IST), garnering 2 crore views in one hour. The band is also part of the upcoming Friends: The Reunion special.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34618619.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Comedy track||Listen toThe Expertwho knows nothing but also everything. Comedian Sorabh Pant gives you his take on everything from politics and Bollywood to world news and sports. The show, which promises to be interactive, will have a new episode every Saturday. From May 22 onwards, 8.30 pm. Rs. 299. in.bookmyshow.com. Or there’s the special by actor-comic Vipul Goyal, of Humorously Yours (web series) fame. May 23, 30. Rs. 599. in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/comedy-track/article34618621.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Photos and readings||Photo prints by Madhavan Palanisamy and others are part of CPB Foundation’s initiative to raise Covid relief funds. chennaiphotobiennale.com. For young readers, NLF Imaginary Lines has interactions with authors Kate DiCamillo (May 25) and Joseph Bruchac on (May 28). neevliteraturefestival.org. Prabha Khaitan Foundation’s The Write Circle launches in Chennai virtually with author Amish Tripathi and Vidya Gajapathi Raju Singh. May 28, 6 pm. On Facebook Live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/photos-and-readings/article34618623.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Love notes and scented cards||What is your first memory of smell? Mine is of smelling my sister’s head the day she was born, August 16, 1979. I really liked that smell of a clean human scalp, talc, and also surprise. Forty years later, in late 2019, when people started losing their sense of smell at the start of the pandemic, in a collective anosmia, the question became even more pertinent. I also started asking it a lot as part of a project that I started in Goa last year, along with impresario Sacha Mendes. We called it called Dial-a-Perfume. A phone-based service to speak with people about their memories of smell in a world where the unthinkable was happening, where ‘loss of the nose’ had become a symptom. People would call and I would try and interpret their words into a fragrance, and sometimes even a unique hand ‘purificator’. These were called Oté , referring to hands in Japanese, a word that is believed to represent the final stages by which all actions become possible. To handle means to manifest, and hands create a passage from the conceptual to the real. We also use our hands for gestures that can, at times, be even more powerful than words, such as the mudra . The photos here are of me in my studio, playing with mudras in gloved hands, while taking breaks from making the fragrances. My longtime collaborator and close friend, artist Shivani Gupta, shot them. They felt so eerie at the time, and still do actually, that I was hesitant to share them.  The intimacy of perfumes  We set up a little perfumer’s table at Olaulim Backyards, nestled in the forests of the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary by the estuary of the Mandovi river, in the midst of frangipani trees, fragrant Konkan lime and cashew trees. And Mendes helped us create the link with the community over WhatsApp, as all our spaces were shut. Someone called us one Sunday and said that she would like to surprise her close friend in San Francisco. We chatted with her about her memories of happy smells and decided to make something. Of course, making an actual fragrance takes years, but for this project we decided to weave smells like a patchwork quilt, of streams of memories — the only thing that we could do in this complicated time. Then came the challenge of having to send something to San Francisco while being in a small village in Goa. Our studio and laboratory in Paris were shut at that time. Creating in the midst of global mayhem is not simple; it demands a strong intuitive capacity, a love for the people calling, and the joint energies of many collaborators. The lady talked at length about smoke, forests, leather seats and chalk, and we decided to send a perfumed letter to her friend (a lover, I presumed), but weren’t quite sure how to do it. None of the courier services were operating. In an ideal scenario, my perfumery should have been an online service where people could receive any fragrance they wanted with just a click. And, quite honestly, that is the reason why my perfume colleagues — such as those in Paris or, for that matter, any of the selective brands and even niche perfumeries, like my mentor and professor Marc Antoine Corticchiato — did so well despite the constraints. Infrastructure was a lot more resilient where they were. But that is where being in a tiny village really helped us. One doesn’t realise how amazing India Post is. Martha, our neighbour down the street, worked there and very deftly packaged the fragrance and sent it off to San Francisco. It seems incredible right now that a love parcel from a tiny Goan village arrived safe and in time halfway across the world.  Come, smell with us  Most conversations with people who called us were highly emotional because smell does that — it makes every topic a poignant one. Never before had we received so many messages from people both in India and outside, asking us for our catalogue of creations which they intended to link to their travels as scented reminders, at a time when memories were all they had. It was less about a particular place and more about a celebration of their summer holidays in various places. Smells heal; they have that incredible capacity though we don’t exactly know how. In the midst of all this, both my parents living in New Delhi fell sick with Covid-19 in a very brutal way. While my dad was in the hospital, I created a card game to distract and help my mother convalesce with smells. Every card represented a mood, an emotion, and a state of well-being. The highlight of the day would be to pick a card, and its corresponding oil would be her fragrance for that day. I think these smells sustained her during that difficult period. My parents recovered and I went back to my riverside studio. Many of us now know what everyday life is without scent. Or when the sense of smell has been altered. It is a world where newborn babies do not have a smell, and where food tastes of nothing. Earlier, we had worked with a few people who were anosmic, but today this invisible disability is in the open and we can do something about it. Since March 2020, we have been conducting Smell Meditations with Minakshi Kanoongo, a Delhi-based yoga therapist, and sharing these meditations at large with whoever needs it. We still don’t know what we smell (there are contradictory studies about how smell molecules behave), and I so wish we could know that, but for those who have lost their sense of smell one thing is clear: everything or every time you smell, it builds a kind of muscle memory, similar to while dancing. So the most important thing is to keep smelling. Cut a lemon or an orange (citrus is the fruit of choice for the month of May), cut an apple, have a piece of ginger and smell it for a few seconds every day, consistently. *We recommend that all wellness routines be undertaken only after consulting a doctor   Smell Meditations are every Monday,   Wednesday and Saturday, on Google Meet. To sign up, DM the team @theperfumelibrary.    Jahnvi Lakhota Nandan is the perfumer-founder of The Perfume Library, a space dedicated to the design of perfumes     and performances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/love-notes-and-scented-cards/article34619216.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Deep purple from Odisha||Chindi Varadarajulu, chef and owner of Chennai-based Pumpkin Tales, is delighted with the purple sweet potatoes she has sourced this summer. They have brought back memories of her childhood in Singapore, she says. The potatoes, a deep purple with a sweet fragrance when cooked, are from Mati Farms, a farming enterprise in Odisha — the state leading in sweet potato production across India. “I have been actively looking for them for the past year. They are versatile and lend vibrancy to the simplest recipes,” says Varadarajulu. Earlier this month, Delhi-based farming initiative Krishi Cress, that offers locally-grown exotic produce, also added these spuds to their list. A client, beauty columnist and influencer Vasudha Rai, immediately took to Instagram to share her experience — delicious breakfast bars with the sweet potatoes, Medjool dates, coconut oil and pistachio. Sanjog Sahu, the young farmer behind Mati Farms, couldn’t be more delighted. “Tie-ups with like-minded partners are gratifying, and have enabled us to tide over problems during these unprecedented times,” he says. Growing a revolution What started as a pilot project on Sahu’s one-acre farm on the banks of the Chilika lake in late 2016, grew into Mati Farms in 2018 — incorporating smallholder farmers into its initiative. Themātiin ‘Mati Farms’ is soil, in Oriya. “We refer to ourselves as Mati Farms in the plural. It’s because even when we were just one tiny farm, the goal was to always create an optimal model that could be quickly adopted by smallholder farmers for profitability and environmental resilience,” adds Sahu, 35, who discontinued a PhD at the University of Arizona and set up Mati Farms. “My research focussed on the relationship between agriculture and environmental change in the Eastern Ghats. During the course of my PhD, I interacted with the farmers there, and realised that I should be involving myself in something more actionable,” he says. The purple sweet potatoes are indigenously developed. “We conducted multiple trials to identify how it grows best, following which we expanded its production within our network of farmers. Our farmer group in northern Orissa, led by well-known organic mango farmer Lal Bahadoor Mohanta, has successfully grown purple sweet potatoes in summer, a feat unheard of,” says Sahu, about what is traditionally a winter crop harvested in September and March. As for its special fragrance, he calls it a “happy discovery”. According to the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI), purple sweet potatoes have a high anthocyanin content of 90 milligrams per hundred grams. “But we still do not know much about the flavour profile and are conducting independent tests to understand this better,” he adds. The farmer network Twenty three farmers are actively a part of Mati Farms, across the highland regions of Gajapati district, Koraput, the foothills and uplands of Daitari at the Jajpur-Keonjhar border in northern Odisha, and coastal regions. Sahu says, “We handhold our network of farmers right from the seed stage to harvest, with knowledge transfer, organic inputs and troubleshooting, and have an assured buyback at fair prices. The farmers contribute their time, labour and land.” The fact that sustainability is key here is what excites chef Varadarajulu. “There are so many locally grown vegetables and fruits that we don’t see anymore. If we do not cook with them, farmers will stop growing them and the younger generation will never know about the wealth of local produce,” she says.  Making travel plans  Sahu observes that while growing exotic vegetables was easy, marketing them in eastern India was another matter. “Odisha’s vegetable farmers are already good at growing what they do, leading the state to quietly become one of the largest producers of vegetables in the country. But the problem lay in finding a market for the perishables,” he says, having now ventured into setting up a vegetable processing plant at Jagatpur. Meanwhile, Varadarajulu plans to source more sweet potatoes in September. “I hope to convince vegetable markets to carry it. It will definitely be a big part of our menu as a seasonal vegetable,” she promises. Sahu, who prefers the sweet potatoes baked in their jackets, is amused at the reaction of his folks back home. “As it trends across the globe as a superfood, they are bemused as to what the fuss over the humble sweet potato is all about,” he concludes.  For details, visit matifarms.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/deep-purple-from-odisha/article34619200.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Man enough?||There are different lenses through which one can view masculinity in India, but one of the more straightforward ones is Bollywood, that reliable barometer of public sentiment. In the ’50s and the ’60s, the typical hero was a stoic figure, coping with his (and, metaphorically, the country’s) lack of resources, never showing a sign of weakness or visible vulnerability. Stoic silence soon gave way to red-hot rage: the era of Amitabh Bachchan and the ‘angry young man’ gave the average Joe a certain license to explode. And now, finally, we have heroes who aren’t afraid to cry: Vicky Kaushal’s famous weeping scene in Masaan and Ranbir Kapoor’s many teary moments across the last decade, are examples.  Manhood in the making “More often than not, men are encouraged to keep their emotions to themselves,” says Deepa Narayan in one of the first episodes of her podcast, What’s a Man . For this 10-episode series, Narayan — who worked for the World Bank for over 20 years — and her team interviewed hundreds of middle and upper-class boys and young men, not to mention prominent men from different walks of life — including Retired General HS Panag, author Amish Tripathi, comedians Abish Mathew and Neville Shah, among others. Narayan, who has also been a senior adviser in the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management group from 2003-2008, is no stranger to how gender dynamics have a ripple effect on the economy. Countries where the wage gap is larger take that much longer to lift out of poverty, for example. In What’s a Man , therefore, she tries to connect the dots between ‘masculine’ modes of thought and action, and how these ways of thinking influence larger societal structures and hierarchies. Masculinity is a fraught topic in India. When people are not fixating on the physical attributes of political leaders (‘looks too old to be a youth leader’, etc) they are projecting their preferences on to their children. Male CEOs and Bollywood stars know that uploading a post-workout selfie on social media will win them a new legion of admiring young people. The film Gully Boy gave us the dictum ‘ bohot hard’, meaning fierce or formidable in a typically masculine way. The super-popular comedian Zakir Khan has cultivated a persona called ‘ sakht launda ’ (‘strict lad’, literally). From a young age, little boys know that there’s a certain set of physical and behavioural traits considered desirable in a man — and a corresponding, mutually exclusive set for a woman.  Fighting the persona The interview responses that Narayan and her team (students from Ashoka University) elicited from children are worth listening to at length. For most kids, being a ‘powerful man’ meant being physically strong, with prominent muscles, essentially a real-life Marvel superhero without supernatural abilities. “Your parents aren’t your only source of information when you’re seven or eight years old,” says Narayan, adding, “In fact, they’re arguably not the most important source. A lot depends upon their teachers and classmates. Children are a quick study and they figure out which attitudes are likely to be rewarded by society.” Remember Dhara Oil’s TV ad from the 1990s, where the little boy and girl fawn over their super-dad? He plays cricket with them, attends their school functions dutifully, and he’s always quick to jump to the next high-energy endeavour. It’s a heart-warming ad, but remember that even this ad ended with the words, ‘My Daddy strongest!’, coupled with the father lifting his kids into his arms. ‘Strength’ is hard-coded into children’s brains; what we can do with the help of podcasts like What’s a Man? is to expand their idea of strength, to go beyond the merely physical, as it were.   Stream the podcast on whatsaman.com   “I tell my children and my mentees that in order to be respected, you have to earn respect and give it as well. It cannot be a one-way street.”  Devraj Sanyal, Managing Editor and CEO, Universal Music Group.   “Men are very pampered (in society), which makes them feel very special. There’s a certain value still attached to being a man. But there are also other parts of him that feel very confused, depressed or weak. They are not allowed to be vulnerable.” Dr Ashis Roy, psychoanalyst and faculty at Ambedkar University   “I was the kind of unsympathetic, insensitive, stereotypical man who thought he could live his [your] whole life on testosterone alone. I used to think people who go to therapy are weak-willed, how can you not control your emotions et cetera.” Comedian Neville Shah   “ In our surveys and user-generated pieces, we found that men who had a relaxed (not shameful) relationship with the body also had quite positive sex lives .” Paromita Vohra, filmmaker and founder of Agents of Ishq||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-enough/article34619219.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Nearly 200 cases of black fungus infection in Delhi’||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that 197 cases of black fungus have been reported in the Capital and there was a shortage of medication to treat the infection across the country. He said that the infection was caused due to increase in blood sugar levels and decreased immunity, which stems from taking steroids to treat complications arising due to COVID-19. “COVID-19 patients who have been given steroids during treatment should be vigilant for one week after its closure and should not leave the house. They need to be extra vigilant and have minimal social interaction. When blood sugar increases, viruses, fungi and bacteria attack very rapidly. There is a problem of shortage of black fungus medicine in the entire country including Delhi,” said Mr. Jain. He added that the drug to treat the infection is under the control of the Central government and it is giving medicines according to the quota to the State. The Health Minister cautioned against treating black fungus infection at home and said that it can be treated through the standard protocol only. “Black fungus is on an increase because of two reasons, increase in blood sugar level, and the usage of steroids beyond the advice of doctors,” Mr. Jain said. He added that a healthy person has very low chances of getting black fungus and those that have taken steroids should be vigilant up until 7 days after the course. Pan-India pangs Mr. Jain said that that the problem of shortage of medicines for black fungus is not only in Delhi but in the whole country. “Our demand is much more than what we are being given by the Centre. How can we equally distribute to hospitals when we have received less? Even the HC has stated that there is a shortage for its medicine in India and that the Centre should supply the medicines from anywhere they can,” Mr. Jain said. The Health Minister added that the medicines to treat the infection cannot be purchased from medical stores as this cannot be treated at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nearly-200-cases-of-black-fungus-infection-in-delhi/article34618951.ece
22 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana to bear cost of treatment of BPL patients||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal announced on Friday that the entire treatment cost of below poverty line (BPL) patients undergoing COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals would be borne by the State government. Earlier, the State government had announced financial assistance of up to Rs. 35,000 for BPL patients. “All the BPL families who are not covered under Ayushman Bharat scheme will be eligible to get this benefit and the Deputy Commissioner will ensure that this financial assistance scheme reaches grassroots level,” said Mr. Lal. The Chief Minister was chairing the eighth review meeting of COVID-19 management with government officials through video conferencing. He said that while the government and private hospitals of the State were putting up a tough fight against the ongoing second wave of COVID-19, the focus now should be on making adequate arrangements to deal with the patients suffering from post-COVID complications, including keeping a close vigil on mucormycosis (black fungus) cases. The Chief Minister directed the Deputy Commissioner to closely monitor the increase in the cases of mucormycosis. He said at least 20 beds should be reserved for its treatment in all medical colleges. “The Deputy Commissioners should ensure that every hospital of their respective districts should share real-time data of the patients suffering from this deadly disease and the referral for such patients should be made in medical colleges only,” Mr. Lal said. ‘Convince farmers’ The Chief Minister said Deputy Commissioners should make dedicated efforts to convince the agitating farmers (protesting against Centre’s farm laws) to cooperate with the government to fight this pandemic. He said he too had urged the farmers to immediately call off their strike, understanding the need of the hour, to ensure that the virus spread chain is broken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-to-bear-cost-of-treatment-of-bpl-patients/article34619232.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital logs 3,009 new cases in 24 hours||The Capital recorded 3,009 new COVID-19 cases on Friday along with 252 deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The bulletin said that 63,190 tests were conducted in the 24 hours with a positivity rate of 4.76%. There are 35,683 active cases in the Capital out of which 20,673 are under home isolation. The positivity rate fell to below 5% for the first time since it peaked on April 22 at 36%. The number of new cases has been the lowest since April 1, when 2,790 cases and nine deaths were recorded. The cumulative figures now stand at 14, 12,959 cases with 22,831 deaths and 13, 54,445 recoveries. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that there were 16,712 COVID beds and 1748 ICU beds that are vacant in hospitals but warned of complacency. “We can see a prominent downward trend. We have dropped down significantly from 28,000 cases to about 3,000. Hence, this is a hopeful sign. The positivity rate is now below 5%. However, we cannot afford complacency and must follow COVID-appropriate behaviour by all means,” Mr. Jain said. On war footing The Minister said that even though there were fewer admissions of children in hospitals, the total number in this wave increased three times as compared to the previous ones. He added that Delhi government was preparing on a war footing as of now to curb the effects of third wave, especially for children. Speaking about the shortage of vaccines, Mr. Jan said that Covaxin stock was absolutely over for 18-44 age group, and Covishield is also nearly finished, due to which a lot of centres had closed down. “Our distribution network is massive and is capable of inoculating upto 3 lakh people in a day in Delhi. The vaccine supply is completely controlled by the Centre and we can inoculate only what we are receiving from them,” Mr. Jain said. 100-bed facility opened Delhi Cabinet Minister and MLA from Babarpur, Gopal Rai on Friday inaugurated a 100-bed COVID care facility at the Ambedkar College in the Babarpur area. He said that this COVID care facility has 50 oxygen beds and 50 normal beds and this facility is connected with the GTB Hospital. Mr. Rai said that people living in north-east Delhi were facing problems isolating as it was a very congested area and hoped that the community Covid Care Centre would help those facing problems isolating at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-logs-3009-new-cases-in-24-hours/article34618954.ece
22 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Sadh Sangat Gurdwara, a helping hand for patients||Less than a month after Anil Dubey, a marketing executive with a real estate firm, shifted to Mapsko Paradise Housing Society in Sector 83 here with his wife and two children from Delhi in April, the couple got infected with COVID-19. With none of the relatives and friends around to lend a helping hand, the Dubeys were left in the lurch. But a message in the housing society’s WhatsApp group about a gurdwara offering free home delivery of food was a godsend for them. “Both of us were down with the infection, and cooking was not possible. So we decided to avail of this facility offered by Sadh Sangat Gurdwara in South City-1. It was a great experience. The gurdwara’s volunteers would leave the food at the society gate. The security guards then delivered it to us,” said Mr. Dubey. He said that he, along with family, would visit the gurdwara after the situation returns to normalcy and make a contribution. Tasneem, a teacher, recalled how the food was delivered in “neatly packed containers that could be used in the microwave oven and disposed of keeping in view the comfort of the patients”. Ms. Tasneem, her husband and their 12-year-old child availed the facility for almost two weeks last month after they were infected. “They continued to supply even after we were fully recovered till the time we did not ask them to stop. I recommended this facility to many of my friends and relatives,” said Ms. Tansem, a Sector 31 resident. The gurdwara management committee has been offering free home delivery of food to COVID-19 patients for almost a month now. “We daily deliver around 850-900 thalis for lunch and dinner each. Our own volunteers deliver it to the families within a radius of five km. For a distance beyond this, we prefer the families to send someone to collect the food,” said Baljeet Singh, member of Gurdwara Sadh Sangat management committee. Test report mandatory However, a COVID-19 positive report is mandatory for availing of the service. The menu was prepared after consulting with a dietician, keeping in view the needs of the patients, said Mr. Singh, Besides, the management committee has also been offering oxygen concentrators for free use, online consultation for the infected patients through its panel of doctors, and also set up a 50-bed makeshift hospital with oxygen beds recently. Former senior vice-president of Axis Bank, Rajesh Wadhwa, a South City-I resident, said the management faced resistance from local residents when they decided to set up oxygen langar for COVID-19 patients inside the gurdwara premises, but it did not deter them. “They listened to the genuine concerns of the residents fearing spread of infection and managed to get space inside the Government Law College for the facility. Hats off to this community which is always willing to lend a helping hand in any situation,” said Mr. Wadhwa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sadh-sangat-gurdwara-a-helping-hand-for-patients/article34618945.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||Samyukt Kisan Morcha writes to PM to resume talks over farm laws||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 protesting farmer unions, on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging resumption of talks over the three farm laws they have been agitating against at Delhi borders since November last year. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the three Central legislations. The farmers’ body said in a statement on Friday it has again asked the government to reinitiate a dialogue with the protesting farmers. A government panel had met farmer leaders on January 22. There has been no talks between the two sides since January 26 when the tractor rally turned violent. “The SKM has written a letter to the Prime Minister, asking for the resumption of talks with farmers. This letter touches upon several aspects of the farmers’ movement, and the ignorant attitude of the government,” the SKM said in the statement. It said that while the farmers do not wish to expose anyone to the health hazards of the pandemic, it “cannot also give up on the struggle, as it is a matter of life and death, and also of future generations”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/samyukt-kisan-morcha-writes-to-pm-to-resume-talks-over-farm-laws/article34618948.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||CM provides Rs. 1 crore aid to kin of schoolteacher who died of COVID||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday provided financial assistance of Rs. 1 crore to the family of corona warrior Nitin Tanwar, a primary schoolteacher, who died when performing various duties throughout the pandemic. According to the government, Tanwar was posted at the MC Primary School in west Delhi’ Naraina. His wife, Sarvista, will be provided employment at a Delhi government school on compassionate grounds, the CM said. Tanwar got infected by COVID-19 in the line of duty on December 12, 2020 and was admitted to the RML Hospital, where he died on December 14. He was a resident of Delhi and is survived by his father, mother, wife, daughter and brother. Hard-working, dedicated “Late Nitin Tanwar Ji was a very hardworking and dedicated teacher in our Delhi government school. He was posted at various duties during the pandemic crisis, he was initially posted at the ration distribution centre, and later on many such duties,” the Chief Minister said. “He passed away after getting infected while being on COVID duty last year. It is because of people like Nitin Ji that Delhi can cope with the pandemic because these people are fighting a tough battle against the virus. I pray to God that he rests in peace,” Mr. Kejriwal added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-provides-rs-1-crore-aid-to-kin-of-schoolteacher-who-died-of-covid/article34618958.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||DDC delivers over 2,000 oxygen concentrators||Using a unique tech-based solution and with the selfless contribution of several individuals and organisations, the Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi (DDC) has delivered over 2,300 oxygen concentrators to several Delhi government hospitals to help them in the treatment of patients in this difficult time, the Delhi government stated here Friday. The streamlined process, the government stated, involves vetting medical equipment once received through donors, attaching a unique QR code and then supplying them to various hospitals as per their needs, the government also stated. The government stated that DDC roped in the support of Delhivery, Uber and Portr who contributed resources free of cost to ensure seamless delivery of life-saving medical equipment to Delhi’s hospitals without a moment’s delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ddc-delivers-over-2000-oxygen-concentrators/article34618957.ece
22 May 2021||Guwahati,||Virus adds to Mizoram’s Myanmar refugee crisis||The death of a Myanmar national in State capital Aizawl and COVID-19 infection among scores of others in a few districts has added to the refugee crisis in Mizoram. Almost a third of more than 15,500 Myanmar nationals who fled a military crackdown since the coup on February 1 are in Aizawl. One of them died at a COVID-19 centre in Aizawl on Wednesday, the 30th in the State due to infection by the novel coronavirus since May 2020. The Mizoram government has been caught in a Catch-22 situation. It can neither ignore a March 10 order from the Ministry of Home Affairs to not let the refugees in nor prevent locals from providing accommodation and assisting the Myanmar nationals. “The virus does not check nationality before striking. Taking care of infected refugees in the districts is necessary for containment, but the hands of the government are tied because of the Centre’s orders,” H. Rammawi, vice-chairman of Mizoram’s State Planning Board, said. “COVID-19 cases have complicated the situation as more and more people are coming in to escape the escalating conflict in Myanmar. Local NGOs and individuals are providing assistance to the refugees out of humanitarian concern,” he told The Hindu . Some of those who crossed over are deserters from the Myanmar army and members of their families. The others include police personnel, government officials, lawmakers and political leaders, engineers and activists of a few NGOs. The refugees belong to the Chin community, ethnically related to the dominant Mizos of Mizoram and the Kuki-Zomi people in Manipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/virus-adds-to-mizorams-myanmar-refugee-crisis/article34619230.ece
22 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||80 of Odisha tribal group test positive||A sudden spike with over 80 COVID-19 positive cases in the past one week has been reported among the Dongria Kondh, a particularly vulnerable tribal group living in the Niyamgiri hill range of Odisha’s Rayagada district. This came to light when the Rayagada district administration successfully persuaded the tribe to undergo testing. Earlier, Dongria Kondhs were not ready to get tested. They held the view that they were safe as devotees of Niyamraja, the supreme god of the Niyamgiri jungle.  Alarming numbers Alarmingly, the test positivity rate in one village is close to 75%. “Our team set up a camp at Gandili village in Bissam Cuttack block on Thursday. Of 62 persons who underwent tests, 46 were found to be infected with the virus there. Similarly, of 58 persons who were tested at K. Bondili village, 16 had the infection,” Saroj Kumar Mishra, Rayagada District Collector, told The Hindu over phone. Earlier, 23 Dongria Kondhs tested positive in the Kalyansinghpur Block in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/80-of-odisha-tribal-group-test-positive/article34619234.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Hospitals must reserve beds for certain categories’||The Delhi High Court said on Friday that there has to be reservation of beds in hospitals for treatment of certain categories of people such as the President and Prime Minister of the country. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh made the remark while hearing a plea seeking a centralised and transparent system to help COVID-19 patients locate a bed in hospitals. “We can understand if there are some beds which are not used, there will be such a situation. If the Prime Minister of India or the President needs treatment, you have to keep a bed reserved for him in a hospital. That category has to be there. You can’t say no,” the court stated. Delhi resident Manjit Singh, who works in the hospitality industry, has said in his petition that in the current circumstances of health emergency, when demand for beds was more than their supply, “there should be some mechanism to ensure that allocation of beds to COVID-19 patients in the hospitals across the city is not arbitrary and unreasonable”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hospitals-must-reserve-beds-for-certain-categories/article34618960.ece
22 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha government to float global tender for vaccines||The Odisha Cabinet on Friday approved the global tender document for expeditious procurement of COVID-19 vaccines. The State Cabinet under chairmanship of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik gave its nod to amendments and terms and condition for vaccine procurement following discussions with vaccine manufactures during a pre-bidding meeting on May 19. As per the government’s new vaccination policy initiative, the population within the age group of 18-44 years would be provided with free vaccines at the cost of the State exchequer. Subsequently, it was decided to procure the vaccines from the open market through global tender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-government-to-float-global-tender-for-vaccines/article34619233.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Checking point||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/checking-point/article34619246.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||BJP accuses AAP govt. of reduced testing||The BJP on Friday accused the Delhi government of reducing the testing rate so as to hide the real numbers and show that everything is under control. The large number of deaths due to the virus had, however, put paid to this “design” as many patients continued to struggle for their lives while scores of others were forced to leave the city, said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. The Delhi government in a statement said this is a frivolous allegation since Delhi has consistently been testing the highest nationally at 4,000 tests per million population, which is 4 times the national average.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-accuses-aap-govt-of-reduced-testing/article34618946.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Congress Ki Rasoi’ resumed to help needy||The Delhi Congress on Friday said that it had restarted its ‘Congress Ki Rasoi’ across Delhi to supply free cooked meals to the needy, and dependents of COVID-19 patients. On the occasion of the 30th death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, the Congress distributed four lakh masks, sanitisers, medicine kits, oxygen cylinders and concentrators, steam machines, dry ration, and ambulance services to the needy, Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-ki-rasoi-resumed-to-help-needy/article34618949.ece
22 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shrivastava now full-fledged police chief||Senior IPS officer S.N. Shrivastava was appointed as full-fledged Commissioner of Delhi Police on Thursday, according to an official order. A 1985-batch IPS officer, who is scheduled to retire next month, was holding the post of Delhi Police Commissioner as an additional charge till date. The order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs stated that Mr. Shrivastava has been cleared for holding the post of Commissioner of Delhi Police until further orders. His name was cleared by the competent authority, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shrivastava-now-full-fledged-police-chief/article34618961.ece
22 May 2021||May 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Brief||Daniel B. Smith, Charge D’Affaires, the USA, in a videoconference meeting with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday deliberated on how Delhi and the USA can work together to address the pandemic. The Chief Minister’s Office tweeted, “H.E. Daniel B. Smith, Charge D’Affaires, USA @USAmbIndia called on Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal today. Both the leaders deliberated on how the State of Delhi and the USA can work together to address the COVID pandemic [sic].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/brief/article34618947.ece
22 May 2021||New Delhi,||BJP files complaint against CM, Deputy CM||BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana has filed a complaint against Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia accusing them of “fear mongering” regarding the possibility of a new COVID strain entering the country from Singapore. The complaint was filed under the National Disaster Management Act Section 54.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-files-complaint-against-cm-deputy-cm/article34618955.ece
